Now take your Bibles open to the Gospel of Mark as we continue our study on the Gospel of Mark, and we're going to look today at Mark chapter 6, verse 45, down to verse 52. Mark 6, verse 45, down to verse 52. Let me read you verse 48 and 49. And he saw them toiling and rowing, for the wind was contrary unto them. And about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them, walking upon the sea, and would have passed them by, but when they saw him walking on the sea, they supposed it had been a spirit, and cried out And they all saw him and were troubled. And immediately he talked with them and said unto them, Be of good cheer, it is I, be not afraid. I want to talk this morning about how to ride out the storm. There's a hymn that we like to sing sometimes on Sunday written by William Cooper, who was a friend of John Newton, the one who wrote Amazing Grace. And William Cooper was a man who was uh troubled all his life with depression And at one point tried to kill himself and was unable to do it. According to some historians, he uh tried to hang himself with a rope and the rope broke. He tried to f fire a gun to kill himself and the gun misfired Uh he tried to have a taxi take him to the river so he could jump off the bridge into the river and drown. But the fog was so thick that the taxi couldn't find the river. And so they brought him back home. And one night after he had found Christ as a Savior and was looking back at the merciful providence of God that spared his life. He wrote the words of the hymn that we now sing, God moves in mysterious ways, his wonders to perform. He plants his footstep on the sea, and he rides upon the storm. You see, William Cooper had come to understand that the dark storm that God put in his life had a sanctifying purpose. There was something that God was doing in his life. And God not only brings us storms, but he wants to ride upon those storms. He wants us to ride on the storm. He wants us to learn to have victory. And so that's why he sends into our life these God-appointed storms. All of us will have them. There may be some people here already this morning and you've been thinking about the storm that you're in right now Well, God wants to teach you some good lessons about how to ride out your storm and how to learn from it. And we can learn that from looking at this passage here in Mark. Chapter 6, verse 45 to verse 52. This is a very familiar story to us. This is the story of the disciples out in a boat on the water in a God appointed storm. They experience this storm, a very fierce storm, and they learn some valuable lessons. And these are lessons that we could learn This morning, my whole desire this morning is I want to encourage you who are in a storm right now. You might be sitting there saying, Well, I'm not in a storm. Well just hold on. Because uh sometime along you're gonna come to a storm in your life. So this is something that can help you. I hope it will help you. I want you to see seven assurances that we can cling to to help us in the time of storm in our life Here's the first one, if you're taking notes, just remember this. He placed me here. If you're in the storm, friend, he put you there. Now look at this passage. Look at verse 45. It says, And straightway he that is Jesus constrained his disciples to get into the ship and to go to the other side before unto Bethsaida, while he sent away the people You know, many times we're prone to think that if we go through a storm, that we're not in the will of God. But this passage teaches us again that that's not the truth. The disciples were in the midst of the storm because they were literally doing the will of God. The Bible says in verse 45 that Jesus straightway constrained them in verse 45. That word constraints is a very strong word. To compel, to force, straightway means immediately, and this kind of links us up with what happened previously in this passage. What happened? Well, Jesus said the 5,000 And right after the feeding of the 5,000, he constrains his disciples to get on a shipping. He doesn't really give them a destination. He says, just launch out over to the other side, over the Sea of Galilee. And meanwhile Jesus would go onto the mountain there, one of the hills around the lake, to pray. And so why was Jesus so quick to get the disciples out of there? Well John's Gospel that has the parallel account tells us why. Because after the feeding of the 5,000, people wanted to make Jesus king at that very moment. In fact, there was this movement that was taking place, and William Barclay writes this, after the miracle of the feeding, there was a surge of popular acclamation. A revolution was beginning to take root. People wanted to put put Jesus into the position of being king already. They thought that the Messiah would be someone that would overthrow the uh the chains of Rome And uh they thought, if he's the Messiah, we can make him king after all. He just fed them uh the the five thousand a free meal, and if we want a king, we want someone like this. Someone that can give us what we want You know, uh this this is what we wanted. So they were ready to make him king, and Jesus knowing that, knowing that they wanted him to overthrow the Herods and overthrow Rome and be the political king Got his disciples, got him on the boat, and got out of there. He didn't come to kill, he came to die for sin. He didn't come to overthrow Rome, not at that time he came really to give life, real life, spiritual life. By the way, the next time he comes, he will come as king in glory. But this first time he would come as the Savior, the Savior of the world. And so really they were doing what Jesus told them to do. He told them to get into the boat. He told them to go to the other side. Let me ask you a question. Did Jesus know the storm was coming? Yes. Of course he did. Did he deliberately, directly send them into the storm? Yes. The disciples, they didn't know why. They didn't know why they were in that storm, but Jesus had a purpose for it. And friend, that's the way it is with us. You may be in a storm right here and right now. And you might be saying to yourself, why am I in this? I must be out of the will of God. No, my friend, you're right where the Lord has you. God puts you there. It's difficult, we know that, but let me tell you this a Christian in a storm, in the will of God, is safer than a Christian out of the will of God out of a storm. And so they were right where the Lord had them. It was difficult, but the Lord was there. He was with them, maybe not in his physical presence, but he was with them. You see, we must never judge our security on the basis of our circumstances alone. God has a purpose if you're in the storm. You see, the Bible teaches there are storms of correction. There are some times when God will put us through a storm to correct us. I think of Jonah in the Old Testament. Remember God said to Jonah, go down to Nineveh And Jonah, instead of going to Nineveh, went to Tarshus and God put him through a storm. Why? To correct him. There are storms of correction, but there also there are storms of perfection. And these are storms that God will give us to mature us in our Christian faith. And this is what the disciples were going through. They were being tested right here. This is not the first time that they went through a storm. You remember earlier in Mark chapter four, they were in a storm also on the Sea of Galilee in a boat, but the difference is in that storm Jesus was in the boat with them. This time Jesus isn't in the boat. This is kind of a greater trial, a bigger storm, when Jesus isn't there with them, a greater test, and it was a test to perfect them. But do remember this. If you're in the storm, remember God puts you there. And he will care for you in that storm. He knows that you're there. It is of him. He's going to use it. But here's the second thing. Not only do you say to yourself, He placed me here, but number two, he sees me He sees me. Look at verse number 46. And when he had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to pray. So Jesus sent the disciples away. He sent the multitudes away. Then he went into a mountain. He wanted time alone. He wanted private communion with his father. Why? Why think this whole situation presented a temptation for Christ in a way You remember that when Satan came and tempted Jesus, what did Satan say to Jesus? You know, uh all these kingdoms of the world I'll give you if you just bow down to worship me. What was he saying? You can bypass the cross. You don't have to go through that suffering. I'll give you the world without that. And there's a sense in which this is what the people were also doing. They were saying, Jesus, we want to make you king right now. They didn't know about the cross, they didn't know about God's plan there. Perhaps this was a temptation for Jesus as well. But he gained victory through prayer and fellowship. He went to pray and commune with his Father. In the Gospel of Luke, we find many times when Luke said Jesus would go apart by himself. Sometimes on special occasions, and this was certainly one occasion where he went and he gained victory through prayer and fellowship with God. And let me tell you something, friend, if Jesus needed to pray to get victory, so do we. And so he's praying. Now, while he's praying, the disciples are advancing across the lake. Look at verse 47. And when Eden was come, the ship was in the midst of the sea. and he alone on the land. Notice where it says in the midst of the sea. In John's Gospel again in verse chapter six, verse nineteen, it says they had gone about twenty-five to thirty stadia. A stadia was about two hundred yards. So 25 to 30 was about three and a half miles they had gone. Now remember that the Sea of Galilee was about six and a half miles wide. So they were approximately right in the middle of the Sea of Galilee. And when they were in the middle of the Sea of Galilee, the storm arose, and they were making very little progress. They were stuck there in the middle of that storm. They couldn't go forward. In fact, Matthew's gospel, Matthew 14, 24, says this, but the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary. We see the same thing here in Mark The wind was contrary. When it says toss with waves, it's a word that means really to cause great distress, to be tormented. And some places in the New Testament that word is used to speak of demonic activity That's why some scholars, when they look at this, they think that perhaps there were cosmic powers at work. But one thing is for sure they were in a very difficult position. This is a very dangerous situation. The wind was contrary. That is, it was blowing right in their face. They're trying to go one way, and the wind is pushing them back, and they're not making any progress at all. And they were doing their best to be obedient there. And the Bible says, look again in verse 48, where it says, and he saw them toiling. in rowing, and the wind was contrary, and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them, walking on the sea. Now the night was from sunset to sunrise And the Romans divided it into four watches. The first watch was from six PM to nine PM. The second watch was from nine PM to twelve midnight. The third watch was from twelve midnight to three a. m. The fourth watch was from 3 a. m. to 6 a. m. So think about this. They had been struggling all night long. This was the fourth watch, perhaps close to six a. m. And so they had been in a fight. Now to their credit, they didn't give up. It would have been easy for them to just turn around and go back after a while. But they were doing their best to obey Jesus, and here we have to give them credit for that. Right in the middle of the storm, they're trying to obey the Lord. They're trying to go forward. Their sails are down, their oars are out They were literally driving those oars trying to go forward with the wind right in their face. And they're at about the end of their strength They're about they had about all they can take at this point. Jesus was alone on the mountain, but you know what? He saw them. The Bible says in verse 48, he saw them. He was watching over them. They didn't know it. He knew their situation. And let me tell you something, dear friend, he knows yours. In the storm, he watches over you. He's not going to let anything happen to you. Think about it. If Satan wanted to stop the advance of the kingdom, all he would have had to do at that moment was sink that boat because in that boat were the Pillars of the church, the foundation of the church, the apostles were all there in that boat. If he wanted to stop the advance of the king, we just sink that boat. But Jesus is not about to let that happen. He is watching over them. Now the question is, how could he see them? Here he is on a mountain. There they are, three and a half miles out in the middle of the lake. It's uh some people think it was possible with the naked eye to see people, but this was at night. Now admittedly it was springtime, the middle of April, there would have been a full moon. But this one I think would have been hard to see in the middle of the night. I think that when he saw them, this wasn't just naked eye, human ability. I think this was divine omniscience He could see them because he was God. I don't think a person no way could see them three and a half miles away at night Even if you're on the mountaintop in the Sea of Galilee, it's kind of like the bottom of a bowl. You can see all parts of it if you're up there in those hills. But I think this was divine. He saw them. And again, friend, when we go through storms, he watches us. He sees us in the middle of the storm. He knows exactly where we are. He knows exactly how long you've been in your storm. He's got his eye on you. Remember that. He has not forgotten you. The Bible says the eyes of the Lord are in every place. So we're in the storm. Remember, he placed me here. He sees me. Number three, he is praying for me. That's what Jesus is doing there in the mountain. While they're down there, he's praying for them. I don't know about you, but it gives me great comfort to know that we have an intercessor in heaven who prays for us. If I told you that Jesus was in the next building praying for you right here this morning, wouldn't that give you comfort? But friend, he might not be in the next building, but he's there in heaven. And he prays for you. And he's watching over you. He's our heavenly intercessor. We just sang the song Before the Throne of God Above. I have a strong and perfect plea. A great high priest whose name is love. Whoever lives and pleads for Me, it's because of the prayers of Jesus that we are safe. So just say to yourself, He placed me here When you're in the storm, he sees me. He's praying for me. But here's a fourth assurance. He will come for me. Look at verse number 48. And he saw them toiling. And again it says, and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them. A lot of times we feel as if when we're in the storm, Jesus has departed us. For instance, the psalmist in the Old Testament said this. He said, Why art thou so far from helping me? Psalm 22, verse 11, be not far from me. For trouble is near and there is none to help me. David complained to God, You seem far away. I here I am going through this Difficult problem and you seem so very far away. And it may be that you feel that way at times, that God is not near, but learn this. In the storm, Jesus will always come to you. He will always come to you. Isaiah forty-three verse two When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the rivers, they will not overflow you. He might not come at the time when you think, but he will come. I mean he did wait. I ever asked this when I was reading this, I thought, why did the Lord wait so long? Why'd I come to first watch? That's me. I said, Lord, come immediately. Why not? Why are you waiting? He didn't come the first or the second or the third watch. He came the fourth watch. But you know what? The Lord has a purpose even in that. You know what he was doing? He was testing their obedience. Are you really going to obey me? Even when it's difficult, are you still willing to obey? Even when the wind is contrary, it's blowing against you? You know, a lot of times people give up under the slightest bit of difficulty. It's easy to obey the Lord when this when the weather is good. When everything is all right, it's easy to obey God, but will you obey him in the middle of the storm? Will you continue to obey him? And the disciples needed to learn that lesson. You know why? Because all throughout the rest of their earthly ministry, they would be in storms. And he needed men who would go through the storm and not quit. But I think this was a test of their obedience. It was a test of their perseverance. The Bible says in Proverbs 24:10: If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. If you quit when things are adverse, you don't have very much strength. The Bible says in James 1. 3, knowing this, that the trying of your faith Worketh patience. And the word patience there means perseverance. God will test us, He will try our faith so that He will work in us a strength and a perseverance. And by the way, the English word persevere, the prefix per means through severe, meaning severe circumstances, going through severe circumstances. He was building up their strength. He was building up their perseverance. But there was another reason. He was testing their dependence. They had come to the very end of their strength. And many times God will leave us in the middle of a storm until we have no strength left. Why? That we might find all of our strength in Him. That we might look to him and say, Lord, you are my strength. When all hope is gone, when you've been in the storm all night, In the fourth watch, when you perhaps are at the verge of giving up, Jesus will come to you. And notice how he comes. He comes walking on the water. Why did Jesus walk on the water? Do you know there are some commentaries that say he really didn't walk on the water? Of course there are. Some of these liberals don't believe anything. Theological liberals who want to explain away the miracles of the Bible. They say, oh, you know, he was actually walking on the shore, and it looked like it was the water. Look, the Bible makes it very clear. Mark says it very clear. They were in the middle of the lake. They were in the middle of the Sea of Galilee. You know why Jesus came walking on the water three or four miles out in the middle? Did you know in the Old Testament there's a lot of imagery about God treading on the waters? This was yet another expression of Jesus declaring himself to be God, sovereign God over nature. In Job 9, verse 8, it says, as which alone spreads out the heavens, talking about God, and treads upon the sea waves. God walks on the sea waves. In Job nine or Job 38, verse 16, when God is questioning Job, Job was complaining a little bit and was trying to give God some counsel, and God asked this question to Job, Job, have you walked in the search of the deep? Job, have you ever walked on water? No? Then why don't you let me take care of things? When you start walking on water, I'll start listening to you. This is an expression of God being God. It was also a declaration of his sovereignty. Many times in the Old Testament, the raging of the sea represented the raging of the nations. And yet the Lord is sovereign over that He's God over that. But also, this I think he was showing his disciples that the very thing that they feared, that is the sea, was the means by which he used to come to them. He not only comes in the storm, he comes on the storm. The very trial is his footpath. He comes on the storm to us. The howling waves and the crashing winds, they don't affect him And so when you're in the storm, just remember he placed me here. He sees me. He's praying for me. He will come to me And then there's another thing he will reveal himself to me. Look at verse 49. But when they saw him walking upon the sea, they supposed it had been a spirit and cried out, and they all saw him and were troubled And immediately he talked with them and said unto them, Be of good cheer. It is I. Be not afraid. Do you know that in the storm you can learn more about God than you ever knew before? You'll learn more about him. That's what happens here. I mean, in this storm, the disciples they deepened their theology. Some of them were still not sure exactly who Jesus was. But here they get it settled. Now at first when the the disciples see Jesus, they don't recognize him. And don't be too hard on them. Sometimes we're the same way. We don't recognize sometimes what the Lord is doing Why didn't they recognize him? Well, because of fear, they were afraid, and because they were not looking for him. And when they saw something coming on the water, they went to an irrational conclusion that it was a spirit You know, it's a ghost. Can you imagine them saying that? It's a ghost, it's a phantom. Now why would they say that? Because in the ancient world there was a myth And the myth was that if any sailor or fisherman drowned upon the sea, there was no way for him to cross over into eternity because he had to have coins to pay the fare to cross the River Six And so if he didn't have that, if he drowned without it, he was doomed to walk on the sea the rest of his life as a spirit. So they were kind of resurrecting that old myth. You know, that old bedtime story. That was totally irrational, but that's what fear does, doesn't it? Puts those crazy things in your mind. Oh, they say it's a spirit But then in verse 50, when Jesus called out, they recognized his voice. You know what the Bible says, my sheep hear my voice, they know me. When Jesus called out, they recognized him. And notice what Jesus said. Look again in verse 50 at the end. He said, Be of good cheer. It is I. Be not afraid. Let me tell you how that literally reads in the Greek. Uh tharseo, take courage, ego in me, I am. And then, Phobisti, stop being afraid. I I am. Stop being afraid. Now let me ask you a question. When you hear the I am, what does that remind you of, God? When Moses said, who am I going to say has sent me? And in the Old Testament, God said, I am has sent you. And I think Jesus here again was making an awesome declaration. And the Bible tells us in Matthew in that account that after that They confessed and worshiped him as the Son of God. They saw a new revelation of Jesus Christ and his power as being the Son of God. Jesus reveals himself to them in a great way, and they end up worshiping. Look at verse 51. And they went up, and he went up unto them into the ship, and the sea wind ceased, and they were sore amazed in themselves beyond measure, and wondered They were just incredibly blown away, we could say. They were amazed, they were stunned To see Jesus doing this. And again, Matthew tells us they worshiped him as the Son of God. Now in the last storm, they just said, you know, what kind of man is this? Here in this storm they say, you know, this is the son of God. This is the son of God. They deepen their theology. They learn more about God. And I want to tell you, friend, in the storm God will teach you more of Himself. He'll teach you more about Him. He'll draw you close. And He'll remove doubt. And He'll replace that doubt with faith. Let me give you another thing. Just remember, he placed me here. He sees me. He's praying for me. He will come to me. He will reveal himself to me. He will walk with me Now Mark doesn't give this account, but Matthew does. This is the part where Peter walks on the water, you remember? That's in Matthew 14. Again, Mark doesn't really Talk about it, but let me just say real quickly about Peter. When Peter finally knew it was Jesus, he said, Lord, if it thee, bid me to come under the water with thee. Now, Peter gets a lot of punishment for this because what do we remember about him? He began to sink. But friend, I would remind you, at least he was out there on the water. I mean he out of all of them he was the one that had the courage to say, Lord, I would rather be with you on the water than in the boat with these guys. So Lord, if it's you, bid me come unto thee. And what did you how did Jesus respond? He gave him one word, come. Come. And Peter obeyed that one word. And he stepped out of the boat. And he was walking on the water. And what does the Bible say? As long as he was looking at Jesus, he was fine. But when he got his eyes off of Jesus, he looked at the winds and the waves. Finally he just said, you know what? I can't walk on water. And he started to sink And immediately Jesus went to him. By the way, there's a message there. Jesus was far enough away they couldn't recognize him. But when Peter began to sink, and he said, Lord, help. Immediately Jesus reaches for the Zand. You see, when you need help, that's the best prayer to pray. Lord help And you know what? Jesus will be right there. And he reaches forth his hand and he picks Peter up and he says, Peter, you had it. You know Why did you doubt? Oh, yeah, little faith. Literally, why did you doubt? And the word doubt there is thy cream, though, think twice. Peter, why did you think twice? You had it the first time. Sometimes we undo and doubt what we've done in faith. He said, Peter, why did you think twice? You had it right the first time. Don't doubt. He that doubts is like the wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. James says that's an unstable man. And so uh we learn a lesson there, but at least Peter is walking with Jesus on the water. And friend, that's exactly what the Lord wants. He wants us not to be controlled by the storm, he wants us to walk with him or on the storm, to ride the storm out with him, having a new intimacy with Christ. And a new faith and a new communion and fellowship with the Lord. As long as we keep our eyes on Him, we're all right. And friend, that's really the key of the Christian life. It's really not rocket science. It's just keeping your eyes on Jesus. Just focus on him. And you know what? He'll bring you through the storm. Let me give you the last thing real quick. Just remember, he placed me here, he sees me, he's praying for me, he will come to me, he will reveal himself to me, he will walk with me. Here's the seventh assurance: he will see me through. He will see me through. Again, look at verse 51. And he went up unto them into the ship, and the wind ceased, and they were sore amazed. So here's Jesus. He gets on the boat with them. As soon as he's on the boat, what happens? The wind stop. Storm's over. Why? The purpose of the storm is done. It's over with. It all stops. It ceases. And and they're just amazed at Jesus. So you know what it tells us? He's going to see us through. Friend, I know I don't know what the storm you uh is about that you're in, but I do know this. He will see you through it. He'll bring you through it. And you know what? You'll be stronger. You'll have a new intimacy with him. You'll know more about him. And you'll look back and you'll see, you know what? You'll thank God for the storm. You'll say, I thank God for the storm that cast me on the rock called Christ, that taught me more about Jesus than I ever knew before. And so, friend, I want this to encourage you here today. Remember these things. Remember that when you're in the storm, he will be with you. A little boy was wrecked in a furious storm. He was really the only one who survived. He was swept up by the waves and he was placed on a rock. And he sat there all night long. And the next morning he was spotted and he was rescued. And then when they rescued him, they asked him the question, Did you tremble while you were on the rock during the night? And the little boy said, Yes. He said, I trembled all night. He said, but the rock didn't. And the bottom line is this if you're going to survive the storm, as long as you're standing on the rock, you might tremble on the rock, but the rock will not tremble under you. He will see you through and he will use it in your life. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you that you are the Lord of the storm, that you bring us through these things, and you have a purpose. Whatever that purpose is, Lord, we yield ourselves to it. And we thank you that you are Lord. You're the sovereign one. You come walking on the water We thank you, Lord, that we can find assurance in knowing that you placed us here. And Lord, I know that you see me. And I know that you're praying for me. And Lord, I know that you will come to me and reveal yourself to me, and you will walk with me. And Lord, you will see me through. And suddenly the storm doesn't seem so bad. I pray, Lord, you'll encourage your saints here today that they'll find Comfort and rest in knowing these things. Heads bowed and eyes closed, I would say, that's me. I just need to learn these things. I need God's comfort in this time of storm. Would you pray for me, preacher? Can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand up and say, Yeah, it's me. I just need to learn in this storm that I'm in Learn these things. But He placed me here. He'll be with me. He will be with you, friend. So Lord, we thank you for these things. Bless these your people, these your saints. Help them, Lord, in a time of storm, to know you in a new way, to strengthen their faith, to walk with you. We pray all this in Jesus' precious name, Amen.