Look in 2 Chronicles chapter 34, and look at verse 1. Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem one and thirty years. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of David his father. And declined neither to the right hand nor to the left. I don't know how many football fans we have here tonight, but uh just want to give you this illustration I was reading. I thought this was an incredibly interesting when I first read it In the book called The Thinking Man's Guide to Pro-Football, Paul Zimmerman quotes a physicist who made an incredible discovery. The man had the facts to prove that when a 240-pound lineman capable of running 100 yards in 11 seconds collides with a 240-pound running back, Capable of covering a hundred yards in ten seconds, he said the resultant kinetic energy is enough to move sixty-six thousand pounds Or that would be three or thirty-three tons, enough to move at one inch. Can you imagine that? Uh that explains why some players kind of stagger around on the field after they had their bell wrong, right? That kind of an impact. And he goes on to say the likelihood is that they have been hit on the helmet by a blow approaching 1,000 G's. That's 1,000 times the force of gravity. Just to kind of give you some perspective, when astronauts take off, they experience 10 Gs. Pilots tend to black out at about 20 G's. In a recent Sportsweek magazine, it said that they ran a test on a Detroit Lions linebacker and it reported that he had to cope with blows that registered at 5,780 Gs Can you imagine that? Talk about an impact. Goes on to say, small wonder that football at various levels often injures uh people and sadly even kill people. Twenty-eight people a year die from Football is no longer a contact sport, it's a collision sport, it says. These men are unbelievable, they're big, they're strong They're fast and when they collide with each other, it's just crippling a lot of times. And that explains why football players when they retire, a lot of them can't even get out of bed after that It's hard for them to walk. They got arthritis on both knees and all of that. The human body was never designed by God to handle collisions of that magnitude. No matter how strong, how big, how coordinated a person might be, that's just a bit too much. When I read that, I thought about what about a spiritual impact? In terms of spiritual impact, no impact could ever be too great. And this causes me to ask a question. Have you ever asked yourself this question? What kind of a impact am I making in the lives of other people? I'm not talking about a physical impact. I'm talking about a spiritual impact. What kind of spiritual impact are you am I making in the lives of other people? Now the passage that we read just a minute ago deals with a young man, a young king by the name of Josiah Uh he's one of my favorite characters in the Bible. Obviously I I name uh my son Josiah, so I have to like this guy, right? Uh he's a man who had a tremendous impact on the lives of people in Israel. In fact, he impacted his whole nation. And he shows us that to have a positive impact on a nation, it doesn't come through political agendas, it comes through spiritual character. And we're going to look at his life here today, but I want you to think about what the Bible says about him in 2 Kings 23, 25, kind of a parallel passage of the one we're reading now. It says that, and like unto him there was no king before him that turned to the Lord with all his heart, with all his soul, and with all his might, according to all the law of Moses, neither after him arose there any like him. Wow, that's quite an epitaph for a person. No one like him? No one after him? How would you like that to be said of you? I mean in a positive way. There's no one just like this person who had such an impact. D. L. Moody said it said this. He said, it used to be that one Christian could shake up thousands of people. He said, now it takes thousands of Christians to shake up one person. I'm afraid that he may be true when he said that. And so with all that in mind, I want to just encourage you tonight, I want to challenge you to a life that will have an impact on those around you. And what I want us to do is just look at the life of Josiah, and I want us to see some reasons why he had such a spiritual impact on people. And here's the first reason, number one, I think. First of all, I think because he kept his heart tender. He kept his heart tender. Look in verse 27, actually. Let me show you this. Look in chapter 34. Look over in verse 27. This is God speaking to Josiah, and it says, Because thine heart was tender. And thou didest humble thyself before God when thou heardest his words against this place, and against the inhabitants thereof, and humblest thyself before me And just rent thy clothes and weep before me. I even have heard thee, also saith the Lord. God basically approves and he values a tender, sensitive heart. And this is what he saw in Josiah. And God says, because of your tender heart, because of your humble and sensitive heart, I'm going to withhold judgment upon Judah. God had previously determined to bring judgment upon that nation, but God says, I'm going to withhold it because of your tender and sensitive heart. I think one problem that Christians have is that sometimes I think Christians let their hearts grow hardened. They don't keep it tender. Josiah did not let this happen to him. Look at some look at something. Look in chapter 34. Look at verse 1. And it says Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign. He starts reigning as a child, eight years old. And he reigned one in thirty years, it says And verse two and he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord and walked in the ways of David his father, and declined neither to the right hand nor to the left So he starts reigning at eight years old, and the Bible says already at that age he begins doing what's right. He doesn't go to the left or the right, that's a Hebrew idiom. It means he just walks faithfully He walked with the Lord at eight years old. And it says he walked in all the way of David his father. In the Bible, David is the model, kind of the measuring rod for all the other kings. You either walk like David or you didn't As you read through 1 and 2 Kings, you're going to find that's one of the measuring sticks to measure the worth of a king. How much were they like David? And here Josiah, he walks in the way of David, his father. Now look at verse 3. For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of David, his father. Now he's eight he's sixteen years old. He began reigning at eight. He reigns eight years. Now he's sixteen. And you would think, well, you know, when Children grow up and they become teenagers, they kind of get harder. You know, their hearts are not as open as they used to be. You ever notice that sometimes about children? You ever notice that sometimes about teenagers That's normally what happens to the average person, their heart hardens through time, and they become cynical And however the heart of a child is sensitive to the things of God. They're filled with faith. They're filled with humility. Remember what Jesus said? He said, Except you become like a child You can't inherit the kingdom. You know, we say children have to be like adults to be saved. Jesus said the opposite. He said adults have to be like children to be saved. You have to have a humble, sensitive, tender heart to walk with the Lord And so this is what Josiah maintained. Again, you ever see a child with a a sensitive heart? Uh Chris Donovan was in my office today and She was showing me a little video of her her granddaughter Sage and just this beautiful little girl singing this song that she had made up. She wrote herself You know, saying, When God talks to me, I will talk to him and she's saying that over and over again, you know. She had a real big ending at the end of it, it was really neat. I thought, you know, that's a beautiful picture of a child, a childlike sensitivity, a childlike innocence and faith that every children has at that age. And yet when they grow older, they seem sometimes children seem to lose that. And by the way, that's not just with children, that's with adults as well, sometimes Christians. When you first get saved, man, there's that sensitivity, that's there's that humility, but in time something happens and you begin to lose that. You're not walking with the Lord. You're not seeking God like you did You've allowed things to get into your heart, to harden it, so there's that sensitivity that is gone. Well, Josiah, he doesn't let this happen. The Bible says when he turns 16, he begins to seek the Lord. He gets more and more passionate. He doesn't get less. And by the way, that's the way it should be as Christians. The longer you are saved, the more you should seek the Lord. The more you should depend upon the Lord. The more passion you should have for the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the way it ought to be. And this is what made uh Josiah unique. In fact, I think there's a purposeful parallel In the book of Chronicles here between Joash and Josiah. Let me ask you a question. You ever get those two mixed up when you're reading 2 Chronicles? You read the story of Joash and then you come to Josiah and you think, Man, I just read about this guy. Well no, these are two different kings. Their names are almost alike But there's another difference about them. In fact, go back to 2 Chronicles, look in chapter 24. Just look at this one verse here, where it says that Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years. And we don't have time to read it all, but if you'll read through the chapter, you're going to find that he also walked with the Lord. And he had a mentor, Jehoiada, the priest And he begins to remodel and rebuild the house of the Lord. There's a lot of parallels between Joash and Josiah. For example, both became both came to the throne when they were boys, both collected funds to restore the temple, both are reported as having stood in the king's palace in the temple. Both led the nation in a covenant renewal, but there's a difference. Whereas Josiah remained true to the Lord, not turning to the right hand or to the left Joash was faithful only as long as Jehoiada was alive. But once Jehoiada died, the Bible says that he turned away from the Lord. He stopped seeking the Lord. Who was Jehoiada? He was that godly priest that basically raised Joash as his own son because his parents were basically killed And so he had no parents, and so Jehoiada basically adopted him, raised him as his son. He was a godly man. And as long as Jehoiada was alive, Jeash was walking with the Lord, but once Jehoiada died, he no longer walked with the Lord There's a sense in which Jehoiada, or excuse me, Joash, is a warning to all who profess to do God's will, but they don't do it out of a heart of love for God. They're basically doing it because their faith is propped up by something else. And once that prop is gone, they no longer walk with the Lord. That's what happened to Joash. Josiah is different, however. He remains true to the Lord. The Bible says he doesn't turn to the right hand, he doesn't turn to the left, he keeps his heart sensitive towards God, and this is why God blesses him because he sought The Lord. And basically He led the nation to do the same thing. This is the kind of leadership that we need in our nation today. People who seek the Lord, who fear the Lord. This is the kind of le uh Christians that we need in the church today. Do you ever ask yourself, what is it that causes the heart to get hardened. Have you ever asked yourself that question? What hardens the heart? The Bible gives the answer to that, and it's a very clear answer. Just write down Hebrews chapter 3, verse 8. Harden not your hearts And then it says in verse twelve in Hebrews three, Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God But exhort one another, lest any of you be hardened, listen, through the deceitfulness of sin. It's the deceitfulness of sin that hardens the heart. Give you an illustration. Did you ever walk into a dark room and you can't see, it's just totally dark. And you stand there for a little while, and what happens is pretty soon you begin to pick up images. And pretty soon you're able to see things because your eyes have adjusted. You see, the longer you're in the dark, the darkness doesn't seem so dark. And that's the same with uh as it is with Christians who are not dealing with sin in their life. The longer you're in the darkness, the darkness won't seem so dark. You see, and that's the deceitfulness of sin. The conscience that you have gets hardened, the sensitivity to sin and the Lord that you had, that sensitivity goes away, and the next thing you know, you're doing things that you never thought you would do You're allowing thoughts and you're allowing impressions on your heart that you before you would have immediately dismissed them. You would have immediately decided never to uh dwell on anything like that, but now it doesn't seem so bad. Sin doesn't seem so dark if you don't deal with it. That's why I say, listen, deal thoroughly with sin in your life. Don't allow sin to linger in your heart. Confess it and forsake it. Get it out. Because if you allow sin to linger in your soul, sin, the deceitfulness of sin will have its hardening effect upon you. Once there was this painter who wanted to paint a portrait of innocence. And he wanted to hang it on his wall. He wanted to get an image of innocence. And so finally he was able to find a little child kneeling beside his mother praying with his hands folded. It was just a beautiful little child. He saw that innocence, that devotion on that face of that child and he painted that portrait and he named the portrait Innocence and he put that portrait on his wall. And many years went by and he grew older. And he decided that he wanted to have a counterpart. He wanted to put the opposite. He wanted to play paint a portrait of guilt. And so he went down to a prison. And he found the most wretched person that he could find there. Someone that had guilt and sin written all over his face with sunken eyes. And he painted that man. And the man said to him, Don't you remember me? You painted me when I was a child. He found out this was the same child that he had painted. And so he hung the portrait guilt next to innocent, same person, and it shows what the deceitfulness of sin will do. It will harden a person. I think Josiah was used by the Lord because he kept his sensitivity, he kept his heart tender towards the Lord. But here's the second thing. I think he had an impact because he erased ungodly influences from his life. Look again in verse 3 For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of David his father, and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places And the grows in the card images and the molten images, and they break down the altars of Balaam in his presence And the images that were on the high high above them, he cut down and the groves and the card images and the molten images he broke in pieces and he made dust of them and shrewd it upon the graves of them that had sacrificed unto them. So he purges the land. The word purge means to cast out what is unclean, to make pure Idolatry was all over Israel and Judah infesting the land. And they had these high places that were there. What were the high places? Well the high places were simply these places of worship on a hill, they would build an altar or sometimes a pole. And they would sacrifice on it according to whatever God that they worshiped. They would burn incense on the altars that they built there. And so it was just places where it was h hills And even if it was in a valley, they would build a high altar, and sometimes they would build an altar under a tree on a hill, and they would sacrifice to false gods, and they would burn incense on these high places. This is the place where idolatry was committed. Now, again, the writer of kings measures the worth and value of a king by how he treated those high places. And what you'll find is if you go through the kings of Israel, you'll find that none of them ever really remove these high places. Just kind of in fact Why don't you just take a journey with me? Go to 1 Kings chapter 3. I want you to see this. I want to flip through a few verses with you. I want you to follow along. Look in 1 Kings chapter 3 And look at these verses. Look in verse number 2. Back up to 1 Kings 3, verse 2. And Solomon loved the Lord. Walking in the statues of David his father, only that is, except he sacrificed and burnt incense in what? High places. Look at chapter eleven. Look at verse number seven. Flip over there. Chapter eleven, verse seven. Notice what it says there. 1 Kings 7 11 7. Then did Solomon build a high place for Kemosh, the abomination of Moab in the hill that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech the abominations of the children of Ammon. And likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burnt incense and sacrifice unto their gods. Now here's Solomon, and what is he doing? He's burning in the high places. And he's even building altars in high places. These were the scenes of destruction for the nation of Israel. He set the wrong pattern, because later other kings will follow. Look in 1 Kings chapter 12. Look in verse number 31. Flip over there. First Kings 12, 31. This is talking about Jeroboam. In 1 Kings 12, 31, and he made a high, or excuse me, a house of high places, and made priests of the lowest people. Which are not of the sons of Levi. So here's Jeroboam, and he makes high places Look in 1 Kings 14, look in verse 23, flip over there. 1 Kings 14, 23. This is talking about Rehoboam. It says here about Rehabam in verse 23: For they also built them high places and images and groves on every high hill and under every green tree. Look in 1 Kings chapter 15. Look in verse 14. 1 Kings 15, 14. But the high places were not removed. This is Asa. Asa was a good man, it says in verse 14, but the high places were not removed. Nevertheless, Asa's heart was perfect with the Lord in all his days. He did a lot of good, but he didn't take away the high places. Look in 1 Kings 22. Y'all follow along because I'm going to give you a quiz after this, all right? First Kings 22, look in verse number 43. Notice what it says there. This is talking about Jehoshaphat the king. It says, And he walked in all the way of Asa his father, and he turned not aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of the Lord. Nevertheless The high places were not taken away, for the people offered and burnt incense yet in the high places. And then you go to Joash, look in 2 Kings chapter 12, flip over there 2 Kings chapter 12. You're getting a whole survey of 1 and 2 Kings in like five minutes here. 2 Kings chapter 12. Look in verse number 3. Notice what it says. Talking about Joash, but the high places were not taken away. And the people still sacrificed and burnt incense. And so we on we could go. We could go to Amaziah in 1 Kings or 2 Kings 14. 4. In fact, just look at that. Look at 2 Kings 14. 4. Again, talking about Amaziah, howbeit the high places were not taken away, as yet the people did sacrifice and burn incense on the high places. You can go to Amaziah, Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, Hoshia. And all the way through to Manasseh, who was the father of Joash. And you know the Bible says about all of them, they didn't take away the high places. This is the one thing that the writer of Kings points to to say, here's the measure of whether or not a king fully followed God with all his heart. What did he do with those high places? None of them took them away. But when you get to Josiah, look in 2 Kings 23. We're here in 2 Kings. Let's look at it. 2 Kings 23. Look down in verse number 8 When you get to Josiah, what does it say? Actually, good verse 7. 2 Kings 23, verse 7. And he broke down the houses of the Sodomites that were by the house of the Lord, where the woman wove hangings for the grove. Verse 8, and he brought all the priests out of the cities of Judah and defiled the high places. Where the priests had burned incense, from Gibba to Beersheba, that is from the all around the land, from the uttermost north to the south. And break down the high places of the gate. Now go back to 2 Chronicles chapter 34. And notice again where it says in verse number 3 that he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem in verse 4, and he break down the altars. And the images that were on the hot on high above them, and he cut down the groves, and he break them in pieces, the Bible goes on to say. Who's the king that actually tore down finally all of these idolatrous high places? It was Josiah. That is the measure of how passionate he was to follow the Lord and to get rid of all of the ungodly influences. that were there defiling the people that were in the land. And by the way, this was not just a minor purging. This was a thorough Purging. If you read it verse 4, he'd break down the altars, he'd break them in pieces. You know, he didn't just leave the pieces. You know why? People come back and put those pieces back together, right? Just use a little gorilla group glue and you got your idol back, right? But not him. He utterly broke them. And then what did he do? The Bible says he he ground them to dust The Bible says he broke them in pieces and made dust of them. And then he sprinkled the dust on the graves of them that sacrificed. And he did this not just in Jerusalem. He cleansed Judah in Jerusalem. But look at verse 6. And so did he in the cities of Manasseh and Ephraim and Simeon, even on the Napali And so on. By the way, that city Ephraim, that's where I was digging this last May. That was pretty cool. I didn't see any high place there, just so I got rid of it. And so he he just pulled them down. So he did it all throughout the land. You know what happened as a result? There was a revival that took place in Judah. A revival took place in Jerusalem. And by the way, there was a young man influenced by this king. You know what his name was? Jeremiah. The Bible says in first in Jeremiah 1 2 that in the thirteenth year of the reign of Joash That's when the Lord came and called Jeremiah, and so I think that Josiah had an impact on this young prophet When he was making all these reforms and pulling down the high places and serving the Lord only, and this brought this revival in the land. You know what? We need to examine our own life and we need to ask ourselves this, are there any high places in my heart that need to go? Yes, Lord. Is there any ungodly influences that I'm allowing in my life that's keeping me from serving the Lord and walking with the Lord the way God wants me to walk? Are there any idols that I need to just break down and crush and get rid of? In order that I might be what God wants me to be. For some this might mean to change what you're watching, either on the computer screen or the television. or the iPad. You know, we have this internet. It it's internet can be a great blessing, a great tool of education and research, but it also can be a big curse if it's not used correctly. And we need to we might need to purge what we watch. You say, well, I can see things, it doesn't bother me. Are you serious? The mind, you can't see something and it not affect you. What you see will affect how you think, and how you think will affect how you act. And so you might need to purge that one area of your life. It might be changing what you're listening to. If you're not listening to the Things that you ought to hear. There's listen, I'm not saying that all secular music is wrong. That's just simply not true. There's beautiful music out there. that w that that that can be a a blessing and encouragement. It can be a source of real entertainment and refreshing. But there's some secular music that a Christian should never listen to. They should never allow in their ears. I remember when I uh f one of the first positions I took out of college was at a church down south. I was a youth pastor, and one day I just happened to uh Preach on, you know, uh you know, doing right and walking with the Lord and and chapel. They had a school chapel I preached there on uh you know removing the ungodly influences from out of your life And I remember the next day I came to my office and my office desk was piled up with CDs and tapes and albums of music, not good music, bad music, and books and things. And I it's just like somebody just dumped it all there on my desk. And when I found out it was the teenagers that they got convicted, and they decided just to get rid of it all. I don't know why they gave it to me. I mean I didn't want it. So what we did was we uh I called the teenagers together, the whole school And we took all this and we went out on the parking lot and we got a big old uh you know, a big iron trash can, and we dumped all that in there and we set it on fire and got rid of it. And I tell you, for some teenagers, that was kind of a turning point in their heart. God was able to work in their heart when they purged themselves of ungodly influences in their life. So it might be changing the friends that you hang around. Listen, you're becoming or you are what your friends are. It might be changing the things that control you, whatever it is. Tim Keller wrote a really good definition of sin. This is what he said. Sin isn't only doing bad things, it is more fundamentally making good things into ultimate things Making good things into ultimate things. That is, he's saying that sin is primarily idolatry. You can take good things and make an idol out of it, and it become a sin. So you have to examine your own heart and purge your life of the ungodly influences that might be in your life. Let me give you the third thing, third and final thing. Why did he have such an impact Well, because he kept his heart tender. Number two, because he erased ungodly influences from his life. But here's number three, he made a commitment to the Word of God He made a commitment to the Word of God. Look in chapter 34, look in verse 8. Now in the 18th year of his reign, when he had purged the land and the house, He sent Shaythan, the son of Azaliah, and Ma'esa, the governor of the city, and Joah, the son of Joe Ahaz. the recorder to repair the house of the Lord his God. That is, Josiah just dispatches this three-man committee led by the scribe. to begin to count the money and use the money to remodel the temple, the house of the Lord. You say, why? Because things had gotten so bad in Judah and Jerusalem that really the worship of Yahweh in the temple basically had shut down. In our vernacular, we would say it like this, the doors of the church were shut. People weren't worshiping And the first thing Josiah wanted to do, he wanted to open the church back up. He wanted to open the temple back up. And he wanted to remodel the temple and renovate the temple. And while they were doing that, something happened. Look down to verse number 14. And they brought out the money that was brought into the house of the Lord. Hilkiah the priest found a book of the law of the Lord given by Moses. Imagine that while they're doing this remodeling project They see stored in the temple in one of the number numerous storage areas there in the temple, they happen to find this scroll. This book, imagine that. What was it? Well, Shafan gives it uh Hilkiah uh brings it basically to the king And uh Hilkiah finds it, gives it to Shaitan, they give it to the king. Look down at verse number 19. They're reading the law before the king, and it came to pass when the king had heard the words of the law That he what? He rent his clothes. He tore his garments. Why did he do that? That was a demonstration of sorrow. And why did he do that? Because he recognized that this scroll was the word of God And he recognized that what they he heard being read was not what the people were doing. And I think that what was being read here was Deuteronomy, where it says It gives a list of the blessings. If if Israel would do this, if they would obey God, God would bless them here and he would bless them there. But if they didn't obey God, what would happen? Cursing And God lists all the curse that would come upon Israel if they didn't obey the Lord. And I think that when Josiah heard that, and he saw what the condition was of his nation, that he was so broken over that That he just ripped his clothes as a sign of great sorrow, thinking that God was going to judge Israel. In fact, he inquires of the Lord about it. He sends five more men to inquire of the Lord, and they come to a prophetess Helda And look at verse 23. And she answered them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Tell ye the men that sent you to me. Thus says the Lord, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place and upon the inhabitants thereof, even all the curses that are written in the book. Which they have read before the king of Judah. All of the fears that Josiah had were justified. All the threats and curses that were part of the book, God said, I'm going to bring down in verse 24, even all the curses that are written in the book, God's going to bring them down on Judah and Jerusalem. And so the nation was in danger. Why? Because they had turned away from God. They had turned away from the Word of God. And they were on dangerous ground because of that. By the way, I believe with all my heart that America is in the same position today. America has turned away from God America has turned away from the Word of God, and I believe that America is suffering decline and judgment because of that. So you can call me a an alarmist, a doom spreader if you want to, but I I'm telling you, friend, that we were a nation that was built upon the Word of God, regardless of what the secular revisionist historians will try to tell you. This was a nation that was founded upon the principles of God's word. Don't believe me, go research it for yourself. Study it for yourself. And by the way, don't use secondary sources. Use primary sources. Because it gets distorted down the chain. You go back to the original sources, and what you'll find is that America was built upon the teaching and preaching of the Word of God. You know, I I think I told you this before, but at the inauguration of President George Washington, our first president The first thing that he did after he was he took the oath of office, and he's the one who said, so help me God, he added that to the oath. And everyone else has followed in that pattern. But that was on April 30, 1789. In New York, that was the capital at that time, there was no Washington City or Washington, D. C. And there in New York, the first thing, the first official act that he did was he led a procession of the Senate and the House of Congress. He led all those men down the streets to a little stone chapel called St. Paul's Chapel. And the first official act of the President The first session, joint session of the President with the Senate and the House of Representatives, was to go to church and they had a prayer meeting. That was the first official act of this new country. And you know what they did? They prayed. for this nation. They dedicated this nation to the Lord. That was what he did. And he said it's it's written actually in the annals of Congress. as a part of the first joint session ever, quote, to gather for prayer, to commit the future and to holy protection and blessing of the Most High. That was on April 30, 1789, at St. Paul's Chapel there in New York City. That very spot is where this nation was dedicated to the Lord. But that same spot became a heap of bricks many years later. You say, why? Because on that same spot, that was ground zero for 9-11 later on. When the towers fell, it fell right on that spot. It became a heap of rubble, and I think there's no accident that on that very spot Bricks were piled up. I think that became a symbol of the fact that this is a nation that has turned their back on God and his word. And friend, if we don't turn back, if we don't have revival in our country Then, friend, this nation, by the way, God is able to preserve his church and his people. We can have revival. Jesus said, My kingdom is not of this world. It doesn't matter to me about what's going on in the political world. We have a kingdom and we have a king and this kingdom is going to go on and we are going to be victorious as the people of God The question is, is this country going to survive? We know the kingdom will, and we know all those that obey the Lord Jesus will. But friend, I don't know about you, but I love this country and I want to see revival. I want to see this nation turn back to the Lord. And how did Josiah influence his nation? Well, he was contrite, he was broken over the disobedience of the people. And then notice what he did. Look in chapter thirty-four, look down in verse number twenty nine. Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem And the king went up into the house of the Lord, and all the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests and the Levites, and all the people, great and small, and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant That was found in the house of the Lord. All the words. Notice that they read all of them. That's why some people believe that it's just the book of Deuteronomy that he found, not the whole Pentateuch, because if you read the whole Pentateuch, you would be there for ten hours But perhaps it was this is just here Deuteronomy, and they read all of it. And what does he do? In verse 31, and the king stood in his place. And made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart. With all his soul to perform the words of the covenant which are written in this book. Man, no wonder he had such an impact. He was a man of the word. And he said, I'm going to obey what God says. He made a covenant to obey the word of God. And not just casually, but with all his heart. And all his soul. He wanted to honor the Lord. Listen, if you want to have an impact in the lives of others, love God's word, learn God's word, live God's word. And you'll have an impact. That's exactly why he did. It's no wonder. What an incredible impact he had. You know, when I was a teenager, I made a decision that I would spend one hour a day in the Bible. I don't regret that decision. I don't regret that decision. And I want to challenge you if you want to be a person that can make an impact. Be a person of the Word of God. Get into God's Word. Learn it. And not just learn it for academic purposes or to say you're smart, but so that you can know God. And you can walk with God, and you can live out before the Lord a life that's pleasing unto Him. And friend, if you do, you will make an impact on our world. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we thank you for this example of Josiah. What a great pattern he is for us to follow. I pray, Lord, that we will do as he did. I pray, Lord, that we'll keep our hearts tender before you. Maybe there's some people here tonight that need to have their conscience cleansed by the blood of Christ and renew that tenderness before the Lord, that sensitivity. I pray, Lord, that you'll help us to erase ungodly influences from our life. And I pray, Lord, that you'll help us to make the same kind of commitment. That Josiah made to the Word of God, to obey it, to love it, to live it with all our heart, all our soul, all our might. Lord, I believe that that will impact our country more than anything else, more than any political agenda, more than any other Thing that we could do, I believe, Lord, this will make an impact. Help us as the church to be the church. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, maybe the Lord's speaking to your heart tonight. Maybe one of these things has struck a chord with you. It's possible that maybe you're here and you've allowed your heart to get hard. And you need to be renewed in your spirit. You need to be cleansed thoroughly inwardly. And you want your conscience and heart cleansed with the precious blood of Christ. And you need to erase ungodly influences from your life and make a new commitment of obedience to the word. If that's your prayer, friend, would you just take a moment? I'm not going to ask anyone to raise their hands tonight. I'm just going to ask you to sit there before the Lord quietly and do business with the Lord right there yourself. Take a minute and just pray. Tell the Lord what you want. And friend, let me just say this while you're praying. There's no way that we can do any of these things without Jesus. He's the one who's really our ultimate pattern, isn't he? There's no one that had an impact like he had. And friend, it was because of what he did for you on the cross. When he came, he shed his blood. He paid the penalty of sin for you. And if you're here tonight and you've never made a commitment to Christ, you've never turned from sin and turned to Christ and ask him to save you, friend, that's the fur very first thing you need to do. We can't do these things on our own. It's gotta be Christ in us. And the first thing you need to do is to Turn to Christ with all your heart. And if you're here tonight and you've never trusted him, I encourage you to pray right there where you are. Just pray and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I know that I can't do these things without you Please come into my heart and save me. Make me your child. Forgive me for my sin. I turn to you with all my heart today. Save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, if you'll pray that in mean it, He'll save you. And if you've done that, let one of us know after the service that you've prayed, you made a decision to trust Christ. Father, bless these words to our hearts tonight. May we leave here not the same, Lord, than when we came in. Do a renewal in our heart and in our life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.