We begin a series, actually we started last week, but through the pilgrim psalms here, and we begin with the first psalm that we want to look at tonight, and that's Psalm 120. Psalm 120. And we're going to look at these seven verses here in this short Psalm. Follow along as I read, verse 1. In my distress I cried unto the Lord, and he heard me. Deliver my soul, O Lord, from lying lips and from a deceitful tongue. What shall be given unto thee? Or what shall be done unto thee, thou false tongue? Sharp arrows of the mighty with coals of juniper Woe is me that I sojourn in Meshach, that I dwell in the tents of Keter. My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace. I am for peace But when I speak, they are for war. Now in the classic book, uh Pilgrim's Progress, you've heard me talk about so much. Which you know is an allegory about a man by the name of Christian. Of course, he represents all of us Christians. And he leaves the city of destruction and he's on his way to the celestial city. And as he's journeying, he comes across many challenges and obstacles. And one point of the story in Pilgrim's Progress, Christian comes to a difficult hill. At this point in the story, he's traveling with two companions, and their names are formalist and the other hypocrisy. Their names kind of speak for themselves. So Christian and formalists and hypocrisy now come to a hill. And at the bottom of the hill there is a spring. And around either side of the hill, and one on the right, or one on the left, one on the right, there are roads. And one road is called danger, and the other is called destruction. Hypocrisy and formalists look at those roads and decide it's a lot easier to take those roads than to climb the hill. And so they do take those roads, and in the story we never hear of them again. Christian, on the other hand, drinks from the spring. The spring is a reminder that God often prepares us for the difficulties that lie ahead. And so Christian drinks from the spring and he begins to ascend up this hill. And halfway up the hill, he comes across an arbor. It was a place to have a little bit of refuge and rest. And while he's there at the arbor, he utters these words, This hill, though high, I covet to ascend. The difficulty will not me offend For I perceive the way to life lies here. Come, my heart, let's neither faint nor fear. Better, though difficult, the right way to go, Than wrong, though easy, where the end is woe And with these words, John Bunyan reminds us that in this pilgrim journey that we're in, often the right road is the difficult road. It's the hill that God puts before us that we have to climb. And that's one thing we learned from this psalm that in this pilgrim journey, things are difficult. But the difficulty should not discourage us or make us think that we're not on the right road. It was F. B. Meyer who said, quote, I if I am told that I'm to take a journey that is dangerous Every jolt along the way reminds me that I am on the right road. And that's very true. And these Psalms here, from Psalm 120 to Psalm 134, as we already learned, these are pilgrim psalms. And they're called that because they were sung by Jewish pilgrims who were on their way to Jerusalem for the various feast days and holy days that God had prescribed in the Old Testament. And they remind us that as Christians we are on a journey. We're pilgrims. This world is not our home. As they were traveling to that Mount Zion, the city of Jerusalem, we are pilgrims and we are traveling to our heavenly Zion. And they remind us again that the road is not easy. Oftentimes there's trouble. John Phillips and has detected a pattern in these Psalms He says that these psalms really can be arranged in five groups of three psalms each. He notes that the first psalm in each group records trouble And the second psalm in each group records trust. And he says the third psalm in each group records triumph. And so there you have that cycle over and over again with every three chapters. Trouble. trust and triumph. That pattern repeats itself. And it may uh may very well be that that is the pattern a lot of times that we take on our own pilgrim journey as we're traveling through this world, we experience trouble And then we learn to trust God in a new way. And then God brings us to triumph. And the greater the trouble, the greater the joy when God gives us victory over that trouble. And so let's look at this Psalm here, 120, because what we see here is that this is a time of trouble. This psalm kind of opens up on a sombre note. He's experiencing difficulty, and I want you to see two stages in his experience. If you're taking notes, write down the first thing. Number one is the difficulty he endured The difficulty he endured. And there are some words in this psalm that kind of give us a clue as to the situation he had to endure. Look at verse 1. In my distress. I cried unto the Lord. Look at the word distress there. The Hebrew word sarar has the idea of something that is narrow or tight. The opposite of being in a large, broad place, you're in a tight place, you're in a tight squeeze. It refers to anything that is narrow or confined, something that is too small. It was used in Isaiah to speak of a blanket too narrow to wrap yourself. or of binding a s a stone in a sling. Oftentimes it's used in a way to speak about strong emotion that comes from perhaps stress or pressure or anxiety. You ever maybe you're here and you're like that tonight. You feel kind of hemmed in. You feel kind of in a tight spot. And there's stress from that. There's anxiety from that. There's some circumstance that you can't control. There's something that happened in your life that's generating pressure. Perhaps you're feeling tremendous anxiety because you lost a job and the bills keep coming in and there's no seems to be no answer in sight. Or perhaps you're a school student and you don't know where you're going to get the money to pay for your next year. All the resources are about gone. And you don't know what your next step is. Or perhaps some relationship breakdown is causing you tremendous Stress. Whatever it is, it's something that is is is difficult for you. In fact, the difficulty that this psalmist has May be really a life or death situation. You say, how do we know that? Well, look at verse 1 where it says, I cried unto the Lord. Look at the word Lord there. That's in all capital letters, right? Whenever you see that, when it's all capital there in your King James Version, that is a sign that it's the divine name, the name Yahweh, which is called the tetragrammaton or the four-letter name. You say, why is that significant? Did you know that Jews never pronounced that name? It was too holy to even speak. And that was a tradition that was picked up from Moses at the burning bush when God told Moses, I am. Moses didn't speak back God's name. He thought that was too holy. He replaced it with the word Adonai Lord. And so that became a tradition. And so Jews never spoke that name. In fact, we don't really know how it's pronounced. You can pronounce it 23 different ways. And so they never spoke it unless It was a life or death situation or some seriously dire circumstance in that case. When a Jewish person prayed, they would cry out and they would call upon the name of Yahweh or the name of the Lord. For example, in Psalm 142, the psalmist says, Refuge failed me, no man cared for my soul. I cried unto thee, O Yahweh, O Lord, and he uses the divine name there because he's in such a dire situation. And we see the same thing here in verse 2. Deliver my soul, O Lord. He is in a distressful, difficult situation. But not only distress, but also write down defamation. Look at verse 2 Deliver my soul from what? Lying lips. And here we see what was causing part of his distress. He was a victim of lying lips One of the hardest experiences to endure is to have someone go around and destroy your reputation or slander you through lies. A good name is a very precious thing. The Bible says a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. There are many people in this world, sad to say, that get involved in character assassination. They go around and they tear at the reputation of others. And you ever notice how a lie goes around quickly It it circles quickly. In fact, Spurgeon said a lie runs around the world while the truth is putting on its boots And we heard the expression perhaps when you were growing up, sticks and stones may break my bones, but names or words will never harm me. Now whoever said that did not know what they were talking about. Because words can harm you. They can do great damage. In fact, the Bible says in the book of Proverbs, life and death are in the power of the tongue. Words can control life and death. Adolf Hitler with his tongue killed millions of people and he brainwashed a nation. It is said that for every word that is in his book, Mine camp or my struggle for every word, 125 lives were lost in World War II. And so slander is a very lethal weapon. Thomas Watson said the scorpion carries his poison in his tail, the slanderer carries it in his tongue. David wrote in one psalm, My soul is among lions. I must lie among those who breathe forth fire, even the sons of men whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue is a sharp sword. You may be here today and you may be the victim of someone's slander, someone's lies who's ripping at your reputation. I remember I experienced this once when I was in college. I was given a duty. They asked me to be the dorm supervisor or monitor. No student wants that. Because you're set up as a target, right? And all the rest of the students learn to hate you or look at you as some kind of authority, but I was asked to do it, I felt like I needed to do it And I remember that my part of my duties was to lead the dorm in devotions each night. And also they had a checklist of all those in the dorm. And I had to mark off those that were in their bed in curfew on time. And if you weren't in your bed in curfew, I wouldn't cross you off. That was my duty. Just cross off those that are there, hand it in. And through uh time there was a group of guys who were never there and and they got in trouble. And uh they poured out their wrath on me. Now I didn't even know this. I remember one time I was walking down the hall and the Dean of Man, a man I greatly respected, called me in his office And he said, Jerry, do you have any any enemies? I said, Me? No, I don't have any enemies. I'm a nice guy. I mean everybody likes me And then he he he began to show me some evidence of these guys trying to destroy my reputation. I remember thinking, I'm glad that this guy believed in me enough to know the kind of person I am. But it's not fun to go through that sort of thing And I want to tell you, beloved, that doesn't that's going to happen to us from time to time. There's going to be people that tear at your reputation. John Bunyan, the writer of Pilgrim's Progress was a godly man, a Puritan, and one day he was riding his horse to the church to preach, and it was raining, and he recognized a young lady that was uh was going to the worship service as well and being a gentleman he let her ride on the back of his horse and they both rode into the service together. Well that became the subject of wagging tongues by the people in the church And a lie began to be spread about him, his impropriety. And that lie stuck with him the rest of his life. And he couldn't get rid of it. And that unfortunately happens sometimes even among those that are supposedly God's people. There was defamation. And the psalmist here was experiencing that. Lord, deliver me from lying lips, but also deception. Look in verse 3, and from a deceitful tongue. Here's the other thing. The word decea here is the idea of fraud. He was a victim of fraud. Someone was was de uh defrauding him. Someone perhaps would had made a promise or had Said they were going to do something and it never came to pass. There was purposeful deceit towards him. He was the victim of a scam. We live in a world today of deceivers, do we not? A man told the story of a driver who put a note on the windshield wiper of a car, and this is what the note said. Quote, I have just smashed into your car. The people who saw the accident are watching me. They think I'm writing down my name and address. I'm not. Good luck. And that was it. Deception The psalmist lived in a world of lying, lips, and deceit. Someone wrote this, the essence of lying is deception, not in words. A lie may be told by silence, by equivocation, by the accent on a syllable, by the glance of the eye, attaching a particular significance to a sentence. All these kinds of lies are worse and baser by many degrees than a lie plainly worded. No form of blinded conscience It is so far sunk as that which comforts itself in having deceived because the deception was a gesture or silence instead of utterance Deception. And again, we live in this kind of world as we're passing through in this pilgrim journey, we're going to be victims of deception. And so there was another thing, however, there was despair. Despair. Look in verse 5. Another difficulty. Woe is me, he said. Woe is me. He was cast down. He was downtrodden. You ever say those words? Woe is me. Some of you might be thinking, I said that just before I got here tonight. Woe is me. Perhaps maybe you haven't said those words, but you feel that way. Your soul is cast down. I want to tell you that God's best soldiers at times get downcast. They just have difficulty, and there's despair that comes. Again, referring to the great book Pilgrim's Progress, you'll probably hear me refer to it a lot since we're talking about the Pilgrim Psalms. And some of these things just fit the verses. But in the story, as Christian is journeying to the celestial city, in the seventh stage of his journey, he and his traveling companion at that time, hopeful, they get weary of their trip And they're looking for an easier way. And they notice they happen to see a path in a meadow called Bypass Meadow. And so they decide to take it. It looks easy. And they dig detour that way. But soon night overtakes them. And then they're caught in a very vicious storm. And at last, worried and wearied, they lay down and they fall asleep under a tree. And then when they wake up the next morning, there is standing there the giant of despair that basically beats them And throws them into the dungeon of Dowding Castle. And there they are in this dungeon from Wednesday all the way through Saturday night They haven't eaten. They haven't had water. They've been cruelly mocked and tortured by this giant of despair. Until finally Christian realizes that he has in his bosom that was given to him before the journey actually started a key called promise that could unlock any prison And he reaches into his bosom and he pulls out the key of promise, and they free themselves, and finally they're gone. And of course you understand the promises are the promise of God's word that gets us out of the uh the the prison of doubting or doubting castle and delivers us from the giant of despair but the point is is that in this pilgrim journey all of us are going to experience despair just like the psalmist But then there's another thing, not only distress and defamation and deception and despair, but also write down displacement. Displacement. Look at verse 5. He says, woe is me that I sojourn in Meshach, that I dwell in the tents of Keter. In other words, he feels out of place. Do you ever fear out of place? This is what the psalmist is describing here. What does he mean by Meshach and Keter? Meshach was located far north of Jerusalem. In fact, it was the farthest north known during that time. It was an area that was beyond the Black Sea. And the people in that area were considered to be barbarians and pagans. It was the most distant land. north that perhaps they could think of. And then what about Keter? Well that was located in the opposite direction. That was all the way south. It was in the desert region. And the people that lived here were were uh Arabs. They were f they were descendants of Ishmael. They were wild, they were vicious, they would go out and they would plunder They would go into the settled places in Rob and then retreat to the safety of the desert and there they would live. But really p these two groups have this in common. It's a long way away from Jerusalem, and these are people that act like pagans. And they are very ungodly, and they were enemies of the people of God. And so what is he talking about? Well, some take this to be literal. Some think that the psalmist literally dwelt in Meshach, or he literally dwelt in Keter, and he was making this long journey to Jerusalem from this far obscure place. Well the problem with that is that he mentions both places. How can you live in two different places at once? So I don't think he's being literal here That's the other interpretation. It's figurative. These are expressions, poetic expressions, that the psalmist is using to say he was living among the worst group of people. He was living among the unrighteous, the ungodly, the wicked, who are his enemies, and it's making life very, very difficult for him. It's vexing his soul. We could compare it to Lot living in Sodom whose soul was vexed by the ungodliness that was around them. He lives in Meshach. But then there are some that take this spiritual. They they see a spiritual application here They basically are saying what he is expressing is that he's far from the promised land, and that means he's spiritually, he's not where he should be. This is a spiritual designation In fact, Stephen Kahn in his kind of a devotional commentary on these psalms, this is his view, and this is what he writes He says, and so he writes in symbolic language, using the imagery of Meshach and Teter to communicate that sentiment, that is spiritual displacement. Spiritually, he finds himself wandering away from the promised land. And in his heart, he finds himself settling down in places other than the land which God has given him. He discovers to his great sorrow that he's dwelling in a place other than where he should be. And what is that place? He says it's the world There's a spiritual application then that he sees here. Well, I certainly see this as figurative. He is speaking about living among hostile, ungodly people, but I do believe there is a spiritual application here that we can see. Let me ask you a question. Are you where you need to be spiritually? Is your heart away from the Lord? Or are you good? Or can you honestly, as you evaluate yourself, say, I'm I'm really not where I need to be. I'm not where I should be. And because of this, the psalmist felt displaced. I'm not where God wants me. And then there's another problem I see, and that's a disputation. There was disputes going all around. Look again in verse six. My soul has long dwelt with him that hateth peace. I am for peace, but when I speak, they are for war. He lives among people that are constantly rattling the sabers of war. He's living in a hostile environment. I might tell you that in this world that we live today. This world has basically declared war against Christians. You know that? This world is no friend to the church. It's no friend to grace. This is exactly what Paul warned Timothy about. All they who will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. It's going to happen. If you just even have the desire to be godly or to live for God, you're going to suffer persecution. Paul also said, this also know that in the last days, perilous times will come. In studying this, I was reading about some of the hostility out there in America towards Christians. And we're seeing this escalate rapidly. Values that As Americans we held dear are now only being dismantled and thrown away. And those those precious values that we have Only the church and God's people hold to them. No longer do we find them in the world today, in our culture today. Biblical absolutes once embraced are being replaced by relativism. And the result is there's a hostility towards Christianity. There was an article I read. Let me just read you an excerpt of it. The article titled basically All Over American Christians Are Being Labeled as Extremists and Hate Groups. This is what he says. Are Christians rapidly becoming one of the most mi uh hated minorities in America? Once upon a time such a notion would have been unthinkable. But these days things are changing dramatically. All over the United States, Christians are being called extremists. Christian organizations are being labeled as hate groups As history has shown us over and over again, when you want to persecute a particular people, first the step is to demonize them. And that is exactly what is being done in Christianity today. Just look at how Christians are being portrayed on the television and in the movies. Just look how much hate is being spewed at Christians on the internet, he says. And so there's a war, there's a hostility out there. You may be here tonight and you may work in a situation like that. Where you work, you're just trying to do the right thing, you're just trying to be a good employee, you're trying to honor the Lord, and because of your Your righteousness, you're the victim of hostility. It could be this way in your home. There are some people that get saved and they're in the midst of those who don't know the Lord. And because now you're walking a new life, you're living for God, you're taking a stand because of your conviction, and you're being treated in a hostile manner This is just part of being a Christian a lot of times. You say, well, how do I navigate around this? How do I survive this? This is the second thing I want you to see. Not only the uh difficulty he endured. But secondly, write this down, the deliverance he enjoyed. The deliverance he enjoyed. Because the psalmist really, as we look at these verses, he gives us a prescription for dwelling in a hostile environment. Or in a difficult situation. And what is it? These are what I call three attitudes we have to maintain if we're going to survive this, if we're going to make it up this difficult hill. We have to drink from this spring, as it were To get us over this hill. And what is it? First of all, express the problem prayerfully. Whatever problem you have, take it to the Lord. Again, look in verse 1 In my distress, I cried unto the Lord. I cried unto the Lord. And notice, and he what? He heard me. And then he gives specifically his prayer, deliver my soul, O Lord, from lying lips and from a deceitful tongue. What I want you to notice in these two verses is that there's a combination of the past and the present. Verse 1 is past tense. I called to the Lord. in the past. Here he's describing perhaps a previous experience where he went through difficulty and trouble. And what did he do? He called unto the Lord. And what happened? The Lord answered him. And so what does he do now, verse 2? Presently he's praying, and here's his prayer, deliver me, O Lord. You see, what's the point? The point is, is past prayers and past answers from God has given him confidence to pray in this present situation. You see, that's one reason why it's good to write down your prayers, to or to write down your requests, and keep a journal, maybe a little journal of it, because you know what? When you read through that and you see, you know what, God answered that I cried unto him and he helped me. He delivered me. He took care of that. What does that do? That gives you confidence. For the next time you go through trouble or difficulty, you can cry out to the Lord. And God will again show his faithfulness. And so he has confidence. Notice his confident prayer. I cried to the Lord. And then he said, Deliver me. But also notice his careful prayer He says exactly what he wants God to do for him. His prayer is very specific in verse 2. Deliver my soul, O Lord, from lying lips. Notice he said soul. He didn't say body. He didn't say, Lord, take me out of here. He said, Lord, deliver my soul from lying lips and from a deceitful tongue. And so he's very exact. He's very specific in what he wants to pray. And so when you're going through trouble and difficulty, we need to learn from this example. We need to be very specific when we pray to God. God, this is what I need you to do for me. Lord specifically, please hear this prayer and take it to the Lord and pour it out to the Lord. I remember one time uh I prayed a prayer. We had a ministry need in a ministry I was serving in, and it was kind of stressful And I remember telling the secretary that morning, I said, look, I pray to God that we would have this need met by 10 o'clock today. So if you hear anything, please let me know and let me know the time that you hear it. At 9. 50, she buzzed me and said, guess what? The need was met before 10 o'clock. The Lord had met that need. Now that's one of the victories. I'm not going to tell you about all the times I prayed and didn't happen, all right? Because I'm trying to sound spiritual up here to you, right? But this is one of the times when I prayed very specifically and God answered. But you know what? The Lord is faithful to do that. He'll do that for his children. So his prayer was very careful, but also it was concise. I look at verse 2, deliver my soul, O Lord, from lying lifts. From a deceased uh deceitful tongue. You know what? He doesn't give a real long prayer. It's concise, it's to the point. Now let me just say there are times for seasons of prayer, there's times for intense praying for hours. But I want to tell you that when I was a younger Christian, I would read these stories about these guys that would pray all night or pray four hours a day or they would wear grooves in the hardwoods before their bed or they had knees that looked like camel knees. And so I got this impression that if I wasn't praying four hours a day I wasn't really praying. And in a way it was meant to encourage me to pray, but it was discouraging me from praying. Because I thought I don't have four hours And I I don't want to make my knees look like camel knees, so I I don't think I'm going to pray today. And sometimes that can be discouraging. May I just say this? That prayer doesn't always have to be hours long Sometimes the most effective prayers you can pray, just take a minute, where you're pouring your heart and your soul out to God in intensity, with tears. Those are the prayers that God hears. Instead of five hours of mindless chatter, maybe five minutes of pouring your heart out before the Lord and being specific and presenting to the Lord what you need. And this is what the psalmist does. He prays. But now here's the second thing. Not only express the problem prayerfully, but another thing I see here is entrust the problem patiently. And trust it to the Lord. Look in verse number three. What shall be given unto thee? Or what shall be done unto thee, thou false tongue? He's asking himself this question. Actually, he's really directing this towards those who are his enemies. What am I going to do about these false tongues, about these lying lips that are around me? What shall be done to you? False tongue. And the answer is found here in verse 4. Sharp arrows of the mighty with coals of juniper. Now what does he mean here? The answer really is this. The mighty that he's referring to there in verse 4 is not just some obscure warrior. It is the Lord Himself. It is the Lord. Sharp arrows of the mighty, the Lord. In other words, what's he doing? He's turning all of this over to God. He's entrusting this to the greatest warrior, the one who fights all our battles for us. He turns it over to the Lord. And he says, God's arrows will stick fast in you. You see, arrows sometimes in the imagery of the Psalms were words of slander or words of lies or gossip, and they were pointed in his way. What he's saying is God's going to turn that around on you. His arrows are going to stick in you. Psalm 38. 2 says, For thine arrows stick fast in me, talking about God. God will shoot his arrows at the enemy. And so here's the idea. When you entrust all this to God, God will punish lying lips He will punish those that slander you. But also notice the next phrase. And he says, with coals of juniper. What does that mean? Well, let me describe you coles with juniper. The juniper here is referring to the broom tree that was very prevalent in that area. The Arabs would use the root. from the broom tree because it was said to yield a charcoal that retains its heat for a very long time As a matter of fact, in the Talmud there's a legend that travelers, when they uh pulled up the the tree and used the coals from its roots to make to cook food on their fire. They left after they were done the next morning, and they came back a year later, and the embers were still alive and hot from that previous year's fire. That may be exaggerating the point just a bit But you get the idea. They were good. They burned out a long time. And the idea here is that uh untruth is like a fire. Lies are like a fire. And yet God, his justice and his punishment burns much longer than the lies that people will utter against you. Amen. His punishment is much more severe. So the idea is don't get on the defensive and try to defend yourself. Turn it over to the Lord. Let God take care of this and then wait patiently for the Lord to take care of this problem. You specifically pray and then you entrust it to the Lord and then you patiently wait. Henry Wandsworth Longfellow said this about retribution, though the mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceedingly small. Though with patience he stands waiting, with exactness grinds he all. The Lord will take care of it. in his own time. Now here's the last thing. Express the problem prayerfully. Entrust the problem patiently. But then next write this down. Endure the problem peacefully Endure the problem peacefully. Because again, look what he says in verse 5 through 7. Woe is me that I sojourn in Meshech, that I dwell in the tents of Keter. My soul has long dwelt with him that hateth peace. Notice verse 7, I am for peace. But when I speak there for word. Now let me show you something a little interesting here. Literally, the Hebrew reads in verse 7, I am peace. That's literally the rendition of that. I, or we could say I, peace. Or I am peace. And the idea there is that I'm at peace. God has given him peace here now This psalm ends with the psalmist having peace given to him from the Lord. And that's what God will faithfully do. He won't always change your circumstances He may not change the hostility that exists around you or the difficulty around you, but what he will do is he will give you an inward peace that is able to overcome all of those things. Like the psalmist said, great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. God gives great peace to his people. To overcome these conflicts. Really, this is an Old Testament illustration of the New Testament truth in Philippians. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, let your request be made known unto God and the peace of God. That passes all understanding will guard your heart and your mind. And so the Lord gives him this peace Spurgeon said this, do you know what it is when you are tossed on the waves to go down into the depths of the Godhead, and there rejoicing that not a wave of trouble ruffles your spirit? But that you are serenely at home with God, your own Almighty Father. All about on the surface may be foaming and troubling, but in the depths of the Godheads, forgive himself. When you get close to the Lord, you know what there is? There's peace. Someone wrote this: Beneath the waves of the storm-toss sea, there's a peace and calm and tranquility. But none could guess by the foaming crest that deep in the ocean's heart is rest. The continual tides recede and flow. And the white cap breakers come and go. They toss in fury and never cease. Still deep in the ocean's heart is peace. And so deep in the heart where Christ abides, though swept by currents of evil tides, though tempest-tossed and wildly driven, there is a peace and rest that comes from heaven And that's so very true. God gives peace. And again, where do we see this exemplified in the greatest way in the life of Christ? He lived in peace all of his life. All around him was hostility, all around him was turmoil, and yet he made his pilgrim journey on this earth in a sinless way, in a way that honored God at total peace. With all the things that were going on around him, and he models for us how we should live in a hostile environment. And so, friend, let's apply these things to our own life. I'll close with this. A missionary told an old Indian chief about Jesus, describing him as the way to heaven. And he basically said, the Jesus road is a good road, said this aged chief, but I have followed the Indian road all my life and I cannot change now. And so a year later, this chief was lying on his deathbed, and the missionary came again and presented to him Christ. And this is what he said. He said, Can I turn to Jesus now? The chief said, My own road stops here. There's no way through the valley. Every road that a man takes in this life ends at the grave All those roads, the roads of religion and fame and success, all those things end at the grave. They can never take you through the valley of the shadow of death. Only Christ can do that. Only the road that He puts us on. And the road may be difficult at times. There may be hills, but He will give us a spring to drink from, and His presence will go with us, and He'll help us to live in this difficult world. as we travel with the Lord. Let's bow for prayer. And so, Lord, we thank you for the instructions that we receive here. We thank you, Lord, that you are our example. And that before you left, you told your disciples, My peace I give unto you. Not as the world gives, give I unto you. There may be people here tonight, Lord, that are going through difficulty, through distress. Perhaps they've been the victim of some kind of deception or They're in despair. Lord, I ask you to minister to their heart. May they reach out to you. May they express to you the problem and pray May they entrust to you this problem and patiently wait, Lord, for your answer. And Lord, in return, would you grant them peace? Peace, a peace that rises above any trouble or anguish or circumstance they're facing. How many of you say, That's my prayer tonight? Would you pray for me? For the peace of God in this trouble that I'm in. God bless you. So Lord, take these words, use them in the hearts of your people. For your own glory, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.