And on Sunday nights, I want to do a series with you in some passages out of Corinthians. And uh go to First Corinthians chapter one And look at verse 1. As we read the introduction to this letter, verse 1, Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sophanes, our brother. Under the Church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints with all that in every place call upon the name of the of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. You know, when I was a teenager, I loved to read biographies. I still love to read biographies, but as a teenager, I especially focused on reading biographies of great Christians And uh I read a biography one time of the life of Harry Arnside. I don't know if you know that name. He was a pastor of the Moody Memorial Church. for many years. And uh he has some commentaries out there. How many have ever read any of his commentaries? He is a wonderful preacher. Well I would say was. He's in heaven now. But his ministry still goes on through his books And he had such a warm and beautiful manner in which he communicated truth from the scripture. Well one time, uh H. J. Arnside, Harry Arnside, was traveling across the country on a train and he met up with some nuns of a religious order, there are some Catholic nuns, and he had a great time talking with them about the truth of Scripture. And the subject came up about saints. Now you know the Catholic Church, of course, has a certain uh understanding of saints. They believe that before a person can be qualified as a saint that there was a list of qualifications they would have to meet. For example, they would have to prove that they lived a holy life and they would have to do a miracle. This was really after they were even dead. a miracle had to happen in their name or something related to them that kind of gave confirmation that they were a saint there and had it. So they had a list of all these things before the church would actually canonize people and call them saints. According to one person, there's about 2,000 saints, according to the Catholic Church, people who have been declared saints. And so this was a big issue. And H. J. Arnside was talking to the nuns about this subject, and he said to them, How have you ever seen a saint? And they said, no, we haven't. He said, how would you like to see a real bona fide saint? And they said, we would love to see a saint. So he stood up and he stepped back and he said, This is Saint Harry right here. I am Saint Harry. And they kind of gave him a blank look. When he used that opportunity to tell them what the Bible has to say about saints And while you don't have to do a miracle, there are some qualifications if you're going to be called a saint. And the first one is this, you have to know Jesus as your Savior. Once you come to know Jesus as your Savior, you repented of your sin, then the Bible calls you saints. And what we need to do after that is we need to live up to what we have been Now, this is really the message that the Apostle Paul gives to the Corinthians in the very first part here of 1 Corinthians chapter 1. His message is, live like a saint. This is what you have been called, and this is what God expects of you. You're to live apart from the rest of the world. God takes sinners by his marvelous grace, just like the song that we just heard His wonderful grace converts the sinner and turns them into saints. Down in Bolivia, the Bolivians have a prosperous industry making hats out of rabbit fur. Paul Harvey said one time that the Bolivians have a way of taking of of making uh hats out of rabbits, or pulling hats out of a rabbit. You're supposed to laugh there. Look, if I think it's funny, I want you to laugh, all right? I want a courtesy laugh on all of my jokes up here, all right? Well, the point is God has a way of taking sinners and making them saints. That's the work of Almighty God. Now, as we're going to see here, the Corinthians, they were struggling with that This is a church that had a lot of problems. This is a church that had a lot of conflict. And so they weren't really living up to that Title of Saints. And so this is the very first thing that Paul wants to encourage them to do as he writes to them. Now let me give you a little background. Why did Paul write this letter? Well, let's go back a little bit. Paul first preached the gospel in Corinth on his second missionary journey. And he supported himself while he did that. He lived, he worked, and he preached the gospel. He lived with Aquila and Priscilla Uh and you remember that you might remember this in the book of Acts that Paul got to the city of Coran after he had visited Philippi. You remember what happened to Paul at Philippi? He was beaten, right? Then he went to Berea and then Thessalonica. He was chased out of those cities. And so that by the time he got to the city of Corinth Paul was pretty fearful. In fact, look in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, look at verse number 3. He kind of alludes to that. He says, And I was with you in weakness. And in fear and in much trembling. Paul said, When I got to you, when I came to you, I had much fear and much trembling. I guess so. If you have been beaten and chased out of all the other cities where you preach the gospel, that would give you the tendency to be a little bit fearful in the next place that you went. But in Acts chapter 18 The Lord appears to Paul. It's recorded in Acts 18, 9 and 10, and through a vision, God encouraged Paul's heart. And God said, Paul, don't be afraid to preach the gospel there at Corinth. Don't be afraid because I have many people in this City. That is to say, there is a lot of things I want to do here in this city. So don't be afraid to preach the gospel. Well With that in mind, the Apostle Paul stayed in the city at Corinth for a year and a half, establishing a church, preaching the gospel. discipling saints, building the church, the body of Christ. After a year and a half, Paul moved on. But now listen, there are others that came into Corinth after Paul and they built on the foundation that he laid. You know, Paul called himself, you know, I'm I'm really my gift is to kind of lay a foundation. I lay Jesus Christ, I preach Christ, and I lay the foundation, and others might come and build on it, but they better be careful how they build on that foundation, Paul would say And later Apollos would come in. Apollos was a great orator. And then Peter would come in. And they also built on the foundation that Paul laid. Now, meanwhile, while others are building on that foundation in Collins, where's Paul? Paul's in Ephesus. He had already begun a ministry there in Ephesus, a very fruitful ministry. But while Paul is in Ephesus, he starts to get reports. From people in Corinth. And he starts to hear that the Church of Corinth began having problems with the issue of immorality. Look in 1 Corinthians chapter 5. Look down in verse number 9. He speaks about a letter that was that we don't really know about. Now, in verse 1 Corinthians 5, 9, I wrote unto you in an epistle not to keep company with fornicators. So here Paul mentions here, I wrote this letter to you, not for you not to keep company with fornicators. Now, you say, where's this letter? We don't know where this is, this letter. In fact, Paul didn't write just two letters to the Corinthians. He actually wrote four letters. to the Corinthians. Two of them we don't know where they are. We could call this Corinthians A, where he wrote about stay away from fornicators. First Corinthians would be Corinthians B. Later he writes a letter called a severe letter. Where he he he kind of chastises them in that letter, and then he'll write 2 Corinthians. We could call that Corinthians D. Two of these letters we don't have Which tells us that was not inspired scripture. Not everything Paul wrote was inspired scripture. If it was, we'd have it. And so inspiration doesn't lay necessarily in the writer, it lays in the actual words itself that God inspires. And so we don't know where this letter is, but he writes to them about this issue of fornication At some point, while Paul is in Ephesus, he's visited by a delegation from Corinth. Three are in this delegation. And they come to Paul and they give him a report of all the things that's going on in this church. And it's not good. There's a lot of issues that this church is dealing with. Again, go to 1 Corinthians chapter 16 and look at verse number 7. As we're kind of dealing with the setting here I want you to look at this passage, 1 Corinthians 16, 17, and he says, I am glad of the coming of Stephanus and Fortunatus and Achaicus. For that which was lacking on your part, they have supplied. So here's this delegation, and they come to Paul. And they bring a gift to Paul from the church, but also they bring a report of some of the things that's going on He said, What was going on? Well, there were some in the church that were criticizing Paul. They were not happy with his leadership. And then they were carnal. There was a man in the church that was having an incestuous relationship with his father's wife that would be his stepmother. It was a terrible thing going on in the church. They were immoral There was immoral activity going on among members in the church, and some were seeking to justify that. They were using Greek philosophy to justify immorality And so Paul was concerned about that. One brother was taking another brother to court. He was actually suing. In fact, that was happening a lot. There was confusion about singleness and marriage. And there were some in the church that said it's wrong for a person to remain single, and Paul had to clear that up and say there's nothing wrong with that. There was controversy about eating foods offered unto idols There were some people that were doing that. There was a problem with the abusing of spiritual gifts. They were not loving one another as the Bible says, and on we could go. Here is a church that had a lot of issues A lot of problems. And so Paul addresses these issues in the letter here, 1 Corinthians. There's enough in 1 Corinthians to offend everybody when Paul's done with it. But he wants to deal with these issues. But in the first chapter, in the first few verses, however The main idea that Paul is saying here, he's implying, even in the introduction, is that you should live like saints. Remember, you are saints. And you should therefore live like saints. And so really in the first chapter, he's going to really deal with two issues. Number one, we could call it the problem of defilement. So we're not living a pure life the way they should. And then secondly, the problem of division. So let's talk about two exhortations. Here's the first one that Paul gives. If you're taking notes, right down number one. If you want to live like the saint, saints are to be number one, sanctified You're to live a sanctified life. Look at verse number three again. Grace be unto you in peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus. Christ. I thank my God always on your behalf of the grace of God, which is given you by Jesus Christ, that in everything you are enriched by Him in all utterance and in all knowledge. Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you. Let me talk to you a little bit about the greeting here because this has the form of of an ancient letter. You know, we we all we kind of have a certain form and style that we have in our letters. We put our name at the top or or excuse me write the name of the person we're addressing at the top and we put our name at the end. Well in the early first century world, the writer would put his name first at the beginning. There was always a greeting, there was always a thanksgiving prayer, there was always a praise. And this is exactly what we see here as we read in verses one through three. Paul, the apostle, uh he also identifies Sosthenes, our brother. Sophanes is mentioned in Acts 18, 17, he was the ruler of the synagogue. Obviously, he had gotten saved. And he was probably part of this delegation that visited Paul in Ephesus. So Paul reminds him, he's with me here, and he gives a salutation, but he uses some expressions here purposely in verse 2. He says, you are, notice verse 2, under the church of God which is at Koranth to them that are sanctified. in Christ Jesus. In the very greeting he reminds them that they are set apart. That's what the word sanctified there means. You are set apart from the world. And the sanctification, the word sanctified here means for a sacred use. Did you know what when the Lord saves you, He at that point sets you apart? And God has a special use for all of his children You are set apart now. We're to be different. That's why he says you're called to be saints. That's our position. Saints means Holy One. And we have a sacred partnership. It says that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints in verse 2, with all that in every place call upon the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's our sacred sacred partnership. You are now one with all the saints and you represent Jesus Christ in this world here. You are saints. In other words, you have a big name and a big role to live up to. Now, this is important to understand because remember he's writing to a church that has issues here. But also remember this, that the city of Corinth was a city that was known for its wickedness. In fact, this was one of the most wicked cities in ancient Greece. Let me give you some facts about that. They um, according to one writer, he said this, Gordon Fee said, old Corinth had gained such a reputation for sexual vice that the tr the the tur the term was coined, the verb Corinthianizo, which means to act like a Corinthian, came to be associated with immorality. When you are acting immoral, they say, oh, they're acting like a Corinthian Because that's how bad it was in that city. Another commentator says the old city had been the most licentious city. in Greece, perhaps the most licentious city in the Empire. Just a terrible city. Did you know that in the city of of Corinth The people there suffered terribly from venereal disease because of all the immorality that was happening. There was a temple there. in the city of Corinth named the Temple of Apollo. It had a cult in that temple, and part of the ritual of that cult were were prostitutes going out making money for the temple. There was a notorious shrine called the Temple of Apaprodite. It stood on the top of a high cliff, a high mountain there. There were hundreds of female slaves that also uh did that immoral trade there for that tempo. It was just a terrible place. One writer says this, all of this evidence together suggests that Paul's Corinth was at once the New York, Los Angeles, and Las Vegas of the ancient world. All of those cities combined. This was a sinful city. And here are these Christians, this group of saved people now that are there in that city. And Paul reminds them and he says to them, listen, you are now to be set apart from all of that. This is not to be part of your life. Don't let the culture around you affect you. You are saints. You're to live like saints. You're sanctified. You're set apart by Almighty God. And then he reminds them of God's past grace. In verse 4, I thank my God. Always on your behalf for the grace of God which is given you in Christ Jesus. Paul said that when I remember back and I see the grace of God working in your life, I thank God for that. Isn't it wonderful when we see God take a person out of a sinful background? And just turn them around by his grace. And it's just wonderful to see that. And Paul is remembering what God had been doing there in that city. By the grace of God, sinners were being saved. When I think about that, I think about one of my favorite stories, the story of Ballantyne Burke. He was a notorious criminal in Missouri During the days of D. L. Moody, and one day he was sitting, he was brooding in a St. Louis prison, and the prison keeper gave him a copy of the newspaper on the and in that paper there was an article that the headlines read this, uh, how the jailer at Philippi was caught. Well that caught Valentine Burke's attention. Because there was a city, or actually a little town in Missouri called Philippi. So he thought it was referring to that town there. And he knew the jailer in that town. So he thought, how did my jailer friend get caught? And he began to read that newspaper article. But what he didn't realize is he was actually reading about a sermon that D. L. Moody had preached. And he began to read, and at first he got a little angry at the article. He thought it was a bit misleading, but then he continued to read. And over and over he saw an expression there in that article that said this, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Nine times in that article, he read it over, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Well, after Valentine Burke put the article down, those words would not leave him. And in the fightness of his cell that night, he prayed, he said, Lord, would you save me? Would you forgive me And you know what? God did an incredible work in his heart. God saved him. In fact, the change was so dramatic. That the prison keeper and the pi the guards around thought he was that he was acting. He was just trying to get out. And they didn't believe him. And there was some technicality that came up where that he was released from the conviction that he was on it. So he was released from jail. And as he was released, he began, he was just a different person. But for months nobody believed him, and nobody trusted him until finally a local sheriff Saw his life, and he kind of took him under his wing. And you know what? In time, Valentine Burke began to be a trusted deputy for this sheriff. And on one occasion, he was given the responsibility of holding money and taking it to deposit it in the bank. At one point, the sheriff gave him $60,000 Say, take it to the bank. Here's a guy who was renowned for being a criminal, a crook, and all of a sudden now he's carrying money to the bank. And he happened to say to one friend on the street, this is what he said, he said, Look at my hands and see what the grace of God has done He said, I'm carrying in my hands sixty thousand dollars to deposit in the bank. Before I knew Jesus I would be out of town with this. But now look what the Lord has done in my life. You see, the grace of God took a crook and made him an honest man. Made them a man of integrity. And friend, that's what the grace of God will do for anyone. And this is what Paul is reminding them. Now, listen, the city of Corinth, it was filled with a lot of men like Valentine Burke. It was filled with immoral people. It was filled with crooked people. It was filled with perverted people. And yet when Paul went in there And by the way, when he came in, he remember what he says? He said, I came to you in fear and trembling. And look in chapter two again, when Paul came in, 1 Corinthians chapter 2 He said in verse 2, I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified, and I was with you in weakness and in fear. And in much trembling in my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of men's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and of power. Paul said, Look, when I came in to you I came to you within weakness and fear and trembling. And when I preached the sermon, no one walked away and said, Wow, what a great order! What a great preacher. He said, I just wanted you to know Jesus Christ and Him crucified. You ever fumble your way through a lesson or a sermon? Sometimes it happens, you know, you just say, well man, that was pretty pitiful. I just kind of fumble my way through. But let me tell you something, dear friend. If you give the word of God, it's not a failure. Because God uses his word. And Paul said, you know, when I came, I was i I was in much trembling. I was in much weakness. I was in much fear. But I just wanted you to know Jesus Christ. And you know what? When the gospel is preached, God does something with it. And these people, they call Ranth, these sinful people were converted, and they were changed by the grace of Almighty God. In fact, look in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. And excuse chapter 6, yes, verse 9. And uh look what it says there. When Paul is referring to them, he says, Now you know that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards. Nor revilers nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And listen to verse 11. And such were some of you. This is what you were. But ye are washed. Ye are sanctified. You are justified in the name of the Lord. God's grace washes us Sets us apart. Paul said, This is what you were. This is not what you are now. This is what you were. But God has made you different. He's changed you. He's washed you. He's cleansed you. And now you're different. He changes you. That's what the grace of God does. And Paul reminds them of this past grace. Let me tell you something. You know what? God's invested a lot in us, hasn't he? And he doesn't want the grace that he has invested in us to be in vain. Friend, I don't want whatever, you know, God has invested grace in me. I don't want that to be for nothing. I want to live up to what God has invested in me. And so Paul reminds them, these believers, of the past grace. That God has given them. Grace changes us. It even changes the way we talk. Go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Look down at verse number 5. He said that in everything you're enriched by Him Oh, the riches of God's grace. You're enriched by Him in all utterance and in all knowledge. That is utterance through the things that come out of our mouth. Grace changes even the way that we talk. And then He's given us knowledge. of Christ. And so there's past grace that Paul reminds them about. But then friend, there's present gifts. Look in verse 6. Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you, verse 7, see that you come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He says, so that you come behind and no grip gifts. You know what Paul's reminding them about here? He said, you're a gifted people. You don't lack any gifts. Now, as you read the book of 1 Corinthians, what you're going to find is that this was a group of people that had many, many spiritual gifts. This was a gifted group. And Paul says, you come behind and know gift, spiritual gift. And actually the word here for gift is the word charisma And it's a word that really speaks about the gifts of grace. These are spirit-empowered abilities graciously given by the Lord Jesus Christ. Did you know that when you got saved? God, through Christ and the Holy Spirit, endowed you with a charisma, a spiritual gift that you're to use. Let me ask you a question. Don't raise your hand. How many of you know what your gift is? Do you even know what that gift is? But when you were saved, he gave you a gift. And he wants you to use that gift. And by the way, why do we have these gifts? They're not for our benefit. It's for the benefit of the body of Christ. Other people benefit when we exercise our spiritual gift. So, friend, if you have a spiritual gift And you're not using that gift. We suffer for that. The church suffers. And Paul says to these Corinthians, you know, you've been given gifts. You come behind in those spiritual gifts. You're second to none. As you in verse 7, as you're waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, it's interesting to me that Paul talks about these gifts in context with waiting Because sometimes when we think about waiting, we think about sitting around and doing nothing. And the idea, however, in verse seven is you've been given a spiritual gift. You're to use that as you're waiting for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words When you're waiting for Jesus, don't just sit around and do nothing. Get busy using the gifts that God's given you. As you're waiting for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. You heard about uh two wives. One was waiting for her husband. When he got home, she was uh still in her uh bedrobe and her hair was done up in coat hangers and and the bed was still unmade And the house was a mess. And he got home and he said to her, What have you been doing? She said, I've been waiting for you. And then a the second housewife, when the husband got home, the house was immaculate, it was spotless, uh she was dressed really nice and there was dinner on the table and music in the background. And he says to her, What have you been doing? She said, I've been waiting for you. You see, there's a difference in how you wait, right? As we wait for Jesus, we're not to sit around and do nothing. We are to be busy using those spiritual gifts. So we see past grace, Paul reminds them about. He reminds them about present gifts. But then future guarantee. Look at verse number eight. Who shall also confirm you unto the end That you might be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. The word confirmed here means to make firm. In other words, God will continue working on you, making you mature and strong And this is exactly what the Corinthians needed. They were saved, they were gifted, but they were very immature, and they needed to grow. They needed to be made firm. And so Paul says, you know what? The Lord is going to confirm you to that end. He's going to keep working on you. To make you what he wants you to be. Why? So that when Jesus comes, you'll be blameless. He's doing this work of sanctifying in your life. That's what God is doing in all of our lives. He's sanctifying us. I heard about a little boy who fell out of bed. His mom said, How did you fall out of bed? He said, I fell asleep too close to where I got in. And there are some Christians that sometimes when they get in to salvation they fall asleep too close to where they got in. And God needs to get you, He needs to shake you up, He needs to remind you that now that you're saved, I've got to confirm you, I've got to work on you, I've got to sanctify you. And just let me say this, God does that to all of His children. If there is no sanctification, then there is no justification. Because whom God justifies, he begins the work of sanctifying. sanctification in their life. Now we might not always see that work of sanctification on the outside, but just know this: any true child of God, God is working in that life God is bringing sanctification in that life. He's confirming you. He's molding you. He's making you, just like a furniture maker takes a piece of wood and he will cut it, he will sand it, he will carve it, he will stain it. And by the time he's done and you have this beautiful piece of piece of furniture, it looks nothing like the wood that was brought into the shop. Absolutely nothing And even so, that's what the process of sanctification is like. He will cut us, he will stand us down All he'll sand off all the smooth edges, he will carve, he will do all of that to form us into the person that he wants us to be, he does that work of confirmation in our life. And verse 8 he says, unto the end, that you might be blameless in the day of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because look at verse 9. God is faithful by whom you were called unto the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. And again, this is a beautiful picture of salvation. It's being called unto fellowship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so that's why God does that work of sanctification in our life. So here's the first point again. Paul said, I want you to live like saints, and saints are to be sanctified. But here's point number two. Write this down. Saints are to be unified. Saints are to be unified. Now look at verse 10. Now I beseech you, brethren. By the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, that there be no divisions among you, but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind. And in the same judgment. Now, Paul is dealing with another issue at the church of Corinth, and that is there were divisions in the church. There was just the visions that were taking place. And Paul said, that's not the way saints are to live. Did you know wherever the word saint is used in the Bible, it's used in a plural sense. It's never saint singular. It's always saints plural. I looked this up on my computer. Did you know the word saints Plural is used ninety-six times. It's always plural saints. One time In the New Testament, it's used singular saint. And even when it's used that way, Paul's referring to every saint in the church. He's usually in the context of being in a group, being together. Being unified. And here's the point. If you're going to be a saint or you're going to be saints, you're to be together. You're to be unified. Because that's always the way the Bible uses it. Did you know there's no such thing as a lone ranger Christianity? Did you know that you can't live for Jesus by yourself? I can't live for Jesus by myself. Did you know that I need your help and you need my help? And we help each other. We encourage each other. We strengthen each other. Did you know we're accountable to each other? That's why it's always used plural. Saints together. We're all to be together. Because saints grow together, not individually, not just by yourself You see, that's why we come to church. We exhort one another. We encourage one another. And so this is why Paul says this in verse 10. Look at it again. I beseech you, brethren. This is, I beg you, this is really a polite command, Pericaleo. I'm I'm encouraging you, I'm coming alongside, I'm entreating you that you speak the same thing. This I think is a reference to doctrine Evidently there may have been some doctrinal disagreements there, and that there be no divisions among you. Look at the word division there. That is a word that is the Greek word schismana. It's where we get the word schism. And it's a word that's used to describe the tearing of a garment. Or it's a word used to describe politicians who are engaged in war for power. We don't know anything about that, do we? I mean look on the television today and see how the politicians, Republicans and Democrats are engaged in this warfare to get power and there's all this going on. That's exactly what this word here means. Schismata. Paul said, among the church, among saints, let there be no. Schismata. Let there be no schisms, no divisions among the church. Because look down in verse number 11. For it has been declared unto me of you, remember Paul gets this report. From the delegation. It's been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are the household of Chloe, that there are contentions among you. There was some divisions going on, there were some contentions going on. There was some politicking going on. And Paul said this in verse 12. Now this I say that every one of you saith, I am a Paul, and I'm of Apollos, and I'm a Cephas, and I'm a Christ. In other words, you can just get a little idea of what was going on there, that there were people lining up behind different leaders in the church. Saying, oh, I I'm I'm I'm an Apollos man. I stand behind him. Oh, I love his gifted oratory. Oh, he's my guy. And others say, Well, I'm I'm I'm Peter's man. I I line up behind Peter. I love his plain spokenness. Oh, well others would say, Well, I'm I'm a Paul. I love his great scholarly mind and the way he hammers out doctrine and theology. I am of Paul. And then there were the real pious Christians who said, I am of Jesus. You know, those were the real spiritual ones. Oh, I'm of Jesus. And Paul says, what's going on here is that you are causing contention. You're causing strife. You're causing division. This sort of thing is not to be among the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. We're all one. Immature people have a tendency to elevate human leaders and devote themselves to man. And by the way, there's nothing wrong. It's natural to be loyal and be thankful to people who have taught who teach you the Word of God. That's all good. But when that causes a division among the church, that's not good. That's certainly not what God has ever wanted or designed. And so Paul's response is look, don't be divided. Look at verse 13. Is Christ divided? He asks. And of course the re- the answer to that question is no. Was Paul crucified for you? Was I ever crucified for you? Those that were yelling the loudest, I'm the Paul, Paul said, don't do that. I wasn't crucified for you. Or were ye baptized in the name of Paul? Of course not. Verse 14, I thank God that I baptized none of you but Crispus and Gaius. So evidently there was some someone keeping score on the number of baptisms that were done. Oh, Apollos had this many baptisms, but Peter had this many and Paul only had this many. And Paul said, You know what, I'm glad That I didn't baptize a lot of you. Say you two right here. Why? Look at verse 17 what he says. He says, For Christ sent me not to baptize But to preach the gospel not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect Now, by the way, verse 17 would be one that one verse right there can debunk baptismal regeneration, but that's another subject for another time. But Paul says, you know what? Christ didn't send me to baptize, or that is, to build converts unto myself, but to preach the gospel. And here's the idea of what he's saying. I just preach the cross. I preach Christ. God takes care of the rest of it And it's all unto him. And so don't do that. Now, you have to remember that in that culture, in that day, it was part of the culture To line up behind a certain teacher because there were these teachers of wisdom that were all around in the city of Corinth and they would get disciples and they were constantly competing That was part of the world. That was part of the world of the Greek world in which Paul was in. And all that behavior was coming into the church. And Paul is saying, that has no business being in the church. So you know what? Don't be divided. Now you know what's interesting to me here is that Paul doesn't give like this great philosophy on how to Take care of conflict or how to stay united. He doesn't need to do that. He gives a very simple command where he says that there be no divisions among you. It's not rocket science. Just don't allow anything to divide you. That's all he's saying. He doesn't have to say anything more. You know why? Because unity is a byproduct of salvation. Paul said in Ephesians 4, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit. Now listen, we don't have to get unity. We already have it. You say, how do we get it? When we got saved, we all got saved under the same gospel, same Lord. There's one faith, one baptism, one Lord, one spirit. Paul says that in Ephesians 4. We don't have to get unity. We already have it. All we have to do is just keep it. We have to determine that we're not going to let anything divide us. And so this is what Paul does. He doesn't give a great treatise on this. He just says, look, let there be no division. You're already united. Just keep it that way. And you know another thing that Paul does, he doesn't do it here in 1 Corinthians, but he does it in other in another epistle. He just says, stay, stay together. You remember that you're already united. You already have unity in Ephesians. But in Philippians, you know what he does when that church there at the church of Philippi was suffering from little contentions and there was the possibility of division in that church between people in the church. You know what Paul does in the letter of Philippi to remind them to stay united? You know what he does? He points to Jesus. He said, have the same mind as Christ had. Let this mind be in you, which was in Christ Jesus. What kind of mind did Jesus have? Totally selfless He was thinking about others, not himself. That's what Paul does when he wants to tell Christians, stay unified. Just determine, you're not going to let anything divide you. And when you had a tendency to think that, you know, your way is the only way and it's the right way, just remember the mind of Christ. Well, in fact, I want to close out the sermon by looking at. Look at Philippians chapter 2. Maybe that's the best way to close it out. Look at Philippians chapter 2. Philippians chapter 2, and look down at verse number 2, when he says, Fulfill ye my joy that you be like-minded, having the same love. Being of one accord of one mind, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. And here it is, let his mind be in you, which was also in Christ. Jesus. Now, again, what's Paul doing? He's pointing to Christ as the model of absolute supreme selflessness. And he's saying to the Philippians, if you have the mind of Christ, there's not going to be any division. There won't be any of that. So again, all that to say that in 1 Corinthians, Paul just simply says, let there be no division. He doesn't go into it to a great extent. He just makes one overall exhortation because that's really all we need. Don't let anything divide you, is what he's saying. So saints, if you're going to live like saints, saints have to be sanctified. And saints have to be unified. That's the message. So live like saints. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so Lord, again, your word is so wonderful, so practical. I pray, Lord, that we would Not just allow these words to go on deaf ears, that we wouldn't just write off what we've heard. But Lord, that we would take to heart these things that Paul is saying. He says, what he says to the church in Corinth through the Spirit is what you're saying to us today. Lord, we live in a wicked world. There's always things that will pull Christians out of the way, that tempt Christians. In this sinful world. Lord, help us to realize our past grace that was invested in us. The gifts, Lord, that you have enriched us with. And the work of sanctification, Lord, that you want to do in our life. May we be sanctified. May we, Lord, work in harmony with the Spirit of God in our life in this process. And Lord, help us to realize that as a church, we need each other. We can't do this on our own. And so, Lord, may we determine in our own heart. To never let anything cause a division in our heart. But let there be love in the body of Christ. Because, Lord, this is how we survive. This is how we grow. We grow together. So bless these words, Lord, to our heart. Use them to strengthen the body of Christ. We thank you and praise you for what you're doing. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.