Take your Bibles and open please to the book of Matthew, chapter eight. Tonight, the book of Matthew, chapter eight. And I want to look tonight, verses uh twenty-three down to verse twenty-seven. And the title of the sermon Tonight is how to have peace in the midst of your storm. Heard about an old sea captain who was quizzing a young naval student and uh he was asking him about what steps he would take take if a storm suddenly came up on the starboard? And the young naval officer said, I would throw out an anchor, sir. And the captain said, Well what would you do if the storm sprang up on the other side? He said I'd throw out an anchor. He said, What if the storm sprang up at the forward? He said, I would throw out an anchor, sir. And then the captain said, Wait a minute, where in the world are And he said from the same place you're getting all those storms. You know, personal storms or crisis have a way of showing up unexpectedly. And in order for us to survive The best anchor of all is knowing the one who is bigger than any storm. And that's really what this is talking about here in Matthew. Uh look in Matthew chapter eight. Look down at verse number twenty. twenty three. And when he was entering to his ship, his disciples followed him. And behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves, but he was asleep And his disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us, we perish. And he said unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm, and the men marveled, saying, What manner of men is this that even the winds and the sea obey him? Now here we have some important lessons, I think, about how to have peace in the midst of the storms, the storms that will come. I think all of us know that we will face storms in this life. It may be that some of you r right here tonight, you're in the midst of some kind of of a storm in your life and you're not exactly sure what to do. Well hopefully this message will be an encouragement to all of us. Regarding how to deal with the storms when they come. Now, let me give you a little bit of background into Matthew. Of course, you know that Matthew is writing about Jesus being the rightful king That's the whole theme of this gospel. He proves that Jesus had the right credentials in the first few chapters of Matthew that he sets about to prove that very thing. In Matthew chapter 1, he informs us that uh Jesus had the right genealogy, he was of the line of Abraham and David. In Matthew 2, he had the right birth, he was born of a virgin In chapter 3, he had the right baptism. He was affirmed by the Father, anointed by the Spirit at the baptism. In chapter 4, he had the right test Jesus was uh led into the wilderness and there he faced that temptation was and had showed that he had power over Satan. And then in chapter five through seven he had the right message He gave the Sermon on the Mount and he confirmed the Word of God with absolute authority. But now when you get to chapter 8 and 9, what's What Matthew is trying to show us here is that Jesus, the rightful King, has the rightful power. This is the major idea in these two chapters. Jesus has authority. He has power. In fact, in chapter 9, verse 6, that's kind of the theme that really carries over. Look in chapter 9, verse 6, but that you might know that the Son of Man hath power on earth. And that's the primary idea that we get out of this narrative in chapter eight and chapter nine. It focuses on the power of Jesus Christ. Christ. And so that's why we see in these chapters miracles that the Lord does. In the beginning of chapter 8, verses 1 to 4, he heals a leper. And then in chapter 8, verses 5 to 13, uh we see he honors the centurion's faith and heals his servant. And chapter 8, verses 19 14 to 17, he heals Peter's mother-in-law there. And now we're going to see another miracle that Jesus does. Here he's going to show his power not only over disease, he's going to show his power over nature itself. And so through these miracles, he's demonstrating his power. But what I want us to see are some lessons that we can learn because this is really Jesus showing his power over the storm. And in order to demonstrate that, he He brings his disciples through this stormy time in their life. And again, we're going to go through those times. So let's see what we can learn for ourselves regarding going through storms. If you're taking notes, just write down number one, here's one lesson we can learn. Recognize the reason for the storms. If you're going through a storm, maybe recognize the reason. What's one reason here? Well we could put down first of all obedience. Look at verse number 18 of chapter 8. Now when Jesus saw the great multitudes about him, he gave commandment to depart unto the other side. And that's Jesus commanded his disciples to get into a boat. There were many that were following him at that time, but uh he doesn't uh want to really stay there, he wants to go to another place. Jesus never really gave himself to miracle mania. He knew that many of them that were there following him were not following him because they believed that he was the rightful king, that he was the son of God. but that they wanted to see more miracles, more tricks. They were not really following him for a sincere reason. So he tells his disciples, notice where it says that he gave commandment. And so the disciples get into the boat and they go out onto the sea Sea of Galilee, and while they're there on the Sea of Galilee, they are in the midst of a storm. And so we could ask the question, why are they going through the storm? It wasn't because of anything wrong that they had done Although there are times that in our life when we go through storms we might bring it on ourselves, like in the case of Jonah in the Old Testament. Jonah was in the middle of a storm because he was running away from God. He wasn't doing the will of God. But here was the the exact opposite. It. These disciples were in the midst of a storm, not because they were running away from the Lord or they were disobeying the Lord in any way, but because they were obedient to his commands. And just know that that sometimes The storms that we encounter in life are not as a chastisement for anything that we've done wrong. It's on the other hand, it is really uh we are suffering because we are obeying what Jesus tells us. You understand that just because you're obedient to the Lord doesn't mean that everything's always going to go right and well? That sometimes because of our obedience we will go through storms in our life And that's the third first thing that we have to learn. That we are not out of the will of God when we go through a storm. It may be that God put us right there in that place to go through a storm at that moment because God has a purpose for it in our life. And so we have to divorce this idea that when we go through storms we're doing something wrong. The Bible says this right down 1 Peter 4 19 Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the I think Peter maybe he learned that from this occasion here. Peter said, Listen, when you're s Going through doing the will of God and you're suffering for it, the best thing that you can do is learn to commit your soul unto a faithful Creator. I think that's the lesson that Peter learned here He's learning that he's in the will of God and he's going through a storm. Now, here's another reason: not only obedience, but also write down testing. The Lord will test us. Now in this section, what we have to consider is the context here. What just happened here? Jesus was just talking about the And being a true disciple. In fact, in verse 19, there's going to be someone that's going to come to him and going to want to say that, or he's going to want to follow the Lord Jesus But Jesus is going to basically let him know that in order to be a follower of Christ, it's not something that's very easy. You have to be willing to count the cost And he's going to test this person's commitment. Now, Jesus and his disciples had been on the western side of the Sea of Galilee. Again, the crowds were gathering. They're getting pretty massive. You can imagine This happening Jesus performing all of those miracles and a crowd gathering. But again, Jesus wants to get away. He wants to go to the other side. It was time to move on You remember there are times in the gospel where when Jesus did miracles, he would say to them, Don't tell anyone. And why would Jesus do that? Because a lot of times Jesus understood The people would get around gather around because they wanted to see things like that. But again it was it was a distraction to what he was trying to do. Sometimes these crowds could prevent him from entering And again, Jesus wasn't interested in just the large crowds. He wanted true disciples. He didn't want Superficial followers. He wanted people that really believed on him, and the vast majority were not interested in repenting or choosing the narrow road that he had just preached about in Matthew chapter 5 Or uh through verse 7, what Jesus wanted was wholehearted, committed disciples who were totally loyal to him and repented from their sin. And so sometimes Jesus would walk away from the crowd. And this is what he's doing here. He commands his disciples, get in the boat. We're going through the other side. And in the midst of this, the Bible says, one came to him. Look at verse 19. And a certain scribe came and said unto him, Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. Here's one guy that comes to Jesus as he's getting ready to depart. He comes to Jesus and says, Jesus, I'll follow you anywhere. Now this man was a scribe. That is, he had authority in the law. He had an official sanction from the Jewish authorities to teach. And so a man like this was a very highly educated man. They were loyal to the system. Generally, a person like this sided with the Pharisees. They normally joined the opposition against Christ with the Pharisees. And so for a man like this to come uh to Jesus, it was somewhat surprising. We would have to say that this man here was cock uh had the equivalent of a PhD. He was an old test He knew the Old Testament. He knew the law. William Barclay writes this about it. It was indeed a miracle that any scribe should give to Jesus that title when he said unto him, Master. It's what he's talking about. There and uh that this man would want to follow the Lord Jesus. And so it was very unusual when when he comes and says, I'll follow thee wherever This is a tremendous boast here. This is a tremendous tremendous statement of dedication. Apparently, this man was ready to make a commitment. He was ready to join Jesus group of disciples and become one of them. And so, you know, if a person like this showed up in the average Baptist church, we would sign them up, right? We would put them on the membership. We'd bring them in immediately. But here, Jesus doesn't do that. Jesus wasn't that eager. Notice what Jesus says. Look down at verse number twenty. And Jesus said unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. Now this was a proverbial saying. It means that he didn't have an earthly comfort. He didn't have the earthly comfort that this scribe was accustomed to. You know, the scribes and the scholars at this day, they had it really pretty good. The Greek word here is uh is really a noun. It's where we get our word, uh it's it's the noun S-C-O-L, it's where we get the word scholarship. where the word scholar comes from this. And did you know that the word scholar actually means ease or leisure? You know The reason they were given this was kind of a d a derisive term because people would look at people like this that were educated and say, you know what, they don't s look like they work very hard It looks like they have a life of ease and leisure. And Jesus was saying to this man here who was perhaps accustomed to having things very easy in his life, saying, Look, if you want to follow me, just know this That the foxes have holes and the birds of the air have their nests, but the Son of Man doesn't have a place to lay his head. Jesus was saying to this scribe, look, animals have it better. They have homes But I don't have a permanent resident here. I'm not sure where I'm going to be laying my head from night to night. In fact, in John chapter 7, it says this. Uh and every man went unto his own house and Jesus went into the Mount of Olives. And the implication there seems to be that Jesus didn't have a place to go and everyone else went to their own home at night, where would Jesus go? Jesus went to the Mount of Olives because that seemed to be the place where he would stay That was the place where he would pray. There seemed to be a favorite spot of the Lord Jesus Mount of Olives. That was I have to admit when I was over in Israel last year, that became one of my favorite spots knowing that Jesus had been around there and and the Garden of Gethsemane, knowing that was a place that he He loved, uh this is where Jesus went. And so Jesus is saying to this man, I'm not sure where I'm gonna stay. Now we we see in gospels there were times where Jesus occasionally stayed in the house at Bethany with Lazarus and Mary and Martha. Sometimes he would stay in while in Capernaum, he would stay in Peter's house there. But as far as his own place, Jesus didn't have that in Jesus was basically saying to this man who was very captivated by Christ and captivated by his miracles and was ready to jump on the bandwagon, Jesus was saying To him, look, you just have to realize you have to be willing to sacrifice if you're going to follow me. You have to be willing to give things up. You better be willing to count the costs. Before you decide to be my disciple. And so look at verse 21. And another of his disciple of his disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer And so here's another disciple, would be disciple. Now he's called disciple here, but not in the same way that Jesus Disciples were disciples. Sometimes when the Bible talks about a disciple, it's talking about someone who's beginning to learn. And so here's a man who wants to follow Christ And it says, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Actually if you look in this account in Luke, Luke chapter 9, verse 59, it says, And he Jesus Jesus said unto another, Follow me. Now, so we could say it like this. The first man volunteered, but here the second man, Jesus, calls out to him And says, follow me. And so this man is invited by Christ, which leads me to believe that this man understood what it cost. The first person, when he was so willing to jump on the bandwagon, really didn't understand what it cost, and Jesus had to tell him you have to be willing to sacrifice. But then Jesus calls out unto the next person and says, follow me. And obviously then this person had an understanding somewhat of what it cost In fact, he was probably privileged to hear the previous conversation. He probably heard what Jesus just told this other man. So he had a more realistic understanding of the sacrifice entailed in the uh discipleship. But what was what did he say? Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Lord, let me go bury my father first. And so his request seemed legitimate. After all, doesn't it say in Exodus 20, to honor your father and mother? In fact, Jesus rebuked some Jews for not honoring their father and mother. And so what was the problem? Well the problem was that his his father wasn't dead when he said, let me first go bury my father It's okay to go to your father's funeral, but the problem is in this case, the father wasn't dead just yet. And so his whole idea was, first of all, let me let my father die And then let me bury him. You know, it was it was the custom back then that when you buried your father, you took the father's inheritance. And so It was responsibility of the firstborn to do that. G. Campbell Morgan tells the story of a missionary in the Middle East, and he was talking with a ri rich young Turk, and he was advising him to go and do this for the Lord, and the man said, you know, let me first go bury my father. Well the min the missionary knew that the father wasn't dead yet. But what he was referring to this Turk was that he had to stay home and fulfill his responsibilities to his parents until his father died, and then he could go. The phrase to bury one's father has that in uh in mind there that you stay until Until your father passes away, and once your father passes away, then you get the inheritance, and then you go do what you want. That's what this man was suggesting here Well, first of all, let my father die and let me bury him, and when that happens, I'll have a lot of money that I can go and do whatever I need to do. He really wanted the money more than he wanted to follow the Lord And what did Jesus say to him? Look at verse 22. And Jesus said unto him, Follow me, and let the dead bury their Dead. Again, you have to understand the c the culture back then. When Jesus said, let the dead bury the dead, that would be the rest in the family uh that the younger brothers and sisters who were considered actually dead as far as this particular responsibility was concerned, there was a law where the firstborn could say to the younger brothers and sisters, I now give this responsibility to them. So he could literally prepare for this himself, but he chose not to. So what was the problem? Well, he he didn't want to free himself of these responsibilities. He wanted the money And so this man, we don't read anything more about him. And so why are we we we sing all this? Because Jesus is giving A high standard to follow him. If you want to follow Christ, you have to count the cost. You have to be willing to say goodbye to certain things. You have to have a full heart of devotion to Christ Christ. And here when Jesus was ready to get into the boat, these here these two men talk about being disciples, were unable really to follow. And in fact, if you read this account in the Gospel of Mark, what you will find Find is that not only did Jesus get into the boat and go on, but behind him there was a whole flotilla of boats that were there following Christ. They were there pretending to follow him and be with him wherever he went. That is until the storm came. When the storm came, you know what? You don't read about these boats anymore. They just kind of fall away. This storm served as kind of a test to those that would be true followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. They kind of fell off And this is really I think part of the point that we see here in this. This storm was to test the devotion of those that claim to be his followers. And that's why the Lord might put me through a test. He might put you through a test. To see how devoted we are, how committed are we to following Christ? Do we have a superficial faith the way these disciples that Jesus encountered before he got into the boat? What kind of follower are you? So the Lord will bring us through storms to test us so that we won't get Offended in him. That's what Jesus said. Blessed is he. Write down Matthew 11:6. Blessed is he who is not offended in me. That is the one who doesn't stumble over me. Or who doesn't eventually walk away because the demand is too high. Let me give you another reason, not only obedience and testing, but here's the third reason for the storm: providence. Providence. God wanted to demonstrate his son's power. And this was something that God was doing for a sovereign purpose. And so again, we we look in verse number 23, and when he was entered into a ship with his disciples, his disciples said Solom, and behold, there arose a great tempest in sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with waves, but he was asleep. Now traveling in this relatively small open boat without any protection. was could sometimes be difficult. Jesus was crossing the Sea of Galilee with his disciples in the boat. And by the way, the Sea of Galilee is really just a a really a huge lake. And it's kind of uh It's kind of below sea level. The outer part of the Sea of Galilee is kind of like a bowl where you could be on the ridges around the edge of it and you can look down and see that whole thing on a clear day And because of the way it's situated there, the geography of it, the wind can sometimes come down and blow in a storm suddenly. And this was what was happening here with the disciples. When the cool air from the west and from Mount Hermon in the north collided there just above the Sea of Galilee, this brings in a strong storm. And this is what happens here. The Bible says a great tempest came. In verse number 24, the word for great mega tempest is seismos, where we get the word uh seismograph, which talks about measuring earthquakes. And so this was just a huge storm Huge storm. And this was such a big storm that the disciples were afraid. Now remember that they were accustomed to being in boats. Going out on this sea, they did it all the time. They were fishermen, and no doubt they had already navigated some storms. But this was a storm that was different In fact, in verse 24 it says that the ship was covered with the waves. The word covered here is the word calupto, where we get the word apocalypse or Something that is uh uh uh hidden and then it's unveiled. This ship was literally covered with a wall of water on both sides of it, water coming over into the boat. This was just a huge storm. You ever been out on the sea in a huge storm? I mean this is a very fearful thing that they're going through. And so They're afraid. They're calling out to God. In fact, in verse 24, and his disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us, we perish. God put these disciples in this situation on purpose, and God will do that to us sometimes providentially. God will bring upon us a storm that is so fierce, that is so difficult, that we know we can't handle this. There's sometimes we might go through things and think in and of ourself we can take care of this But there are times when God will bring something upon us, a trial, a stress, something that we know that we can't handle this by ourselves. We need God to bring us through this. And this is exactly what the Lord is doing here. This is part of their maturing process This is part of their spiritual development that they learn how to respond when these storms like this come, when God providentially will send a storm that is so difficult that we can't do this. To that point in your life, you say, Lord, I can't handle this by myself. This was God's purpose. The psalmist said this in Psalm 119, verse 71: It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statute. The Lord is teaching us in times like this. Like one person said, the rough rough seas make the best sailors And God is making us into spiritual soldiers for him. And in order to do that, we've got to go through the storm. So that God could teach us the lessons that we need to learn. This is why Ruth Graham, she prayed this prayer. I thought it was so beautiful. She said, Dear God, let me soar in the face of the wind, up up like the lark, so posed and so sure. Through cold or storm with the wings to endure. Let the silver wash, silver rain, wash all the dust from my wings. Let me soar as he soars. Let me sing as he sings. Let it lift me. That's a good prayer. Lord, in the storm, let it lift me. Let it cleanse me. Let it do its work. God's desire for you in the storm is that the storm Storm do its work of spiritual maturity on your life. So we have to see the reason for the storm. But then here's the second thing. Another thing that we learned from this is number two, remember to focus on Christ in the storm. Number one, realize the reasons for the storm. But number two, remember to focus on Christ. Remember to look to Jesus. This is what the disciples do. Look in verse again in verse 25. And his disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us. We perish. So here's the first thing we learn. Look to Jesus. Look to his example. What's Jesus doing in the midst of this storm? He's asleep. about that. Here this boat is reeling to and fro. And Jesus is asleep. Now the Bible tells us in Mark 4 verse 38 that he had a pillow. And so he was fast asleep there Now, why was he asleep in the midst of this storm that was just really well there this first of all, he was just simply tired. This was the rest of fatigue. He was exhausted. It's amazing that he could sleep through this when it's reeling like this, but G Jesus, who was God, was also a man and he had a human body, and when he got tired, he would go to sleep. And so here's Jesus, he's sleeping. You ever get that tired where it seems like you can sleep I remember one time when I was uh over in Africa, in fact I was over there with my son Jeremiah. We were in Cameroon and on that particular trip, uh for six days, or actually seven days, I pr Preached s uh six times every day. You want to add that up. Uh that poor poor people man, they had to hear me six times. You only have to hear me twice on Sunday But here is this group. They heard me six times, a big crowd, every day. And uh I'm telling you, at the end of that week, I was So exhausted. I remember that we uh finally got to the airport and got on a plane, and uh the only thing I remember on that plane was landing in Paris. I mean when I got on that plane, I was just gone I don't remember any bumps on that whole trip. And I don't normally sleep on planes, I want you to know. But I remember I was so exhausted. Jesus was so exhausted from doing the work of God that he just he he fell asleep on that uh sh uh boat there But notice I think this is also the rest of faith. Jesus could rest in the midst of this storm because he felt absolutely, totally safe. He knew that he was in the care of his heavenly Father. And that's the example we learn from this. Even the fiercest storm couldn't rattle him. And friend, that's what we must learn. We must learn to rest in faith upon the care of our Heavenly Father when we do our part. Of put placing our faith in him, he will do his part. What's our part? To entrust our soul to a faithful creator in the midst of a storm, and you know what? He will do his part. He will keep us from harm in that storm. Storm. This is what we learn from our Lord Jesus Christ. We look to his example, but also we listen to his encouragement. Look at verse 25. When they woke him, they said, Lord, save us. And he said unto them, Why are ye fearful? O ye of little faith. Finally, after disciples did all they could and realized they were helpless and powerless, they come to Christ. And when professional sailors come to a carpenter for help in a storm, you know they're somewhat desperate. But they were humble. They knew they were in trouble. And again, many times we have to get there. We have to humble ourselves and realize we can't do this by ourselves So they come, they wake him, they say, Lord, carest thou not that we perish? You see, the storm makes it appear that Jesus doesn't care. And sometimes you might get that feeling. You hear you are in the middle of this big storm, and it just seems like the Lord is the where is the Lord It doesn't even care. The storm might make it appear that way. In fact, the word for perish here, present tense, we are perishing. We're already going down to destruction. That's the idea And their cry almost seems like a cry of resentment against the Lord, doesn't it? Lord, don't you care? Are you at all concerned about this position that I'm in? You ever pray that way too? To God, Lord, do you even care that I'm in this particular circumstance? And what does Jesus say in response in verse 26? Why are ye Be fearful. O ye of little faith. This response of Jesus was really a mild rebuke. Didn't they know by now that He cared for him, for them? Don't you know by now, dear friend, that the Lord cares for you? He's not going to let anything harm you. He manifested to care to them all his ministry. There are some people here right now that are in a storm. You're trying to row. You're trying to bail out the water. You're doing all that you can. There may be just a bit of resentment in you that you have to To go through what you're going through. But friend, you just know this. The Lord cares for you very deeply in this storm. He has not forgotten you. In your heart you might question that. You in your heart you might say, God, why are you doing this to me? Why are you placing me through this? But just remember that saints throughout all the ages have had sex Similar circumstances. You're not the only person to go through a difficult storm and wonder, Lord, where are you? Write down Psalm 10, verse 1. Why standest thou afar off, O Lord? Why hidest thyself in times of trouble You might feel that way. Lord, it why are you standing far off in this time when I need you? Psalm 44, verse 22. Yea, for thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Awake, why sleep thou, O Lord? This is the psalmist saying, Lord, why are you asleep? Does it ever appear to you that sometimes it it feels like that God's asleep And this is something that we go through. We feel like the Lord is not there with us, but he is. Despite the disciples' attitude, Jesus cares for them and he cares for you. And so Jesus gives them this little rebuke, oh ye of little faith. And I think it's mingled with compassion as well as a rebuke. When your faith fails, just remember He loves you. He will not let you perish in that storm. He holds that storm in his hand I was reading about a naval officer and his wife. They were at sea on a boat, and a very difficult storm came, and she was concerned as they were on the deck of the boat. And he said to her, Why are you afraid? And she said, Well, this storm is so fierce. And he took his sword that he had with him. And he pulled it out and he held it to her. And he said, Are you afraid of this? She said, No. He said, why not? She said, because I know the one who holds that in his hand loves me. And he said, that's right. And the God who holds this storm in his hand loves you. And so it is here in this story. And so here's another thing we learn we uh get from this. Learn from his exhortation. So Jesus said, notice what he says. And he said to them, Why are ye so fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm And so he just rebukes the winds. Mark records what he said. He said, peace, be still. Literally, it means be muzzled. Hush. And instantly there was a great calm. Normally if the wind stopped, the sea would uh continue to have a ripple in it, the waves would still run their course, but when Jesus said hush, the sea became like glass. It it all stopped. Notice again, the sea. There was a great calm, it says in verse number 20 And so, really, there are two miracles here. The wind stops, and the waves just cease immediately. They just stop. Every molecule and atom in the universe is under the control of the Lord Jesus. I can't even get my dog to obey me. It's impossible to measure the power of the wind in that kind of a storm because we don't know how far the storm extended. But in a normal storm, there are millions of units of horsepower generated through wind and even more if there is rain. And Jesus was able to stop all of that with just one mere expression. It was all done. There's no storm so great but that he cannot still that storm in your life. Immediately. So let me give you the last thing. Recognize the reason for the storm. Number two, remember to focus on Christ in the storm. But here's the third thing: allow the storm to reveal Christ to you in a greater way. Allow the storm to reveal Christ to you in a greater way. Look in verse number twenty seven. But the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this? That even the winds and the sea obey him. They were just, they were amazed. Amazed is really not the best word for that They were dumbfounded. They were blown away. Now we have to remember that the disciples were still not leak not completely assured about who Christ Was at this point in their life, you have to remember that they're still coming to grips with who Jesus is. I mean, they're still growing in their understanding of him. I mean there's a tendency for us to just read about these disciples following Jesus and thinking immediately they had it all sorted out that he was the Son of God, that he was who he claimed to be, but that's not the case They're still wrestling with all this in their mind. Initially they believe the claims, but they're like many Christians, they're up and down. At times they have doubts about who Jesus is. Even John the Baptist, when he was in prison Begin to question, is this uh is this the the one? Is this the the coming one? Erkomai was a messianic title. Is this the coming one? Are you really the Messiah? Even John the Baptist at times had doubts about who Jesus is. And so I think the disciples are going through this. It really doesn't get settled until you get to John or Matthew chapter 16, where Jesus finally says, Who do you say that I am? By that time they had been with Jesus for two years. They had seen all the miracles of Jesus. And Jesus said, You need to get it settled right now. Who do you think I am? Who do you who do people say that I am? Some thought that Jesus was just an ordinary man, a lowly carpenter. The son of Joseph and all these other things, and the disciples they were wrestling with all of this in their mind. But this storm was a way that God the Father was going to use to reveal to the disciples who Jesus Jesus was that he was indeed the Son of God. And so through this storm, they got to see and know Christ in a Greater way. And friend, that's one of the reasons why God will put a storm in your life. He wants you to know his son in a greater way. He wants to dismiss the doubts that you might have in your mind and heart about Jesus. He wants you to see the glory of Christ in your life in a greater capacity, in a greater way. And that's what the storm does right here. Spurgeon said this, Blessed, blessed be the storm that cast me upon the rock that is called Christ. Christ. That's what the storm here does for the disciples. It might say cast them upon the rock called Christ. And so in verse 27 it says they were amazed. Look at the word amazed there. Um marvel, we should say. Uh this word it's the word thumezo, to be in wonder. That's the idea behind that word. It's a very strong word. In Mark's account, it says they were fearful. That is, they had a reverential fear. They feared exceedingly. They were experiencing something that was incredible that they see this very thing. Who could do this but God? Only God could do this incredible And they said, What manner of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey him? And so they experienced Jesus as the Son of God, the Creator. It's revealed to them. They didn't at this point fully realize Who he was, but here they see a glimpse of that glory. Later on they'll go through another storm. In Matthew 14, 33, and their response is this Then they were that were in the boat, came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth, thou art the Son of That laid aside any doubt at that moment about who Jesus was. But it took some storms to Do that. And again, God the Father wants you to experience His Son in a greater way. He wants you to experience the glory of Christ in a greater way in your So three things we learn from this. Recognize the reason for the storm. Remember to focus on Christ and allow the storm to reveal Christ to you in a greater capacity. greater way. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so Father, I just pray for this, these are people. These your disciples that have committed to following you. It may be, Lord, that some here tonight are experiencing a measure of a storm. In their life. And they need an encouragement for you. And I pray, Lord, that they'll take these words to heart. That Lord, you would use this to strengthen them and help them. As they battle through the storm. Lord, help them to realize that they can't do this on their own. That the storm is providential. You put it there. And that, Lord, in this storm, we need to look to you in a greater way, focus on you, and see your glory, and know you in a more intimate way, to have greater fellowship. With you to know you. We know that this is the source of our joy. This is the source of our satisfaction that we might know you more. So bless Lord, these your your servants. The storm, Lord, give them strength. Help them to lay hold of this truth. With heads bowed and eyes closed. How many say that's my prayer tonight? That God will help me in the storm that I'm And going through it right now. God sees all those hands. God bless you, dear friend. I need the strength of the Lord in this storm. I need to focus on Christ So Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. And Lord, use this for your people as an anchor to their soul. And Lord, if there's someone here tonight that does not know you as Savior, I pray, Lord, that this would be the time that they would call upon you as Savior and Lord. And in fact with heads bowed and eyes closed before we close our service. You know the Bible speaks about a storm that is coming. In Matthew 7 Jesus referred to He said that a wise man built his house on the rock, and the foolish man built his house on the stand on the sand. And when the storm came, the one who built his house on the sand wasn't ready And there was the the house fell. And the Bible says, Great was the f was the fall of it. You know what that storm is talking about there? It's the storm of judgment. You realize that one day we're gonna have to go through that storm Storm of judgment. And are you ready for that time? The only way you can be ready if you're standing upon the rock that's called Christ. If you trusted Jesus as your Savior. And friend, if you haven't done that tonight, I want to encourage you to do that. Right where you are. God will hear your prayer right where you're seated. And if you'll just pray to Him and say, Lord, I want to be able to stand in the time of judgment. When that storm arrives. And so today I put my faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. I stand upon the rock called Christ. I'm placing my faith in him. My hope is built on nothing less but Jesus' blood and righteousness. And friend, if you'll pray and trust Jesus, He will Will save you. And you'll be ready for that storm one day. Anyone here say that's my prayer? Pray for me. I want to trust Christ tonight. That's my prayer. And friend, if you want to do that, if you pray that or you want to know more, just see us after the service. We're here. We want to show you how you can know Christ. So, Father, bless these words again to hearing hearts