Take God's word tonight. I want you to I know we've been studying First Timothy. We'll come back to that, but I want to just give another message tonight from the book of Isaiah, chapter forty. And these are familiar verses of Scripture, Isaiah 40, and we're going to look at verse 29 and verse 31. But really I want to kind of give a whole look at chapter 40 as well. Let me ask you a question. You ever feel weak and like you need strength from the Lord? Um ever feel wrung out? I heard about a little boy who went to the grocery store and he asked the clerk for a box of detergent. And the clerk said, Well, what do you need detergent for? He said, Well, I wanna I want to wash my dog. And the clerk said, Well, you know, this is detergent is pretty strong. It might be a little too strong for a little dog. And the little boy said, Well, you know, my dog, he's mighty dirty, so I really need something strong. And so the man gave him the detergent. And then a few weeks later, the the store clerk recognized the little boy in the store and he said, Hey, how's your dog? He said, Oh my dog's dead And the clerk said, Oh, I'm so sorry, that detergent must have been too strong. He said, I don't think it was the detergent that hurt him. He said, I think it was the rent cycle that got him. Yeah. That's just a story folks. The dog's alright, okay? I just but anyway. Some of you here tonight you've been through the rent cycle. And uh you feel wrung out if you're anything like uh me at times, where you just feel like you're at the end of strength. And we need something from the Lord to help us get through. Well, if you feel like you need strength from God, this is a great passage of Scripture. Isaiah chapter 40 Verses 29 to verse 31. And I'll be honest with you, when I preach on this passage of scripture, I can't help but think of Pastor Johnson because he preached on this so much. If you've been hearing Grace for a long time, you know that he did a series on this. And I don't think I could do any better or uh than what he did. But I do want to give my own little uh understanding of this passage and how we can apply this to our own heart in life and we can find strength the way uh pastor found strength from the Lord and depended on the Lord and I hope that all of us will do the same thing here tonight. So I want to talk about three things from this passage of scripture. First of all, I want to talk about the problem of strength. That is that we all lack strength. Look in verse number 30 of chapter 40. Even the youth shall fain and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fail. When we depend upon human strength, there's a limit to it, right? There's only so much that human strength can give us. Even the you shall fail, the Bible says, and faint, be weary. or be exhausted. We all lack strength at times. We're all weary. And the and the h idea here behind the word Weary in verse number 30 is a word that just literally means to work till exhaustion. This can talk about physical exhaustion when you work hard and long. Anyone who has done that, you know this feeling. All the VBS workers, if you have enough strength, you can say Amen right here. Because you've had a long week of working hard. And some of you were there in the morning and some in the evening as well And so you might just feel a little exhausted right now. Uh I think all of us have been there. We've all just been at the end, uh been at our physical limit. But also this can speak about and emotional exhaustion that it comes upon us because of the demands of life, of the of the fears and the worries that sometimes drain us of strength. What are some of the things that cause us to be weak or exhausted? Let me just give you a few things. First of all, stress. Stress is a killer. It just brings the strength right out of us. I was reading this week about a company concerned about the morale of its top executives, and they called it a management consultant organization. And they did a report and the report sundom they said twenty-one of the twenty-two executive committee were suffering from illnesses like ulcers, high blood pressure, depression. Their report their report pointed to one culprit and that was stress. They were all stressed out, is what the report basically said. And uh someone has characterized this age as in three words, hurry, worry, and bury And we all seem to be uh in a hurry for something. We all seem to be worrying over things, and all of that just drains the life right out of us. Everyone is a is a afflicted by stress, whether it's a housewife or a teacher or lawyer, doctor. Plumber, preacher, whatever. We all have our areas of life that are stressing us out. Americans, I told you this morning, America was declared declared the uh the nation that's first in anxiety, Americans are consuming five million pounds of aspirin each year, not counting pain pills, sleeping pills, pet pills, and so on. You know what the most popular drinks are now in America? Energy drinks. It's not enough just to have one cup of coffee. You have to get a little bottle of this energy stuff that is equivalent to a hundred cups of coffee. By the way, don't do that, okay? Why would you do that to yourself? But th all this stress is leading to um just physical conditions, again, high blood pressure and all the other things that come with it. What is stress? Well, it's the gap between the demands placed on us on one side and the the strength in trying to meet those demands. And uh we don't always have the strength to be able to meet to meet all the demands that we have. And and and that gap, that's the stress ratio. On one side you have all the responsibilities, necessities, deadlines, and so on. On the other side, you have your strength or the lack of it. And the result is stress. Did you know that they actually can gauge how much stress that you're under now? I'm not sure how scientific this is, but According to the Executive Survival Manual, they have a chapter on executive stress, and what basically what they do is they gauge the impact of pressure on people. by measuring the stress factor in what they call life-changing units. The greater the number of units, the greater risk of emotional or physical illness in the ensuing months. And for example, they say if you endure two hundred to two ninety-nine life chaining you life change units in a given year, then um your your in trouble. Basically, I guess you're gonna have some kind of an emotional or physical problem. Now, uh just let me read to you what some of these are. You might not want to add these up. But anyway, uh they say if you do three hundred or more units, you know, you really are you ha probably are gonna have some kind of a a difficulty emotionally or physically. But they just kind of list this death of a spouse 100, divorce 73, marital separation from a mate, 65, detention in jail or other institutions, 63 Death of a close family member 63, major personal injury or illness 53. Marriage 50. Just marriage in general, you get 50 Being fired at work 47, marital reconciliation with a mate 45, retirement from work 45. You might have thought that would be a stress releaser there Major change in health or behavior of a family member 44, pregnancy 40, gaining a new family member that is through adoption or birth or someone moving back in. That is 39. Death of a close friend, 37. In-law troubles, 27. Trouble with a boss, 23. And then it just goes on down the list. It even has Christmas on the list. Christmas is 12, alright? And then minor violations of the law. That is traffic tickets, you know, when you get one of those Photographs in the mail of your license plate, you know. How many of you have got don't raise your hand. But anyway, uh that's uh you get eleven for something like that. Now if you add all that up, which again I don't recommend you do, I started adding mine up and I stopped because it was stressing me out just to try to add all these up. But I I I mean if you think about the Apostle Paul, his was probably like 600 or something like that, you know. All the things that are happening. Now it's not a sin to be stressed, but it's a sin to stay that way all the time. when we fail to trust in the Lord or to go to God for the resources that He gives us. So stress is something that can drain us. But then also just service, just the weariness that comes from doing the work of the Lord. You know, when you labor for the Lord, even our Lord Jesus got weary because of the demands of service. I think about that passage in John Four when he's at Jacob's well. He's weary from the long journey. He just sits there at the well and he just wants a drink of water. He's weary. I think about the passage in Mark 5 when the woman who had the issue of blood came up behind Jesus and she said, if I can just touch the uh the end of his garment. I I can be healed. And she touches, she grabs that garment, holds on. And the Bible says that Jesus said he felt what? Virtue come strained from him. That is to say, strength. power. Something was taken from him. And I don't understand all of that, but I do apply that by saying that when you do ministry and you try to help people, there's a certain draining that takes place with you. As a person who is ministering. John the Baptist was called a burning and a shining light. When you burn, you are consumed. And then Jesus went in Matthew chapter 8 was asleep on a boat in the Sea of Galilee, and a great storm came, and Jesus was still asleep. on the boat. That passage always fascinates me. I've been on the Sea of Galilee on a boat, even when it's calm. I can't imagine sleeping even when the sea was calm because you you that boat is still rocking. But to be in a storm And where the winds and the waves are kicking up, and here's Jesus on the back of the boat, and he is asleep. He must have been physically exhausted to be able to sleep through that. And then, of course, you know the rest of the story, how he got up and he said, Peace be still. And immediately there was a calm, and the disciples said, You know, surely this has to be the Son of God. But the point is that, you know, serving will make you weary at times. I'll tell you what else will drain you is sin. You know sin leaves you wrung out like a dish rag? Listen to what David said. David, when he sinned, he said, My moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Unconfessed sin in David's life took its toll on him emotionally. He was constantly thinking about his sin. He said, My sins are ever before me. Did you know that sin Unconfessed sin, unforsaken sin can cause psychosomatic illness, the sins of our soul can affect our body And it can have an effect on our whole mental well-being. And after David confessed his sin, it was like a release and a cleansing that came over him. Samson, the heavyweight champion in the Old Testament, the strongest man in history. I mean with his bare hands, he could destroy a lion. He could tear the gates off at Gaza, carry them for miles on his shoulders at Hebron. Just a mighty man. But you know what did him in? It was sin. Sin made him weak. And so it is with any child of God. But also here's another problem. I call it soullessness. What is that? That's when you don't pay attention to the inner man, when you don't feed your own soul It's good to come to God's house and be fed from the pulpit, the Word of God. I hope that you are nourished from God's word, from the pulpit, but you know what? It's not enough. You have to feed your own soul. You have to pray. You have to read God's word. And that's how you renew your soul. And many people, they're not in the process of doing that. They're not spending time in prayer. They're not reading the Word of God for themselves. And so it's, you know, prayer is to a Christian what a gas station is to a car. It's what a charger is to a battery. That's why in the Gospels we see Jesus so many times departing alone to pray, to be with his Father. That was the strength that the Lord drew just in that time of prayer. And then Scripture. Scripture is our spiritual food. What food is to the body, God's word is to our soul. And so we need to be in God's Word each day, getting what God's Word can give us, the nourishment that comes from the Word of God. And so when you're not doing that, then you become weak. But then write down here's another thing, Satan. Satan will drain it out of you. You know, spiritual warfare can wear you down. Resisting the devil Takes energy. The resist is the idea in the Greek. Keep on resisting. Each day we have to resist the devil. We have an enemy who's called a roaring lion who is going about seeking whom he may devour. I read about lions, um, and they you know how they hunt. They sneak up on a herd, and you know what they're looking for? They're looking for the weakest animal in the herd. And that's who they pounce upon. And that's what Satan does. That's why we have to stay strong. Now, all these things zap us. All these things can make us weak. But I want you to see number two, the promise of strength. Look at verse number 29. He giveth power to the faint, and to them that have no might, he increases strength. And so here's a wonderful promise from God. He gives power. The word here is translated ability. We can translate ability, might, force. It's a word that means to endure. It has the idea to produce. And so God promises to give strength Now, so let's look at this. First of all, there's the resource. Again, verse 29. He gives power. He increases strength. God is the one who gives us the strength from his unlimited Resource of strength. That's important to know. It's important to know because our God is omnipotent. God does not run short of strength. Job said this, I know that you can do all things, that no plan of yours can be torted. God, you can do whatever you want. You can do all things. You are Almighty. God never runs out of strength or energy. That's what omnipotence means. God never gets tired. You know, on 945 we've been studying about cults and religions. And do you know that there are some people that worship God's They believe they're false gods, but they actually believe they're real. But these false gods, uh, in in the Hindu religions, for example, one of the things they do when they worship their God is they go to the temple, and you know the first thing they have to do? They have to wake them up They gotta wake their God up. That's part of the ritual. They wake him up, and then you know, if they're home, they have their God in a box, so they wake them up, get him out of the box, and then they give them a bath and wash him. I'm not making it up. That's part of their the God that they worship. You know what? I thank God that I don't have I don't worship God that I have to wake up. God, are you there? Are you asleep? I'm sorry. I'm sorry you were asleep. I didn't mean to wake you up That's not my God. What does the Bible say about our God? Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. The God who watches over you, the God who keeps you, does not need to sleep. He is omnipotent, he has all power. all strength, and uh it's limitless. We we we can't comprehend that because we don't really see or know anything that has unlimited resource or strength or energy. The sun, for example, you know, when we think about something that has a lot of energy, we think about the sun, here's something interesting. The sun radiates more energy in one second than man has used since the beginning of civilization. Think about that. In one second, a typical quasar throws out enough energy to supply all the Earth's electrical needs for a billion years. That's amazing when you think about that. You know, the sun's not running out of energy. But I'll tell you this, it will one day. One day the sun will fizzle out. One day the sun will darken, but I want to tell you the God who created it will not. He will still have all power. Rest assured there's no shortage of energy there in heaven. Now you remember this morning I was talking about the attributes of God. They're incommunicable, some attributes. That God does not share with us. That makes him distinct and God. And there are other attributes that God does share with us. Now, God is omnipotent. We're not But you know what? He still gives us some of his strength. We're not all powerful, but you know what? We are connected to the God who is. And he shares his strength with us. You say, how do I get this strength? Well notice the requirement. We saw the resource. Look at verse 31. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. The promise for strength comes with a condition. And what must we do? We must wait. What does the word wait here mean? It's the Hebrew word kavah, and it has the idea of to uh to wait with expectation, but it it has the idea it's not just sitting around doing nothing, it means to hope in God It means to actively put all of your hope in God. It also means to be fully dependent upon God. Just to say, Lord, all of my dependence, all of my trust for strength, it's all on you. Confess that. Lord, I'm hoping in you. Lord, I am depending on you. It just means to look to the Lord, to hope in God, to fully depend upon God, to look to God. It means you take your eyes off of your circumstances and you put your your eyes on the Lord. Eyes of faith. You put your eyes on the Lord. Someone says that circumstances are those nasty things you see when you take your eyes off of God. Just keep your eyes on the Lord. And if you look at God through your circumstances, He will seem small and very far away. But if by faith you look at your circumstances through God He will draw you very near and he will show you his greatness, and he will show you that there is no problem That can overcome you. God can give you the strength to go through that or to give you whatever strength you need in a time of weakness. Now, that's the whole goal of Isaiah chapter 40, by the way. And if you read the book of Isaiah, what you'll find out is that the big problem that Israel had was an army of the Assyrians. And they were bullies. They were attacking Israel. They were giving Israel all kind of problem. And God, several times throughout the book is encouraging the people of Israel, look, wait upon me. Trust in me. Let me just show you a few verses. Go back to Isaiah chapter 8. Let's look at a few verses here together. Flip through some. Look at Isaiah chapter 8 and look at verse 17. And notice here what the writer says, I will wait upon the Lord. That hideth his face from the house of Jacob. And I will look for him. This is what God's trying to get Israel to do, to wait upon him, to look to him. Look in chapter 25 and look in verse number 9 Flip over a few chapters to chapter twenty-five and look down at verse number nine. Notice what it says, and it shall be said in that day, Lo this is our God We have waited for him and he will save us. This is our Lord. We have waited for him and we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation. Wait on the Lord. He will come. He will bring you salvation. He will help you. Look in chapter 30. Look in verse number 18. Again, the same idea. And therefore will the Lord wait. That he might be gracious unto you. And therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon you. For the Lord God is a judge The Lord is a God of judgment. Blessed are all they that wait for him. God is waiting. At the right time to come, if you wait upon him, you know what? You're not going to be disappointed. He's going to come. He's going to help. He says here. Look in chapter 33. Look down at verse number 2. O Lord, be gracious unto us. We have waited for thee. Be thou their arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble. And so the whole book. And this chapter in particular is designed to get you to see the greatness of God in comparison to your problem and to get you to wait upon the Lord. To depend upon him for strength. The whole chapter cries out, look to the Lord. The whole chapter cries out, hope in the Lord The whole chapter cries out that God is great, greater than your problem. For example, look in chapter 40 again. This is such a wonderful, majestic chapter. But look in verse number twelve. Notice what it says, talking about the majesty and the power of God. Verse 12 Who hath measured the waters in the hallow of his hand, and meted out heaven with the span? and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance And the next time you look at these majestic mountains and you and you look at the seas, just remember this that when God and creation, when he put the dry land and the seas together. He took the dry land in one hand and the seas in the other and he kind of just put them together and he measured them just right. Did you know according to science that the earth has to be in perfect balance? If it were not in perfect balance, that we would are w we would either orbit too close to the sun and burn up, or we would orbit far away from the sun and we would freeze. And so the earth has to be in this perfect balance And so we would stay in the proper orbit that makes life inhabitable here on the earth. And God knew that, and God, when he measured out the earth and he measured out the land and the waters, he put them together in perfect balance. Now, did you think that God had to ask anybody's advice on how to do that? You think God needed counsel and creation? Look at look at the next verse. Look at verse number 13. Who hath directed the spirit of the Lord? Or being his counselor has taught him. Do you think God, when he came to put the earth together, the sea and the land, that God had to say, you know, wait a minute, I need to consult creation science on this. Find out what they think. No, God not He didn't need any advice. He knew exactly what he was doing. He didn't take counsel from anyone or get their opinion because he's greater than all. And he knows all. He's greater than the nations. Look at verse 15. Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket. And are as counted as small dust or the balance, behold, he taketh up the aisles as a very little thing. The greatest, strongest nation is like a speck of dust, the Bible says, a drop in the bucket to Almighty God. The next time you're tempted to despair over your problem, thinking it's so big, just remember that to God the greatest nation is like a little speck of dust, the Bible says. And and this was being written to Israelites who were overwhelmed by a mighty nation called the Assyrians And and they had already also had to deal with the Babylonians. And they were, you know, wrestling with this captivity thing, and God saying, Look, I'm going to have you released from captivity. I'm going to bring you home You're going to come back to your land, and they're all wondering, how's this going to happen? And God says, look, the nations to me are like a drop in the bucket. This is not a hard thing for God to do. This is not a huge barrier for Almighty God. Don't tell me that your problem is too big, that God can't help you get through that. The Bible says, look in verse 6 of Isaiah 40, all flesh is as grass. And Peter related will quote this The voice said, Cry, and he said, Where well shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field. Verse 7, the grass withereth, the flower fadeth Because the spirit of the Lord bloweth upon it. Surely the people is grass, the grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of our Lord shall stand forever. Like the grass nations and their leaders Fulfill their purpose and then they fade away. But the word of God will endure. God just blows a puff and they're gone. That's it, it's over with. Notice Isaiah chapter forty. Look at verse 16. Again, look at verse 16. As Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor the beast thereof sufficient for a burnt offering. All nations before him there's nothing, and they're counted to him less than nothing and vanity. If one were to build an altar, If you were to take all the trees of Lebanon, which is just, that's a lot of wood, and you were to take all the wood from those trees, And build a sacrifice, and you would sacrifice all the beasts of the field on that huge altar. It's still not enough to give God all the worship and praise that he's worthy of. That's the whole point there. Nations are nothing to God. Problems are nothing to God. He's greater than the idols. Look at verse 18. To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness will ye compare unto him? The workman melteth a graven image, and the goldman spreadeth it, the goldsmith spreadeth it over with gold, and casteth silver chains He that is so impoverished that he hath no ablation chooses a tree that will not rot. He seeketh unto him a cunning workman to prepare a graven image that shall not be moved In other words, you know, here are these these craftsmen, and they, you know, they they'd make these idols To represent their God. They get the best materials and they're trying to capture the essence of God and it doesn't do it. Here they make an idol that can't even stand on its own, the verse says. It'll fall over. And God said, that's what you're worshiping? That's what you're depending on? How foolish of us to put our trust in the idols that we make. When we could be trusting an omnipotent, great, omniscient God, where no problem is too big for him. He's greater than earthly rulers. Look at verse 21. Have you not known? Have you not heard? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Hath ye not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers, that stretcheth out the heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in That bringeth the princes to nothing, he maketh the judgment of the earth his vanity. Yea, they shall not be plant planted, yea, they shall not be sown, yea, their stalk shall not take root in the earth He shall also blow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall take them away as stubble. Notice, earthly rulers, they'll pass away. Listen, don't put your faith in earthly rulers because they're temporary. It is he who sits upon the circle This is a posture of absolute power and sovereignty. The mighty rulers of this word are under his authority. He can deprive them of power in just an instant. He can take their power away. I say that, you know, let me ask you, is there a person in your life that's making life difficult for you? That's not a problem for God. In fact, God maybe even put that person here to get you to trust in Him. And again, he's writing to the Israelites who were being oppressed by the Assyrians with a mighty ruler like Sennacherib, and God says, look, none of that is a problem. for me. I can take care of that for you. To God, the inhabitants of the earth are like grasshoppers. He's greater than the stars. Look at verse number 25. To whom then will you liken me? Or shall I be equal, saith the Holy One? Lift up your eyes on high, and behold, who hath created these things? Talking about the stars, that bringeth out their hosts by number, that calleth them all by names, by the greatness of his might. For that he is strong in power, and not one faileth. Did you know the people in Mesopotamia and this day they worship stars, they deify stars? They look to the stars for guidance, for support. By the way, people still do that today, right? The astrology. They live by their horoscopes. But here Isaiah likens God to a mighty general who leads his troops across the skies. Every star was created by God. God put that star in its right place That star is exactly where it should be. He calls them all by name. They're all his creation. And this is an attack against people looking to stars for their hope. You need to look beyond the stars to the one who created them, the one who put them there, the one who calls them by name. What's the sum of all of this? God's greater than all these things. He's greater than any problem you could ever have. He's greater than any crisis or circumstance. Look at verse number 27. Why saith thou, O Jacob, and speaketh, O Israel, my way is hid from the Lord, and my judgment is passed over from my God. Why are you saying that? Why are you saying that God doesn't see what I'm going through? You ever hear someone say that? Oh God, just seems like God doesn't know what I'm doing. Why would you ever say that That's what God is rebuking the people of Israel for that kind of thought. Why would you say that? In verse 28, hast thou not known, hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary There is no searching of his understanding. And then we get into the promises These verses now that we know. But let me ask you a question. Doesn't it help you to know the context now of these verses? It's telling us how awesome God is. He is awesome beyond description. He is great beyond any words could ever describe. And he has more power than we could ever imagine. And this is the God who is promising to give to his people renewed strength. So we see the requirements. For this. We have to wait upon the Lord. But you know what? While we wait, you know we should be contemplating the greatness of our God. We should be taking our eyes off of our petty problems. And we should be putting our eyes on God. And we should be contemplating how great God is. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what it means to wait on the Lord. It means to focus on the greatness of your God and put all of your hope in that God. That's what waiting is. And then there's the renewal. Look in verse 31. But they that wait upon the Lord. Shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. I love the word renew here. The Hebrew word literally means to exchange. We exchange our strength, or should I say weakness, our strength is just weakness, for his strength. That's a good deal Do you think that you could operate that way? God, here's my weakness. And God says, okay, here's my strength. We exchange our strength for God's strength. You know, the Christian life is not just a change life, it's an exchange life. I exchange my weakness for God's strength. That's the promise that God gives of strength. Now let me show you the last thing, and we're done. We see the problem of strength, the promise of strength, but then the portraits. of strength because in the last verse here of this chapter, verse 31, what we see are just three beautiful poetic analogies, we could say, or metaphors, of someone who is trusting in the strength of their God. And these are, admittedly, these are metaphors, but they're intended to communicate a message to us about resting in God's strength. So what do we see here? First of all, we see an eagle in the clouds. That's one beautiful picture of someone who is resting in the strength of God. Look again, they shall mount up with wings as eagles. You know, uh reading about eagles, you know, they're very big birds. Their wingspans can grow when they when they spread their wings. Someone said that they could be as big as six feet And their wings allow them to fly higher than any other creature. They're very majestic birds, as we know, but scientists tell us that their vision is Sh eight times sharper than that of human beings. And the thing that you notice, however, about eagles, there's a lot I can say about it, but here's the main thing. You know, you never see an eagle out there flapping its wings all the time. What you normally see with an eagle if you watch it in the sky, it's just soaring. Its wings aren't moving that much. You know why? Because eagles, they ha they know how to find the gusts of wind You know, our God, the way He created this earth, there are these columns, these invisible columns called hot thermals, and they rise up from the surface of the earth. And you know, eagles are able to detect those heat waves coming up and they just kind of spread their wings and and find them and it just kind of lifts them high into the sky, way up into the clouds, just like an elevator lifting someone up And they're not flapping hard. They're just soaring. They're just finding these updrafts that just lift them up. And you know what? It looks like they're not really expending a whole lot of energy. They're just resting on the updraft. They're resting on the wind. Their wings are resting on the power of that wind. And that's the picture of a Christian who is resting in the strength of God. It doesn't take a lot of our strength when we're resting in the strength of God. We're just finding that invisible strength from God that He supplies. And you know what we do? We stretch out the wings of faith And we find strength in what God has promised. And you know what? We're not exercising a lot of power because we are resting in the strength of the Lord that will cause us to fly above our circumstances, to fly above the clouds. But then there's another beautiful picture here, a runner in competition. He shall run and not be weary You know the biggest enemy of a runner is fatigue. You can't sprint a long distance. You know, you have to kind of pace yourself Now I like watching football. I like watching NFL running backs run. You know, when they break loose from the pack and they run, you know the problem with most NFL running backs? They they get tired and someone catches them from behind That's why the greatest NFL runners are the ones that they don't get caught. But most of them get caught. They're they they get pulled down from behind. I remember when I was in college I played football and uh one time I got to wr run a kick off in a championship back. It was an accident. I was kind of in the middle and the kick was short. It doesn't mean to go to me because I'm not the fastest guy on the team I'm built for comfort, not for speed. But anyway, uh I got the ball and I ran. I broke to the sideline. I was free. I thought, man, here I come, here's the end zone. They caught me at the 50 yard line. I'll be honest with you. That's terrible. Halfway down. Because I got tired. Most runners, they get tired. They get caught. But here is a picture of a runner who can sprint. And just not get tired. They shall run and not be what? Weary? When you depend upon the strength of God, you can sprint and not get tired. Now again, this is a metaphor speaking about our spiritual well-being, where that we can just continue to accelerate. For God. The eagle has a higher altitude, and the runner has a greater acceleration for God When you're resting in the Lord. But here's the third picture that we see here. It's really a picture of a hiker on a cross-country walk here. They shall walk and not faint. You ever been on a long walk? I mean a long one. I'm not talking about one around neighborhood. I remember one time we went we were in Tennessee and we went to uh Caves Cove to Abraham's Falls. Abrams Falls, anybody ever been there? And with where we had to park and the the walk, I didn't realize how far it was or I would have never agreed to do that. But where we parked and where the falls were, and there's a sign that says, oh, it's just right down this path. Yeah, right. It was five miles down that path. Five miles of walking. You talk about getting weary after a a hike, a walk like that. You know, but here is again a beautiful picture of walking and just not getting tired You just continue to walk. And again, this is a metaphor for our spiritual well-being. I love the missionary William Carey, the father of modern missions. Someone one time went to him and they said, you know How were you able to do all that you did for God? And you know what his answer was? He said, I can plod. I can just plod. I can just walk forward. That was it. He said, this is my only genius. I can persevere in any definite pursuit. To this I owe everything. I just plot, I just keep walking, I just keep going forward. No matter what the difficulty, no matter what the problem, I just keep going forward. The greatest heroes of the faith are not those who are, you know, seem to be strong, it's those who are resting in the Lord, and they're soaring on strength that is not theirs, and they're running with energy that comes from the Lord. And they're plotting going forward in faith with the strength of Almighty God. Now, these are the analogies that communicate one picture, and that is God. will give you whatever strength you need to meet the challenge that you face so that you don't need to capitulate to stress and problems and worries. You can just Trust in the Lord. You can wait upon the Lord, and He will give you His strength. That's a great, great promise. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Maybe you're here and you just need to cla right there where you are, just claim this promise. And say, God, this is what I need. I'm weak and I admit it. But you know what? Confessed weakness is strength when you confess it to God. And you say, God, give me your strength. Help me to do what you are calling me to do. They that wait upon the Lord. What is it to wait on the Lord? It's to think about the greatness of God. It's to take your eyes off of your circumstances and to put your eyes on God. That's waiting on him. And when you do that, God says, I'll renew your strength. I'll renew your strength. I'll give you the strength that you need. Take a moment and ask God for his strength. Father, thank you again for this wonderful promise. And Lord, by faith we claim it. We all confess together, Lord, that we don't have the strength that we need. There's a limitation to our strength. It's not really strength at all. But Lord, we come to you and we take our eyes off the problems, the things that cause us stress. And Lord, we look to you. We make a determined decision to look to you by faith and to think about how great you are, how awesome you are How that there's no problem too hard for you. You're the one Lord that humbled the whole Assyrian army for Israel, this mighty army, because they're like a speck of dust. And Lord, we know that there's no problem too hard for us. So, Lord, we look to you. We confess that your greatness is beyond our comprehension. And we wait upon you. And we ask you, Lord, to strengthen us, and we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name