Would you take God's word tonight, please, and would you open to the book of Galatians, chapter 5? Galatians, chapter 5. I want to talk tonight, and we'll get back into our study of 1 Timothy. I'm kind of just taking a little bit of time and talking about this issue of God granting us victory over sin in our life. If you're like me, you uh you desire Christ's likeness. Any believer that knows the Lord Jesus Christ wants to live in a way that is honoring to the Lord, and we are seeking Christ's likeness, but it's a battle. It's a constant battle that we all face. So I want to talk about maybe some things that will help us all as we are seeking to conquer the flesh. When we say flesh, we're talking about this old sin nature, indwelling sin that is in all of us as believers. How do we conquer this flesh? Uh uh years ago I was preaching in North Carolina and uh my host took me to a a bookstore there in North Carolina that had a lot of rare antique books and I happened to pick up an old book called The Life and Diary of David Brayner. This book had such an impact on the lives of so many men of God in history. I had never read it and I thought, boy, I you know, it's providential perhaps that I see this book. I want to read this. Who was David Brainerd? In case you didn't know, in the early to uh to mid-1700s, David Brainer was a missionary to the native Indians in America, Native American Indians. And he's noted as one of the most devoted and Christlike ministers that America has ever known. Ian Bounce wrote of him, he said, the Indians were changed with a great change from an ignorant and debase heathenism to pure, devout, intelligent Christians. Uh he was a man that was greatly used to see many Indians come to Christ. But even more than that, his his his diary, um, his journal was uh By the way, he died as a young man um of tuberculosis and so in his in his twenties he uh he died, but he was married to Jonathan Edwards' daughter. Jonathan Edwards took his his life journal and he basically made it into a book and that book has had an impact on so many people. And be and the reason for that is because people would read that journal and they would see um the desire for David Brainer for holiness in his life. I would just like to read a few excerpts of it because what I see here as I read this journal is that two things stand out. His desire to be like the Lord Jesus. and his sensitivity and hatred of sin in his life, and this acute awareness that he had in his own life of indwelling sin. Let me read to you from his diary, 1742, Saturday, April 10th. Spent much time in prayer this morning, and I hope had some faith, but I'm so low and feel so little of the sense of the presence of God that I hardly know what to call faith. And am made to possess the sins of my youth and the dreadful sin of my nature. I am all sin. I cannot think nor act, but every motion is sin. And then on Wednesday, April the 14th, he wrote in his journal: My soul longed for communion with Christ and for mortification of indwelling corruption, especially spiritual pride. And then on Thursday, April 15, he wrote, I long for God in the conformity to his will and in inward purity and holiness ten thousand times more than for anything here below. And then he wrote this on Wednesday, April the 28th. In the evening my heart seemed to melt, and I trust was really humbled for indwelling corruption, and I mourned like a dove. I felt that all my unhappiness arose from being a sinner. With resignation I could bid welcome to all the other trials. But sin hung heavy upon me, for God discovered to me the corruptions of my heart I went to bed with a heavy heart because I was a sinner, and though I did not in the least doubt God's love, oh that God would purge away like dross, talking about all of his sin. And on we could go As I read this, what I see is a man who desperately desired to perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord, and yet also was acutely aware of his own indwelling sin, wrestling against corruption in his own life. And uh in a way it's encouraging because when I see him, I read sometimes to the discouraging battle that he had against his own sin nature, and I can relate to that in my own life. The desire for victory and sometimes we don't get it. But I think the secret of his life was this desire for Christ-likeness. And in this struggle that all of us as Christians have for sanctification in our life, if we're not careful, we can get discouraged in this constant war. That's why the Apostle Paul said that we groan in this life, in this body, we groan until our salvation is absolutely complete, until we are glorified. At one point in the struggle against the flesh, the Apostle Paul lamented and he said this, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? There will be a day when we are delivered from this body of death, but that won't be until the Lord comes or we're we're called home. But until that time we have to we have to have this war We have to have this work with sin, and we must deal thoroughly with the flesh, or the flesh will deal thoroughly with us. What I want you to see here just in this passage, uh uh in Galatians chapter five, verse nineteen, down to verse number twenty. What I want you to see here are just three important steps in this struggle that I hope will be an encouragement to you as you try to seek for sanctification in Christ's likeness. in your own life and victory over the desires of the flesh. The desires of the flesh are not absent from the believer. We know this. Even though we are saved, we still have within us the old sin nature, that adamic nature that is prone to sin. That nature is weak and susceptible to sin. Jesus made it very clear that the problem with man is not on the outside. It's not on the things on the outside that corrupt the man. What did Jesus say? It's the things on the inside. He said, For out of the heart Of man proceeds evil thoughts, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries, deeds of coveting and wickedness, as well as deceit, and so on. Jesus said, All these evil things proceed from within It starts on the inside. That's what defiles a man. And so this is something that we need to deal with as believers. As a believer, you're either either being con Being controlled by the flesh, or you're being controlled by the spirit. And in winning this war against the flesh, the first thing we have to do is we have to identify what is the thing that is dominating our life. What is controlling us? Is it the flesh or is it the spirit? So here's the first thing that we have to do in this war is number one is identify Identify. We must expose the flesh. Look in Galatians chapter 5 and look at verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wraths, strife, seditions, heresies, envions, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like Of which I tell you before, as I have told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. And as we said, these things are not absent in the believer. These are the sins of the flesh And the question is, what is controlling us? You have to find that out. Now this might sound very simple and elementary, but I would propose to you that believers live day in and day out in their life without ever really consciously asking the question, am I being controlled today by my flesh or am I being controlled by the spirit? They just go about their day and they never really think about it. And let me just say this, believer, if you do not willfully and deliberately submit and surrender to the Spirit, the flesh will take over. The flesh will reign and rule Now how do we know what is controlling us? Well that's not hard. It's not unclear to know which one you're yielding to, the flesh or the spirit. Your life demonstrates whether the flesh or the spirit is in control. It's very obvious if the flesh is in control, and that's Paul's major point here in verse 19. Again, in verse 19, now the works of the flesh are manifests, which are these. The word manifest means apparent or visible or very clear. When the flesh is in control, then it will be these things that will dominate your mind, your heart, and your life. And what Paul provides here in verse 19 is a checklist. to examine our own life. Are any of these things part of your life? Are these the things that are dominating your life? And we could divide these sins up into sensual sins. When he talks about adultery, we know what that is. Uh unfaithfulness in the marital vows, immorality between married people, fornication, fornea, that's a general word for all types of sexual sin. Uncleanness, this is just general impurity. The word is a catharsis. We've heard of catharsis, that's the word that means a cleansing, an inward cleansing. You put the alpha negative in front of it. It's the exact opposite. Unclean. Impure. Um it was used for ceremonial cleansing. When a person was ceremonial clean, they could approach God. When they were not, they could not approach God. And so this focuses on the attitude of a sinner, just generally unclean, lasciviousness, again, sensual, unrestrained living And then he gives a list of spiritual sins in verse twenty, idolatry and witchcraft. We talked about idolatry this mor this morning This is um uh a when you substitute things or other people for God, that rightful place that God has in our life. And then he uses the word witchcraft. This is the Greek word pharmacia. This is where we get the word pharmacy. And it always refers to drugs which were used sometimes in association with false religion. Don't get the idea that drugs and drug abuse are a relatively new phenomena. They were they were there was drug abuse all the way back in Paul's day. And it was always in conjunction with false religion. The magicians of Paul's day use these kind of things to bring about evil effects. And then social sins in verse 20 where he says hatred Uh variants that is strife, emulations, that's jealousy, desiring to have what someone else has, wrath, thumos, the idea of being quick-tempered, angry outbursts, a state of intense anger Strife. This is a self-seeking ambition where you're trying to get things for yourself, sedition, which literally means to stand apart. This is someone who causes division, who makes people choose sides, heresies, again, factions in the church Envyings, this is the state of ill will towards someone. Murders and drunkenness, we know what that is. Revelings, this is drunken parties, which were a part of the ancient world. the Bacchanellian feasts that were part of the Greco Roman world where they drank wine and got totally drunk and all types of things took place there and those type things like that. Paul lists all of these things. You say, well Uh my sin's not on the list. Well he says in verse the next where he says uh in verse number um twenty one and such like So yours is in that category there. And such like. In case you didn't have one on there. And by the way, this is not an exhaustive list. This is just kind of a sample and other things like this, Paul says, that if you do these things. . . Those who practice these things, Paul says, you will not inherit the kingdom of God. Now, some people read this verse. And they wonder if it means that a Christian can lose their salvation, and the answer is no. Where it says in verse 21, I told you in time past that they which do such things, the word do here is the Greek word prazo. Is where we get the word practice. And this is a present tense verb which speaks of habitual action. You're not doing something every once in a while. You're doing this continually. This is a pattern of life, a general lifestyle. This is not an occasional lapse into sin. This is a practice of sin in someone's life It is a constant pattern. In other words, a true believer doesn't live in this kind of constant way, this constant pattern. This is the difference between a bel a true believer and those who think that they're saved. A non-believer will live in this pattern of sin and they'll feel no conviction and they'll feel no need to get right with God, but a true believer will grieve over these kind of sins. And they won't live in a continual unbroken pattern. A Christian might do some of these things, but then they'll be brought to true repentance and they'll confess it and they'll get up and they'll try to have victory over this. They'll receive, if they don't repent on their own, they'll receive divine discipline and they'll forfeit some heavenly rewards. Paul writes this here, I believe, to provoke people to evaluate their life to make sure that they are truly saved. He says something similar to this in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 When he said, Know ye not the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God, this is 1 Corinthians 6. 9. Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves of mankind. Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revowers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And Paul would later say, But that's not what you are. You have been washed, you have been cleansed. You have been forgiven. This is not the pattern of someone who is a true believer. And Paul would later write and say, examine yourselves to see whether you're in the faith. So true believers again can lapse into sin, but they don't live in these sins. I remember, and this is why we need to examine our life. I remember one time um a man came to me and he asked if I would counsel his sister. She was living a life that was totally out of control. She'd been married five times. She had been arrested several times. She was living with a man that was not her husband. In a fit of rage she flew off the handle and she stabbed the man that she was living with. She almost killed him. She got on a bus to go to Atlantic City to gamble and while on the bus she got drunk and she was unruly. The bus driver had to stop the bus and pull it over. and then tried to get her under control and got into a fight with the bus driver and the bus driver actually uh uh hit her with hit her with his fist, uh hit her in the face, gave her a black eye, kicked her off the bus, left her on the long side of the road Her brother went to pick her up, brought her back, and asked if I would counsel with her. And she sat there in my office before me with that black eye. And I began to share the gospel with her, and she immediately got offended. She said, are you under the impression that I'm not a Christian? I said, well ma'am, I I I just want to make sure that you know the Lord as your Savior. She said, really? Uh you you think that I'm not a Christian. She said, Well I'll have you know that my first husband was a missionary. And I did mission work with him for several years. And she said, I could take this Bible and teach you a thing or two, young man. And I said, well, ma'am, I think you probably could. In fact, if you if you don't mind, could you help explain this verse here to me? I read these verses right here. The same verses we just read. Galatians 5, 19, down to 21. And uh Where it says, they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. I said, can you explain what that means? That if you do these things, you're not going to inherit the kingdom of God, that you're not a Christian. Now, um she got very quiet. I could see the light bulb go off in her mind. She didn't like what she was hearing and uh she ended up leaving the office in a fit of anger without admitting that she needed Christ. I just encouraged her to examine her heart to make sure that she was a believer, but she refused to identify the with the fact that she was living according to the flesh. She refused to identify that. Again, a believer will not live in a constant lifestyle sin without divine discipline. Again, I'm not saying that a believer can't lapse into some of these things. Of course they can. But a believer will fight and struggle against sin. And therein is the evidence that you're warring against sin in your life. These are the sins of the flesh. And we need to uh recognize whether we are walking in the flesh or walking in the spirit. Uh a while back a young man called me up and he was grieved, he was under deep conviction he'd gone out with his friends And he started drinking with them. He was a Christian and he kind of got over it, but he got with the wrong people. And he was under sea such deep conviction that he called me because he was afraid. And uh he asked me, he said, I'm wondering, have I committed the unpardonable sin? He asked me, he said, I'm wondering, have I committed the unpardonable sin? And you know what? When I see a person like that that's broken over their sin, that's always encouraging to me. Because that showed that there's the true work of God in their heart. And uh you see, when a true believer sins, they will suffer. Just like this man was mourning over his own Sin. I have more hope for someone like that than someone who continues in sin with no conviction, no remorse, no regret, and yet they say, oh, of course I'm saved. Again, when a true Christian sins, they will suffer. They don't want to live in the flesh. They might lapse into it, but that's not where they want to be. They want victory over that and they mourn over these things in their life. And so the first thing, the step number one is just identify, are you absolutely certain of your own salvation? And having been saved, are you struggling against these things? But here, secondly, the other step would be crucify Crucified. We must execute the flesh. Look at verse number 24 of Galatians 5. And they that are Christ Have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. And this is the reason why a true believer cannot continue in a lifestyle of sin. Why? Because those who are believers have crucified the flesh. Now, I think this is such a key verse in getting victory over sins of the flesh. And what we need to realize is that the flesh has been crucified. You have to understand that one principle. The flesh no longer rules and reigns in your heart. Why? God crucified my flesh. When did the flesh get crucified? If you're a believer, when did your flesh get crucified? And by the way, the Greek verb here for crucified This is an error. What does that mean? That means that it happened at one moment, at one time in the past, summary action, at one moment, my flesh was crucified. If you're a believer, at one moment your flesh was crucified. There was an event in the past in which this happened. You say, when did this happen? This happened the moment when you trusted Christ as your Savior. And really, in the mind of God, it it happened when Christ was on the cross. Go back to Galatians chapter 2, look at verse number 20. And notice what Paul says here. Paul says this, I am crucified with Christ. That's when it happened. I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I But Christ that liveth in me in the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith of the Son of God, by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. You see, in the mind of God, now that you're a Christian, you are one with Christ. And when Christ was crucified on the cross, you were there and you were crucified with Christ. When did I die to sin? When Christ died on the cross. When he died, you died with him, and your sin nature was crucified with Christ. All right? That is part, and you've heard me talk about this before, but it's such a big part of Paul's theology in the New Testament, the union of the believer with Christ. You are one with Him. And you need to understand this. So this verse 20, it's packed with meaning. It teaches us that a believer is in a transcendent spiritual union with Christ. in the historical event of Christ's death and resurrection, in which the penalty of sin was paid in full. You see, when Christ was nailed to the cross. There were other things that were nailed there. Christ obviously was nailed to the cross. Our debt of sin, the Bible says, was placed there, was nailed to the cross in the book of Colossians. But also you were also nailed there and your old sin nature. Okay? If you're a follower of Christ, if you're a believer, you were nailed to the cross with Christ. This is something that is hard to comprehend. It's hard to wrap our mind around spiritually, but it is a spiritual reality in the mind of God This is part of your oneness, the mystical union you have with Christ. And this is what you have to understand. It's a spiritual reality. Martin Luther said this: by faith you are so cemented to Christ that he and you are as one person, which cannot be separated, but remains attached to him forever. So now that your sin nature is crucified with Christ on the cross, it is no longer dominant in your life. We find the death of our flesh and the death of Christ on the cross This is what J. I. Packer, another theologian, calls co-crucifixion with Jesus. This is exactly what Paul meant in Romans 6. Go back to Romans 6 real quick. Just flip back here. We're talking about this Being crucified with Christ, his identity with Christ. Look at a few verses here. Look in Romans 6, look down at verse number 6. Knowing this, that our old man is crucified what? With him. Your old man, talking about that old sin nature, is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not what? Serve sin. The old man, the old sin nature, that body of sin was crucified on the cross with Christ. So we don't no longer serve sin. We no longer need to. We're now free from that. Look at verse number 7. For he that is dead is free from sin. Alright? You have been freed from that sin nature. Look at verse 11 of chapter 6. Likewise, reckon ye yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin. But alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So what is Paul saying here? He's saying, look, you need to count this as being true You need to count it in your mind as happening. Reckon that is count that is true, that you're dead indeed to sin, but alive unto God. Look at verse twelve. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in the lusts thereof. And so the sin nature was crucified with Christ. That's what Paul means in Galatians 5. 24. They that are Christ have crucified the flesh. And with the affections and lusts. Alright? You have to just simply count that as something that is real, as something that is true for you as a believer. Now, so but there's another part to this. God crucified our flesh. We were crucified with Christ, but also we must crucify the flesh. Not only did God crucify my flesh when Jesus was crucified, but I also must crucify my flesh There's a relationship between Galatians 2. 20 and Galatians 5. 24. In Galatians 2. 20, we are crucified. In Galatians 5. 24, we are the ones who must do the crucif God crucified our flesh, but we also must do it as well. Some of you are looking at me very confused now. You say, now wait a minute. If God crucified my flesh, why do I need to crucify it? This is the process of sanctification. God does his part, but we still have to do our part. Alright? We still have a part to do God says, work out your salvation, and then God works with us. So here's an illustration of how both of these things work together. God crucifies my flesh, but I also must work in crucifying this sin nature that I have. All right? I could illustrate it using the story of Joshua and the Promised Land. Remember Joshua and Israel's job, what were they to do? They were to what? Exterminate the Canaanites, right? They were to take full control of the land of Canaan. And if you read the first part of the book of Joshua, what you'll find out is that Joshua and his military, they did conquer the Canaanites. He defeated all of the major military strongholds. He defeated um Jericho, and then he went to Hazor up north, and then I. He had a northern campaign, he had a southern campaign, he had a central campaign, and in all those campaigns, what did he do? He broke the back of the Canaanites. He destroyed their major military fortresses. He had victory, total victory over all of them. They were absolutely conf defeated. They were routed. And then what did Joshua do? Joshua then divided up the land and he gave it to the Israelites. And what did he say to them to do? Go and possess your land and do what? Drive out the Canaanites. Well now wait a minute, Joshua. I thought you defeated them all. Yeah? They're they've been defeated, but they're still around. You know, all the major strongholds are have fallen. Victory has been given. Victory has been declared. But you still have to go in and possess your land, and you still have to drive out some of those Canaanites, even though the victory was won. And you know what happened? If you read the book of Joshua, what you'll find out is that it kind of ends on that note of Joshua telling them, you know, make sure you determine to serve the Lord. Don't be um Don't be easy on the Canaanites. Make sure you drive them out. And what happened is some of them, rather than driving out the Canaanites, if you read the second part of the book, what they did was some of them made peace with them. They allowed the Canaanites to regain strength. They were merciful to the Canaanites. And because of that, you know what happened? The Canaanites began to regain their strength. Eventually you come to the book of Judges, and what you see is you see the Israelites making peace with the Canaanites that eventually defiled the whole nation of Israel. Now listen, Joshua is a type of Jesus. You know what? On the cross, Jesus won the victory for me. My flesh was crucified on the cross. But you know what? I have the responsibility in the mopping up operation. Even though the major battle was won by Christ and sin was defeated, that doesn't mean that sin is no longer present. I am still responsible to claim the victory that Christ gave me. I am to be involved in the mopping up operation. On the cross, my flesh was dealt a mortal blow. God nailed it to the cross. But I also must crucify my flesh on a daily basis. In other words, I can say it like this. It's my job. Christ nailed my old sin nature to the cross. It's my job to make sure that that's where he stays. I've got to stay there to make sure that my flesh remains crucified there at the cross. In a sense, a believer is like a Roman soldier standing guard at the cross. Making sure the flesh stays right there on the cross and continues to die. You know, crucifixion is an appropriate way to talk about the sin nature of the flesh because in crucifixion it was a shameful way to die Um it was reserved for the most shameful criminals. My flesh is so defiled, so corrupt. It's appropriate that it died by crucifixion in that shame. It was a painful way to die. In this war against my old sin nature, there's going to be pain. But it was also a slow way to die. A person who was crucified died very slowly, and that's the way it is with the sin nature Although my sin nature was nailed to the cross, it's dying slowly. It's a slow death, but it's also a final way to die. And so The problem is with my flesh, is it has a way of reviving and trying to get off the cross and climbing back into my life That's where I have to do the part of making sure that I crucify my flesh. And that's what Paul means in Romans 6 when he says, look, count it as dead. Reckon it to be so. Remember that your sin nature is dead. You know, we're sometimes tempted to remove the nails from our old sin nature of the flesh and allow that sin nature to climb down off of the cross and nurse it back to health and bring it back into our life. That's why sometimes believers struggle with so-called besetting sins These are the sins that are maybe a believer's pet where they enjoy at times and the flesh will deceive them and call out to them from the cross and say, I'm your friend. Why are you doing this to me? And the believer will sometimes lapse back into that old life where they're listening to the old sin nature and they have a way of nursing that flesh back to health. Listen, friend, don't do that. Declare war on the flesh. On the old sin nature. The sin nature will cry out to you from the cross. It'll try to control you from there. The sin nature is like a tyrant, a ruthless dictator. And again, before you were saved, that tyrant had you under his control. But when you got saved, God nailed this mean tyrant to the cross, crucified that old man, and now he's crying down from you to you from the cross He tries to command you just as he did before. And your job is not to listen. Your job is to daily crucify the flesh just like God did. Go back and drive the nails in deeper and deeper each day. This is what a true believer does. A true believer will not allow the flesh to re-chain them or to enslave them once again. If you do, you're either a fool or you were never saved to begin with. And so again, verse twenty-four, they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and the lust. If you belong to Christ, this is a continual process. of crucifying the flesh. Don't resuscitate it, don't give it CPR, don't put it on life support. See to it that your flesh, the old sin nature, stays crucified. And you do that by ignoring the flesh. By saying no to it. And the more you do that, the weaker the flesh becomes. When you obey the urges and desires of the flesh, it strengthens, it resuscitates. And it regains strength. But when you submit to the Spirit, it dies more each day. So that leads to the third step. Number one, you identify, you must expose the flesh. Number two, you crucify, you must execute the flesh. Number three, you sanctify. We have to stay in step with the Spirit Now look in look in Galatians 5, look down at verse number 25. Notice what it says here. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the spirit. And we could actually translate the verse like this. Since we live in the spirit, Paul is telling us to become like we are. We got saved, we're given the Spirit. We are now to walk in the Spirit. Or to live in the Spirit. I like the way one person translates this. He says, if the Spirit is the source of our life, let the Spirit also direct our course. And that's a beautiful way of translating that. That's exactly what this means. If the Spirit is our life, which he is, then let the Spirit of God direct our course. So how do we do that? Follow. Notice where it says walk. Walk. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. The word for walk here a Greek word, which is a military term, which means to stay in step. To stay in formation. We could say it like that. Let us stay in step with the Spirit. Don't get out of step with the Holy Spirit in your life. The Holy Spirit's kind of like a drill sergeant. It's his job to keep us in mind, to keep us in step. You know, let me read you what one commentator wrote. When Soldiers marching in formation, there's only one thing that they have to worry about, which is keeping in step. They do not need to worry about where they're going or how they will get there They do not need to guess how much farther they have to go. Their commanding officer will give them their orders as necessary. The only thing the soldier needs to do is to know how to step in time. And that's the way it is in the Christian life. As we stay in step with the Holy Spirit, what will happen? Look at verse 22, back up to verse 22. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance against such there is no law. And so these are the fruits of the Spirit that will be manifest in our life. Now notice that this is not our fruit This is the Spirit's fruit. We don't do this on our own. We can't bear this fruit. It is the Spirit of God bearing this fruit through us. Remember, this is what I said it means to be of to be a branch abiding in the vine. Christ is the source of strength. A branch is simply uh stays connected to the vine and it is the vine that produces the fruit. Fruit fruit is the effortless product of a healthy branch connected to the vine. As we're walking in the spirit, what'll happen is this fruit will be produced in our life. And also notice here it says fruit singular, not fruits plural. I think all of these come together as really I think what he's talking about here is love. The fruit of the spirit is love. What are the characteristics of love? Joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith. That's really what it's talking about here. I think if you compare this verse with thir 1 Corinthians 13, you're going to see a remarkable parallel. 1 Corinthians 13 is the love chapter of the Bible. It talks about the characteristics of love. What does love do? It rejoices in truth. That's joy. Love thinks no evil. That's peace. Love suffers long, that's long suffering, is not easily provoked, that is gentleness, is kind, according to 1 Corinthians 13, 4, love is kind, that's goodness, believes all things, that's faith, does not behave itself unseemly, that's meekness Seeks not her own, that's temperance. These are all characteristics of the fruit of love. The fruit of the Spirit is just simply love that is in our heart, that bears all of these characteristics These are all the things that are evident in us when we're yielded to the Spirit and we are allowing the Spirit of God to shed the love of God abroad in our heart. These things just come natural, or I should say supernaturally, to the believer, walking in step with the Holy Spirit. You know, when I first got saved, my mom bought me up. a Bible and I began reading the Gospel of Matthew and I was captivated by the life of Christ. I was so moved by his love and his compassion towards other people And then one day I stumbled upon these verses here, Galatians 5. 22, about the fruit of the Spirit. You know what my thought was? I said, this is nothing more than a description of the life of Jesus. That's all this is. That's what Galatians 5. 22 and 23 is. It's just a character sketch of Christ. And if you're walking in the Spirit and the Spirit is in control, he is forming Christ in your life, and these things will flow out of the life of a believer that is walking instead with the Holy Spirit. That will happen. So we follow the Spirit. We feed on the Word of God. We have to use God's word to crucify or kill the flesh. Do you remember the Old Testament story of King Agag? Remember God said to Saul, go and destroy the Amalekites. And remember, Saul didn't obey, and he left the king of the Amalekites alive, King Agag. And this was after the war. Samuel was angry. God had come to Samuel and said, Saul has not obeyed. And they were returning from the battle, and there's King Agag, and he's a prisoner, and he thinks that the war is over. And he speaks words of peace to Samuel. He says, Oh, surely the bitterness of war and death are over. And you know what Samuel did? The Bible says he took a sword and he hacked King Agag to pieces. Put an end to that. King Agag, we could say, is a type of the old sin nature, like the Amalekites that keep resurrecting in the Old Testament. And you know what? The sword that Samuel takes can be a type of the word of God. The word of God is the tool, the instrument that kills the flesh inside of us. We need to use the word of God. to battle against sin in our life. So we we follow the Spirit, we feed on the Word of God, and then there's a third thing. We fellowship with the Son of God. We focus on Christ. We focus on the cross. If you want to have victory over the flesh in your life, you must focus on Christ. You must focus on what He did for you on the cross. And by the way, that's why the Lord's Supper is so meaningful for believers. Because when you do that, what are you doing? You are remembering the cross, remembering what Jesus did. We contemplate the agony that Christ suffered for our sin there on the cross. And that worship experience places in the heart of a believer a holy resolve against sin. That's what happens when you meditate on the cross of Christ. You focus your expectation upon the reality of his death, and that will revive you to fight against sin in your life And then here's the last thing, flee. Flee. That is, we flee. We run from sin. The Bible says, flee, youthful lusts. We run from it. You know. The Lord always, when you're battling against the flesh in your life, God is always faithful to give you a way of escape. When a person says I couldn't help it, that's just never true. That's never true. God always gives a way of escape. But God doesn't find a way of escape for you. He makes the way of escape. He makes it for you. Yeah, when I think about that, uh you know um y and I fly a lot at times and um When I'm on a plane, something I hate to hear constantly. Is this ple a pre-flight Safety things that they go through all the time on the on the plane. You ever been there where they're like, Oh, you have to pay attention, you have to listen, you know. And they go through this whole spew and the things drop down, make sure you pull it across your face and you know. If we're If we're if you're if we land in the water, you know, there's a flotation device underneath. You know, I've heard it a thousand times. But one thing they say in there, it caused me to think one time. They said, you know In an emergency, what will happen is that there will be the the there will be lights that will light up along the floor of the plane that will show you the nearest exit. You know, life will show you the nearest exit. And I thought, you know, that's a good analogy for what God does when a believer is being tempted. He will show you the way of escape. He will provide for you the way of escape. So that it's never, I had no choice, the temptation was too great. No, God doesn't allow the temptation to be too great. Besides, you have the Spirit of God in you that can fight against sin in your life. You don't have to yield to it. And he always will show you the way of escape. And sometimes the best thing to do is to run down that path and escape the way God has led you or showed you in that time of temptation in your life. So beloved, that's how we conquer the flesh. We identify The sins of the flesh, if they're real in our life, we have to get a hold of that. We crucify, we must execute the flesh in our life. We were crucified with Christ, but it's our job to make sure that the flesh, the old sin nature, stays crucified. That's a daily fight in our life. And then sanctify. We stay in step with the Holy Spirit of God as we seek to walk and live in the Spirit and produce the fruit of the Spirit in our life. Let's bow for prayer together. Tonight. So Father, tonight as we come before you, we uh We thank you, Lord, for again your word and what it teaches us about getting victory over sin in our life. Lord, as you're Blood-bought children, it's our desire to live in victory, the victory that you won for us on the cross. But Lord, it's a learning process for us, and at times we get discouraged And honestly, Lord, at times the flesh wins. And at times, Lord, we feel so weak and discouraged in this battle against sin. But Lord, may we take courage from the words of the Apostle Paul. That Lord, you've already given us the victory. We can claim it. And Lord, give us the grace to be able to make these decisions, Lord, against sin in our life. Lord, give us the strength. Help us to recognize these realities that we are one with Christ, that our life, that our power, our strength all comes from our oneness with you. And that this the flesh has been crucified, and we don't have to listen anymore. We can say no. You've given us the strength to do that. And Lord, give us a holy resolve. To live for you. A desire, Lord, to please you and to live above sin as we struggle here in this life. And Lord, may people see Christ in us. And as a result of that, may we be able to share the gospel with those around us because they do see Christ and the great transformation that has taken place in our lives because of what Christ Tis done. And Father, we pray all these things in Jesus' name.