Open to James chapter 5. We are in our series here in the book of James, and we're dealing with the verses that was read just a few minutes ago James chapter five, we're going to start at verse seven. While you're finding that, you know it's common in our day to be gape to be able to get anything that we want quickly. With the invention of push buttons. You know, we we can get anything we want. We get instant meals from the microwave. I kind of know that since my wife's been away for a while. She's back, thank the Lord, by the way. We get instant coffee from our Kirib coffee makers. We get instant entertainment at the touch of a button. We don't even have to roll up the windows in our cars anymore. We just push a button. We get instant cash from the ATM machine. We can get it at 24 hours a day. We get instant text messages. And by the way, turn your phones off. We get uh instant weather reports, we have apps on our phone that can give us instant anything, right? All these things. As a result, you know what's happening? People are growing more impatient today. It's called the culture of instant gratification. We want things instantly. We're used to getting things instantly. And this sometimes translates into the Christian life. You know, when we pray, we want God to answer us instantly. We want spiritual growth and maturity, but we want it right now. We want it instantly. We have we have a problem, we take it to the Lord, but we want God to take that problem away immediately. Instantly. But let me tell you something, dear friend, God is not subject to this culture of instant gratification. When God does something, he does it in his own time. One day a friend saw the famous preacher, Philip Brooks, pacing around in his office like a lion, and a friend said, What's the matter? He said, the problem is I'm in a hurry, but God isn't. And sometimes we're like that. Against this culture of instant gratification, James gives a message that is very plain, that is very straightforward, and the message is very simply this: be patient. Be patient. In fact, notice how many times he uses the word. Look at verse 7. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husband waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it. Look at verse 8. Be ye also patient. He'll use the same expression in verse 10 when he talks about the patience of the prophets and in verse 11 where he says, you've heard of the patience of Job. And so this is the key idea here in this whole passage. Be patient. Now why? Why does James emphasize patience here? Well in the first six verses of chapter five, we dealt with that last week. You remember James sharply rebukes the ri the rich who were oppressing the poor. These were wicked rich people who were hoarding funds and not giving to those who were uh who were you know the people that should be given to. They were people that deserved the wages because they worked hard, but they were holding back the wages. They were being oppressed. This was injustice. This was persecution And now James shifts from talking to the persecutors to the ones being persecuted. And he is now saying to the person that is suffering injustice, He's talking to the person that is being abused, and he's telling them how to endure this, how to deal with this. And so basically, really, the whole theme of this section is how to be patient when you're facing trials. And really, in a sense, James is returning back to the original theme that he gave us in chapter 1 about trials. And that the trying of your faith works what? Patience. And then let patience have her perfect work, or we could say complete work. It's not talking about sinless perfection, it's talking about maturity. It is the word teleops, full maturity You know, so that you the Bible says so that you're perfect, you're mature, and entire wanting nothing You ever hear people say sometimes, man, there's something missing in my spiritual life? Sometimes I'll hear Christians say that, man, there just seems to be something missing in my spiritual life. I don't have the faith that I need to have. I don't have the The perseverance that I need to have. I'm not faithful like I should be. Well, what the Lord does to make you perfect and entire and complete is he allows you to go through trials. Yes. He's doing a perfecting work in you and in me. Problems produce patience, which produces perfection, again, not sinless perfection, but maturity. Again, it's the word telios. An oak tree is the telos of an acorn. Someone wrote, next time you're feeling discouraged, next time you're feeling blue, take a look at a mighty oak tree and see what a nut can do. Now, an oak tree doesn't appear overnight like a dandelion or a mushroom. An oak tree appears in time through many storms. As the roots grow down deep, it gets big, it gets strong, and it takes time and patience, and that's what God is doing in our lives. as Christians. He will allow us to go through sufferings and trials. He will allow us to go through injustice. Why? Because God is doing a work in our heart and in our life. There's really Several kinds of suffering that we'll endure in this world. First of all, there's common suffering. You say, what kind of suffering is that? That's just because we live in a sin-cursed earth We we live in a place where uh the Bible says that God cursed it because of man's sin. Sometimes man thinks he curses the earth, but it was God who cursed the earth. Genesis 3. 17, after the sin in the garden, God said, Cursed is the ground for thy sake, and sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns and thistles shall it bring forth to thee Thorns and thistles are symbols of suffering and sorrow that we endure because we live in a cursed creation. And so some of our suffering is just because we live here in this world. And then there's carnal suffering. That is, someone, you know, they do they do wrong and then they reap what they sow, right? There's the principle of sowing and reaping. If you reap Or if you sow sin, you're going to reap uh punishment for that. And that's part of suffering. Someone says, Well, can't we get forgiveness? Of course you can get forgiveness. But when God forgives you, it doesn't cancel out the law of sowing and reaping. A man jumps out the window and on the way down he thinks this was not a good idea. And on the way down he prays and says, God, will you forgive me for jumping out this window? And God says, Of course. But God's forgiveness doesn't cancel out the law of gravity. He's still going to hit the ground You can ask for forgiveness, sure, but sometimes we suffer for our own sins. Jeremiah 2. 19, thine own wickedness shall correct thee. And then there's Christian suffering. And what is that? That's suffering just because you're a Christian. You haven't done anything wrong. God's not punishing you. In fact, you're doing what's right. You're trying to live a godly life. And the Bible says, if you're suffering as a Christian, don't be ashamed of that. Because God's going to do great things as a result of that. Jesus told his disciples, if they persecuted me, they're going to persecute you. In fact, Jesus gives us an example of how to suffer. Look in 1 Peter chapter 2. Just flip back, or flip forward, I should say, one page. Look in 1 Peter chapter 2. And look at verse number 21, because here is an example of Jesus suffering injustice. Notice what it says in verse 21. For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow in his steps Who did no sin, neither was guile found at his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but he committed himself to him that judges righteously Ask you a question, did Jesus endure suffering with patience? Sure he did. He was patient And this is what James is telling us here. Be patient in the trials that you go through. You see, because James is wise, he knows that if in a time of trial and suffering If you're suffering injustice, there is the temptation to react wrongly, to do the wrong thing, to take matters into your own hands. You remember the Apostle Paul when he stood before a high priest, and the high priest commanded that Paul be smacked, and the guy smacked Paul, and then Paul, you know what he said? He said, God's going to strike you, you white wall That's what Paul said. And then afterwards, Paul had to say, I'm sorry I shouldn't have said that. That was the wrong thing to say. He himself acknowledged that it was the wrong thing And so Paul can react wrongly to injustice. You think maybe we we could too? Or maybe God's people can, of course. And so James emphasizes to these people here in James chapter five, having just talked about the injustice Of the wicked rich who are not treating others right, James says to those who are being persecuted, be patient Be patient. In fact, the word patience, look in verse 7, be patient. The word patient there, two words in the Greek, Macro Thumeo, it's a compound word, macro, long thumeo, anger. It talks about someone who is who is long-tempered. It takes a lot for them to get angry. They're long-tempered. Extremely long-tempered. A lot has to happen before they will get And then in verse eleven, he uses the word patience when he talks about the patience of Job. A different word in the Greek, hubomone. It's in relation to a circumstances and during difficult Circumstances. The first word has to do with difficult people. The second word has to do with difficult circumstances. So, how are we to respond to difficult people with long suffering? How are we to respond to difficult circumstances? We're to endure them. We're to persevere. This is what he's telling us here. Now the question is, how can we do this? We need help with this. I don't know about you, but this is not one of my stronger virtues. Thank you for that testimony, ma'am. I think all of us could say the same thing. We need help in this area. And so James is going to help us. He's going to show us four things we need to remember if we're going to face trials patiently. And here's the first thing. Number one, he says, remember this. If you want to face trials patiently, number one, remember the Lord's coming. Remember the Lord's coming. Look in verse 7. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. That is He's saying Jesus is going to come back. Just be patient. Now, this is called the second advent. The first advent when Jesus came to to Bethlehem as a baby And then he died at Calvary for our sins, and then he resurrected, and then he spent forty days instructing the disciples before he ascended into heaven, but before he left he gave a promise, John 14, 3. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you. unto myself. Just before he ascended, it says in Acts 1. It says, and when he had spoken these things, verse 9, Acts chapter 1, while they beheld he was taken up in a cloud, received him out of their sight And while they looked steadfastly towards heaven as they went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, these were two angels, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye here gazing up in the heaven? This same Jesus, which was taken up from you into heaven, Shall so come in like manner as you have seen him go to heaven. When Jesus left, he made the promise, I am coming back. When I was in Israel, I went to the top of the Mount of Olives. There's a church there called the Church of the Holy Ascension. There in that church they have a certain spot kind of marked off where they said this was where Jesus was before he ascended into heaven. Now whether or not that was the actual spot, I'm not really sure. He he ascended from Mount Olives. Whether that was the actual spot or not, that's not important. What's important is this, he's coming back. That I know. He is coming back. And so James says, be patient. Be patient. He's coming. Now here's the point that he's making. Yeah, there are a lot of things out of order in this world. Yeah. This is a cursed earth. There's a lot of things going on here that are not good. You know, when God created the earth, the Bible says that God looked around and he saw everything was good. It was all good. Everything in creation at that time was good. It had not been touched by sin or rebellion or corruption. All of creation was in subordination. One writer says, Did it ever occur to you that God has put rhythm in everything He created? One season in the stars and atoms and seasons and harvests? In the beauty of a flower, in the song of a bird, the surf of the sea, the majesty of a mountain, the beat of the human heart say that God has put all nature in tune But now something happened that changed all that. What was it? Sin, rebellion, and everything was thrown out of balance Satan sinned in heaven against God, God kicked him out. Man sinned on earth, God kicked him out of the Garden of Eden. As a result, God cursed the earth, and now we live in a creation that is groaning because of the sin of man. Everything is out of order and man lives in jeopardy every hour. Whereas before creation would freely give everything, now man by the sweat of his brow has to pull fruit out of the crown. Through toilsome effort. There were destructive powers all over, diseases and hurricanes and tornadoes and tidal waves and earthquakes and extremes of heat and cold. Everything that God gave for man's good became man's enemy. And it's all not good now. That's why all of creation groans for the glory that we're going to receive as a child of God. And you say, why does creation groan for that? Because creation is tied into man. When man sinned, creation was cursed. When man gets glorified, creation is going to get glorified. God's going to give a brand new glorified body to create to creation, not just us. And so he's creation is groaning. But now we live in a place where there's sin. And man is evil. And he does evil things against his fellow man. He oppresses. He persecutes All these things, selfishness and hatred, all these things. Now God in his grace has put within society some some things to restrain the evil in the heart of man. He's given man a conscience. He's given man uh government. He's given man uh family he's given man the church But even all these gifts are not enough to restrain evil fully. And there's flaws in some of these things. You see, here's the point. Things are not going to be right until Jesus comes back. They're just not fully going to be right until Jesus returns. And when he comes back, you know what the Bible says? He's going to reconcile everything. All the injustice. He's going to put down sin. He's going to reign. You know the next thing on God's prophetic calendar? The return of Christ. And then there's the tribulation, and then there's the millennial reign, and then Satan is cast into the lake of fire, and then there's a new heaven and a new earth. And you know what the Bible says? It says this in Philippians 2, wherefore God has highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, things in heaven and things on earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And that's going to happen when Jesus comes back. Everything will be made right. And so you know what James says? Just be patient. Be patient. Endure it. Wait. The Lord is coming back. Now some people say, well, that doesn't help me now. I mean I need things to be made right right now. By the way, this doesn't make sense to you if you don't know the Lord. This only makes sense to you if you realize that this is not all there is. There's an eternity after this. If this is all that you're living for, this isn't going to make sense to you. But this is not all that there is for the child of God. There is eternity after this. And the greater the groan that we have here, the greater the glory in eternity. That's what resonates with someone who knows Jesus. I'm groaning now. Everything is groaning. Creation groans. The believer groans. The Holy Spirit of God groans. But the greater the groan, the greater the glory when Jesus returns. And James says, just be patient. In fact, he gives us a good illustration. Look at verse seven, behold the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it until he received the early and the latter rain. James says, Look at the farmer Do you think when he plants his seeds in the soil he expects a harvest the next day? Comes back after the field the next day after planting the seed and go, what's the deal? I just planted some seeds. Come on. He's got to wait. Really, after he plants the seed, there's really nothing else he can do. Everything now is in God's hands. God has to give the rain, the sunshine at the right times. He's just waiting. That's why James says in verse 7, he hath long patience. He doesn't have any control. He has to wait on the Lord to do what God's going to do, but he knows God's in control. And James is saying, look, you have to be like that farmer. You have to just wait It's in God's hands. He's taking care of things. But is it worth it to wait? Is it worth it to the farmer to wait for the produce? It is. Is it worth it for us to wait? Absolutely. Paul said this, for I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory That shall be revealed. The word reckon here, Paul wasn't a southerner, it's a word that actually means logismi, where we get the word logic. Paul's saying, I'm doing a numerical calculation in my mind. I've got present groaning on one side, and I've got future glory on the other, and as I weigh the two, the future glory far outweighs the present groaning. So it's worth it. Just wait. Just be patient, he says. For the Lord is coming soon. Verse 8. It says, be patient, establish your hearts. For the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. It's getting near. You see, how close is it? Well, we're one day closer today. than we were. And each day we get closer and closer. I tell you, friend, as I look out over this world it's getting gloriously dark. Because Jesus is coming. And He's preparing. I heard of a farmer that had a grandfather clock and one night it malfunctioned and it chimed 12 times, 13, 14, 15. He got up out of bed and he said, It's later than it's ever been. Friend, it's later than it's ever been. He's coming. Be patient. So how do we Face trials, patiently remember the Lord's coming. But here's number two, remember the Lord's judgment Look at verse nine. Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest he be condemned. Behold, the judge standeth before Now, along with the coming of Jesus, there's a reminder that when he comes again, he's coming back as the judge. The first time he came, he endured shame. The next time he comes back, he will enjoy glory The first time he came, he came to redeem. The next time he comes, he will come to reign. The first time Jesus came, he came as a meek servant. The next time he comes, he will be the mighty sovereign. The first time Jesus came, he came as the Savior. The next time he comes, he's coming as the judge. And he will judge. And James is saying, listen, don't grudge one against another. You know, sometimes when Christians are going through trials, they can get hateful if they're not careful. And you might even compare yourself with someone else and say, how come so-and-so is not having it as bad as I am? And inwardly you may grumble. In fact, the word here has that idea of an inward resentment, an inward bitterness. About your circumstances and James is saying, listen, don't grumble one against another. Why? Because the judge Is standing right at the door. Yes. You know what that means? He's ready to enter in the courtroom. The judge is Jesus. You say, how close is Jesus to coming? He's right at the door. And he's going to enter in. And James is saying, you don't want to have judgment on you when the judge comes. So you better be careful. Remember the Lord's coming. Remember the Lord's judgment. Here's the third thing. Remember the Lord's servants. Look in verse number 10. Take, my brethren, the prophets. Who has spoken in the name of the Lord for an example of suffering, affliction, and of patience? James says, Do you think you're the only ones who have had had to be patient in times of trial? You think that you're the only one who's ever suffered injustice, or suffered mistreatment, or suffered persecution, or been through dark trials? James says, I want you to look back. He points backward. Dr. Albert Schweitzer, the famous medical missionary, was once asked, what's the best way to raise children? And he said three things, by example, by example, by example. And that is true also of the Christian life. You know what we need to help us? We need examples to follow. And James is saying, listen, I I can give you some examples. You want to know what it's like to be patient in the midst of persecution and trials and injustice and abuse and all that? Look at the prophets. Remember the servants of the Lord. By the way, this is why God gave us the word. This is why we have an Old Testament that is filled with narratives and stories. Because they're examples to us. And we're supposed to read those examples and look at them. Paul said, Now all these things happen unto them for examples, and they're written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world has come. Moses had to put up with stiff-necked people. David was hunted by Saul. Jeremiah was oppressed. He was he was put into stocks. He was beaten. He was put into a slime pit. He was called the weeping prophet because no one listened to what he had to say. Ezekiel the prophet lost his wife during his ministry Daniel was taken from his homeland when he was just a teenager, thrown into a lion's den. Hosea endured a heartbreaking marriage. Oh, Amos faced lies and scorn. John the Baptist was imprisoned and he was beheaded and on we could go. Read Hebrews chapter 11. By the way, this is the reason I love to read Christian biographies, because I get inspiration and encouragement from the lives of great Christians who endured and who were faithful. And recently when I went to London, I was telling our church on Sunday night. Maybe I told you, you probably get tired of some of these stories, but I remember going there and I went to some of these places where great ministers preach And went to the cemetery, Bunhill Field, there, and at the time when they used it to bury nonconformist preachers. It was outside of the city of London. Of course London has grown around it since then. But they put them in that graveyard because they wouldn't bury them in church graveyards because they wouldn't conform to church liturgy. And the reason they wouldn't is because it was against the scripture These were men who stood for truth and they suffered for it. We have a long legacy, a long heritage of people who have gone on before us who have been faithful. And we have to follow in the footsteps of them. We have to continue that as Christians. I was I I saw I went to the grave with John Bunyan. Let me tell you about John Bunyan. John Bunyan Spent twelve years in a Bedford jail. You know why they put him in jail? Because they said, we don't want you preaching. I mean he preached the word. Read some of his books. He wrote Pilgrim for Progress. They said, as you agree not to preach, we'll let you out of jail. He spent twelve years in jail. He had a wife He had a blind daughter, and John Bunyan said when they would come to visit him in the jail and then they would leave, he said it was like tearing flesh from off my bones to watch them leave. All he had to do was compromise. All he had to do is say, I won't speak anymore the word of God. And they would have let him out, but he would not. He would not compromise. And he suffered. And so James is saying, look, just remember these servants of yesteryear. Remember how they endured. And you follow in that same pattern. Let me give you the last point. If you want to endure trials patiently, remember the Lord's coming, remember the Lord's judgment. Remember the Lord's servants. But here's the fourth thing. Remember the Lord's blessings. Remember the Lord's blessings. Look in verse 11. Behold, we count them happy which endure Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and ye have seen the end of the Lord. That the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercies. Now James reminds us of this one important fact. That God greatly blesses those who patiently endure trials. He says, we count them happy. Which endure. The word happy materios means blessed. Same word Jesus used in the Sermon on the Mount when he was giving the Beatitudes blessed. And the word actually means needing nothing outside. It's a state of blessedness where there's total contentment. This same word was used to speak of an island. It was called Macaria, the island, a small island off of Cyprus. They called it Macaria because A person could live on that island and never need anything outside of the island. No exports were needed. On that island was everything a person needed to be content and happy And so they named the island this same word here. And the idea is this that when God works in our life, when he brings trials, it's because he's trying to get us to the point in our life where we're totally content and satisfied in him. We don't need anything on the outside to give us any more blessedness or happiness because we're totally complete in him. That's again the purpose of trials. Remember what James said? That you might be perfect and entire, lacking nothing. That's the whole goal of it. Now, he gives an example. Look in verse eleven again. You've heard of the patience of Job and seeing the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful and very Tender. And so James uses Job as an example to prove his point. And we know the story of Job, one of the most popular stories in the Bible. If you read Job 1, you'll see at the first part, Job was a man who feared God. Everything was wonderful in his life. God had given him great riches and God had given him a wonderful family. And and Job prayed for his children. And his children w got along, they loved one another, everything was well, but then there's that scene in chapter one where the angels came come before the Lord and Satan came And God says to Satan, where have you been? Saying, oh, I'm going to and fro on the earth, walking up and down it. Really, that was an accusation against the church. Lord, I'm just walking all around the earth. I can do whatever I want. I have free reign. Where are your people? Where are your godly people? And God says, Well, have you considered my servant Job? There's no one like him. Satan says, Oh yeah, the only reason Job serves you is because of look at everything you give him Look at all the I mean he's got more than anybody. You let me take those things away, and you know what'll happen? Job will curse you. You know, if Satan was saying, God, the only reason he worships you is because of the gifts you give him. His faith isn't real. And so God says, Really? You think so? God says, okay, I'll let you take away his things, but you can't touch him. And Satan went. And you know the story, he lost everything. He lost his children, he lost his health, he lost his reputation, his friends came and accused him of secret sin. His wife said, curse God and die. And Job went through suffering unimaginable. But you know what? He endured it patiently. Patiently. And the Bible says everything he he he did not sin and he did not charge God foolishly. And Job said, Though he slay me yet will I trust him. And you know what? Read the end of the story. Now some people might look at Job and they might say, Well, God was really being cruel with this guy. But that's not true. God had a divine purpose in it all. God was showing the world what real faith looks like, because if you have genuine faith in God, no matter how severe the trial, you'll you will not quit on God. You'll come out shining. Satan ended up looking like a fool because at the end, Job didn't curse God. What did he do? He blessed God. He said, The Lord has given and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Satan was made to look like an idiot. And Job proved to the world that God's worthy of worship, not because of the gifts that he is, because of who he is. And then you know the end of the story? This is what James is pointing out. You see the end of the Lord. That's what James says here. Look at the end of the story of Job, because if you read the end in Job 42, and we don't have time to turn there, but in Job 42, it says that God gave Job twice as much. As he had before. To increase Job's blessedness. To bless him. Now you say, I'm going through a trial right now. Yeah, God wants to bless you. This blessing is for those who endure patiently. If you endure patiently, you'll get a blessing at the end. But now if you don't, you're not going to get a blessing. This is for those who endure patiently at the end. And so This is really all things working together for good, if you would just trust the Lord. Patience means living out the belief that God orders everything for my spiritual good. And so if we want to endure trials patiently, we have to remember the Lord's coming. Remember the Lord's judgment. Remember the Lord's servants. Remember the Lord's blessings. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for this word from James. I know there are many people here today that Perhaps are in a trial right now. They need patience. And Lord, I pray that this will encourage them. May they focus on the coming of the Lord. And may it strengthen and establish their heart, as James says. May they remember the blessings, Lord, that you want to pour out on their life. And Lord, may we remember that our Savior, your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, endured the cross for us. That we may have eternal life in heaven. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I just want to say this, friend, no one endured more than Jesus. Nobody. He endured injustice, abuse, trials, suffering. And he didn't have to do that, but he did it for you He took upon him the sin of the world to pay for sin that he might give salvation as a gift to anyone who's ready to receive it. And friend, if you're here today, I would challenge you, don't leave without knowing Jesus Christ as your Savior. Realize that his suffering was to pay for your eternal salvation. And if you're here today and you say, I I want to trust Christ, I I believe that He died for me. Friend, after the service, why don't you come and talk to one of our ministers? Or even right there where you are right now, you can pray a prayer. You can say, Lord Jesus, save me. Make me your child. Forgive me for my Sin, is there anyone here that say that's my prayer? I've never trusted Christ. But I know that he endured so much for me. I'm asking him to save me today. Would that be your prayer today? Anyone here, would you lift your hand so we can pray for you? And if you have any more questions about that, see us after the service. We could talk to you more. But my invitation today is to Christians. There may be Christians here today that are going through trials, and you need patience from the Lord to receive the blessing. And you need to say right now, Lord, help me to be patient as I face these difficulties. And you say, would you pray for me? Would you lift your hand and say, God help me? Pray for me for the patience that I need. And God sees your hands, beloved. He sees your heart. All over. God bless you. Father, bless these, your servants. As they face these trials, Lord, grant them your grace. Give them patience to face it Graciously. With faith, Lord, knowing that at the end there's a blessing And Lord, I pray for them. I lift them to you. And I pray in Jesus' name that you'll help them through this difficult time. Use these words to strengthen their heart. And I pray in Jesus' matchless name. Amen.