We've been studying Jude on Sunday night, and we're really coming to the end of this little epistle. It's so very powerful. And we're looking tonight at verses 22 and verse 23 Verse 22 and verse 23 of Jude, and some having compassion making a difference. And others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment spotted by the flesh. Now, if you've been with us in our study in Jude, you understand that the theme of this letter is that of apostasy. And apostasy is simply falling away from the truth. Sad, yet it's very real, that there are some people who seem to embrace the gospel, and yet in time they they fall away, they turn away from the truth that they had once heard. And Judah is warning us about this very thing. In fact, the book of Jude is really the Christian's call to arms. And so far in our study of Jude, we have learned about the danger of apostasy. We saw in verses 3 and 4 that apostasy kind of creeps in the church. He says to beware those who creep in unawares. And uh in verse number four, for certain men are crept in unawares. That is to slip in the side. These are unbelievers, these are people who don't know the Lord, these can be false teachers, and they can undermine the faith of believers. And so he warns us about the danger of apostasy, and then in much of the letter he gives us a description of apostasy In verse eleven, he says, Woe to them they have gone after the way of Cain. That is, they're like Cain in that they pervert the gospel. They're like Balaam in that they prostitute the gospel, and they're like and that they protest the gospel. And it gives us many illustrations to describe. You remember he gives illustrations from the natural realm in verses 12 and 13. Apostates are they're hidden rocks that can sink your ship. They are twice dead trees fucked up by the roots, and so on. And then he gives us a defense against apostasy. If you were here last time in verse seventeen he says, But beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ How did they told you that there will be mockers in the last time who should walk after their own lusts? These be they who are separate themselves, sensual, not having the spirit. And then he says this in verse 20, but ye beloved, building up yourselves on the most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost, keeping yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. And so there, Jude tells us our defense against apostasy. We are to keep ourselves in the love of God. We're to stay in the blessing. In that environment of love. And how do we do that? By building up ourselves in the most holy faith, building with the Scripture, praying in the Spirit, and looking and living for the coming of the Savior Jesus Christ. And now, just before he ends this letter on a note of security, Jude is going to give us one more lesson here that we need to learn. And that is what I want to call just the deliverance from apostasy Here he exhorts the church to confront it. Our call as the church is not to bury our head in the sand or to live in fear over this reality of apostasy that's all around us. We're not to run from the battle. We're not to pretend it doesn't exist and go on our merry way. We are to confront apostasy. We are to engage. Churches have to understand the danger of apostasy. They have to recognize apostasy when they see it, and they have to understand the proper defense. But having done all that, then we have been given the incredible responsibility to give to those same apostates, those spiritual terrorists, the very gospel that they reject. And we are to stand for the truth. This is the great challenge that we have. We have to continue to stand firm on truth. We have to continue to share the gospel in the face of this apostate age. Now someone might say, well, that could be scary. I mean, if I get involved in defending the faith, or if I get involved in confronting apostasy and sharing the gospel, couldn't that uh be a great risk for me? Is it possible that I could be persuaded by some of the wrong ideas and wrong philosophies and wrong doctrines? Yeah, that's a very real possibility. That's a very real danger And so I say, well, well if I get caught up, if I get swept up in what others believe, trying to defend the faith, will I lose my salvation? No, we've already established that, that you can't lose your salvation And that's why the benediction gives in verse 24 another note of security. Look in verse 24. Now in the hand that is able to keep you from what? And it presents you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy to the only wise God our Savior be glory, majesty, dominion, power, both now and forever. Amen. You're not going to lose your salvation, beloved. You know why? Because he's the one who's able to keep you from falling. And he will keep you secure. However, When you confront apostasy, you have to be careful because you may not lose your salvation, but you can go astray if you are open and you are susceptible to false ideas and false doctrine. That's why Jude has already told us to build up yourself in most holy faith. But that's what we have to do anyway. That's what we have to do in this apostate age. We have to know what we believe and we have to know why we believe it. And we have to be able to defend it And we have to continue sharing the gospel. Now again, it's not an easy thing to do to confront apostasy. It demands prayer. It demands vigilance. It demands discipline of edification in the church. It demands living obediently. But we are called and we are left in this world to rescue those who are in the throes of error, who are in the throes of false doctrine, and who are being pulled literally pulled down to hell by apostasy. We have to stand against it. We have to reach out. We have to rescue the perishing, as it were. I heard about a pastor who had a painting in his office of a man who was uh on a rescue boat, a boat had been was thinking And he was reaching down to a man in the water and he had grabbed his hand and a little boy came in, his son, saw that picture. He said, Dad, is that man saving that person, or is he just shaking hands with them? That's a question the church has to ask ourselves in this day. Are we just shaking hands with the world or are we out to save them? The call that Jude is giving us here is to rescue the perishing, not just shake hands with the world, but to Rescue them. Now, with that in mind, I want to give you three characteristics of the church and the believer that we are to have as we confront apostasy in this age. Here's the first one. Number one, write down the church's compassion Compassion. Look again in verse 22. And some have compassion making a difference. Now the word compassion here is a word that simply means pity. The word actually itself comes from two Latin words, cum, which means with, passion, which means to suffer. And therefore it means to suffer with. It literally means to put oneself in the place of another, to suffer with that person. Orthodoxy without compassion is useless. You can be right on all doctrine, you can be right on theology, you could be right on all that, but if you don't have any compassion, you're not going to help. People don't really care what you know until they know that you care Alan Redpath said this. He said that you never lighten the load unless you first have felt a pressure in your own soul. You are never used of God to bring blessing until God has opened your eyes and made you see things as they really are. And the problem with uh many Christians today is that they have lost their concern. They have lost their tears. Once a young man who is in the Salvation Army uh wrote to General Booth, the godly uh founder and soul winner of that organization, and he said, I'm not seeing any converts. People don't seem to respond to my message. And General Booth telegrammed back only two words, try tears. Pretty strong message, but very true. And so we have to have compassion. But notice the model for that. Look back up to verse 21. Where it says, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. Now the whole model for compassion is Jesus He's a merciful Savior. His ministry was effective because he was constantly moved with compassion on people. The Bible says as he rode into Jerusalem, he wept over the city of Jerusalem because people were not coming to him. And he had said, Often I would like to gather you together as a hen. Thus her chicks, but you would not. And so Jesus is the model of compassion. But then notice the ministry of it because look again what it says in verse 22. And some having compassion, making a difference Now this is a very interesting word in the Greek. It's the word dia krino. And let me tell you what that means. Dia just simply means twice. Khrino means to think. And so you put this together and it just means simply this, to think twice. To think twice. Now this is a word that's used in the New Testament to speak about doubters, those who have trouble in their own soul with doubts. This would be equivalent to what James talks about in James as the double-minded man. And what did James say about a double-minded man? He is what? Unstable. Unstable in all his ways. And in fact, James compares a double-minded man to a sea wave. Listen to James 1 6 through eight, but let him ask his faith nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is like the wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. The word wavereth there in verse 6 is the exact same Greek word that we just read in Jude, di Krino, to think twice. And James is speaking about a double-minded man. It's the same exact thing. He thinks twice. He, on one hand, he believes And then suddenly he doesn't. James compares him again to a seawave that's driven with the wind. Now were you ever out on a sea on a boat? With the wave kicking up or the wind kicking up. I remember you know my my dad and his boat he would go out fishing, trying to catch rockfish, and one time they took me along and I was alone kind of for the for the journey. You know, I don't know how to fish. My idea of fishing is going to Captain B's. But anyway, that they brought me along and I remembered that uh they were fishing. I was reading a book, I think, and uh I remember that I looked over the horizon and the the uh there was a dark cloud and the wind started kicking up and it was obvious that a storm was rolling in. I got a little nervous. I said, Dad, uh do you see that Storm cloud, it's gonna rain, he said. You're you're right, son. He took his line out of the water, he opened up a little door, he put a rain jacket on, he threw his line back in the water. That was not the response I was hoping for I wanted to get out of there. But you know what happened? That wind started to kick up and that boat started going up and then down, up and down, up and down. And I thought of this verse here in James. A doubter, he that wavereth is like the wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. James says that's what a doubter is like. They believe, they're up in belief, and then they're down in doubt. They undo and doubt what they've done in faith. They take a step forward, then they take a step backward. And James says these are the people we're to have compassion on, the doubter. Someone said uh uh a doubter needs a mountain load of faith to move a mustard seed. So we can say it like this. James is saying, have compassion on those who are doubting, on those who are wrestling in the throes of doubt. We don't throw them away. We don't toss them away. If they begin to question things and say, ah, what's the use? No, James says have compassion. Now there's a wonderful illustration of this given in the New Testament in the ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ. You remember the story of Peter walking on the water? You remember in that story Jesus sends the disciples ahead, he goes on the mountain to pray, and he's up there praying, and the disciples are down there in the Sea of Galilee in a boat. They get out into the middle, and there's a big storm. You might say Jesus was praying up a storm there on the mountain But the Bible says he came to them in the middle of the night and they couldn't see him. He was far enough away they couldn't recognize his figure. But they saw someone, they saw the silhouette of something or someone walking on the water And so they were afraid. They thought it was a ghost. And Jesus cried out and he said, It's I be not afraid. And the Bible says, My sheep hear my voice. And they knew the voice of Jesus. And Peter then said, Lord, if it's thee, fit me to come under the water with thee. Peter would rather be on the water with Jesus than in the boat. And so Jesus gave him one word. He said, Come. And Peter stepped out of the boat, and you know the story. He began to walk on the water. An incredible thing He was looking at Jesus, he had his eyes on Jesus, he was walking on the water, and then you know what happened to Peter? He began to look around. He took his eyes off Christ, he started looking around at the winds and the waves, he started looking at the circumstance, and he had a thought. You know what the thought was? I can't walk on the water. And the next thing that happened was he began to sink. And what does the Bible say? He cried out, Help! Sometimes some of the greatest prayers are very short, right? And Jesus, the Bible says, immediately stretch forth his hand. And then he said this to Peter. He said, Peter, why did you Dietrino, why did you think twice? You had it right the first time. You had it right in faith. Why did you doubt? Now Jesus didn't say, well, because you doubted me, I'm just going to let you think, buddy. Unless you drown. You're doubting me? No, the Bible says Jesus reached forth his hand and he pulled Peter up. What is that? That is the compassion of Jesus. The compassion of Jesus on the doubter. And this is exactly what Jude is saying That when we in the midst of this uh this apostasy that's out there every once in a while, there are going to be even true believers who wrestle with doubt About the things of God. And we're not just to cast them off. We're not just to forget them. And this may even be someone who's not yet saved, and they're still wrestling with issues. They're wrestling with false doctrine as opposed to what's really true We don't forget them. The Bible says we're to have compassion. Now let me clarify when I talk about a doubter. There are two kinds of doubter. First of all, there's an honest doubter, and then there's a dishonest doubter. You say, what's an honest outer? An honest outer is someone who's truly trying to understand. They really want to understand the truth. They want to understand the gospel. They want to understand the Bible. And perhaps it may be a young person who's been taught truth since they were a child. They grew up in Sunday school, they grew up in church, and by the way, there's an alarming statistic out there of how many young people after they Graduate from high school, walk away from church, and they never come back. And a lot of times they're bombarded with all of these false ideas out there Things that question creation and question the existence of God and question the reliability and the authority of Scripture Maybe it's a young person that's been bombarded with questions by skeptics. They've been challenged. And by the way, I think that there are two areas that we have to learn to give a defense on in the church, and that is the area of the existence of God. And that existence of God is attacked primarily at the point of creation. We better be able to give an answer. And a co a coherent, compelling, intelligent, reasonable answer. And the other area is the authority of the Bible, the authority of Scripture. Those are the two primary areas. Now you might say, well I would think that you would want to defend the deity of Jesus Christ. Let me tell you something. If you defend the existence of God and the authority of the Bible, all the other stuff will fall in place. Because all of the rest of it is just simply exegesis. If there is no God, why worry about the Bible? But there is a if there is a God, and the Bible is indeed the Word of God, I can show you everything you need to know right from here on. I can show you all you need to know about Jesus because pray tell what do you know of Jesus outside the Scripture? Nothing. This is the word of Christ. This is the word about him. And so those are the two primary areas. And by the way, those are the two areas where Satan aims his biggest guns. And so here's a young person. Somehow that young person gets influenced by people who don't believe the existence of God or they don't believe the Bible is the Word of God. And they begin to get off the path. And their faith goes into a tailspin. And they begin to honestly question everything. They go through a time of doubt. They begin to play mental ping-pong, di crino. They're thinking twice. And one moment they're they're believing, and the next moment they're doubting, and there's this inner torment of the soul that they're going through because they can't seem to get the issue settled And by the way, let me just say that even great Christians have gone through things like this. People that really love God have gone through doubts like this. I remember reading one time of a man by the name of G. Campbell Morgan And you know G. C. Will Morgan was a great expositor, and he was already a wonderful preacher by the time he was 19. But he began to read some things that were kind of growing during his era, some ideas From scientists and agnostics and these ideas disturbed him. And he was being taught to question his faith. He was listening to ideas from Charles Darwin From John Tyndall, from Thomas Huxley, from Herbert Spencer, all these agnostics and atheists and people, supposedly men of science of their day, that was causing him to question the validity of the Scripture. And so Morgan became more and more perplexed. What am I supposed to do? And finally he canceled all his preaching engagements. He put all of his books and he locked them up in a closet. And he bought a brand new Bible. And he said, I'm going to read this Bible on my knees. And he said, if this is truly God's word, he said, I'm no longer sure that this is what My father taught me about it, so I'm going to read it. And if this is really the Word of God, I'm going to ask God to give me that assurance, that peace. And he said, after just being on his knees and reading the Bible only, he said the result was the Bible found me And he he he never questioned it from that day forward. And he became a great expositor after that. But he went through a time of doubt But this beloved is honest doubt. And by the way, I believe that anyone who has an open mind, who's honestly doubting, if they'll pick up the scripture and read it and go ahead and compare it to all the other evidence out there, and what you're going to find is that the Bible can stand up under the greatest scrutiny of the so-called intelligentsia out there, and we have nothing to be ashamed of, and we should not back up on any single point of truth when it comes to the scripture. We should be able to hold our own. And if you have an open mind and you open the Bible and you read it and you ask God to show you, you know what? You're going to get off your knees believing in God. Because God will reveal his truth to you if you ask him. But friend, that's an honest doubter. And there are people who have honest doubts. And what are we to do with folks like that? We are to encourage them in their faith. And help them along. But then there's also a dishonest outer. What's a dishonest outer? A dishonest outer are people who are not really looking for the truth. In fact, they're pushing the truth away. They don't want real evidence. They're not looking for God for the same reason that a criminal is not looking for a policeman. They don't want to be under that authority. They don't want to give any accountability. And the problem with them is not intellectual, the problem with them is moral The problem with them is not reason, the problem with them is rebellion. They are rebelling against God, they don't want to know God. In fact, God has already put an inward knowledge that He exists in them, and they're suppressing that. They're pushing that away. In fact, hold your place here in Jude. Look in Romans chapter 1 again, real quick. Let me just show you this passage in Romans. Look in Romans chapter 1. And look down at verse number 18. Romans 1:18. This is an important passage. For the wrath of God is revealed, or we could say it's being revealed. from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth and unrighteousness. Look at the word hold there. That means to suppress It's the idea of pushing it away. What are they doing? They're pushing truth away. They don't want to hear it. They don't really want to know. They might say they're all I'm wrestling with doubt. You're not wrestling. You're pushing truth away And what has happened is God has already revealed Himself to them. Look at verse 19, because that which may be known of God is manifest what? In them. God has already put in the heart of every person the knowledge that he exists. It's already there. An atheist is someone who simply lies about what they really know to be true. Why? Because they have pushed God away inwardly. They pushed him away, and they don't want to confess that there is a God. And if that's not enough, the Bible says that God has all the visible things that are around us Clearly point to the invisible. Now it was Immanuel Kant, that philosopher, who said that you can't use the visible to prove the invisible. And he was using that to argue against God. But that's ridiculous, that whole idea. In fact, the Apostle Paul says that you can, right here. You can look at the visible world around you and know that there is an invisible creator. We do that all the time. Courts do that all the time. They take a crime that no one saw and they present visible evidence to prove what? The invisible. We do it all the time. And Paul says, you can take all the visible manifestations around in creation and know that there is a God. But look at verse 21, because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. But what does man do? He doesn't want to acknowledge God. He doesn't want to glorify God in any way. And I think the biggest, most blasphemous, most hellish devilish lie that is out there is the lie of evolution because it robs God of his glory. And so this is the dishonest out of it. But what would he do with them? Well, we we have to have compassion. And we have to have an answer. That's what the Bible says. We are called to defend the faith. And this is called from the Greek word apologia as apologetics. What is apologetics? Apologetics is not apologizing that you're a Christian. Apologetics means the word apologia means to defend or to give an answer. And we see Peter and Paul doing that all the time in the New Testament. It is giving an answer of the faith that we have. The Apostle Paul said in Philippians 1, 17, I am set for the defense, the apologia, I am set for the defense of the gospel. Peter said, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give an answer. Apologia. Be ready to defend the faith. To those that anyone out you outside of you there that ask you of the hope that is in you. And so this is something that we must do. There is a place for this in the Christian life and in the church that we learn to defend the faith. Now we know that all we can do is we can give the outward evidences. We can give the indications, but only the Holy Spirit can change the heart, right? I mentioned that last week. There's proof and there's persuasion. The proof is we give out all the outward evidences We marshal together all the truths and we c present our arguments in a compelling way. But after we've done all of that, then all that we can do is get out of the way and let the Holy Spirit do the convicting because only the Holy Spirit can take the the hostile heart of man and cause that heart to bow before the evidences. And bring true salvation and true conviction in the heart of that person. And yet what what is our job? We are to, with compassion, give an answer, to show the evidence, to give the reason of the hope that is in us, and then we give the rest of the That's what Judah is telling us to do. And so we see then number one, the church is compassion. Write down number two, the church is compulsion. The church's compulsion. Look at verse 23. Go back to Jude. Look at verse 23. He continues on. And Jude. He says this Verse 23, and others shaving with fear, pulling them out of the fire. Here's the next thing. We must have compassion, but also we must have compulsion, and that is we try to pull those out of the fire. What fire is you talking about here? I think he's talking about eternal fire, the fire of hell. This is a very real thing. Hell is real. It has real fire. Now we don't like to talk about it. We perhaps don't even like to think about it. It's not a thought that we want to be consumed with, but beloved, this is taught in the scripture. And Jesus taught about hell. He taught it as a reality. It's just as true as heaven. In fact, Jesus taught more about hell than he spoke about heaven. 160 times in the New Testament, hell is mentioned And Jesus gives us a real story about it. Look in Luke chapter 16 again. Hold your place and you we're going to come back. But look in Luke chapter 16. Now this is a very well-known passage. We use this And the soul winners portfolio, this is a great passage that talks to us about the soul. But I want you to notice some of the realities of hell that's given here That Jesus talks about. In verse 19, there was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day. There was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at the gate full of sores And desiring to be fed from the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table, whereover the dogs came and licked his sores. And it came to pass that the beggar died. So watch this in verse 23. And in what? Hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. We see a total reversal here. The rich man becomes poor, the poor man becomes rich. The rich man who was comforted is now in torment. The poor man who was in torment is now comforted. The rich man was who was uh living uh at sumptuous high on the hold, we could say with riches is now totally stripped of everything, and it's amazing how death will just level everything out, right? He's now has nothing, and the Bible says when his b body is buried in hell he lifts up his eyes Whereas the poor man was being licked by the dogs at the rich man's gate, now the rich man is being licked by hell's slain. And there's a total reversal that happens here. And what I want you to see is how horrible hell is in verse twenty-three. And hell he lifted up his eyes, being in what? It's a place of torment. A few weeks ago my daughter Annie came into my room and she said, Dad, we're gonna have to evacuate the house. I said, What? We're gonna have to evacuate the house. Why is that, honey? She said, because two doors down, there's a car on fire in the driveway. And sure enough I went out on the front porch and when I went out on the porch I could just feel the heat. Looked to my left and about two doors down there was a car that was on fire. The flames were going like 30 feet in the air and the car exploded And I could just feel the heat. It was just incredible. Now I had two thoughts. The first thought was, I hope that there's no one in that car. And then my second thought was, I thought about hell. That's the second thing I thought of. I don't want to see anyone have to go to a place called hell. Because when you see something like that, there's something about it that brings a real reality to you of the flames of hell. And it's just a scary thing. And here, this man is in torment, the Bible says. The pain is unbearable. But also the past is unforgettable. Look in verse 25. And Abraham said, Son, remember That in your lifetime you receive good things. Perhaps the worst thing about hell is that people will remember. They will remember every opportunity they had to entrust Christ They will remember every time they turned the gospel away. They will remember every time they scoffed and laughed and made fun. They will remember all those things They'll remember the good things that they had. And that's exactly what Abraham is saying. You remember that in your lifetime you received all these good things? I think people in hell live with regret. They live with the memory of what they used to have And they know that they didn't have to be there. But then also the pass is unpassable. You can't get out. Look at verse 26. And besides this, he says, between us and you there's a great gulf fix That they which would pass from hence to you cannot. Neither can they pass to us that would come from thence. That is, you can't get out of there. Once you get there you can't leave. The gates of hell swing on hinges that open only one way. There's a way in, but there's no way out. That's it. There's no opportunity after that. And then another horrible idea is that the prayers there go unanswered. Look at verse 24. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. Now, if he'd have prayed that before he died, he wouldn't have gone there. But now that he's there in hell, there's listen, God has mercy for anyone that'll ask for it now. on this side of eternity. If you want mercy and you go to God, you'll get it. But after you die, there's no more mercy after that. And he's in hell and he says, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. And then in verse 27, he said, I pray therefore that my uh He said, I pray thee therefore, Father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house, I have five brethren that he might testify unto them. That is, he didn't want his brothers to go there. He wanted someone to go by and witness to them. And again, that prayer goes unanswered. I think that the most fervent prayers prayed anywhere come from damned souls in an eternal hell, but those prayers go unanswered. Those are horrible thoughts. And no wonder Jude says then that we are to pull them out of the fire Verse 23 again in Jude. Others saved with fear. This idea of hell should provoke the most the greatest fear in us. And it should be a fear for others, pulling them out of the fire. And the word for pull here Is the idea of a force where you suddenly snatch someone abruptly with haste, with suddenness, with quickness, is the idea of rescuing someone who doesn't realize they're in danger. And that is a picture of the world today, beloved sinners today. They have no idea that they are in eternal danger. They have no idea of their condition. I read of a hospital in op in London. It was a London lunatic asylum. It caught fire. Fire broke out. There were 300 inmates. 50 perished. 250 literally had to be pulled out of the fire. And what was interesting about this was that the people that were in there, those poor people, those poor and sane people, they didn't realize the danger they were in. And so they fought against their rescuers. And there were some that thought, if they just go to bed and pull up the covers, they'll be all right. And they fought against any kind of rescue. And I thought, what a picture of the world. The church is here today to pull people out of the fire, and the world is fighting against us. Because they don't realize the danger that they're in. But beloved, we're not to stop. That shouldn't cause us to stop doing what we're doing. Jude says, you pull them out of the fire. You keep doing that work because they have no idea of the danger that they are in. On an American troop ship, the soldiers crowded around the chaplain And they said, Do you believe in hell? And the chaplain said, I do not. And then one of the soldiers said, Well will you please resign? Because if there is no hell, we don't need you. And if there is a hell, we don't want to be led astray And I say amen to that. We don't help the world and sinners by trying to downplay the idea of hell, by trying to say, well, it's an annihilationist thing, you know, you go there but you're not going to be there forever, you're going to burn up, and that's it, and it's over The Bible says nothing of that. The same word for eternal that speaks about heaven is the word that speaks about hell. And it's a very dangerous reality. No wonder Jude says, we are to have compassion. Paul says, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. We're to have compassion, and we are to pull them, we're to snatch them out of the flames. Now let me give you the third thing. There's the church's compassion. There is the church's compulsion. But write down number three, the church's caution. The church is cautioned. Because look again in verse 23. And others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating, watch this, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. And the word for hate here means to despise. We're to despise the garment spotted by the flesh. Now, there are two words basically in the New Testament that speak about the clothing that people wore. There's a word that speaks about the outward clothing, the tunic that a person would wear. That's called the hemation. And then there's the chitoma, which is the inner garments that a person wears. The thing that a person wears underneath the tunic, the thing that is next to the flesh, next to the skin. And this is the word that Jude is using here And of course, you know, a person who would uh not wash that inward garment, it would get to be pretty bad. And that's what the word spotted means here. It says about this garment in verse 23, hating even the garment spotted or that is stained or made filthy or defiled by the flesh. He is describing a filthy garment that is unwashed. These are the filthy garments the Baptist Isaiah was talking about, but all our righteousness is like filthy rags. And Jude says, listen, you need to be careful that you don't get uh corrupted by the filthy garments of the flesh. Now these garments here represent the sin of the world The corruption of the world. We could say false doctrine, all manner of worldliness. It's used here on this idea of a corrupt, filthy garment. I mean no one likes to handle corrupted, stained, filthy garments. No one likes to handle that. And that's the image that he's giving here. And by the way, this is God's view of the world. This is God's view of ungodliness. This is God's view of the false systems that are out there. And Judas saying, as we go after the sinner We need to be careful that we don't get corrupted by those filthy garments. Because there's always a danger of that. As we go after sinners, we must be careful that we don't compromise the gospel in order to win the world. It's this old idea that, you know, we have to be like the world to win the world. And that's a false idea. Here, Jude says, don't corrupt yourself with the garments. We're to hate the garments spotted by the flesh. You see, you can be so overwhelmed with getting out the gospel that you can fall prey to the philosophy that in order to win the world, you've got to be like the world. And there's a danger therefore in compromising the gospel in order to win the world. And by the way, churches are doing this all over today. They are marketing the gospel, they are cheapening the gospel, they are watering down the gospel to make it more palatable, to make it more acceptable, to try to get more people The Apostle Paul said this: Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Listen, not with wisdom of words, listen, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. You can share the gospel or preach the gospel in such a way where you take the power of the cross out of it. Paul said, we don't need the wisdom of the world to help us with the gospel. That's the whole idea there. Wisdom of words is referring to the wisdom of the world because the Corinthians love worldly wisdom. And Paul said we don't need the wisdom of the world to help us preach the gospel. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation. We just preach it and realize it will get the work done. Years ago I read a book by J. I. Packer called Evangelism and the Sovereignty of God, and it had a real impact on me. Let me just give you one quote. This is what he said. He said, quote, if we forget that it is God's prerogative to give the results When the gospel is preached, we shall start to think that the making of converts depends, in the last analysis, not on God, but on us. And that the decisive factor is the way in which we evangelize. And this line of thought consistently followed through will lead us far astray. And he's absolutely right. And you know what he's saying? He's saying, in other words, some people are more dependent upon style and evangelism than the substance of the message itself. That's the idea there. We are to remember our responsibility. We are to preach the gospel to every creature. One hand we hold on to our responsibility to do that, and on the other hand, we hold on to the sovereignty of God, realizing that He's going to give the results. And we hold on to each. There's a perfect balance there. And we don't have to be like the world, therefore, to win the world. We preach the gospel and then we give the rest to the Lord. And there's a wonderful illustration of this. Let me go to another passage with me tonight. Look in Mark chapter 4. I want to show you this. Look at Mark chapter 4. And this is a great illustration of the balance that we're to have as we go out and we share the gospel. Look at verse number 26. Here's Jesus giving a parable about the growing seed, and he said in verse 26, So is the kingdom of God as if a man should cast the seed into the ground. What's the kingdom of God like? It's like a person planting the seed. Now, what is the seed? Of course, that's the gospel. That's the word of God, right? Now, here's a man who cast the seed into the ground. Look at verse 27. And should what? Sleep. And rise night and day, and the seed should spring and groweth up, and he knoweth not how. He just cast the seed into the ground. What does he do after he puts the seed into the ground? He goes to bed. Why? Because there's nothing else that he was responsible to do. There was nothing else that he could do with that seed. And now notice it didn't depend upon the style in which he threw the seed into the ground. It didn't depend upon what he was wearing when he put the seat into the ground. He didn't try to play rhythmic music as he put the seat into the ground. He didn't use strobe lights and drama and interpretive dance As he put the seed into the ground. He didn't do any of that. He didn't use entertainment as he planted the seed. He didn't stand over the seed and do an Indian dance and try to make it grow. Why? Because none of those things have any bearing on that seed. None of those things are going to do anything to determine the growth of that seed and how that soil receives the seed. He just plants the seed and he went to bed and that's it. Now you say what's the point? The point is some people believe that the style Rather than the substance is what gets the job done. And it's not style. And by the way, I'm not preaching against style because everybody has a style. This is my style right here. Everybody has a style, but I'm not dependent upon my style. I'm dependent upon the power of the message itself. And if you put your faith in style, then you're giving the wrong message to the church. And you're teaching them to trust in the style and the wisdom of man rather than the power of God. That's the very thing Paul said, I'm not going to do. I'm not going to teach you to trust and the wisdom of man. I'm going to teach you to trust in the power of the Word of God and the power of the Holy Spirit. That's the message. And so, what does this guy do? Look in verse number 28, verse 27, and he went to sleep and he looked at the sea day after day, and it begins to grow. And look at the end of verse 27, he knoweth not how. He doesn't know how it grows. He doesn't know. You know, there's a mystery to church growth, and church growth experts are unwilling to confess that. But there really is a mystery, and it is God is the one who makes it grow, beloved. It is all of God. It is sovereignly given. You say, how do you know that? Look at verse 28. For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself. The earth does it of herself. You know what the Greek word here is? Automatas. Automatically. It just automatically begins to grow. Farmers say, I don't know how this is happening. It's just growing. I just put the seed in the ground and I went to bed and I got up and you know what? This thing is growing. Automated. It's doing it automatically. You know, the other only other time this word is ever used in the New Testament is in the book of Acts when Peter's in prison and the church is praying for Peter to get out of prison. And you remember the story? The prison door is opened. Automated. First automatic doors in human history, right there. They just open automatically. Who did it? It was God. And so that word is saying that it's a work of God. And that's exactly the idea here God is the one who makes it grow. God is the one who gives the increase. The Apostle Paul said, I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. He's the one who gives the increase. But there are churches today and preachers today that are forgetting this And somehow they feel that the style of their ministry is the determining factor. Spurgeon Warren, this is what he said. He warned about those who would like to unite church and stage, cards and prayer, dancing and sacraments. He warned about that even back in his day. What would he think today? And he was belittled as an alarmist. But his prophecy has been fulfilled right before our very eyes. churches today, especially these mega churches, are hiring full-time media specialists, stage director, drama coaches, special effects chorogra uh uh uh uh experts, choreographers, and so on. And the church today is rather than feeding the sheep, it's entertaining goats. There's an article in one newspaper. That described how a pastor started his church. He went to all the lost people in his area and he asked them, what would you like to see in church? And based on that, he started his church. But I don't think the Bible teaches us that we are to fashion our worship after what lost people want. I don't think we are to fashion our worship to attract sinners. I think we are to fashion our worship to attract God, and then God will give the increase. And that's the emphasis of the scripture. Let me read you one article that talks about what I'm talking about. This is in the Wall Street Journal. It described the church's bid to perk up attendance on in church. And this is what they decided to do. They decided to stage a wrestling match. featuring church employees. To train for the event, ten game employees got lessons from Tugboat Taylor, a former professional wrestler. And his and this isn't I'm not making this up. And this guy here, he he taught the church staff how to pull hair, kick shins, toss bodies around without doing any real harm At least no physical harm. And they had a wrestling match. The percluff church attendance. Now I want to say something, beloved, that's a disgrace to Almighty God. And that is that is trying to be like the world to win the world. What kind of a message does that send to the church? What kind of message does it send to the world about what we believe about the gospel? There are some people that believe its style gets it done. And then there are some people that feel feel like we have to be like the world to reach the world. I read another article about a man I I I guess man, his name is Sister Paula. He was his name was Larry But he changed to a woman in order to be a better evangelist. His name is now Sister Paula. It was Larry Nielsen. Now it's Sister Paula. People magazine describes Sister Paula as a 53-year-old, 6 foot 1 and a half inch tall, built like a linebacker evangelist, a transsexual evangelist. In order to reach transsexuals. Now, you know the sad part is there are some people that defend that And they say, well, you know, didn't the Apostle Paul said I am made all men, I'm all things to all men that I might win some? And you know what that is? That's taking 1 Corinthians 9 totally out of its context. You know what Paul's talking about there? Limiting your liberty. Paul said, I make myself a doulos, a slave to everyone. He was not talking about compromising the message Or sacrificing the message, he was talking about sacrificing himself. And he was saying, I'm willing to limit my liberties in order to win other people to Christ. That's what he was talking about. But they pull verses like this out of context In order to justify this idea that you have to be like the world to win the world, and what does Jude say? Jude says, we're to hate the garment. That is spotted by the flesh. Listen, we all should long to win people to Christ. We all should long to rescue souls that are perishing, but we never, never compromise the message today. do it. And we never become like the world to win the world. Because when we do that, we dishonor the Lord. And so there's the church's compassion. And there's the church's compulsion, and there's the church's caution. We're to use caution while we do this. But this is the thing that God has called us to. Let me just close with this. In Revelation 3, when the Lord wrote a letter to Church of Sardis, he said, You're dead. To that church of Sardis, you're dead. How did they get dead? He said, You have a name that's alive, verse 1, but you're dead. And how did they get dead? Verse 4 says, tells us how. You have only a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their garments. That was a problem. They sold their garments. They they got worldly. They allowed the world to corrupt them. Perhaps it was in trying to reach the world that they became like the world and they soiled their garments. And you know what happened in that church? It died. It died. Because they didn't depend upon the power of the word and the message itself. Beloved, we need to be evangelistic and we need to defend the faith. But let's do it upholding, holding fast to this. And never compromising what we believe. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we thank you for this warning that you give us. May we take to heart the responsibility that you've given to us. We are to we're to rescue the perishing. We're to have compassion on the doubters. We're to give an answer to them of the hope that we have with compassion. And we're to snatch others out of the fire because they're unaware of the danger that they're in. We're to use all the arguments of persuasion that we have. We're to lay out the truth of the gospel in a very compelling, clear way, knowing, Lord, that when we've done that, we've done our task. And depend upon you, Lord. And then, Lord, may we do all these things with caution, never wanting to compromise the message in any way in our methodology And our attitude and the way we live our life. May our commitment to the gospel be seen in every area of our life, and may we have great caution as we seek to rescue those who are perishing. And Father, we pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen