Would you take God's word this morning and open please to the book of First Corinthians, chapter fifteen? First Corinthians, chapter fifteen. I want to read a few verses with you. I would like you to look at verse fifty-five. Down to verse 58. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please, today? First Corinthians fifteen verse fifty-five. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren Be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. This is God's word. May we be attentive to it today. You may be seated. Thank you so much. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, how we rejoice in this day to worship you. Lord, would you please, as we go to this passage of Scripture, open our minds and help us to understand The truth of Scripture, the truth of the doctrine of the resurrection, and may it give hope to hurting hearts. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. A little boy and his father were driving down a country road on a beautiful spring afternoon, and suddenly out of nowhere a bumblebee flew into the window of the car. And the little boy was just deathly afraid of bees. And so the father reached out and he just grabbed the bee. And uh after a little while he he let the bee go again and the little boy again was frightened And the father said to his son, Son, look at my hand. And he opened his hand, and there in the hand of the father was the stinger of the bee. And the father said to the little boy, You don't need to be afraid anymore. I've taken this sting for you. That's really the message here of 1 Corinthians chapter 15, the verse that we just read. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? As Christians, we do not need to be afraid of death. Because Jesus took this thing out of death for us. That's the message of Easter. That's the message of the resurrection of Christ Now, 1 Corinthians 15 is one of the greatest chapters in the Bible, and it's a chapter that the whole theme of it is the doctrine of the resurrection. In these 58 verses, Paul gives the most extensive treatment of the theology of the resurrection anywhere in the whole Bible And so through the and really the whole message of the Bible is, as I said, is that we don't have to be afraid of death because Christ overcame death. And when you truly understand that Christ defeated death and came out of that grave, and all those who place their faith in Jesus We'll also have a resurrection day. When you understand that, you can say like the Apostle Paul, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? And I'm preaching today on how to smile at death. I know some of you have lost loved ones in the last year. There may be some heavy hearts here this morning because uh the seat beside you is uh There's no one there that used to be there. And there's people that are missing in your life this morning because God has called them on to heaven. But I want you to understand that you can have hope because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ And I want this passage of Scripture to be an encouragement and a comfort to every heart here today. Now as I said, 1 Corinthians 15, it has fifty-eight verses, so you guys ready to stay here for a while? No, I'm just kidding. There's no way I can go through every one of these, obviously. Don't fear. I know you have a ham in the oven. But I I do want to kind of give you a bird's eye view and just give you a summary understanding of all that Paul is talking about here in 1 Corinthians 15. Now let me give you the context. Why does Paul write about this idea of the resurrection? Well, in Paul's day, Greeks did not believe in the resurrection from the dead. In fact, there's an account in the book of Acts, chapter 17, where Paul is preaching at Athens at Mars Hill. That's where all the philosophers would go, and they would exchange ideas. And the Apostle Paul talk about the doctrine of the resurrection of of Christ and a future resurrection for those that believe in Christ. And the Bible says this in Acts 1732. When they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked And others said, we will hear thee again on this matter. Some laughed at the old the whole idea of a resurrection. The Greek philosophers taught that the body is basically the prison of the soul. And that at death the soul is set free. And it would be better for the soul to be set free than to be locked in the prison of the body. And so the Greeks looked upon the human body as a source of weakness And as a source of wickedness. And they could not conceive in their minds of a body that continued to exist or that there be some kind of resurrection. Now this whole idea, this idea seeped into the church at Corinth. Paul had gone to Corinth, he had preached the gospel, many people got saved. They were rejoicing. God had delivered them from so many sins. In fact, look back in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Let me just show you this verse. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Look down at verse number nine and notice what it says. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate Nor abusers of themselves of mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor devowers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. But look at verse eleven, and such were some of you But ye are washed, but you're sanctified. You're justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Paul went into Corinth and he preached the simple gospel. The death, the burial, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, and how the Jesus on the cross, his death, bore their sins and our sins. And when we put our faith in Christ, our sins are forgiven. We are washed, we're made new Jesus Christ, the sacrifice that he made, we know it was acceptable to God the Father. How do we know that? Because he came out of that grave victorious. That was the affirmation that all that he had done was pleasing and acceptable to God the Father. So Paul went and preached the gospel. Many people were transformed by the power of the gospel. But after that There were some false teachers that came into Corinth and they began to teach that there was no resurrection. And there were people in the church that were persuaded by that idea. No resurrection. How could there be a resurrection? And so some were believing it. Look in chapter 15, look at verse number 12, and notice what Paul says. Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? There were some that began to believe this lie. And so Paul writes this to clear up any misunderstanding that people may have about this whole idea of the resurrection. And Paul reminds them that, look, you received my gospel. When I came there and I preached the gospel, you received my gospel and you were saved by it, and my whole gospel is based upon the resurrection of Jesus Christ. You take the resurrection out of the gospel, you have no gospel. There is no good news. It is the pillar and foundation of our message. In fact, this is where you stand. Again, look in chapter fifteen, look in verse one. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preach unto you, which also ye have received And wherein ye stand. You have received this gospel message that I preach to you, and you stand on this. By which also you're saved, he says in verse number two. And that's present tense, we can say it like this, by which you're being saved. You understand that you're being saved. There's a sense in which We are saved because our sins have been forgiven. We're being saved because now God is making us more like Christ, and ultimately we will be saved when we're glorified, made like Him. But you're being saved right now Because of this doctrine of the resurrection. Paul goes on to say, unless you believe in vain. That is, if you deny this, if you deny the doctrine of the resurrection. Then you may have believed in vain. Perhaps your faith is not real. Perhaps you didn't really understand how important this doctrine of the resurrection really is. You may not really be saved. And in that case, you're in serious trouble. And Paul's saying, look, I'm not making up this message. Look in verse 3. For I delivered on you, first of all, that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, that he was buried and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Paul said, everything I'm giving you is according to the word of God. the scripture. He died, he was buried, and he rose again. This was prophesied in the Old Testament. It was alluded to in many Old Testament passages, and it was fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now some might say, well now how do we know that Jesus really came out of that grave? What's the evidence? And I want to tell you something, friend, that the resurrection of Jesus Christ has a lot of evidence. In a court of law, it takes just two or three witnesses to establish a fact, right? Even in our court system today, by two or three witnesses you can establish facts. How many witnesses were there of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Well look at verse number five. Paul points out these witnesses, and that he was seen of Cephas, that's Peter, that's one, and then of the twelve, that's thirteen. And after that he was seen of five hundred brethren at once, that's five hundred and thirteen, of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some were fallen asleep. And after that he was seen of James And then of all the apostles, and last of all, he was seen of me also as one born out of due time. You adding up all these uh witnesses here That's a lot. All the people that saw the Lord Jesus, and Paul said, and me as well, I saw Christ, I saw Jesus. Jesus appeared to Paul When Paul was on the road to Damascus, when Paul was going to Damascus, you know why he was going there? He wasn't going to a revival meeting, Fran. He was going there to persecute Christians What happened? Well, he met Jesus on the road, and his whole life was transformed. And the man who was the most fierce persecutor of the church became the greatest preacher of the church. Because he met the risen Christ. How do you explain that? And so there's plenty of evidence. But then Paul gives a theological argument for this in verses twelve to nineteen. And again, we can't go over every detail of this, but he points to the Corinthians and he says, you know, you You were saved because of this gospel message, and if you don't believe this, there are terrible consequences that will that would take place. If there was no resurrection, and he's speaking hypothetically here, let's just suppose that these false teachers are right and there is no resurrection. Do you understand that we now have no message of hope? If there was no resurrection. In fact, he he gives a list of some of the consequences that would happen. Look at verse 13. But if there be no resurrection of the dead Then is Christ not risen. If there's no such thing as a resurrection, that means Christ didn't come out of that grave. Verse 14, and if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is vain There's no reason for me to stand up here and preach about Christ if he's still in that grave, because all of it would be vain And your faith would be vain. In verse 15, yea, and all are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not That means that I'm lying to you today to testify to you that Jesus Christ rose. And all those early church apostles were liars then. And verse 16, for if Christ for excuse me, for if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised? And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain, and you are yet in your sins. And and then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. You understand the catastrophic consequences he's talking about here? If there were no resurrection, it would be terrible. That means all of your loved ones who died. As Christians, they have no hope and you will see them again. That means that we have no hope. But I love verse 20. Look at verse 20. But now is Christ risen from the dead. and become the first fruits of them that sleep. You know what he's saying there? Listen, he did come out of that grave. He rose the third day. And he's the first fruits of all of those who are asleep. What does he mean by first fruits? You know, when a farmer plants a harvest There's always the fruits that get ripe early, and he'll go through and he'll glean those first fruits. And then there's the main harvest that will follow. The first fruits are an indicator that the main harvest is coming. When it comes to the resurrection, the first fruits of the resurrection was Jesus Christ. He's the first fruits of the resurrection. And you know what his resurrection tells all of us? There's going to be a main harvest one day. All of your loved ones who died in Christ, they're going to rise from the grave. There's going to be a great resurrection day. And beloved, this gives us hope. This gives us joy. But now, Paul, after all that, he'll deal with the other question that people have in their minds about the resurrection. that they just can't seem to wrap their mind around. Look at verse number 35, this question. But some men will say, how are the dead raised up? With what body do they come? Okay, Paul, we will concede the point to you That there is a resurrection, that Christ came out of the grave, and therefore there will be a final resurrection one day. We'll concede that point, Paul, but here's the question that we can't seem to really understand. How is all this going to happen? How are the dead raised up? With what body do they come? I mean, this is something that is hard for them to really comprehend. How will all of this happen in that day And there are questions like this that were circulating around Corinth. And I think that even today, one of the most asked questions I get as a pastor are questions about death. And the resurrection, how's the resurrection going to take place? You know, what what about a body that's been in the ground and turned to dust? How's God going to resurrect that? What about someone whose body was cremated? How's God going to claim the elements there? What if there was a body dumped into the sea and officiated? And what if a body were dissolved in acid? Or what if someone donated their organs to science or to someone else? How's the resurrection going to take place for them? One of my favorite stories is of Roger Williams, the founder of Rhode Island. He was a Baptist preacher. He wasn't liked very much when he died So they buried him outside of town. Later, when people wanted to visit his grave, the town realized that they could you know get that tourist trade if they moved his body on the inside of the town limits So they dug up his body to move him and bury him on the inside of the town limits. And when they dug up his body, they found out that a nearby apple tree, spreading its roots, broke into the wooden coffin of Roger Williams and used his decaying corpse as nutrients to make apples. You ever hear the song I Wish I Were Apple Just Hanging on a Tree? Well that literally happened to Roger Williams He was an apple on a tree, several. And people come by and eat that apple. And then the question is, how is God going to reclaim the various elements in the day of the resurrection? And so Paul wants to give a clear understanding about all this. And so what he does in a very masterful way And the rest of the chapter is he gives illustrations of how the resurrection is going to take place. It's really not that complicated. And so he gives five illustrations, and I want to just show them to you. We're going to go through them quickly here, obviously. But here's the first one. He gives an agricultural illustration and he talks about seeds. Look at verse number 36, thou fool. Now he's pretty strong there, isn't he, thou fool? That which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die. And then in verse 37, In that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain, it may chance of wheat or some other grain. But God giveth it a body as it pleases him to every seed his own body. No what Paul is saying here is that you see the power of the resurrection all the time. Whenever you take a seed and you plant it into the ground, you don't get that same seed back. Or you don't get parts of that seed back. What you get back is you get something back that is more beautiful, more glorious, something that is brand new. That seed is put into the ground, the seed decays, it dies, and out of that seed comes life more full, more glorious, more beautiful, more magnificent than it was before. The outer shell of that seed dies, and that seed releases a a little DNA code, a little blueprint that God the wise creator put in it And what God does in that time when the seed dies is that he's going to organize new matter and new physical material around that little code. That was put into that little seed, and that's the life of the of what takes place at a resurrection. You don't get the seed back, you get back a harvest that is beautiful. You get back something that is beautiful according to that little blueprint that God put inside of that seed. And so that seed has a continuing life principle. When the seed dies, it releases that little code. And that's the same when a person dies, friend, their outer shell may die, but there's a continuing life principle within them that the Bible speaks about. And and so when I die, I'm not dead, it's just my outer shell that dies. It's like one man, a man named Mr. Peace died, and someone wrote on his tombstones, This ain't peace, it's just the pod. Peace shelled out and went to God. We're gonna have a brand new body. You see, God God's not gonna reconstruct a body out of the old elements. That's not what God's gonna do. God is not a plastic surgeon. He is the wise creator. And he's going to give a brand new body, a beautiful new body. And it'll be the same person with a brand new body. You're just going to move into a new house. And the Bible says that every seed has its own new house, so to speak, its own new uh structure in verse 38. But God giveth it a body as it pleased him to every seed his own body. So Paul says, you want to understand the resurrection, just look at a seed that's put into the ground, and out of it comes something more beautiful, more glorious than ever before. But then he gives a biological illustration and he He uh talks about skin. Look down to verse number 39. All flesh is not the same flesh. There is one kind of flesh of men, another of beasts, another of birds, another of fishes. There are also celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial, but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. And what Paul's saying here is that, look, if you want to understand the resurrection, just look out at what God has created. Look at how different animals have different bodies and different types of skin Suitable to live in different environments. A bird has a body and a skin designed to fly in the sky and live in the trees. An animal has a certain type of body and skin designed to live in the field. A fish has a certain body and skin designed to live underwater. And the body that we have right now is the body that God gave us, but it's designed to live here on this earth that God created. That's why it says There are bodies terrestrial in verse 40 and bodies celestial. The body that we have now is a terrestrial body, but one day at the resurrection, we're going to have a celestial body. That's a body that's designed to live in the heavens. You know, when Jesus was raised from the dead, his glorified body was different. From the one in which he died. What came out of that grave was more beautiful. It was more glorious. And if you want to understand what the resurrection body is going to be like, just read about Jesus in the Gospels. And Paul says here in verse number 40 that the glory of the celestial is one and the glory of the terrestrial is another This terrestrial body that God gives us that is wonderful in its engineering and its design. It's just it's phenomenal in the way God created our human body and it's beautiful. But if you think this body is something, wait till you get that celestial body. The glory of it will be so much greater. And so Paul says, just think about that. Think about bodies living in different environments. If you want to understand the resurrection, look at the stars. This is the third illustration, an astrological illustration. Paul says, if you want to understand the resurrection, just look up into the sky on a dark night and look at the stars. Look at verse forty one. For there is one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, another glory of the stars, for one star different from another star in glory, so also is the resurrection of the dead. You you know, I remember one time I was going through the Grand Canyon on an expedition, and it was at night I would just look up, and for some reason in that place where I was, the stars just were phenomenal. I it just looks like you could reach out and grab one. They were so bright. But you do this, you look up and you see those stars and you see that there are some stars that shine brighter than others. Paul said, that's the way it's going to be in the resurrection We're going to shine with the glory of God, but there's going to be different levels of glory. And what determines the level of glory? I think it's the faithfulness that you have to Jesus Christ while you're here on earth. That new body will have glory. Listen, write down Daniel 12 3. And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever. And so Paul says, when you get that glorified body, that celestial body, it's going to shine with glory And the glory of some will be greater than the glory of others, but it'll be according to your faithfulness to the Lord Jesus Christ. I think that this is just what I believe. I believe in Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, when God first created them, they were clothed with glory. And when they sinned That glory was taken and they knew that they were naked. And one day when we're restored to glory, when we get that glorified body, we once again will be clothed with glory again. Do you ever notice how people, there's something innate in man that craves glory? You ever notice that? That glory that we desire is an eternal glory that will not fade, and it'll be to those who are faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul says, if you want to understand the resurrection, just look at the ground, look at the seas. They go into the ground and out of that comes something more beautiful. It's not the same thing. You don't get the same body back. You get something so much better back And it will be a body designed to live in the he uh in a heavenly body, and in the heavens, a celestial body, and it will shine with the glory of God. But also he uses another illustration. I call this a scriptural illustration. Look at verse number 45. And so it is written, the first man Adam was made a living soul. And the last Adam was made a quickening spirit. Howbeit that was not first which was spiritual, but that which is natural, and afterward that which is spiritual. And so Paul is quoting scripture here And he's talking about the first Adam and the last Adam, which was Jesus. These are really, you know, the Bible calls Adam the first Adam God's son because God created him directly. And of course Jesus is the Son of God. And so here's a comparison between the first Adam and the last Adam, Jesus. And through the first Adam We had a natural body, and now through the last Adam, we're going to have a spiritual body, he tells us. He gives that contrast there. And through the first man Adam, he was a living soul, but the last Adam was a quickening spirit. And so that's the pattern. The first Adam, we see he was earthly, he was made of the earth. The second Adam, Christ He was made of heaven. He came from heaven. And so, again, Paul's kind of giving us the contrast between the earthly body and the spiritual body that we are going to receive. one day. And again, if you want to understand more about that, just read about Jesus after his resurrection. All the things he could do. But then the final illustration here is that he talks about soldiers. Look down at verse number 51. Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality And so this resurrection day that Paul's talking about, it is the day that is yet to come, and it will happen when Jesus Christ comes back. I want to tell you something, dear friend, just as surely as he came the first time, he's coming the second time. And when he comes back there will be a great resurrection day, and every graveyard will look like a plow field. There will be that resurrection day, and all those saints that are asleep in Jesus, their bodies will come out of that grave with a brand new glorified body. And the Bible says it's going to be a transformation. And it will happen in an instant and in a moment. We'll all be changed, Paul said. All of us will be changed, even those who are alive. And there'll be a great reunion day. Your loved one that you miss right now. If they were in Jesus and you're in Jesus, I want to tell you something, friend, there's going to be a wonderful reunion day. A wonderful reunion day. They're going to be changed in a moment, Paul said, in just a moment. The word change, metamorphosis, totally transformed. Chuck Swindahl tells the story of a man who lived in the country all his life and he was uneducated and never really learned to read or write, but he went to a big city one day and he took his wife to visit. a skyscraper, they had never been in a building that big before. And he saw the an elevator. He had never seen an elevator before. And he saw the doors open. He saw a precious old lady just walk onto that elevator. A very elderly lady with her cane just Gingerly walk on. He saw the doors close. He saw the dog go all the way up this way, all the way back that way. He saw the doors open. He saw a beautiful young woman walk off that. He couldn't figure that out. He said to his son, son, you wait here, I'm gonna go get your ma and run her through that thing. The transformation that we have is going to be in an instant. In a moment, the Bible says, we're going to be changed. And people ask me sometimes, will we recognize one another? Of course we will. It won't be the same body, but we'll be the same people. And there'll be similarities there, it's only it's going to be better. I'm I'm personally glad that I'm not going to have to have this whole bot this body all through eternity. That's God's going to give me a brand new glorified body that's going to be so much better. And it'll be at the last trump The Bible says. In a moment in a twinkling of an eye. And that notice verse 54 said when this corruptible shall I put on incorruption. And this mortal shall put on immortality. Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, death is swallowed up in victory. And here's why you can smile at death. You can say, O death, where is thy sting? Oh grave, where is thy victory? The grave holds no victory for you if you know Christ. We don't have to be afraid of death. Because Jesus Christ was the one who came out of that grave and gave us victory over death. It was said of Houdini, the legendary escape artist, that no lock, no prison bars, no handcuffs could hold him. And so he rose to popularity by being able to escape any prison. And he kind of swept through the world between the years of eighteen ninety-five and nineteen twenty-six, and he just left audiences amazed at what he could do. Sir Arthur Clinton Doyle, who was the creator of Sherlock Holmes, said he had supernatural powers. A German reporter was stunned with the ease with which Houdini could Free himself from a sealed prison. He said this. Houdini has the ability to dematerialize his body and pass it through walls In May of 1903, Houdini was in Moscow, and the secret police there said, we have a prison that you can't escape from. It was this six-foot square steel sheathed cube used to transport dangerous criminals to Siberia. It only had a little opening, a little tiny barred window, just eight inches square. There was a a door, a steel door that slid and it activated a device which could only be opened by a second key 2,000 miles away in Siberia. No one had ever escaped from that prison And they said, Hoje, you you'll never be able to escape from this prison. And so he accepted the challenge. And so on that day they searched him, they stripped him. They made sure he didn't have any uh kind of pin locks or anything he could use. And then he was shoved into that tiny cell, and it was locked, and then it was moved so that the door was hidden against the wall in a prison yard. And about 28 minutes later, Houdini came out from that prison dripping with sweat. The police there were amazed. They went over to inspect the prison and they noticed that the seal on the door was still intact. How he got out of that prison is a mystery, even to this day. On October the 26th, 1926, Houdini was dying. And on his deathbed, he made a promise to his wife. He promised his wife and his fans that he would make the greatest escape from the greatest prison, the prison of death. When October the thirty-first, nineteen twenty-six, Houdini died. And for the next ten years, his wife, Bess, sat in their home before a candlelit portrait of Houdini, waiting for some signal that he had made his greatest escape from his greatest prison. But there was none, it never came. So for ten years she waited and still no signal. Finally in 1936, she extinguished the light. But did you know that even to this day, on October the 31st, there are still people that go to the grave of Houdini? On the anniversary of his death, still waiting for some signal that he had made his escape from the greatest prison ever. And you know what they find? There is no signal You know why? Because there's only one that had the power to overcome death, and that's Jesus Christ. Only one. And you know what? Because Jesus came out of that grave, because he was able to escape death You also will escape death. You also have victory over the grave. So that's why we can smile at death. That's why we can say, Oh grave, where is thy victory? Oh death, where is thy sting? Because Christ arose, you also will have a resurrection day. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for this wonderful truth of the resurrection. We believe this with all of our heart. And this is what gives us hope. And I pray for those that are here today. I know some are mourning the loss of a loved one in Christ. And I pray, Father, that you would remind them that there will be a reunion day. For those who know Jesus, for those that have put their full faith in Christ, we have victory over the grave because of Jesus. And I pray, Father, that if there's someone here today that's never trusted Christ fully, that they would indeed put their full faith in the finished work of Christ. That they would believe with all their heart that Jesus died, that he was buried, and he rose again the third day. And he's a living Savior, a reigning Savior, a coming Savior. And if they put their faith in this risen Savior, they can have forgiveness of sins, eternal life And wonderful life beyond the grave. And eternity to to love one another and to have joy. We thank you for this hope, Lord. And I pray, Lord, again, you'll remind those who have heavy hearts today, that are a bit lonely today, that are grieving the loss of a loved one today That in Christ we have hope. That we have hope. And friends, if you're here today, this hope is only available if you believe in Jesus. It's not available for everyone. It's available for those who put their faith in Christ. And if you haven't done that, I'm going to ask you right now. Get it settled, friend. Right now. Now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation If you just reach out in faith and say, Yes, Jesus, I believe. I believe that you died for my sins according to the scriptures, that you were buried, that you rose again the third day. Tell Jesus that. Put your faith in him. You'll have your sins forgiven. You'll have eternal life. You'll have a resurrection day. Would you do that right now, friend? Would you pray? Would you ask Christ to save you? And if you've done that, let us know. We want to encourage you in your Christian walk Father, again, how we thank you for this wonderful truth of the resurrection. And Lord, may it comfort hearts today. May we be able to say with the Apostle Paul, O death, where is thy stain? And help us, Lord, to be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.