Good to see you here tonight, and I invite you to take your Bibles and open to the book of First Peter, chapter number four. As we continue our study through First Peter tonight, we want to look at about chapter four. Verse 12 on down through verse number 19. And tonight I want to talk about how to respond to suffering. Now you have to remember if you've been with us in our study here on Sunday night through 1 Peter, you remember that Peter wrote to believers who were going through tremendous times of suffering. And the question that we have to ask is that when suffering comes to believers, what should the proper response be? Now it's very natural that when a trial comes or sorrow or suffering to respond to that in a very negative way. We don't want trials I mean uh we don't look forward to that in our life. And um have you ever had thoughts like that? When uh a trial comes, you say, Lord, why uh does this come upon me? Why me, Lord? I'm faithful. There's so many people out there that aren't faithful to you, and they're having it easy. And why does this trial have to come my way? And why right now? And so the believers that Peter was writing to were viewing their trials as kind of unwelcome strangers. And what Peter wants to do here in chapter 4 is he wants to change their attitude towards suffering. Because your outlook determines your outcome. You see, trials don't guarantee that you're going to be better for them If you do not allow that trial to work in your life. You see, when you go through a trial, you can either get better or you can get bitter. And it really is according to how you receive the trial. If you don't benefit from that trial, that trial's not doing you any good. If you try to ignore the trial, or perhaps try to go around it or fail to grow from it or try to drive it away in so in some way, God will bring it back to us again. It's just like in school, you know, when you fail a test in school, uh you have to retake it, right? At least when I went to school, I don't know about now. In this world in which we live, who knows? But um when you when you take a test and you fail it, you retake that test. And it's the same way spiritually, when God brings us to a trial If we don't benefit from that trial, God will recapture it, and somewhere down the line we'll have to go through that again. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes 3. 15, that which is already has been, and that which is to be already has been, and God seeks that which is driven away. The trial that you drive away, God recaptures that, and he repeats the lesson patiently in our life until we have learned from that trial and then we grow from it One thing I've discovered in life is that until we complete the lesson from perhaps a crushing experience that we've been through, we will have to go through it again. And so it's important that we view our trials correctly. Robert Robertson Nicole wrote this. He said, the test is internal. And what frame of mind will they meet it? And that's important. What frame of mind will you have when you Or in a trial. What's your frame of mind? He goes on to say, will they regard it as a strange thing or as a share in Christ's suffering. And that's really the whole issue here. Peter wants them to not treat trials Stran as a stranger. He wants them to look at trials as an opportunity to be a partaker with Christ. That's the whole issue that he's trying to show us here. So what I want you to see here in chapter four are basically four attitudes. that we are to have when trials and suffering come upon us. For attitudes. So here's the first one. Number one, expect it When a trial comes, expect it. When suffering comes, just think expect it. Look in verse numbers twelve. Beloved, think it not strange Concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you. Don't be surprised, is what he's saying. Don't think it's strange. When suffering comes, don't be surprised as if it's not supposed to happen to you. Now we live in this fallen world, we live in this hostile world, a world that's hostile against Christianity and the things of God. Should we as faithful believers be surprised when hostility comes against us or when Satan attacks us? Or or the fact that we're living in this world that's anti-God and all things don't go our way? No, absolutely not. Peter says don't be surprised. Notice he calls them beloved because he's speaking warmly to them. He has a heart for them. Peter has the heart of a pa a pastor, but also he's speaking firmly. Six times in this passage from verse 12 on down to verse 19 Peter uses an imperative, that's a command, the mood of command. In other words, he knows they're in trials, but he says, You need to do this, you need to do this six times. He's giving them a command. And in this case, in verse twelve, when he says, Think it not strange, that's a command right there. And this is what scholars call a prohibition imperative. And what that basically means is he's commanding an action to stop that's already begun. They were already thinking it strange They were already surprised. They were already viewing their trials negatively. They were already saying, why is this happening to me? Why is this happening to us at this time? They did not welcome the trial. We're treating the trial as if it were a stranger. And again, that's to be expected because none of us look at suffering as something that we desire. Again, first they felt like it shouldn't happen to them, but you know what the Bible teaches us over and over again in the New Testament? We're going to have trials It's just gonna happen. Write down a few verses. John sixteen thirty-three. Jesus said, In the world ye shall have what? Tribulation. You're gonna have it. In Acts 14, 22, Paul said to his new converts, We must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. Now there are some people that think that when they get saved, uh all their problems are over, it's all roses and no thorns. My friend, that's just not reality. In fact, when you get saved, your trial your problems might just begin Because whereas before you were going in the same direction as the world, now when you got saved, you're turned against the world and the world is now coming against you. I think the two roads that Jesus talked about, I don't view them as two roads going in the opposite direction horizontally. I I look at it as where the world's going in this direction, it's one big ten-lane highway, and you turn around because you repented and now you're going against the world. You ever go the wrong way down a one-way street? I would I don't recommend it. There's a sense in which as believers when we get saved we turn around and now we're going the wrong way. On a one-way street of the world, the highway of the world, and friend, the world is going to meet us head on. It's just the reality that as we live in this world, we will have James said, this count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. C. S. Lewis said, the real problem is not why some pious, humble, believing people suffer, but why some do not. That's the real problem. Why some do not? And so we are all gonna go through trials. In fact, go back to chapter one. I know we did this uh looked at this just you know when we first got into it. But let me remind you, go back to chapter one verse six, what Peter said about suffering and trials. Look at verse six. He said, wherein ye greatly rejoice Though now for a season, if need be, you're in heaviness through manifold temptation. Trials are providential. That is, they're for a season. God will bring them upon us, just like he brings different seasons of life or different seasons of the year. God will bring different seasons into our trials Uh and and in fact I I like to say there are one or three people here in this room. There are people that are going into a trial, there are people that are in the middle of the trial, and there are people that are coming out of the trial But we we all will face them. We have to remind ourselves of that. Andrew Murray said this. He said, remember this, first he brought me here. I'm here by his will He said, secondly, remember, he will keep me here in his love, and he will give me grace to behave. Third, he will make the trial a blessing and teach me lessons. And then lastly he said this, he said, In his good time he will bring me out of that trial again. And that's a good a mindset to have. So they're providential, but they're painful. Look what he says in verse six again, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be. You're in heaviness through manifold temptation. Notice where it says need be. The Greek word means it's a necessary thing in the nature of things. It's inevitable. There's no way around it. You need it And it's a sense that it's like medicine that will bring healing that will make you better than you were before God has the purpose in it, but then trials are painful, he says in verse 6, year in heaviness, and the word here, lepeo, to be afflicted with sorrow. God uses sorrow. Now, friend, if you're not experiencing the sorrow of the trial, then you're not in a trial. It's the sorrow that makes it a trial. And it's the sorrow that God uses to do the work of sanctifying us in our Christian walk. It's like the line in this hymn that we sing, let sorrow do its work Send grief and pain. Sweet are thy messengers, sweet their refrain. Sorrow has this sanctifying work that God uses. in our life. Ecclesiastes 7. 10 says this sorrow is better than laughter, for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better. Psalm 119, verse 67, before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I have kept thy word. And so these are verses that teach us how God uses these trials, the sorrow, but also trials are personal. Look again, it says in verse 6, through manifold temptations. That is uh different types of trials. God has a different trial to accomplish different purposes. And friend, when you and I go through trials It's not by chance. It is the work of God. God matches the trial in our life at that particular time. in order to bring about the fruit of righteousness that he's trying to work out in our own life. And I'll just tell you this, the most sanctifying moments in my life have been times when I've gone through sorrow. When I've been through pain, the pain of sorrow. God uses that. And so we should expect it. And that's what Peter is saying. Number one, look, don't be surprised. Just expect it. It's going to happen. But here's the second attitude. Write this down. Embrace it. Not only expect it, but embrace it. Go back to 1 Peter 4 and notice what he says. Again in verse 13. He says, think it not strange, verse 12, but notice the next one, verse 13, but rejoice Now there's the next imperative. That's a command. Peter says, rejoice. Don't think it's strange, but when the trial comes, rejoice. That's a command. Now you say that's a that's an unusual command. How are we to rejoice when suffering comes? I mean that sounds illogical to us. Doesn't make any sense. You want me to rejoice when my heart is crushed? You want me to rejoice when I'm broken? When I'm sad, when I'm I'm just so hurt at beyond words? You remember Job when he went through the crushing experience that Job went through? We saw the story when we studied it before. He shaved his head, he mourned, he rent his clothes. I don't see Job rejoicing in his trial. So how does God expect us to rejoice in the trial? What does Peter mean here? Well, this is what he means is this our rejoicing is not connected with the pain or the sorrow that we're in at that moment. None of us rejoice at that. And so the rejoicing is not connected with the pain that we're in at that moment. The rejoicing is connected with the future prospect of what's going to happen as a result of it. You see, that's the point. I don't rejoice in the pain. I rejoice in the product of that trial. I rejoice in what God is going to do. As a result of that. And so when I'm in a trial, one of the things I can think of is, Lord, I know this hurts. I know that this is painful. I don't want to go through this. But I rejoice at what you're going to do as a result of it. I rejoice at the end product in my life. And so, Lord, I can I can re I can thank you for that. I can rejoice in that. Well what What is the trial going to produce then in us that we might rejoice? Well, here's the first thing, purity. It will produce purity. Look at verse 12 again. Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial. Just underscore that fiery trial. It is the word purosis You can almost hear the word purity in that. Purosis is the Greek word, purity. And it's a word that's used to describe a furnace that melts down metals. And for the purpose of purifying that metal. And anybody who knows anything about this process realizes that when a person who works with precious metals In order to purify that metal, he's got to heat it up, right? He's got to heat it to the point to where that metal just becomes a liquid, and then he begins to scan off the t the skim off the top. The impurities all come to the top and he skims it off and he skims it off. That's what this word here has the idea of. When God puts us in a trial, we feel the heat of that trial, but it's a furnace, and what will happen is the impurities in our life will kind of come to the surface, so to speak, and God Our Lord Jesus, who is sitting there watching over us. And by the way, don't ever get the idea that when you're in a trial, you're by yourself. He never leaves you alone. He's always there. He's right there by your side. And when the impurities come to the top, he just skims off the impurity. He's doing a purifying work. Job could say this. But he knows the way that I take. And when he has tried me, I shall what? Come forth as gold. I'm going to come forth as gold as a result of this trial. Write down Malachi 3. 13. He shall sit as a refiner. And as a purifier of silver, who shall sit? He shall sit. God himself. When we're going through the refining God is right there watching over. Someone uh studied a silversmith, went to the actual place where this was done, and they asked the silversmith, they said Do you always stay right by the side of this silver when it's being refined? He said, Oh yes. He said, I never take my eyes off of it. And they and he says, I have to be careful because I don't want to heat it too much because if I do, I'll ruin it. And uh so he says, I'm always keeping my eye on the clock to n to know how long it's been in this furnace. And I'm always keeping my hand on the thermostat to control the temperature to make sure it's not too hot. And they said, Well how do you know when the silver is ready. And he said, when I can see my own reflection in the silver, I know that the process is done. And dear friend, when the Lord Jesus has you in the trial, you say, How long do I have to stay in this trial? And am I by myself? No, he's got his eye on the clock, he's got his hand on the thermostat. He will keep you in the furnace until he sees his own reflection in your life. Till he sees himself in you. And so there's purity that comes. I don't rejoice in the pain of the trial But I can rejoice in the purity that's going to come. But also partnership. Look again in verse 12. Beloved, think it not strange, verse 13 rather, but rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering. And here's another thing. There's a wonderful intimacy with Christ that comes through the trial The word partaker here, coinineo, to have in common, to share something, you know, the people that we're closest to are those things that we share something with. There's a common bond that brings us close. You want to be close to Jesus? One of the common bonds that you share will be that of suffering. When you're in the trial, especially if you're suffering as a Christian for doing what's right. Or if the Lord's trying to do a sanctifying work in your life, you know what Peter says? There's a partnership there with the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a wonderful intimacy that takes place as a believer when you're going through that trial. You know, I I I can say this, and I'm sure many of you here will testify and say the same thing. That when you're in a time of trial and sorrow, we feel closer to the Lord then than at any point, don't we? Can't you sense his presence and feel upheld by him? There's a wonderful closeness and partnership that you have with the Lord Jesus. Isaiah says this. He was acquainted with grief. He knows how you feel. He knows How you feel when you go through times of suffering. And I think of the Old Testament illustration of the three Hebrew children that when they were in the fire, there was somebody else in there. Remember that story in he in Daniel chapter 3? They said there's they were looking down into the furnace after they threw the three Hebrew children in there, and someone said, There's a fourth person in there And uh he looks like the son of God, the form of the son of God. What an incredible story that is. And you know what? He was with them in the furnace, and they came out of that furnace unharmed, and the only thing the fire burnt off of them is what the world put on them. And friend, that's the way it is when we're in the furnace. He'll be there right there with us. And the only thing that will burn off of us is what this fallen world has put on us. And so, friend, there's that purity and that partnership that comes. That's what Paul said. He said that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings. And I think Paul there was talking about Levels of intimacy with the Lord Jesus. It's one thing to know him in his person, one thing to know him in his power, but there's another thing to know in his persecutions. And when you suffer with the Lord Jesus. And so there's partnership. But then there'll be there's praise. Look again what it says in verse 13 where it says, But rejoice in as much as you're partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye might be glad also with exceeding joy. Now, Peter says, look, when his glory is revealed, you're going to be filled with joy. Now, what is his glory? That's his second coming When Jesus comes again, he's going to come in power and glory. Now, why are we going to be filled with joy? Because it says, in as much, insofar, or we could read that as in proportion to You're going to be filled with joy in proportion to the suffering that you've had to endure. So here's the point. The greater the suffering, the greater the rejoicing. That is because when Jesus comes back, you're going to get a greater glory. You're going to get a greater reward. There's going to be greater honor and therefore greater joy you're going to have. And that's why we rejoice. We're going to have praise. Your praise will be in proportion to your pain. And so, you know, for some at the second coming of Jesus Christ, uh it's not going to be a joyful event. You know why? Because they haven't been faithful to the Lord, they haven't been serving the Lord, they've been sitting back doing their own thing Not really caring about the things of God, just living for pleasure in this world. When the Lord Jesus Christ comes, it's not going to be a time of joy for anyone like that, because they're all their joy is in the things of this world But friend, if you're living for Jesus and you long for the Lord Jesus and you have been faithful to him and you have suffered for him. Because of doing what's right. Or he's put you through trials, and you have endured those trials faithfully, and you've persevered. You know what? When the Lord comes back, there's going to be joy for you. Because there's going to be a great reward for you. Peter referred to this in chapter 1, verse 7. He said that that our faith might be found unto the praise and honor and glory of Jesus. When he comes back He's going to bestow upon those who have been faithful in this time praise and honor and glory at that time. Romans 2, 6 says this. He will render to each one according to his will works to those who by patience and well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, and he will give eternal life And so, friend, you may suffer here. And it may not be, you may not be well known here. It may not be something that everyone knows here. But one day Jesus will point the camera towards you. And He will thank you and He will give you praise and honor and glory. That's what he's saying here. And so we have these blessings that the Lord is going to give us. There's going to be uh this wonderful purity in our life. There's going to be this partnership in our life with the Lord Jesus. There's going to be this praise that we will receive from the Lord when He returns. But also there's going to be power. To strike down power. Look at verse 14. If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye. For the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. Now, Peter says, if you're suffering for the Lord and you're faithful, happy are you. Happy are you. And this is the word for the same word for blessed in the Sermon on the Mount. It has the idea of divine favor. God has chosen you to suffer for him, and so the spirit of glory rests on you. By the way, the word rest there, that's middle indicative. God is the one who's giving you the spirit And it's continually resting on you. Continually. Now, this is the Holy Spirit, but also notice how it's referenced. The Spirit of Gory. Is on you. Now we have the Holy Spirit as believers, but there's a sense that when you go through suffering and you persevere through it and you're looking to the Lord for help, the Bible says the Spirit of glory rests on you What does that remind you of? You know what it reminds me of? The Old Testament, when the tabernacle was moved all about the wilderness. And they would pitch the tabernacle and the spirit, what what we saw the glory of God hover above that tabernacle. What did the Israelites know when the glory cloud came above that tabernacle? They knew that God was there. God was present. I think that's what Peter is referring to here. Peter says, look, the Spirit of Gory Rests on you. Just like the glory cloud rested on the tabernacle in the Old Testament. When that glory rested on that tabernacle, everyone knew that God was there in that tabernacle. And friend, when you go through suffering, the Bible says the Spirit of glory rests on you. And you know what others are going to see? God's with you. God is there. The Spirit of Glory is on you. And so we see this greater power and greater glory and greater blessing that the Lord gives us when we go through these times of Suffering. Now let me give you the third thing. What's our attitude to be? We're to expect it and we are to embrace it. But here's the third thing: evaluate it When we go through suffering, evaluate it. Look at verse 15. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief. Or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters. Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God. on this behalf, for the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. And if first it begin at us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God Now, here Peter is giving another command here, we could say. He's saying that when you go through suffering, you need to evaluate it. Evaluate yourself. Why are you suffering? You see, ask God for the discernment to help you understand the purpose for this suffering. Now there are different kinds of suffering in the scripture And let me just give it to you. First of all, there's common suffering. You say, what is that? This is suffering that we endure just because we live in a sin-cursed world. Just because uh we this whole earth and its system is out of harmony with God and because of that, friend, we live in this this world, and there's just gonna be bad things that will happen to us because of this fallen world. Genesis 3. 17 says, after the sin of the Garden of Eden, God said this, Cursed is the ground for thy sake. And sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns and thistle shall it bring forth to thee. God curse this earth. after man's sin. And the thorns and the thistles are a symbol of suffering and and sorrow. We live in a fallen world. And the worst thing that could ever happen is that we continued to live in the Garden of Eden in a fallen world. We'd never know there was anything wrong with this world. No, this is a cursed earth. And God sends sorrow to remind us that He's the one that cursed this earth. And this isn't our final home. This isn't the final resolution. God's going to bring redemption to all things, including this earth. And so there's common suffering But also there is carnal suffering. What kind of suffering is this? Well, this is suffering that we have because of our own foolish behavior, because of our own decisions. We suffer because of our own sins Jeremiah said this, he said in Jeremiah 2. 19, Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, and thy backsliding shall reprove thee. Proverbs 131, therefore they shall eat the fruit of their own devices. A lot of times we suffer, we say, Oh Lord, why am I suffering? And God will say, Well, because it's your own foolishness, that's why You just made some bad decisions. You did some foolish things. The Bible says the foolishness of man perverts his way and his heart frets against the Lord. He blames it on God. But really it was his own foolishness And we suffer, carnal suffering, because of the bad things that we have done. And notice how Peter uh Speaks to them. Look at verse 15 again. But let none of you suffer as a murderer. Now, this is another imperative. Remember, I said there are six imperatives here. Here's another one. Peter said, if you're going to suffer Do not suffer because of your own sins. Again in verse 15, let none of you suffer as a murderer. You say, now wait a minute, he's talking to Christians, right? Yes. How could a Christian be tempted to murder? Well, friend, you have to remember the vicious persecution that they're going through. I mean, this is under Nero in Rome. And uh the Romans are killing Christians. And if you were a father that lived back in that day and you saw someone in your family uh perhaps murdered by the cruelty of the Roman government. Let me ask you a question. Would there be a temptation in your heart to take vengeance? Would you want to murder the person that perhaps killed someone close to you or some other godly saint or believer in the church that was receiving unjust Suffering, there would be a temptation for you to pick up the sword and to murder. Peter said, if you suffer, don't let it be because of being a murderer. Or again, look in verse 15, or as a thief. The Greek word is klepto. We're going to word klepto maniac. Just stealing. You know, again, there would be the temptation because all the persecution, many of them lost jobs, many of them were doing without. There would be the temptation to steal, to become a thief, to get things for yourself. Uh or an evildoer, this this is a general word that's a encompassing uh any moral failure And then a busybody. This is the idea of one who meddles in other people's business. I really think that this word here, which is a very interesting word, is really something deeper than that. I think it's really talking about being a spy. I think there were perhaps some people in the church that in order to alleviate the suffering became a spy for the government of Rome. And they were telling Rome all of what the Christians were doing and making their brothers and sisters suffer more. Because they were kind of become a spy for the government. I think that's the idea behind the word here, busybody, but whatever. Peter's basic idea is this: don't suffer because of your own sins. Don't let it be because of your own mistakes. Again, let none of you, that's a command, let none of you suffer this way. God has not called you to go around as Christian revolutionaries Don't do that. Don't take matters into your own hand. And don't suffer because of your own sins. But then there's another kind of suffering. There's Christian suffering. Look at verse 15. Verse uh 16 rather. Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed. But let him glorify God on this behalf. There's the other pro uh command. Let him not be ashamed Don't be ashamed. Look, if you're suffering as a Christian because you because you're doing what is right, don't ever be ashamed of that. Don't ever be ashamed of suffering because you stood the way you should stand as a Christian. And perhaps I'm speaking to some people here tonight, and you have paid the price for doing what is right. Perhaps you were given a situation where you could do your own thing and it wouldn't honor the Lord, or you could do the right thing as a Christian and you chose to do the right thing, and because you did the right thing, you suffered for it. Don't ever get the idea if you do the right thing, you'll never suffer. Because we will. But you've done the right thing, and Peter says, look, don't ever be ashamed of that. And we can say it like this, don't ever be sorry that you did that. Don't be sorry, don't be ashamed to suffer as a Christian. Because this is what God delights in. This is what God praises. He says, Don't um don't suffer as a Christian. Why? Look again in verse 16, but let him glorify God on this behalf. Don't you realize that when you suffer For doing what's right, for being a godly person. You glorify God in this. You glorify the Lord as you suffer for what is right. Now there's another kind of suffering. We call this chastisement suffering. Look in verse number 17. For the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. And if it first begin at us What shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God? Now, Peter here gives us another reason why we're to evaluate suffering when it comes, is because God is chastising or God is purifying his church. You see, whenever God begins to do a work of purification, or we could say judgment, he always starts at his church. He always starts at the house of God. He starts with his people. And Peter here, what he's doing is he is alluding to a passage in the Old Testament. But look at the word time in verse 17. That's a word that means season. The season begins when he begins to chastise and purge his own church. Why? He wants his church to be strong. He wants his church to be pure. And so he will begin a season in his own church, in the house of God. Now again, I said that Peter is referring to an Old Testament passage, and what he's referring to is Ezekiel chapter 9. You don't have to turn there. Let me give you the story real quick. That you might remember that God's going to judge Israel. And God's glory came up out of the out of the temple, left, went out to the eastern gate, and went up to the Mount of Olives, ascended. Up to heaven. What was that a sign of? Judgment was coming to disobedient Israel. And then Ezekiel had a vision. What was it? It was some angels that came down from heaven. And these angels had slaughter weapons in their hand. And then there was one angel, however, that had an ink horn. He had an ink pen, we could say. He had a permanent marker. And God, and there was a voice, and it said to these angels, you go out and you utterly slay And you punish everyone that is guilty of sin. And however, there was the angel that had the marker in his hand, and the God said to that angel, When you go out and you see people sighing and mourning over the sins of Jerusalem, over the sins of my people, you put a mark on their forehead By the way, the Hebrew word for mark there is the Hebrew letter Tav. And it's the last letter in the Hebrew alphabet. Now when I studied Hebrew, I studied and learned the different the various Hebrew alphabets. There is a alphabet of the Hebrew letters that was that they used before the exile And there is the alphabet that they used after the exile. And the alphabet that we see now, that's used now, is the post-exilic alphabet. that we uh look at when we look at Hebrew letters. However, and the and the last letter, top, it looks like a kind of an N in cursive with a dot in the middle of it. But The pre-exilic Hebrew letters, the last letter of the Hebrew alphabet doesn't look like a N with a cursive N. You know what it looks like? It's the shape of a cross. The shape of a cross. So imagine this in the Old Testament. God says to that angel, go and put a mark on their forehead. are all those that weep and sigh over the sins of Jerusalem. In other words, those who had that mark They will be saved from the punishment because they reveal that they are the true people of God. And it's interesting to me that many years before the cross, God said to that angel, put a cross on their forehead And then God said this to the angels with the slaughter weapons in their hand. When you begin to judge, start at my house. Here's where you start first. Start at the house of God, the temple, and work your way out. And Peter's using the same principle here. He's saying when God begins to punish He's gonna all when he begins to purge, he starts first of all at his house. Which means that when God begins to purge, he first does the work in his own children. And now look again what Peter says there in verse 17. He says, For the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God, and if it first begin at us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel? And here's the whole idea. Peter's using an argument that was called the from lighter to heavy, Volka Homer argument, which means that you go from the lighter to the heavier. If God judges his own people, if God doesn't spare his own people chastisement. And he's very thorough with his own children. What's it going to be like for those who don't know the Lord? If God is thorough with his own house, What's he going to be like with those who are outside of his house that don't know the Lord? In fact, look what he says in verse 18. He says, that if the righteous scarcely be saved Where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? Now here Peter is quoting from Proverbs 1131. If the righteous is repaid on earth, how much more are the wicked? If the righteous are punished, how much more will the wicked be punished? That's the idea. If God punishes his own, how much more will he punish those who are wicked? So Peter was telling the church there, look, you may be going through sorrows now. You may be going through trials right now. But be but thank God that you're a Christian. Because if God's thoroughly working in you, what's it going to be like for those who don't know him? It's going to be far far worse. The word scarcely there means with great difficulty. It refers to the difficulties that a believer must contend with through the fires of suffering and hardship. And so God will bring us through many difficulties to purge us and chastise us. And if he does that to us, you can be sure that he's going to do it to the wicked. And so Peter reminds them of that. Now let me give you the fourth and final attitude. I said that when we go through trials, we are to expect it, Peter says. We are to embrace it. We are to evaluate it. What kind of suffering am I going through? And then here's the last thing. We are to entrust it. Entrust it. Look at verse 19. Wherefore let them that suffer According to the will of God, commit the keeping of their souls to Him in well-doing as unto a faithful Creator. And what Peter is saying there is, entrust your soul during the time of trial, entrust your soul to a faithful Creator This is the fourth and final attitude. And trust the word here, it means to deliver over to where it says commit. Deliver over to to entrust for safekeeping. You know what this is a banker's term? It means to give in charge as a deposit One Greek scholar says it's to entrust someone to the care and protection of someone else. Same word used in Timothy. This charge I entrust to you, Timothy. Timothy, I'm giving you this charge. The charge was to be faithful with the Word of God. Timothy was entrusted with the doctrines of faith. And so when you commit something to someone else, you're giving it to someone that you believe will keep it and guard it. Safely. This is exactly what we do when we put our money in the bank. We commit it. We entrust it. And we do it thinking and knowing that the bank is going to get going to take care of it. We get a little bit nervous. more and more as the days approach, right? I'm not so secure about it right now, but nevertheless we entrust our our money to a deposit box or to a bank. When you hire a babysitter you entrust The life of that child to that person, believing they will take care of it. Well, here the idea is: during your suffering, what are you to entrust to God? Your own soul. That's what he says in verse 19. Wherefore let them suffer according to the will of God, commit the keeping of their souls to him, and well doing as unto a faithful creator. So here's the question. Can you trust God? Do you trust him? Do you trust him enough to where you can entrust your own soul to him during the time of trial in an act of faith? By the way, Peter calls him a faithful creator. Listen, if he created all this world and he sustains it, do you think he can sustain you? I think he can. And he can sustain me. And again, the greatest example of this is the Lord Jesus, because you remember we looked at this, but look at it again. Look in chapter 2. Go back to 1 Peter chapter 2 and look down at verse number 2. 22. We're talking about Jesus' suffering. It says, who did no sin, neither was God, found in his mouth. Verse 23, who when he was reviled, reviled not again, when he suffered, he threatened not, but what did he do? But committed himself to him who judges right. Same word there. What did Jesus do? He committed himself unto the Father. In his time of suffering, great suffering. And that's exactly what Peter's telling us to do. You're going through the trial. It's very difficult. You're in a time of sorrow. Commit your soul to the Lord. Entrust yourself to God, to Him who judges righteously. Peter, or excuse me, uh Jerry Bridges. uh who I love to read, wrote this. He said, to trust God in times of adversity is admittedly a hard thing to do. Trusting God is a matter of faith. And faith is the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Only the Holy Spirit can make his word come alive in our hearts and create faith. But we can choose to look to him to do that. Or we can choose to be ruled by our feelings of anxiety and resentment and grief. I think that's a good word there. We can choose to look to the Holy Spirit and say, Holy Spirit, give me the faith to entrust my soul to a faithful Creator. Or we can choose to be ruled by feelings of anxiety or resentment toward the Lord because of our trial. I think one of I'll I'll close with this. I think one of the most interesting things I've ever read with regard to suffering was written by John Newton, the one who wrote Amazing Grace. And John Newton watched cancer slowly and painfully kill his wife over a period of many months. And in recounting those days John Newton, he wrote this. I want you to listen to what he said. I think it's very profound. And it really is said by someone that you can really only really learn these kind of things By going through deep sorrow. And he said this, I believe it was about two or three months before her death, when I was walking up and down the room, offering disjointed prayers from a heart torn with distress. that a thought suddenly struck me with unusual force to this effect. This was a thought The promises of God must be true. Surely the Lord will help me if I am willing to be helped. There's the key idea there. The Lord will help me if I'm willing to be helped. Then he says this, it occurred to me that we are often led to indulge that unprofitable grief. with both our duty and peace, which both our duty and peace require us to resist to the utmost of our power. You see what he's saying there? That when we're in the midst of a trial and sorrow is on us, sorrow that is so hard, we can't even describe it. The pain is so very real. We can do one or two things. We can indulge in that grief We can just continue to indulge in it. But John Newton says it is unprofitable grief, and it's our duty to resist that. And it's our duty to ask God at that moment for his help because he says God will help us. His promise is true. And he will help us if we ask. So at that moment you have a choice. You can indulge the grief, or you can look to the Lord and say, God, I believe your promise. And I believe that you'll help me if I ask. And so, Lord, I ask you to help me because only you can. And then he says, he finishes it this way. He says, I instantly said Lord, I am helpless indeed in myself, but I hope I am willing, without reserve, that thou shouldest help me. And you know what? God did help him. And God brought him through it. And friends, God will bring you through as well. But just remember in that time What's our right response? We expect it. It's not a strange thing. We embrace it. We rejoice at what the Lord is going to do in the end. We evaluate it. We want to make sure we're not suffering because of our own foolishness. And then we entrust it. We we commit our souls to the faithful Creator who will carry us through. Let's have a word of prayer together tonight. And so Lord, as we come before you, we do pray for your help. We are weakless people. Lord, we are people that have no strength enough to carry us ourselves through some of the burdens and trials that we have to endure. Lord, rather than us to indulge in the grief, Lord, we choose to turn to you and ask you for help. And entrust our soul to you who is a faithful creator. Lord, we trust you. We know that you can uphold us in whatever trial you choose in your wisdom to bring upon us in that season. That you bring in. So Lord, tonight I pray for these your people, these people that you love so very much. These are your precious sheep. Who some may be going through trials right now, who need your help. Lord, that you would just come upon them and help them. But with heads bowed and eyes closed, I would wonder if there's anyone here that would Maybe just do what John Newton did and just choose to say, Lord, I'm helpless indeed in myself, but I'm willing without reserve that you would help me. And Lord, will you help me in this trial that I'm in? If that's your prayer, would you just raise your hand for it? I just want to pray for you. And would you raise your hand to God? God, I need your help. I need your help. Father, bless these hands, these people that are right now by faith entrusting their soul to you and asking for your help, that you would help them. Lord, I pray for great grace and help. That you would give them the faith to respond well and to allow the trial to accomplish the purpose that you've ordained. And we pray this in Jesus' wonderful matchless name. Amen.