Now, open your Bibles to the book of Daniel, please, the passage we read a moment ago. And I know around this time of year people are thinking about the New Year and the New Year resolutions that people normally make. And you know uh did you know where this comes from? It's interesting to to read that this comes from goes really all the way back to one fifty The uh Romans had at the head of their calendar uh the mythic god Janus is where we get the uh the name And he became the symbol of resolution. The Roman people uh would make new resolutions at the beginning of a year and they would give gifts uh to people from the past year hoping to uh be forgiven of any past offenses and to begin the year afresh and anew. And they would make therefore these resolutions. Now of course what is a resolution Resolution a resolution according to the dictionary term is a course of action determined or decided on. It's to form a purpose to make a decision and therefore to become resolute. According to one study, those who make resolutions of those who make resolutions Only twelve percent actually keep them. Someone said a New Year's resolution goes in one year and out the other What does the Bible have to say about resolutions? What does the scripture have to say? Does the Bible forbid it? Well, you might be interested to know that the Bible does not forbid resolutions. In fact some of the greatest saints in the Bible were blessed by God because they did have Godly resolve. Or they did have godly resolutions. In fact, if you read throughout the New Testament, you're gonna find the Apostle Paul was constantly making uh resolutions. He was resolved to do things for God. And if you go through the scripture you'll find really the saints in the Bible made three kinds of resolutions. They made resolutions with God. They would make a an oath or a vow to God that they were Or they would make resolutions with their fellow men. This is what I'm going to do for the glory of God, God being my help. And so for a resolution really to be meaningful to any one of us, it has to stretch us. It has to be something that is clear and measurable, something that we can definitely achieve, and it should be accompanied by prayer and meditation and dependence upon God. And so just know this that the Bible actually encourages it. For example, you might want to write down Psalm one hundred one. That was a Psalm written by David upon assuming the throne, becoming a king, he makes royal resolutions of what kind of king he's going to be. For example, he says in verse 1, I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. He goes on to say, I will set no wicked thing before would be a great uh chapter to read and pattern your own resolutions after when you read about David. But also it might interest you to know that God himself made resolutions Did you know that? In fact, you can look at the Bible as really a book that records all of the resolutions that God has made toward us and for us Over and over again you're reading the scripture where God says, I will, I will. When man sinned, God said to the serpent, I will put enmity Between thee and the woman. God said to Noah, after the flood, I will establish my covenant with you. God said to Abraham, I will make of you a great nation. God said to David, I will will uh be uh will raise up and establish your throne an eternal kingdom. And did you know that even our Lord Jesus on his earthly ministry, he made a resolution, actually he made it to the disciples at the last Last Supper, Jesus said this. He said, I will not drink henceforth henceforth of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it with you new in my Father's kingdom. Jesus made a resolution there At that final supper that said, I will not partake of the fruit of the vine. And so we're all together there in the kingdom. And one day we will be. But also notice God takes this matter of resolutions very seriously. If you read the scripture, whenever God says he's going to do something, you can rest assured God's going to do it. And God expects his people. People us to take resolutions seriously. Now, beloved, it's up to you whether or not you want to make any resolutions, but if you do and you do it before God, you better take it seriously The Bible warns us about that. The one who dwells in God's presence is the person who will keep his word, it says in Psalm 15, he that swears to his own hurt that is is you if you make a decision that you're going to do something, you better do it and keep your word, even if it hurts you. You do it The Psalmist said this in Psalm fifty six twelve Thy vows are binding upon me, O God, I will render thank offerings unto thee. It says this in Psalm seventy six eleven And make vows to the Lord your God and fulfill them. The psalmist said in Psalm 119, verse 106: I have sworn and I will perform it. God, I made this resolution. I made this vow. I will do it. I'm going to come through with it. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes, be not rash with Thy mouth, let not thy heart be hasty to utter anything before God. But again, the people, the Christians that God has used greatly are people that have Now again, there's nothing wrong with making a resolution. In fact, the Bible encourages it. It just tells us that when we do it, we better take it seriously. And by the way, when a person does make a godly resolution Resolution before the Lord, and then they do it. What is it followed by? It's followed by great blessing. It's followed by great reward Perhaps some of the most famous resolutions in church history is known by a man by the name of Jonathan Edwards. You might know that name. He was the one who preached the sermon. Sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, a very well-known, well-read sermon that was used to bring great awakening to the early part of our country, early history of our country In the book The Unwavering Resolve of Jonathan Edwards, the author Steve Lawson talks about when Jonathan Edwards was just eighteen years old. He determined that he He was going to make some godly resolutions. And he was going to live by them. These resolutions would be in order for him to live for the glory of God. And so here's his 18th year old boy and he decides to make these resolutions and he makes seventy resolutions. Can you imagine having seventy resolutions? And these were resolutions that he wasn't going to obey just for one year But these were going to be resolutions that he would guide his whole life according to all the rest of his days. Seventy resolutions and And he would read over them each day, remembering what he resolved to do before God. And as a result, the Lord used this man greatly. He said, resolve never to do any manner of thing, whether in soul or body, less or more, but what tends to the glory of God and another Resolution resolved. I will live with all my might while I do live. And then on he goes. Seventy of these. And these were resolutions that covered many Categories, his specific habits, and improving time, maximizing his study, reading scripture, combating uh combating listlessness or laziness He resolved to live for the glory of God. Friend, that's a good thing. We all need to do that. Now, sometimes when I read about Jonathan Edwards and his resolutions I wonder if he got his inspiration from Daniel. Because Jonathan Edwards wasn't the first teenager to make resolutions. We read of another one here in the Bible. And look again in Daniel chapter 1, verse number 8, the passage we read just a moment ago where it says, But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself With the portion of the king's meat. Daniel himself made a resolution before God. Here is this teenage boy living in a pace Who determines that he's going to live for God. But he's not going to let the pagan culture around him keep him from living the way God wants him. So I want us to look a little closer at Daniel's life and I want us to draw inspiration from in ourselves on how we are to live for God in this world. And just a few things I want you to to see really in this whole story four acts. First of all, I want to talk about number one, Daniel's crisis. There's a crisis that as this opens up. And if anything reveals what a person is Like it's is to have a crisis. Look at verse number three. It says this actually verse two and the Lord gave unto Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand, with part of the vessels of the Now what happens here is that Daniel is a Jew He lives in Judah, but King Nebuchadnezzar comes against Judah and they he conquers that nation and he carries away into captivity some of the brightest and best of the The Jewish children that are there. And so really what we see here in the beginning is a national crisis. Why did God allow the Babylonians to come in and destroy his temple? house and carry away the vessels. This was God's punishment against a people that totally rejected him, that committed gross immorality, that disregarded his word. And as if God was Saying if you like idols, you want to worship idols, I'll take you to the land of idolatry. And I'll bury you in idolatry. It's interesting to note That when the Jews came out of exile, they never had a problem with idolatry ever again. God said, if you want to see it up close and personal, I'll show it to you. And so God This was a national crisis. God was punishing the nation. But it was also an intellectual crisis. Look at verse number three. And the king spake unto Ashbinaz, the master of his eunuchs, that he should bring certain of the Children of Israel, and of the king's seed of the princes, children in whom there was no blemish, well favored, skillful in all wisdom, and cunning and knowledge, understanding science, such as had ability in them Now Daniel was probably about fourteen or fifteen years old when he was taken, and Nebuchadnezzar won He wanted the young teachable men. He wanted men who he he could actually brainwash and teach them his way. He was going to enroll them into the University of Babylon And that we're going to learn new things. They were going to take new courses. And by the way, in that time, in that culture, there was there was all kind of a That was being learned really pioneered there in Babylon. New Age mysticism. Babylon was considered the learning center of the world at that time. Really, there's an intellectual crisis because Daniel now is going to have to learn things that he's never heard before. He's going to learn false ideas. He's going to be exposed to all those things and that really he had no choice. He's being put into exile. And notice that they had to these young men had to have certain qualifications. They had to be in Intelligent, they had to have good physical health, because again the king was going to use these young men in some way in his program of reprogramming them and making them useful in his kingdom So here's an intellectual crisis. Daniel is now going to learn things that he's never learned before, and this is going to be a test of whether he's going to hold true to truth or not. And by the way, let me just say, young people, You're going to face that challenge every day. We live in a culture today where our young people are being bombarded with all kinds of false ideas. Anti-Got ideas, philosophies that can steal away your soul if you let it, you're going to have to make a decision that you're going to hold firm to the truth And so here Daniel's given a test. But then this is also a spiritual crisis. Look at verse 5. And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat, of the wine which he drank, so nourishing Them three years that at the end thereof they might stand before the king. Now the strategy of the king was very cunning. He was going to give them food and wine from the royal household They were going to literally eat like kings. He wanted them to be accustomed to the good life, so that they would never want to go back to what they had before. Nebuchadnezzar Saying, I'm going to give you what is good. I'm going to let you eat the meat that I eat. The very food that I eat. Now there was a problem with this food. What was it? Well, first of all, it did not meet the requirements of the Mosaic Law, as you know. Some Jews were forbidden to eat certain types of meat. It had to be prepared in a certain manner. But there was another problem with this meat and that is It was offered sacrificially to the Babylonian gods, as well as the wine. One commentator says to partake of this was An act of worshiping pagan deities. So really to eat this meat meant that they would totally disregard Yahweh God and To disobey the word of God. So here's a spiritual crisis that Daniel faces, but then also there's a personal crisis. Look at verse 6. Now, among these were the children of Of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mesha, and Azariah, unto whom the prince of the eunuchs gave names, for he gave unto Daniel the name Belteshazzar, to Hananiah. Shadrach, of Meshach of Meshach, and of Ezariah of Abednego. So what does he do? He changes their names. What's he doing? He's giving them a new identity. To the Jews, each of their names had a special meaning. Daniel's name meant God is my judge, but his name is changed to Belteshazzar, which means whom the Baal favors. And so it was with the rest They were changed names that were given to worship and honor Yahweh were given names that would honor false gods and pagan deities And these names were designed to make them forget their old God and to worship the new ones. And so here is Daniel put in this environment His mind now is going to be bombarded with philosophy, pagan philosophy. Spiritually he's going to be challenged to forget his God and To worship another God and to partake of this meat that was wrong for him to do. And what does Daniel do? Again, it's amazing to me. Here's a A teenage boy away from home now in a pagan land. He's by himself. And now again, look at verse 8. But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defy Himself. And really, this is the key verse of the whole passage. Everything really revolves around this verse. The word purpose here means to be set. Daniel was set in his heart. He was Resolved he was not going to eat that meat because he knew that to eat that meat would violate his own conscience. It would violate the word of God. Defile here is a word that means to defile morally as well as ceremonially, but Daniel had a conviction. Daniel had a A solid conviction based on the truth that he had learned. You know what is a conviction? A conviction is a Bible-based belief or duty that God requires of us And I tell you, what we need nowadays more than ever are Christians who live by conviction. They live by the Word of God, by the truth of God's word. God expects His people to have convictions and not compromise his truth. Again, the psalmist said in Psalm 119-106, I have sworn and I will perform it That I will keep thy righteous judgments. Those who do not live by conviction will live by circumstance or they'll live by convenience or they'll go just they'll go with the flow of things And let me tell you something, God has not called his people to live in this world just to go with the flow. He wants people that'll know how to stand. If you don't make up your mind, you're un Made mine will unmake you. And so Daniel made a decision. Notice it was an individual decision. It says he purposed in his heart. This was not a group decision. Daniel didn't call the guys together and say, hey, let's let's let's do something about this. No, in fact, everyone else was doing it. You know, it's easy to do right when the crowd's doing right. But when you have to stand alone, that's when it becomes very difficult. There may be times in your life where God will call upon you to stand alone, stand by yourself. Athanasius was at one point in church history stood for the doctrine of the deity of Christ. Even though Arius and all the rest were going another way, they were saying Jesus was a subordinate created being, Athanasius stood Firm on truth and said, No, that's not what the Bible says. And at one time he was called before the Emperor Theodosius, and Theodosius said to him, Athanasius, don't you know that the word And Athanasius said, Well, then therefore, sir, I am against the world. He stood by himself. That's where we get the expression, Athanasius Condramundum, Athanasius against the world. You see, a conviction is something that would you that will hold you, that will keep you in place. This is what happens with Daniel Now, this could have been an insult to the king. This decision that Daniel made, it was kind of dangerous. This could have been an insult. The king could have taken it personal It could have cost him his life. It was in the face of peer pressure because, as I said, everyone else was doing it. Why was it wrong for Daniel to do it? This would probably uh if you think about it with human reasoning block his chance for advancement. How's he gonna advance in the kingdom if he's making everybody upset at him And another reason why this was so hard is because the quality of the food. This was good food. This was Memphis barbecue This was good meat, this was ribs. And none of that really affected Daniel. Now Daniel was there by himself He could have reasoned like this, you know what, my parents will never know. I'm here by myself. And, you know, he could have reasoned and said, you know, Lord, it has to be your will. How can I advance in the kingdom how can I really uh be an influence if I make everybody mad and so maybe you're just uh allowing me to do this for this time and let me just go ahead and violate this one thing so that I can do Good later. Daniel knew that it's never right to do wrong in order to get a chance to do right. He didn't reason any of that way. He just made a decision. He said, This is what I'm going to resolve to do And I want you to notice it was an insightful decision because look again in verse eight. He purposed in his heart, excuse me, that he would not defile himself excuse me with a portion of the king's meat and uh therefore he requested that's what I want you to see he requested Now, what I want you to see here is that Daniel knew the difference between a preference and a conviction. Now, he didn't get upset when they changed his name. Because he understood that a name change doesn't affect him. God didn't commend anything about that. But he knew that this other thing was a violation of God's law. I I I'm convinced that sometimes as Christians we stand on the wrong issues. God hasn't called us to fight for our preferences. When you yield your preferences, that's Courtesy. But when you yield your conviction, that's compromise. And Daniel, he didn't fight for preferences, he fought for his convictions. And so this was a very Very insightful decision. He knew exactly when to stand and how to stand. But I want you also to notice that this was a very influential decision because somewhere Along the line, the other three Hebrew children began to stand with him. Did you know that when you take a stand for God, that you'll affect other people? Other people will see it, they will notice because in verse ten it talks about faces plural when they eunuch began to look at their faces, uh somewhere along the line these other young So we see his courage, his conviction. Courage. Notice what it says that again he stands in verse 8, and therefore he requested of the prince of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself Verse 9, now God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the Prince of the Eunuchs. And the Prince of the Eunuchs said unto Daniel, I fear my Lord the king, who hath appointed your meat and your drink. For why should he see your faces worse likening than the children which are of your of your sort? Then shall you make me endanger my head to the king? In verse eleven, then said Daniel to Mel Elzar, whom the prince of the eunuchs had said over Daniel, Hanani, Mesha, and Azariah, prove thy servants, that is, test us. I beseech thee ten days. Let them give us pulse to eat and water to drink Now, what happens here? Daniel makes a request. Now, notice what Daniel does. He doesn't get angry and say, you know, I'm not going to do this, I don't care what you do. No Daniel has wisdom. And we see God working here because the Bible says God brought Daniel into favor. And Daniel very kindly, very respectfully Says, I have an alternative. He understood what the goal was. What was the goal of the king? He wanted them healthy, he wanted them well fed Daniel understood. And so Daniel said, there's another way that we can reach this goal. Instead of me eating meat, let me eat. Now the Bible uses the word pulse. It's not a very appetizing word if you ask me. What does it mean by pulse? It just simply means it's a word that means from the seed, and really it's talking about vegetables, it's talking about things that grow from a seed And all Daniel's talking about here is becoming a vegetarian. And he's yeah, here amen from the vegetarians here. He's basically saying, you know, let us let us eat vegetables. And then at the end you can kind of prove us, you can test us, you can look at our physical appearance and compare it with the others and just see how We measure up. And so he suggests this alternative, this plan. And so look at verse 14. So he consented to them in this matter and proved them ten days. Verse 15 and At the end of ten days, their countenance appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat. In other words, they looked healthier than the others. As a result Of this plan. And so therefore, this became the regimented diet from here on out. And what's wise about Daniel is the way he went about Again, as Christians, we need to learn not only to stand, but we need to learn how to stand. And to stand with wisdom and to offer alternatives. young lady here in our congregation. I don't want to embarrass her, Rachel Brown. I just embarrassed her. She goes to a university here and she's a graphic designer. She's taking up that course And they chose her design to be the university Christmas card for this year, which was a great honor. But they were going to put a verse below it, and then she felt like the verse they were going to use It was being used out of context. And she couldn't be a support to that. And so she thought about it and she offered them some alternatives and a very great And they took her up on the those alternatives, and she stood very graciously, very kindly, and yet she would not compromise her conscience or her conviction. Patience and I I I applaud her for that. That's the way Christians ought to stand. Here she is excelling in her field, and they know that she's a believer, they know that she loves God's word. He knows how to take a stand in a gracious way. This is exactly what Daniel does here. This is his plan. He offers an alternative. And then what happens at the end? Look at the The commendation. Look at verse 17. And after these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill and all learning and wisdom. And Daniel had understanding and all visions and dreams And at the end of the days that the king had said he should bring them in, that the king of the eunuchs brought them in before Neb Nebuchadnezzar, and the king communed with them And among them all was found none like Daniel, Hanani, Mesha, and Azariah. Therefore stood they before the king, and in all matters of wisdom and understanding the king The king inquired of them, and he found them ten times better than all the magicians and astrologers in his realm. And Daniel continued even unto the first year. And so God blessed them in their learning Learning. God actually gave them more ability to learn. They were smarter. They had greater wisdom. This was God's blessing on them. Because They stood. And then finally there was graduation day when they had to go in and they had to take their oral exams. They had to be answer to the king himself. And when And when Nebuchadnezzar came among them and he asked them questions and he listened to their answers, what does the Bible say? He found them to be ten times wiser. Ten times better Better than all the rest. You say, what's the lesson? Here's the lesson, and this is what I want you to take away from this whole thing. Godly resolve results in Godly resolve. Now how do we apply this to us today? We're at the peak of another Or at the beginning of another year. And I believe that it's good and right that you should look over your life and that you should make some godly resolutions Things that you need to do that will help you to live for God in this world. Make some decisions right now of things that you're going to do. Perhaps it would be in the area Of being in church faithfully or being in God's word daily or in prayer daily. I remember as a teenager, I made a decision that I was going to spend an hour with God every Every day. And friend, that decision has helped me all through my life. You need to look take account of your life, look at your life and say what resolution, what God Godly resolutions do I need to make? And I tell you this, friend, if you make them and you're sincere before God and you follow these godly resolutions, God will honor you. You honor Honor God and God will honor you. That's just the way it works. And I'll close with this. One time there was a man by the name of D. L. Moody, you've heard that name, I'm sure. And he was used so greatly He was poorly educated, he was from a poor home. Someone said that when D. L. Moody pronounced Jerusalem, he said it in two syllables. Was Very educated at all. And yet, here's a man that God used in an incredible way. One time he was preaching and someone wrote a note and and it was passed up to him, it just had one word on it. had the word full. And D. L. Moody said normally people write a note and sign their name. This is the first time a guy signed his name and didn't write the note Why did God use the El Moody so greatly? And R. A. Tori tells about it in his book, Why God Used Yellow Moody is the title of the book. And this is what he said. He said, because Moody one time heard a man by the name of Henry Varley state make this one statement the world has yet to see what God will do with a man fully committed to him. And when D. L. Moody heard that, he made a resolution. You know what he said? He said, By God's grace, I will be that man. And R. H. Before he said, that's the reason why God used D. L. Moody so greatly. Because he was resolved to be that man fully devoted, fully And so, Lord, as we come to this passage of Scripture, we see before a great example of a godly young man who resolved in his own heart that he would not defile himself. He resolved that he would follow you, he would fear you in a very difficult place, at a very difficult time. And what he followed through with that and received your blessing, I pray that All of us would receive instruction from that. I pray that all of us, Lord, would learn from this example today. May we, Lord, as we look at our life, may godly Resolutions, things that we will determine to do by your grace. I pray that you'll speak to hearts, that you'll challenge our hearts in this area to live for your glory. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, you notice that I didn't really give you a list of resolutions that you You should follow. You know why? Because that's something that should be between you and God. You and the Holy Spirit of God. But it might be that right now God is speaking to your heart And there's one area in particular that he has he has pointed out that you need to take control of in your life. You need to make a resolution. We need to do something because what's happening there is not honoring to him. And he wants that area to change. Maybe you need to make a resolution before God. This is by the grace of God I'm going to do this. By his grace and with his help, I've got a purpose in my heart in this one area. Whatever it is, friend, you do with the Holy Spirit And then I want to ask if you're here today, it may be that you're here and you've never trusted the Lord as your Savior. Let me tell you, the greatest resolve that you can have is the resolve To know Jesus and to trust Him as your Savior. And friend, if you haven't ever prayed and asked Jesus to come into your heart, I want to invite you and encourage you to do that right now. Right where you are. She said, friend, Jesus died on the cross for your sins. He paid the penalty for sin for you. And salvation is a gift that you receive. By faith. And if you're willing to receive it, you can reach out right where you are and say, Lord Jesus, save me. Make me your child. And friend, if you'll pray that and mean it, it'll save you you today. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. We praise you, Lord, again, for this testimony in the life of Daniel. And Lord, may we follow it For your glory we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.