Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of 2 Timothy, chapter 1, as we continue our study in 2 Timothy. And tonight we're going to look at verses one uh down from verse 8, chapter 1, verse 8 on down to um Verse 18, Lord willing, we can get through all of this. Tonight the uh title of the message is I'm not ashamed. And can I ask you, are you ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Sadly, many Christians have been at times ashamed to identify with the Lord Jesus Christ. How many times have we missed opportunities and chances to witness for Christ because perhaps we were intimidated with the circumstance or maybe we were in a situation where we did not want to identify as a Christian or the name of the Lord Jesus Christ? By doing that, we miss opportunities that the Lord gives us. This passage is an important one, and it runs from verse 8 on down to verse 18. And uh not being ashamed is really the theme here because we it it's mentioned first of all in verse eight. Look at verse eight. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. nor me his prisoner, but be thou a partaker of the of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. And so Paul also mentions this thing of not being ashamed in verse number 12. Look at verse 12 For the which cause I also suffer these things, nevertheless I am not ashamed. And then he also mentions this thing also of not being ashamed in verse 16. Look at verse 16. The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onecephorus, for he oft refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain. And so not ashamed then is the key idea here in these verses here in this chapter. And Paul is exhorting Timothy to not be ashamed of Jesus Christ or to be ashamed of the gospel. Now why would Paul write to tell Timothy that? I'll tell you why, because it was a very real temptation for Timothy. And I would say it's also a real temptation for all believers, even the strongest of believers at times can be ashamed of the gospel. Um stronger men than Timothy had wilted when they were faced with persecution or intimidation. For example, you remember Peter when he said to the Lord Jesus, I am ready to go with you to prison and death. I'll never deny you, Lord. And then right after that, seems like right on the heels of that, Peter uh was a ashamed to admit that he was with uh Jesus, that he was one of the disciples of Jesus. A little servant girl asked him on the ninth and when Jesus was betrayed and taken to trial. And of course we know the story that Peter cursed and he denied the Lord Jesus Christ. In that moment he was ashamed of Christ. Now if it can happen to Peter, it can happen to any of us. And so we have to be to guard, we have to be aware. Now, let me just give you a little background again into this letter. Notice first of all kind of the the concern of Paul. At the time of the writing, remember Paul is in in in a dungeon in Rome. He's been incarcerated. This will be the last time he's been incarcerated. He's writing really the last letter of his life. Really, 2 Timothy are the last words and testament of the Apostle Paul. In just a little time his head will be chopped off. He'll be martyred for the sake of Christ. Uh he was he's been faithful all of his life, since that time when he met Christ on the Damascus Road, up until this time when he will be martyred. The dungeon that he's in, it's dark, it's stinky, it's on a healthy place, it's occupied by criminals. And yet Paul's not concerned about his own circumstance, he's concerned more about Timothy. He knows that he's at the end of his life. He knows that in a short time he will be called home. But the ministry has to go on And he knows that in great measure this is going to determine the faithfulness of his young protege, Timothy. At this point, I would say that Timothy is anywhere between thirty years old and thirty-six years old. Um he has to take on the mantle now and carry out the mission. So Paul writes this epistle to strengthen him. And Timothy's not as a strong of a constitution as Paul. You know, some people have that strong, bold personality. Paul was very forceful, very dynamic. Uh Timothy's not like that. Paul was able to stand up against any person or group of people or any event. And yet Timothy, he doesn't have that kind of that kind of strength. In fact, he probably got a lot of his strength from the Apostle Paul himself. And now Paul is going to be gone. And now that Paul Paul knows he's going to be gone, and that is a burden because He knows that now Timothy has to find strength in and of himself through the power of the Holy Spirit to stand firm. Remember, we look kind of Timothy is kind of a timid character. Chapter 1, verse 7, where God said, But God has not given us the spirit of fear that is to be timid. And I think Paul's directing these words to Timothy. Timothy, God has not given us the spirit of timidity or fear, but of power and of love. and of a sound mind. This kind of may give us a little clue into the personality of Timothy. He was somewhat of a timid soul. There's also a statement in 1 Corinthians 16, 10. Now if Timothy has come, see that he may be with you without fear For he worketh the work of the Lord as I also do. So Paul is writing to the Corinthians. He's saying, Now look at Timothy comes. Make sure that he's with you without a cause to be afraid. Or he's doing God's work. Again, that might give us an insight into the personality and the character of Timothy. And so Paul warns the Corinthian believers to be easy on him. But regardless of his timid nature, he's got to carry on. Paul is going to be called home And Timothy's under tremendous stress because as a young man he's trying to set things right at the church at Ephesus. And um and that means confronting men that are older than him. That means being able to defend himself against philosophies and theologies that were false, that were floating around. But also remember at this time the Roman Empire had unleashed a wholesale persecution against believers. You might remember Nero was on the throne at this time, and he uh was blaming the burning of Rome on Christians, even though it was his fault, even though he's the one who set fire to Rome. He blamed it all on Christians, and so there's this wholesale uh persecution that's going on against believers. And it may well be that for the cause of Christ, Timothy too could be in prison. He too could lose his life. But Paul has invested so much in Timothy. He has mentored him for years. And it's vital that Timothy be faithful, that he stands strong. And that he move on for the sake of the gospel. So Paul is very concerned about Timothy being strong. In fact We could sum up maybe the whole purpose of the letter in chapter 2, verse 1. Look in chapter 2, verse 1, where Paul says, Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace. That is in Christ Jesus. Timothy, be strong. The whole epistle is a call for strength and to stand against opposition. That's the concern of Paul. But also the criticisms against Paul. Now, this temptation for Timothy was very real. Why? Because the cross of Christianity at this time was a scandal Both Jews and Gentiles viewed crucifixion as the ultimate emblem of disgrace and dishonor. To be crucified on a cross, that was something that was worthy of shame, according to some people. And so they really didn't think highly of the message of a person who was placed on a wooden cross and crucified for our sin. Remember what Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 1. 23? We preach Christ crucified unto the Jews of what? A stumbling block They stumble over this whole idea that the Messiah would be placed upon a tree and crucified because according to them, in the Old Testament, cursed is anyone who hangs on a tree. If a person is on a tree, the curse of God hangs on them. How could Jesus be the Messiah then? Well, what they didn't realize was that the curse of God did fall upon Christ, but it was the curse that belonged to us, not Him. He became a curse in our place on the cross. But this was a stumbling block unto the Jews. And to the Gentiles, the whole message was Foolishness. The Greeks they were looking for some kind of philosophical system so they could wrap their mind around and be amazed at the at the intricacies of philosophy. That was what they were thinking the message of salvation was, but the message of the cross was so very simple. That the Greeks thought it was foolishness. They thought it was too simple. How could a man who died on a cross be the savior of the whole world and determine my eternal destiny? And so There were many that were criticizing Christianity and were criticizing the message of the gospel. And so there was a kind of a reproach that came with the message. of the gospel of Jesus Christ in that day. And by the way, that reproach is still true today. People don't want to talk about Christ. They don't want to talk about the gospel. And if you're going to be a Christian and stand for Jesus Christ, you have to stand firmly and not be ashamed of the message of the gospel. This is what Paul is calling on Timothy to do. He's also calling upon us And add that to the fact that Paul is in a Roman prison and his enemies are saying the reason Paul is there is because God's favor has been withdrawn from him. This is proof that God doesn't favor Paul. He's there because he deserves to be there. The Holy Spirit is not with him. You see, there were men going around and they were kind of preaching an early form of this health, wealth, and prosperity gospel where, you know, everything in your life is supposed to go great. You're not supposed to have any burdens. You're supposed to have your wallet and pocketbooks full of money all the time. You're not supposed to have any sickness or illnesses. And when bad things happen to you, that's your fault. That's because you have little faith There's an early version of that going around. And so to them, Paul's suffering and imprisonment was due to his shameful, unspiritual nature and disapproval of the Holy Spirit of God. And so there were many Christians that had abandoned Paul. Paul was by himself. Many folks were ashamed that he was in a Roman dungeon, in a Roman prison. So many people were ashamed of Paul. Many people were ashamed of the gospel. And here is Paul reaching out to Timothy and urging him not to succumb to this kind of thinking. This thinking that the cross is a scandal and that Paul has the disfavor of God because he's in a prison. When Paul describes himself here in this passage, he describes himself as the prisoner of the Lord Jesus. Now it was Nero that put him in prison. But Paul says, you know, Nero is not the one really who put me here. It's Jesus who put me here. I'm not a prisoner of Nero. I'm a prisoner of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he was not ashamed to be in prison for the sake of the gospel. And so the apostle is confident, he's not ashamed. And he wants Timothy to stand strong and not be ashamed as well. Now this whole passage revolves around really three men. We just looked at it. Timothy. Paul's first going to direct his word straight to Timothy, and then Paul's going to talk about himself. And then Paul's going to talk about Onociphorus, another man who is not ashamed to be a gospel uh ashamed of the gospel. And to be associated with Christ. Now it's like Paul is saying, Timothy, you have to make a decision to not be ashamed. And then I want you to tell, look at me, and I want you to know that I'm not ashamed. Even though I'm here in prison, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. And I want to point to someone else as a hero, Onociferus. He was a man that was not ashamed of me. He was not ashamed of Christ. He was not ashamed of the gospel. Here's a man that is worthy of your imitation. So notice three lessons. First of all, it's directed to Timothy, and the lesson we learned from him is not being ashamed requires a committed decision. Again, look at verse number eight of chapter one. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. But be thou a partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. Now in these verses, Paul is exhorting Timothy to make a decision. And that decision is you have to be willing to share in the sufferings for the gospel. Be thou a partaker of the affliction. This is an imperative in the Greek. It's a command. Timothy, be willing to suffer for the gospel. You have to stand firm. This means that if suffering comes, you should be willing to submit to it. Now, I've been talking a lot about suffering, I know, because on Sunday morning we've been dealing with it. We just happen to be here Sunday night. So maybe some of you out there are suffering. You need this. Or maybe you will in the future, I don't know. God knows what we need. We need to be reminded that suffering comes and we don't want to suffer. No one wants to do that, right? I mean none of us really desire that. Even our Lord Jesus Christ prayed and uh he said, you know, Father, if it be if it be willing, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. Even Paul said three times, Lord, take away this thorn. And yet we we don't look for suffering. But we don't choose it, however, when it comes we have to be willing. If God in His will chooses for uh any one of us to suffer for the sake of the gospel, we have to be willing. If that is what the Lord would have for us. Would you be willing to make such a commitment, such a decision? Would you be willing to say, Lord, if I have to suffer for the sake of the gospel, if you count me worthy to do this, then I am willing to do that? You say, why should I be willing to do that? Well, there are three reasons here that Paul gives. Here's the first one, number one, because God will give us the power when needed Again, look at the end of verse 8, where he says, Be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the what? According to the power of God. Again, we don't enjoy suffering. We don't choose it. At times it might come upon us. And if it does come, we were willing. Why? Because we know that at that time God will give us the power To be able to endure that or to do to face whatever we have to go through when the time comes. It's according to the power of God God will take care of you during that time. Now you might remember we were talking about suffering. We said there are three kinds. And let me just remind you again, there's common suffering. That's just because we live in a fallen world. The Bible says that the ground is cursed because of Adam's sin and so thorns and thistles uh it'll bear the Bible says that's a symbol of sorrow and suffering. Some people suffer because we live in a fallen world. But then there's carnal suffering, and this is suffering that is brought on because of our own sins. Because of the things that we do wrong. We don't want to suffer because of our own sins. That's not suffering for Christ. That's not suffering as a Christian. That's suffering because of the bad things that we've done. Peter said this, for what glory is it if when you be buffeted for your faults, you take it patiently, but if when you do well and you suffer for it, you take it patiently. This is acceptable with God. There's no merit in suffering for things that you bring on yourself because of your own sins and mistakes And he said in 1 Peter 4 15, let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief or as an evildoer or as a busybody in other men's matters. When Rome is persecuting your family and the church, don't take matters into your own hands Don't go out and try to kill someone. Don't go out and try to to be a thief and steal. Don't be an evildoer. Don't, you know w you know, get involved in an uh revolution revelatory type behavior, uh revolutionary I should say, type behavior Uh you just commit all of that to God. Remember the believers in Rome that Peter was writing to were also under the reign of Nero. It was about the same time. And they were suffering vicious persecution at the hands of Nero. But then there's a third kind of suffering. That's Christian suffering. 1 Peter 4. 16, if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf. This is the third category of suffering. And Peter says, look, if if you're suffering as a Christian, don't be ashamed of that. This is basically the same thing that Paul is saying In 2 Timothy. Timothy, don't be ashamed of me because I'm in prison. And don't you be ashamed to ever suffer for the sake of the gospel if God ever calls upon you to do that. Um you might be here and you say, you know, I don't know if I could do that. I don't know if God called upon me to have to take a stand or some kind of thing came upon me where uh it it meant that I had to suffer for the gospel. I'm not a very courageous person. I don't think that I could do that. And again, we have to remember what Paul said, according to the power of God. If God ever chooses you worthy to suffer for the gospel, you just mark it down. The power of God will carry you through that. Read the stories of Christians of old. Read Fox's book of martyrs and see how courageous ordinary believers were in the face of persecution. That's a book that's an eye-opener We're talking about just young children, uh teenagers, adults that all learned to stand firm in the face of severe persecution. Why? Because God gave them the power at that time to make that stand. I was reading about one Christian who was in prison because of his faith. He was to be burned at stake, and he was certain he would not never be able to endure the suffering. And one night he experimented with the pain by putting his finger to the uh to a candle flame. It hurt and he immediately withdrew it and he said, I will disgrace my Lord. He said, I cannot bear the pain. But when the hour came for him to die, He praised God and gave a noble witness for Jesus Christ. God gave him the power when he needed it. Now God forbid that any of us would ever face that. I'm not saying that we won't. And by the way, there are it's you know when I preach like this in America, everyone starts going to sleep. Or they give me a sympathetic smile. Oh, that could never happen to me. You know what? We're spoiled here in America. We are the exception to the rule. But you go to other countries and speak to some of the believers I have talked to. And you'll find it is very real. This kind of suffering and persecution is very, very real. But God We should be willing to suffer for the sake of the gospel because God will give us the power we needed. But here's another reason, because God has saved us by his grace. Look in verse number nine, verse number nine, what it says. who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace. Which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. What a privilege it is to be saved by the grace of God. And the emphasis in these verses is on God's grace, not our works. That's how salvation comes. We we contribute nothing to our salvation. It is God. It is all the grace of God. The Bible says, for by grace you are saved through faith, and that not of ourselves. It is a what? Gift of God. It's all the work of God and His grace in our life. Human works play no part in our salvation. It is all a work of the grace of God. And all this grace was given to us in Christ Jesus. And again in verse number nine, it wasn't according to our works, but according to what? According to his own purpose and grace which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. We are part of a great eternal plan that God determined before the world began. And God knows the end from the beginning. He has purposes for his people to accomplish his glory. And a part of that plan from the very beginning was suffering. Jesus suffered in the will of God here on earth, and all those who trust in him will also at times suffer for their faith. And so we should be willing to do it because of God's grace, his saving grace in our life. But also another reason, because Christ has defeated death. Look at verse 10. But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. You see, we should be willing to suffer because we know that Jesus abolished death. He defeated death. He's the destroyer of death. So therefore, as Christians, you know what? We should not be afraid of death. Now I'm not anxious to die. I'm not, you know, looking forward to it. I'm doing all the things I need to do to try to, you know, stay healthy and do all that Because I'm not and I'm not willing I'm not ready to be a martyr. I'm not asking to be a martyr. Um I I I want to live as long as I possibly can. I'm thinking I'm gonna make it to about a hundred, ten, twenty, maybe. I I had no idea when I'm gonna die. I could die next week. We none of us know that. That's all controlled by Almighty God, right? We do all the things that we have to do, be responsible, and yet our life is in the hands of Almighty God But when death comes as a believer, we should not fear death, because for a believer, death is the greatest day in their life Because you move from this cursed earth to eternal bliss. You are in the presence of Jesus Christ. The greatest day of your life is when you go to be in the presence of Jesus Christ. And so therefore as believers, we don't fear death. At least we shouldn't. That's not what God wants of us. Why? Because Christ has abolished it. Now all men fear death. That's characteristic of The natural man, everyone fears death. I'm just simply saying when you come to know Jesus Christ, we don't have that same fear of death anymore. Right? In fact, the Bible says in Hebrews 2. 15 that Satan uses the fear of death to keep people in bondage. I was witnessing this week to a dear lady. She is Catholic. She grew up Catholic. I was sharing the gospel with her. In the course of sharing the gospel with her, she said, I'm so scared of dying. Because I don't know where I'm going to go. I don't know where we go. And she said, I say this all the time. But for those who put their faith in Jesus Christ Jesus has defeated our last enemy, death. It's defeated. He abolished death with his own death and resurrection. Look at the word abolished in verse number 10. Um cast abolish death. That means render useless to make an operative to take the sting out of. One of my brothers used to catch bees, take out the stinger and then put all those bees in a jar. Then he used to go around showing people how brave he was, sticking his hand in a jar. Everyone thought, wow, I wouldn't stick my hand in that jar. But what they didn't know is the stinger was removed from those bees. There's nothing they could do. All they could do is buzz. They couldn't sting them. And for the believer, guess what? Christ is taking the stinger out of death. Death, all it can do is buzz, but it cannot sting us because Jesus is the destroyer of death. But also, he's the revealer of life. If you look again at verse number 10 where it says, And hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. Not only did he abolish death, but he revealed to us what true life is. He brought these things to life. He brought uh life and immortality. And what Paul means by that I think is that in the Old Testament the doctrines of eternal life and resurrection over death and the eternal state, they were kind of in shadow form in the Old Testament. There are certain passages that might re reference this, but there's not a real clear understanding of that in the Old Testament. It was kind of in the shadows, we could say, there. But in the New Testament, Jesus Christ brought all of that to light. Because now we know what happens in eternity. And now we know that we can have eternal life. Now we know that there will be a resurrection day. Immortality here in this verse means incorruptibility. This refers to the resurrection body. This present body will corrupt, it will decay, it will die, but I will get a glorified body. And the Bible says, when this mortal shall put on immortality, in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Philippians three twenty one Who shall change our vow body, that it might be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able to subdue all things unto himself And so we will get a immortal body, an incorruptible body, a glorified body. And the Bible tells us that in 1 Corinthians, this corruptible must put on incorruption, this mortal must put on immortality. And then we say, Oh death, where is thy sting? Oh grave, where is thy victory? And so these are the reasons why we need to make a decision as a Christian. to be a partaker of the afflictions of the gospel. We do that because God will give us the power to stand at the time, because God has saved us by his grace and because Jesus has defeated death. But here's the second thing. Now Paul focuses on himself. We learn here that Timothy needs to make a committed decision. Now we look at Paul, and what we learn is not being ashamed requires a confident determination. Look in verse number eleven. Whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles, for which cause I suffer these things. Nevertheless, I'm not ashamed. Now again, Paul writes these words as he's in a dark, dirty prison. And yet there he demonstrates such a confident determination. Now keep in mind the people in Ephesus had deserted Paul in his time of need. Many of them could have come to Rome to bear witness with Paul to help him out in his time, but they didn't. They were ashamed to be identified with Paul. But Paul, he's not wavering in the least. He's not wavering one bit. In fact, he's bubbling over with confidence here in the work of God. And again, again, I think Paul's pointing out to himself. He's saying, Timothy, look at me. I'm here in this prison, and yet I am not ashamed. And he's using himself as an example. This is the type of commitment that you need, Timothy. This is the type of confidence that you need to stand firm. And we see Paul's confidence in verse number Notice where he says, For which c which cause I also suffer. Notice the I. I also suffer. Then he says, I am not ashamed. Then he says, I know whom I have believed. I have committed unto him. Isn't that confidence there? He's not backing down one little bit. Where did Paul get this kind of confidence from? Well First of all, he was confident in God's calling. Again, look in verse number 11, whereunto I am appointed a preacher. The word preacher here, the Greek word is karukos, where we get the the the verb karuso and it means a herald A herald back in this day was an official messenger of the king. This was an official position. He spoke for the king. The herald did not have the opportunity, the liberty, or the privilege to put his own words in the message. He was an official representative of the king. He spoke exactly what the king wanted. He gave the king's message. And the herald of the king was to be treated with great respect. The fact that so many believers in Asia had rejected or forsaken Paul didn't matter. Paul knew that he was called as a herald of Jesus Christ. He was appointed as a messenger of Jesus Christ. It really didn't matter what other people thought. All that mattered was Paul knew his calling. He knew God had appointed him to this. And also an apostle in verse number 11. I am appointed a preacher and an apostle. And and in order to be an apostle, you had to have seen Jesus Christ after his resurrection. We're talking about an apostle of Christ. You had to see Christ with your own eyes, the resurrected Christ, and you had to be specially appointed by Christ. for that task. And Paul met both of those things because on the road to Damascus, Jesus appointed him. He saw the risen Christ. He was appointed as an apostle. In 1 Corinthians 15, Paul said, I was the last of all. I'm the least of the apostles. In other words, I'm the last of those apostles. I saw Jesus with my own eyes. I was appointed to be an apostle of Jesus Christ. And Paul understood that it was all of the grace of God. He knew that God had called him and he knew that he was God's apostle. He said, I am appointed. He was saying, look, what I'm doing now, this wasn't my idea. This was something that God did in my life. And so his confidence came from the fact that he knew that he was called by Almighty God. But also he was confident in God's Son. Look at verse number 12 again, where he says, For I know whom I had believed. And am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. The word no Oda, the idea of knowing something with certainty. Paul knew with absolute certainty. I know whom. Who's the whom there? That's Jesus Christ. Paul is absolutely certain that he knew Christ. He had firsthand intimate knowledge of Jesus Christ. The emphasis is on Christ here. I know whom I have believed. You know how salvation comes? It comes not by knowing doctrine, it comes by knowing Jesus. I'm not saying doctrine is not important, it is important. But you don't get saved by knowing doctrine. You get saved by knowing Jesus Christ, a person, by putting your faith in Christ. That's what Paul's emphasizing here I know whom I have believed, have believed, perfect tense, something that happened in the past has continuing results in the present Paul already knew Jesus in the past and it is still affecting his life even as he's there in that prison. He's still committed to Jesus Christ. And notice the rest of the phrase, and am persuaded. I'm absolutely convinced, Paul said. I know whom I have believed, I know Jesus, and I'm absolutely convinced that he is Abel, Abel Duditas He has the power. He's able to keep that. And that is a word that has a military term, which means to guard over. I know Jesus has the power to guard over and to keep what I have committed unto him. What did Paul commit to him What is he referring to here? He's referring to his own soul, his own life. Paul had deposited his own soul into the care of Jesus Christ. That's why suffering didn't bother him. He knew that the Lord, in any circumstance, was in control. And he knew that he could trust Christ with his own soul. He knew that Christ would watch over him and guard over him and would let nothing happen to him until the Lord Jesus was ready to call Paul home. It wasn't Nero that decided to c to end the life of Paul. It was Jesus that decided to call Paul home, his servant home. That was the greatest reward that this uh battle uh weathered apostle could ever have is to be called home to his reward for serving the Lord so faithfully. But Paul knew he had absolute confidence That Jesus would faithfully guard the deposit of his own life and soul into his own hands. You know what this meant? This meant that Paul knew that he couldn't lose his salvation. I feel sorry for people that think you could lose your salvation What you're basically saying is you commit your soul to God and salvation, or you commit your soul to Jesus, and He's not able to watch over you. He could maybe go to sleep and let your soul slip. Satan could come and steal you away. He's not a good guard. It's not you keeping yourself safe. It is Jesus watching over you. And if you think that Jesus will ever let one of his own be to perish or be destroyed or be taken from him. No, that's why we can't lose our salvation because Jesus is the one who's watching over our soul. He's guarding us. And I got news for you. There is nothing that any evil person in this world can do to you unless the Lord and his sovereign wisdom allows it. He is guarding and watching over you. Jesus said the very hairs of your head are numbered. And by the way, when he said that, that was Matthew chapter 10. That was right after he said to his disciples, Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. You're going to go out there, you're going to get persecuted, but just know this the very hairs of your head are numbered. And no one can do anything to you unless God in his sovereign wisdom allows it. And even in that, God has a purpose in all of it. And so Paul knew that he could trust Jesus to guard over his own soul because he committed it He committed his soul to God. And by the way, that's the same thing Jesus did when he was tried and crucified. 1 Peter 2. 23. Who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously. Here is Jesus himself committing his soul to the Father. During that time of trial and crucifixion. And Paul's doing exactly the same thing here with his own soul. Again, our security comes from the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul said, I know whom I have believed, and I know that he's able to keep what I've committed unto him against that day. What day is he talking about here? He's referring to the day when Paul's rewarded for his service. And later Paul will refer to that day. Look at 2 Timothy four. Look down at verse number 8. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me at that day. That same day there. What is day is he talking about? It's a day when believers will stand before the judgment seat of God, the Bimus seat, and we will be rewarded for the things that we did. We'll be judged for our works and rewarded for All of our works. Remember Paul referred to this in 1 Corinthians 3. 13. Every man's work shall be manifest, for the day shall declare it. It'll be revealed by fire. Fire shall try every man's works. whether it be gold, silver, precious stones, or wood, hay, and stubble. That is, God will try all the works that we do here and the things that we honestly do for God's glory with the right motive and the right service. That is what will survive the fire, the trying fire of heaven. I've often said, I'm not afraid of the fires of hell. I'm going to heaven. I'm afraid of the fires of heaven. I want to make sure that my works are right before God and that I get a good reward. Paul said we all must appear before the judgment seat of Christ. So he was confident And Jesus Christ, but also he was confident in God's word. Look at verse 13. Notice what it says. Hold fast. The form of sound words which thou hast heard of me in faith and love, which is in Christ Jesus. And so here Paul is absolutely confident in the truth revealed in God's word. And he's saying, Timothy, you need to hold fast. What was committed to you? The things that you heard from me. I heard them from the Lord. God gave them to me, and now I'm committing them to you. And you need to hold fast. That means to seize, to grab by your with your hand and hold on to. Um I think I may have told you before one time I was in London I visited Spirit College and they had there on the stained glass window the motto of their college, it's a hand holding on to the cross. With a Latin phrase under it, um et eteno et tenere, which means basically I hold and am held And it's the idea. You hold on to the cross. You cling to the cross, which is holding on to the message of the gospel. It's holding on to Christ. And as you hold on to the cross, guess what? He'll hold on to you I hold and am held. He's holding on to me. If I hold forth the cross, Christ will take care of me. That was the motto of Spurgeon's College. I hold and am held. And it's what Paul's saying here to Timothy. Timothy, hold forth the form of sound words. Sound words here is a word that simply means the pattern. It's like an architect's sketch. The outline of the of doctrine and truth. Timothy has been given a pattern, a blueprint, given by Paul of truth, and he's saying, stay within those boundaries, stay within the blueprint of truth that I have given you. And the truth is. outlined here in the Word of God. You have to hold to that. You have to fight for it. This is sound doctrine. How do we know the doctrine is sound? Well because it'll lead to spiritual health. When sound doctrine is preached, it leads to genuine spiritual health for the believer. And that's what the role of the pastor is to do, to preach the truth of God's word, so it will bring spiritual growth and health. But also, we know it's solid doctrine because it came from the apostles. It's apostolic doctrine. Paul says, Timothy, hold on to what I have taught you. Paul is an apostle had received the revealed word of God. Everything that he gave Timothy was inspired from God, the Word of God. And Timothy was to hold on to that very carefully. So let me give you the last thing here. From Timothy, we learned not being ashamed requires a committed decision. From Paul, we learned that not being ashamed requires a confident determination. But then Onociphoris is the next person here, and we learn that not being ashamed requires a courageous devotion. I want you to see one of the unsung heroes of the faith. in these verses. We don't hear much about them. This is really the only only place that Onocephorus is mentioned in all the Bible right here in 2 Timothy. But look down at verse number 14 and notice what it says. That good thing which was committed unto thee by the Holy Spirit, Holy Ghost, which dwelleth in us, verse 15, this thou knowest that all they that are are with are are in Asia be turned away from me of whom is Phigelus and Hermogenes. The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onocephorus, for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain But when he was in Rome he sought me out very diligently and found me. The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy at of the Lord in that in that day. And and how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus thou knowest very well. Again, this is the only time he's mentioned in Scripture he appears very briefly on the stage of God's Word. And point Paul points to him as a very heroic man, an example of someone who was not ashamed of the gospel. He was not ashamed of Paul while others were Onocipherus was not ashamed. Paul said he was not ashamed of my shame. In fact, he says he off refreshed me. Don't you love people that are refreshing? Christians that are refreshing that minister? This is what Onocephorus was to Paul. He went to Rome seeking Paul. If he started an Ephesus, that's a long journey. And while everyone else was trying to get out of Rome, because remember what's going on in Rome? Persecution. Nero is persecuting Christians. So if you're a Christian living in Rome, what are you trying to do? Trying to get out of there You certainly don't want to be identified with Paul, someone whose head is on the chopping block, he's going to die at any time And people were leaving him. Paul said, you know, all in Asia had forsaken me. He was pretty much by himself. And here's this one guy, Onocephorus. Well, other one is going one way. He's going the exact opposite. He's going to see Paul. He's going to go minister to Paul. It's an incredible thing. It's a brave thing for him to do. He deliberately went into this dangerous situation to track down Paul because he heard that Paul, his beloved friend, the spiritual leader, was in great need And Paul is pointing to him, saying, Timothy, you know this guy. You know Onociphorus. Remember him? He has off refreshed me. And the word refresh here means to cool again. To to like fresh air That's the way the Amplified Bible translates this. Again, thank God for Christians who are breath of fresh air in our hours of darkness and trial. He's someone that was not ashamed of the gospel. So not being ashamed of the gospel requires a courageous devotion. May God keep us like him. May we have that same kind of courage. And Paul says God's going to reward him on that day. Remember that same day that Paul was talking about when he will get his reward? Paul's praying that, you know, he knows God will reward him also on that day. Because of his ministry. So really, in one sentence, the Bible writes the biographies of Phigellus and Hermogenes. They turned away from Paul in his time of need. Whether because of fear or intimidation or embarrassment or selfish motives, we really don't know. They didn't minister to Paul, they ran away from him. In another sentence, the Bible writes the biography of Odecephorus, where he says, he often refreshed me, was not ashamed of my change. You know what this makes me want to ask, how would the Bible write my biography in one sentence? How would the Bible write your biography in one sentence? Are you someone who's not ashamed of the gospel? Or are you unashamed? Are you willing to make a decision to suffer affliction for the sake of the gospel if God called upon you to do that? Are you willing to make that commitment to Christ and the gospel? Will you pray tonight that God will make you always unashamed? Unashamed of the gospel. Unashamed of Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. Just take a moment and think about the word that you heard tonight. And just ask God to give you that kind of holy boldness. That kind of confidence, that kind of courage to never be ashamed of Christ or the gospel. It requires a committed decision on your part. Paul said, Timothy, be thou a partaker. Of the afflictions of the gospel. Just decide. It doesn't matter what happens. And that decision will be tested so it will take determination on your part. And a courageous devotion. In a world that makes light of the Word of God that makes light of Christ Blasphemes the name of Christ, blasts at the gospel. We need Christians who are unashamed. Father, thank you for the grace that saved us. For the call that you placed in our life. That was all of you. Who are we, Lord, that you would by your grace save us? Thank you, Lord, that we have a Savior who conquered and abolished death and has given us life and immortality. Lord, how could we ever be ashamed of the gospel? How can we ever be ashamed of what Christ has done for us? So Father, make us strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus, always for your honor and for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.