Take your Bibles, open to Romans chapter one. Tonight, Romans chapter one. I just want to just touch on this chapter here tonight with you, Romans. And uh I want to talk about Just being ready to serve the Lord. And this is what really Paul's talking about here in Romans, Romans chapter 1. I want to deal with Lord Willie, verses 1 to 16. I heard Adrian Rogers say several times that if he were stranded on an island and he can only have one book, he would take the Bible. But if he could only have one book in the Bible, he would take the book of Romans. Because this is a book that I think is the sum and substance of really all the theology of the Bible And so it's a such an important book for us to know and to understand the basic message of it. A notebook in history, I think, has been as instrumental in changing lives as the Bible. But I think no book in the Bible has been as instrumental in changing lives as the book of Romans. Martin Lloyd Jones said this. He said the epistle to Romans has possibly played a more important and crucial part in the history of the church than any other book in the whole of The Bible. And I think that perhaps uh he he's right about this. I think that the Book of Romans often said this is the nearest thing that we have in the Bible to a systematic theology. What do I mean by that? Well a systematic theology just takes one topic and tells you what the whole Bible has to say about that topic. You know when you study systematic theology Uh you don't have to be afraid of it. Again, because of that very simple reason. If if it takes a topic like the topic of sin, uh we consider what the whole Bible has to say about that one topic of sin. That's different from biblical theology where biblical theology says, what does this one book have to say about it? Or what what does uh this time of redemptive history have to say about this one topic Whereas systematic theology looks at the Bible as a whole. And really, when you look at the book of Romans, really Paul goes through one topic after another, all these topics related to the gospel itself. He pulls in verses from all over the Old Testament. And gives you really an understanding of what that the Bible has to say about the one the several topics that he deals with. And so this is a very, very important book with reference to the gospel. And again, this is a book that's been used to change many lives. Just consider a few uh men who've been changed by the book of Romans. We uh one of the greatest theologians of of the church uh was a man by the name of Augustine. He had distinguished himself as a brilliant young man with great academic success. But he was not persuaded about Christianity. In fact, uh although he had a godly mother who prayed for his salvation, he turned his back on Christianity. And he lived a very licentious life. And not only that, he studied uh pagan philosophy. He gave himself to the exposition of pagan philosophy. He was a very very brilliant young man and so uh people looked up to him because of that but his mother just continued to pray for him And she agonized in prayer over him. And one day, while Augustine was in Italy and Milan, he was visiting a friend. He happened to be in his friend's garden sitting on a bench Right next to him on the bench was a Bible. That Bible happened to be open to the book of Romans. There were some children playing in that garden and they were playing a game, you know, like children do And they were saying in the game a little song pick up and read, pick up and read. Here he is sitting in the garden There's the Bible next to him. Children are singing a song, pick up and read. So what does Augustine do? He picks up the Bible and he begins to read. And guess where he reads? He reads out of the book of Romans Where it says, talking about, don't live a life of immorality, of debauchery, of drunkenness, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ. And at that moment, Augustine was seized with conviction. And he did put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and Augustine was gloriously saved. And he became one of the brilliant minds in the early church. He was impacted by his reading of Romans. And then of course there's the story of Martin Luther. We all know the story of this tortured monk who was trying to find peace in his soul, and he was trying to obey the law of God, he was trying to confess his sins He was an Augustinian monk at a monastery, and when he would go to confession, he would spend six hours one day in confession. And uh and then he would go back the next day and spend another six hours of confessing sin uh to the priest in the uh in the uh confession booth. And pretty soon his superiors thought that Martin Luther was just trying to get out of work because he was spending so much time in confession. After all, how much trouble can you get into in a monastery? He would go from six hours one day, six hours the next, but he was not trying to get out of work. He was tortured in his soul. And someone said, Martin Luther, you must love God. He said, love God. He said, I hate God. He said, we have a God who gives us a law that we cannot obey and then threatens us with eternal punishment because we're not able to obey his laws. And he was trying to find peace with God. And he did everything he could think of. And his superiors thought, we'll just send them to Rome. And he went on a pilgrimage to that holy city of Rome. But it only got worse because he saw the corruption of the priesthood. And uh he saw people there in Rome uh go going up the Santa Scalia, the holy stairs, trying to find peace with God. He saw people buying indulgences, trying to find rest for their soul And it only got worse. Finally, the his superior said, Well, you know what? Let's just give him a book to study of the Bible. That will consume his time. And you know what book they assigned him to study? The book of Romans. That was the assignment given to him. Martin Luther studied Romans. And Martin Luther did study Romans. And of course, you know the story when he got to Romans 1:17. That one expression, the just shall live by faith He said that when he learned the understanding that our righteousness, the righteousness that we need, is not our righteousness, it's a righteousness provided for us in Christ Jesus, and we receive that righteousness by faith The just shall live by faith. And Martin Luther said, when I came to that verse, he said, I felt like I entered the vestibule of heaven. Because finally He found peace. It was gloriously simple. It was simply glorious that you're saved by faith in Christ. And peace came to his soul. And so this book of Romans transformed the life of Martin Luther. And then there's a story of a young missionary on May the twenty-fourth, seventeen thirty-eight, a discouraged missionary, went very unwillingly to a religious meeting in London and there something special took place. And he later wrote this in his journal. He said about a quarter before nine I felt my heart strangely warmed. And then he said this, I felt I did trust in Christ and Christ alone for salvation. And an assurance was given me that he had taken away my sins, even mine, and saved me from the law of sin and death You know who that missionary was? That missionary was named John Wesley. And the message that he heard that evening was someone reading the introduction to Martin Luther's commentary on Romans. Now just a few months before John Wesley had written in his journal, I went to America to convert the Indians, but who shall convert me? He wanted to be used of God, but he himself had not been converted by faith. And that experience that he had that evening, which has later been called the Alders Gate. street experience that church was there on that street and by the way you can go still see that place there and I've been by that very church there. and saw that place that John Wesley talked about where his life was transformed and God used John Wesley in a great way to bring many people into the kingdom of God. God used Martin Luther God used the life of Augustine to bring many people into the kingdom of God, all because they read from this powerful book of Romans. And so this book has been used in our church, in a church history, in powerful ways. Now A revival has come from the study of Romans. This letter written by Paul when Paul was in Corinth on his third missionary journey in about 56 A. D. And this letter was carried to the Christians at Rome by a deaconess at the church at Sancria. Her name was Phoebe, in fact, look in Romans chapter 16 and look at verse number 1, just to kind of introduce this to you. Look in Romans 16:1. Paul said, I commend unto you Phoebe, our sister. which is a servant of the church, which is at Centria, that ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh saints, that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you For she has been a succor of many and of myself also. And so uh really the book of Romans kind of served as a letter of recommendation. It was delivered to the saints at the church at Rome by Phoebe, this deaconess, this woman. And I think that she had come to Paul and said, Paul, will you give me a letter of recommendation? And Paul says, Of course I will. And he writes this book of Romans. What a letter of recommendation, right? But he had really two purposes in this. Paul wanted to introduce the gospel that he preached to the church at Rome At the same time, giving a letter of recommendation to this young woman who wanted to serve the Lord there. And also Paul was recommending himself. to the church at Rome. He wanted them to know the very gospel that he preached. You know why? Because Paul wanted this church to help him. Paul's desire was to launch out, sharing the gospel in regions beyond. He had already evangelized one quadrant of the east side of the Mediterranean, and now he wanted to launch out into the west side And just like Antioch had been a base, a home base for him to help him on his missionary journeys, he needed another church, he needed another home base that would help him as he shared the gospel in the regions beyond, and he hoped That the church at Rome would be that church that would support him, that would be his base, that would be his center, so he can carry the gospel farther. to places that had never heard the gospel before. It'd kind of be like this, you know, when we bring missionaries in here, we don't just take a missionary based on uh someone that we've never known before. What if someone that we've never met before came to the church and said, Look, I want you to support me and the work that I'm going to do. You know what we would say? We can't do that until we know the gospel that you preach. We want to know what you believe. We want to know who recommends you. We want to know your background. And it's the same here with Paul. Paul says, look, I want you to help me. I want you to support me. And so, what I want you to see is my gospel. You want to know what I preach? Here's the gospel that I preach. And that's what he gives here in the book of Romans. Paul, in a way, is presenting himself. and his message to a church that really didn't know him that well. So, but I want you to notice the key verse. Look in verse number 15 of chapter 1. So much as is in me I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. I love the way that reads. So much As is in me, I am ready, Paul says. Can you say that about yourself? We say it like this with all my heart. I'm ready. With all my heart, I'm ready to serve the Lord, to preach the gospel, to be used of Him. I love that passion, don't you? I think all of us should have that. With all my heart, I'm ready, Lord. I'm ready to preach the gospel. So, with that in mind, I wanted you to see four reasons here In the book of Romans, why Paul was so ready. And I want us to learn from this, and I hope this encourages our own heart to share that same passion to be used of God to share his word. Here's number one I want you to see the credentials he presented. Number one, the credentials he presented. Look in verse number one of chapter one. Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ. Called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God. And there in that first verse, Paul is presenting himself. First of all, he says, I'm a servant And that's the word that we know, the word dulos, which is basically the Greek word for slave. That word is always used to speak about a slave. Now uh we've used the word bondservant, but really there's no such thing as a bondservant. It's really a slave And Paul says, I am the slave of the Lord Jesus. And Jesus is my master. He is my owner You know, slavery has a bad connotation, and that's for good reason. But friend, you know what's not bad? It's not bad to be a slave of Jesus. Because he's a good master. And Paul says, you know what? He's my Lord, I'm his slave, I've been set free by him, and I'm going to serve him. So I'm a slave to Jesus. But also he says, I'm called to be an apostle. of the Lord Jesus. Now, something about this word apostle just simply means someone who is sent. And really there's two stages to being an apostle. First of all You are a disciple of Jesus. So you remember this morning we talked about that. The word disciple just is methakos, is really where we get the word math, and it means a learner. And you just uh back in Jesus' day, rabbis would uh walk. Remember when Jesus called out to the disciples, he said, Follow me. And there's a literal application to that because really what a disciple would do is just follow the rabbi all around and they would walk and teach and Jesus would walk from town to town and they would follow Jesus and as he was walking they would teach him A lot of the doctrine and theology and parables that the disciples learned that they were supposed to commit to memory all happened while Jesus was walking, and they were following him and learning from him But there got to be a point in time when Jesus said, okay, you're no longer disciples, now you are my apostles, which means sent out ones. You see, first you have to come and learn. Jesus said, learn of me. And when you've learned of him, then you're sent by him. And that's what the word apostle means. One who is sent An official person sent by someone in authority, and of course that's the Lord Jesus. Now, one of the controversies that arose in the early church was when Paul became an apostle. He didn't know Christ during his earthly ministry. And so many people began to question Paul whether he was truly an apostle of God. And Paul Although he didn't meet Jesus during Jesus' earthly ministry, he did meet the Lord Jesus. We know on the road to Damascus, when Jesus came, he was transformed by the living Savior And Jesus personally commissioned Paul. So that's why we see in the New Testament so many times the Apostle Paul defending his apostleship. Defending his calling. And he pointed out in Galatians that he was affirmed by Jesus Himself. He said, I wasn't sent by men, I was sent by the Lord Jesus. And the message that I have is not of man, is not after man. This is the gospel that Jesus gave to me as his apostle. So he was a servant of Christ. He was an apostle, but notice where it says he was separated unto the gospel. That is to say, the gospel was Paul's whole life. He was completely, utterly devoted to the spread of the gospel. And like I say, here in this book of Romans, he's going to give his great treaties on the gospel. So there is number one, the credentials he presented. Then write down number two, the Christ he proclaimed. Look at verse four. And declared to be actually verse three concerning his son Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David, according to the flesh. declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of Holiness, by the resurrection from the dead. And Paul's whole gospel centered on the person of Jesus Christ. Paul says, first of all, he's the Messiah. He is the Christ. This is affirmed in the Old Testament and prophecies of the Old Testament. He is the Lord. It's the Greek word is kurios. The Greek form of the Hebrew word Adonai, the sovereign one. He is the son of David. He was born of the Virgin, Mary. Was the son of the seed of David according to the flesh. That was simply he was a physical descendant. And here Paul emphasizes the humanity of Christ. He was genuinely human, a man, but then also the Son of God, he says in verse 4, declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of Holiness. What evidence is there that he's the Son of God? Very simply, the resurrection from the dead. That was God's powerful way to say Christ is his son. So there is, first of all, the credentials that Paul presents. that he present presented. There is the Christ he proclaimed. But I want you to write down number three, there is the church he pursued. Look at verse 7. To all that be in Rome. Beloved of God, called to be saints, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 8. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ For you all, that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. Now, another reason for Paul's eagerness is that he had been praying for the people at Rome, the church at Rome. He had been planning a visit to Rome. He wanted to go there, as I said, to set up a, hopefully, if they would receive him, a missionary base to launch out. And notice his praise for the church in verse 7. He calls them beloved. That's just a warm way to address them. He calls them saints, sanctified ones set apart. And he says in verse 8 that their faith is being reported all over the world, and Paul praises them for their faith. Now, Rome was the center of the world. Many people came through the city, and they would learn of this community of Christians and tell people wherever they went. They would say, God's doing something there in Rome. There's a church there. And these are godly people, and God's doing a work because there were Jews and Gentiles that came together there in the church. You know, the gospel of Jesus Christ is really the only thing that brings true unity into this world. You know that? True unity. You know, when we were uh this week we went to a pastor's conference. And uh it was in Kentucky at Answers in Genesis. It's a wonderful ministry. I don't know if you've ever heard of Answers in Genesis. But they brought pastors in. It was really an apologetics conference. And it was designed to make us aware of some of the challenges that we face now with this new generation. And I want to say something, friend, now that we uh you know we we have the Word of God, we know that we have the truth, uh we believe in uh a creator. who created in six days, we b I I'm personally uh uh without apology a young earth creationist. When I hear people talk about billions of years, it's ridiculous. If you really take the Bible literally and look in the Bible, we've only been around around six thousand years. If you look and read the Bible literally in the book of Genesis, but there's all this evolutionary thought. That theologians have been intimidated by these scientists, and there's all these attempts to try to fit evolution into the Bible, which is utterly, utterly ridiculous to me. You either believe that God created or you don't, one or the other. But the whole idea was that we need to be prepared for this new generation questioning Everything. And when we share the gospel now, there was a time where you could start in the New Testament thinking that everyone believed that there was a God. But you know, nowadays you've got to go back farther than that Because we can't assume that people just believe there's a God. They're questioning the Creator. And we have to practice what is called creation evangelism where we start all the way at the beginning because friend if there's no creator as some people believe of course we know there is But if they don't believe there's a creator, then there's no need for a savior. The same God who created is also our Redeemer. And so we were challenged with all these things this week, but one of the things that stood out to me, and of course I said this often, is that If you believe the Bible literally, and we do, there's only one race. You understand that? There's only one race. This whole idea of race is plural, that's an evolutionary thought It comes straight out of evolution. But friend, if you believe the Bible, there's no such thing as race is plural. There's only one race. That's the human race. We all descended from our Father Adam. And friend, it's the word of God and the gospel that reaffirms that message and brings true unity to the church. And friend, this is a message that the world needs to hear today. We're living in a day when there's all kinds of division, when there's all kinds of racism going on, and what the world needs to see is a church where there's absolute unity and love Because we stand on the Word of God. We stand on the gospel. Every person was created in the image of God. And to be racist is an attack against God Himself. Because that's what the Bible teaches, you see. But that's the message that brings unity. And here in Rome, you know what the ancient world saw? They saw a church of Jews and Gentiles together in a church, loving one another And total fellowship and total harmony. And you know what that was? That was a message to the rest of the world. And so Paul says here That he praises them. He says that your faith is spoken of throughout all the world. People are coming by and they're seeing the power of the gospel in your life And they're they're talking about it all over. By the way, do people see the power of the gospel in our lives, in the life of our church? Do they see that? And so Paul praises this church. But then notice not only his praise for this church, verse 7, but his prayer for this church. Look at verse nine. For God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of the Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my Prayer. And Paul here uses the language of an oath before God. God is my witness. I pray for you. You ever have someone say, Well, I'm praying for your brother? And you kind of wonder if they're really praying for you. You know. Well, you didn't have to wonder that with Paul. Paul says, look, God is my witness. I am praying for you. And I think Paul strikes me as someone who had a really long prayer list. Because if you go through the New Testament, you see how many times Paul said, I'm praying for you, and I'm praying for you, and I'm praying for you. He was praying for people all over the ancient world. And uh when Paul said it, he meant it. But Paul said to this church, I am praying for you, this church. And look in verse number 10, making request, if at by any means, now at length, I might have a prosperous journey by the will of God to come unto you. Now, one of the things that Paul was praying for was the opportunity to go to the to the church at Rome. He wanted to go there and he was praying for God To give an open door so he could go there to Rome. But back up in verse 9, he said, For God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel. Paul said, With all my spirit I serve in the gospel. And I want to come to you, I'm praying for God to give me an open door Because again, his passion was the gospel. His passion was to share the gospel more. And he needed help from all these others. And so he's praying for this. So we see his praise for this church, we see his prayer for this church. But notice his purpose for this church. Look down in verse number 11. For I long to see you That I may impart unto you some spiritual gift to the end that you might be established. Now, again, there are several reasons for Paul wanting to come to this church, and one is edification. Paul said, I want to impart to you some spiritual gift. Now, Paul's not bragging here about being gifted. He knows that God is the one who gives us our spiritual gifts. And our spiritual gifts are not for us to brag, it's really for us to share with others, to help others, to edify others. Notice he says that you might be established. The idea there is simply to make them strong. Now this church was probably going through persecution. Remember we studied 1 Peter, the church at Rome had gone through persecution, and no doubt. They were experiencing some of it here. And they were struggling and they needed to be strengthened. And Paul said, I want to come and I want to share my spiritual gift because I know that this will help establish you. He wanted them to grow spiritually He wanted them to grow numerically to share his gift. So there was edification, but also encouragement. Look in verse number 12. This is that I may be comforted together with you by the mutual faith both of you and me. So encouragement. And the word comforted is a combination of two Greek words, soon, meaning with. Paraclete, meaning comforter, to comfort together. And Paul would be blessed by them as well as he Being a blessing to them. It's kind of a mutual thing when you're serving. You're an encouragement to others. They are an encouragement to you. And then another reason is evangelism. Look in verse number 13. Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I purposed to come unto you, but was led hitherto. That I might have some fruit among you, also even as among the Gentiles. So he wanted to come also for the purpose of seeing more people come to know the Lord. And the fruit here refers to new converts. He wanted new people to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ In fact, again, go to Romans 15. Let me just show you this. Go back to Romans 15 and look at verse 22. Because again, it describes Paul's plans as he's coming to this church. Look at verse twenty-two of chapter fifteen. For which cause also I've been hindered from coming to you. Paul wanted to come before. Perhaps the people in Rome were wondering why why hasn't Paul visited us already? And Paul says, I try to, but I've been hindered. But now verse 23, but now having no more place in these parts, and having a great desire these many years to come unto you. Whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you, for I trust to see you in my journey, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you. At first I be somewhat filled with your company, but now I go unto Jerusalem to minister unto the saints. For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make certain contributions for the poor saints which are at Jerusalem. It has pleased them verily in their Debtors they are, for if the Gentiles have been made partakers of spiritual things, their duty is also to minister unto them in carnal things. And so here we kind of get an idea of Paul's plans, don't we? Paul planned to visit three places. First, he wanted to go to Jerusalem. Now, why did Paul want to go there? Because Paul had been traveling around. This is his third missionary journey. And what is he doing? He's going to these Gentile churches. He's collecting a big love offering Why? He's going to give it to the saints in Jerusalem. They're struggling. Jerusalem was a poor church. They had sold their goods and laid them at the apostles' feet, using the money to help some of the poor saints there, but after a while they were running out of money. They need his help from the outside. And so the Apostle Paul goes to these Gentile churches. He takes this big love offering. And he plans to go to Jerusalem and present this offering to the saints that are there. Then Paul says, I want to come there to you at Rome. And if you'll receive me in and you'll help me onward, that's the whole idea there, is you know, I want you to help me because my desire is to go out onto Spain from there. Kind of to the church he's going, hint, hint, hint, you want to help me out here? I want to come to you. I want you to receive me, and I want you to help me launch out. I want to go to Spain. And I want to preach the gospel where it hasn't been preached before. You see, that was Paul's gift Paul would go where the gospel had never been proclaimed. He didn't build on another man's foundation. He would basically, as a pioneer missionary, he would go to places where no one else has gone. And he would lay the foundation of the gospel. He had already completed one phase in the northeastern quadrant of the Mediterranean. Now he wants to go to the northwest. And um when he says having no more place in these parts, that's what he meant, verse 20. I've been to all the major places here. He would go to the major cities, and now I want to go to another place. And so this really is a letter where he's also recommending himself. And he's giving out, again, the whole book of Romans is the sum of the gospel. A treatise of the gospel. And really, it's all about God's righteousness, God revealing his righteousness. Go back to chapter 1 and look at verse 17. This is the key verse of the whole book of Romans. Chapter 1, verse 17, for therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. And there's the whole theme right there. God's righteousness revealed. The gospel, although it does many things, one of the key things that it does is it reveals the righteousness of God. And that's the theme. So we could say it like this. In chapters 1 to 3, Paul speaks about sin that's God's righteousness provoked. And he speaks about the wrath of God. being revealed against unrighteousness. Paul starts the gospel with the doctrine of sin. Because if you don't understand sin, you'll never understand salvation. If you don't understand how man is lost, you'll never know how to bring him to faith through salvation. So sin chapters 1 through 3, that's God's righteousness provoked. Salvation, that's chapters four through six. That's God's righteousness provided. And there he lays out the whole gospel, the whole message of justification. Sanctification, chapters seven to eight, that's God's righteousness perfected. Where Paul tells us how we are being conformed to the image of Christ, how we need to understand this doctrine of sanctification. That's what God's doing in your life, that's what he's doing in my life, he's doing this work Of perfecting us. And then chapters 9 through 11, sovereignty. That's God's righteousness planned. Chapters 12 to 16, service, that's God's righteousness practiced. It's all about God's righteousness revealed. And this is his message. Now let me give you the last thing, and we're done, because we're out of time. Write down number four, I want you to see the confidence he portrayed. We saw the credentials he presents, the Christ he procla uh proclaims. We see the church that he pursues, but now the confidence he portrayed. Look at verse 14 again. I am a debtor. Now, really, we see three I am statements. First of all, I am a debtor Both to the Greeks, to the barbarians, to the wise, and to the unwise. So much is in me, I'm ready to preach the gospel. First of all, he says, I'm a debtor. Paul felt an overwhelming obligation to share the gospel. That's what provoked him. Do you feel that obligation, friend? I think if we're we're not careful as Christians, we lose that. The fact that God in His grace Came to us through whatever means, whatever person, and opened our eyes to see the beauty of Christ. And now that we're saved, there should with that come an obligation, a sense of debt. To share that gospel to others. So Paul said, I'm a debtor. And then he said, I'm ready in verse 15. It's the idea of being thoroughly prepared. And then he says in verse 16, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is the power of God and the salvation to everyone that believes. What a great verse. The gospel is the power of God. Do you have confidence in that? Paul has total confidence in the power of the gospel. Do you have that confidence? You know what I'm afraid is sometimes I wonder if churches and pastors have that confidence in the gospel. We kind of feel like we need to help the gospel out doing all these things. There are so many programs out there that are unworthy of the gospel. It's almost like we feel like we need to tone the gospel down or help it out or market it. and all those things because that's a lack of confidence in the message of the gospel. Paul is absolutely, totally confident in the power. You know what we need to do? We just need to unleash it. The only way that the gospel fails is if we fail to share it. That's the only way it fails. And so we have to have the same confidence that Paul had. It's like I've said before, the power is not necessarily in the man, it's in the message. It's in the message. Remember, I told you before I was in Africa and I was going up to Ghana in this region, the upper Volta region, going through all these villages, sharing the gospel. I preached the same sermon in every village I had a translator. His name was Elijah. That wasn't his real name, but that's the name he took. Called himself Elijah. It's a good name. And uh well I went to twenty-three villages in in three days, and everywhere I went I just preached the bacon basic simple gospel. And after going to about half of those villages, I started getting tired, I'll be honest with you. And I said to Elijah, Elijah, you know what I'm saying, right? He goes, Oh yes. I said, now, he's already translated this sermon for me about 15 times So he knew it. I said, look, do you need me or can you do this by yourself? He said, I can do it. I said, all right, well then you do it. And I unleashed him. And I'm telling you, he he preached it much better than I did. I mean he he looked like he was fighting a beehive there. He was so happy And he was preaching to the people in their own language. And you know what happened? You know, when I preach the gospel through your life, you know what happened? People got saved. But when Elijah preached the gospel himself without me, you know what happened? People got saved. Just as many, if not more. You know what, friend? The power is in the message itself. If we just unleash it. And Paul, that's why Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. It is the power of God. And then Paul goes to explain this wonderful gospel message that we have. And I call the church today to have absolute confidence. and the power of this gospel. And let's get busy sharing it. That's what this world needs. They need to hear the power of the gospel of Christ. Let's bow together for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, as we come before you, we are so thankful that we have in the gospel the message that the world needs to hear. Truly, this is good news. Truly, it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believes. And Lord, I pray that if there's someone here tonight that's not believed, That tonight they would make that decision to come to Christ, to put their faith in the risen Christ, the one who took their sins upon himself on the cross. Who bore, just like we sang in the song tonight, bore the wrath of God for us. That wrath that should have fallen upon us fell on Christ. And salvation is now a gift, bought and paid for by the precious blood of Christ, by his sacrificial death. And Father, I pray that for someone here tonight that's never believed on the Christ, that tonight would be that night. And friend, with your heads bowed, I don't want to embarrass you, but I want to invite you to place your faith in the risen Christ if you haven't done that Very simply, you can be saved right where you are. By just praying, saying, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, and I know you died for me. Lord Jesus, come into my heart, save me, and make me your child. Come into my heart. And friend, if you'll pray that and mean it. You become a child of God today, right now, right where you are, immediately. He will save you. He will cleanse you from your sins. He will give you an eternal home in heaven. Anyone here say that's my prayer preacher? I want to trust Christ tonight. Anybody here per chance? If you want to talk to us, we'll be here afterwards to talk to you. And again, the challenge is to us As a church, I believe more than ever we need to be busy about sharing this gospel more than ever to the people around us And friend, I pray that God will lay that on your heart. That we'll all leave here as evangelists. With this powerful message. Father, speak to hearts and use this to challenge us. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.