I invite you where you are to take your Bibles and open please to the Old Testament book of First Kings, chapter 19. As you know on Wednesday nights we've been going through this this uh book. And we are in the part where we're dealing with the life of Elijah. Elijah the prophet. And tonight we're going to look at chapter 19. And I want to just read a few verses for you as we get into our message tonight. Chapter 19, look down in verse number four. But he himself, this is talking about Elijah, he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree. And requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my father's Have you ever uttered those words? I've had enough, Lord. It may be that some of you have uttered those very words today. I think if we're honest, we would have to say that all of us at one point and another in our life have gotten to the place where we've kind of said something similar to that. I've had enough or I can't take it anymore or I've had it up to here Where I'm at the end of my robe. If you said those words, you're not alone. We just read that one of the greatest prophets in the Old Testament said the very same thing. What's remarkable about this is that these words were uttered by Elijah right after Incredible Victory, where he saw the power of God on Mount Carmel. If you've been with us in our study, you know that on Mount Carmel, God used the prophet Elijah to call down fire from heaven. And God's uh took the altar that Elijah had prepared and consumed it with fire to prove to all the people that of Israel that were there that he is the true God. And right after that the prophets of Baal were executed. You would expect that there this tremendous um show of God's power would bring revival all over the nation of Israel, and it would also really cause Elijah to be filled with joy. But we're surprised to see that here he is alone in the wilderness under a juniper tree, and he's depressed. As one commentator wrote, It is not well with Elijah's soul. The prophet has descended into the blackness of spiritual despair. Even to the point to where he prayed, and we saw in verse number four where he said, Oh Lord, take away my life. This is a great man of God battling depression, even to the point where you could say that he was suicidal, where he said, Oh God, take my life. Now, if a great prophet like Elijah was not immune to depression, certainly you and I are not As a matter of fact, John W. Stodd, a great Bible expositor, said regarding Christians, he said the two chief occupational hazards for believers are depression and discouragement. Some of God's greatest servants you'll find in Scripture were not immune to depression. They got depressed. They got down. In the Old Testament, Moses got depressed, and he asked God to kill him. Jonah at the end of the book of Jonah did the same thing. He was very depressed. The Apostle Paul, the New Testament, talked of despairing even of life. Charles Spurgeon, one of the great preachers of the modern church era, perhaps the greatest who lived in that time, he had seasons of depression that were crippling. where he just couldn't get out of bed. And here we see this great prophet Elijah, and he's having a bout with depression as well. Well God puts things like this in Scripture for us for our benefit so we can learn things from it because as we live in this world, certainly you and I are also going to battle with being down, with being depressed. So I want us to look at this narrative and hopefully we can learn some things about depression that will help us. And really there are two basic steps that we want to look at here in this narrative. The first one is simply diagnosing the cause of depression and dealing with depression in your life. The first thing that we need to do is to find out what is causing this. Why am I depressed? The psalmist asks this question in Psalm 42, verse 5. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? He was talking to himself there and asking himself, why are you so down? Why are you so depressed? Well, there are several reasons for this that we can look at in the life of Elijah. First of all, there could depression is a result of sometimes of physical causes. Sometimes it could be just physically we are exhausted Now think about that. Elijah certainly had to be exhausted. If you look at this whole narrative, he had just had a confrontation with the prophets of Baal, Mount Carmel. Right after that, the Bible says he traveled Uh he went to Jezreel. Jezreel was 18 miles. You remember in the narrative, he ran. In fact, he ran ahead of the horse and chariot. that King Ahab was riding. So that was a quite a marathon that he ran. And he beat J um Ahab to the city of Jezreel. Then after that he ran ninety miles to Beersheba in the south. This is where he is, right here. So you could imagine all that way, and then later on he's going to run another three hundred miles down to Mount Horeb that's farther south. So in all toll, I mean he's running uh three uh uh uh you know over three hundred miles That would be like running from Baltimore to Bristol, Tennessee in the in August in the heat of the summer. You can imagine that. And so he was on the verge, I think, of physical collapse. Someone said that a tired believer is a vulnerable believer. If we're not doing well physically, it can affect our spirit. And sometimes we're depressed simply because We are physically exhausted. Moses was like that. Moses had a lot of burdens, and at one point he cried out to the Lord and said, God, I can't bear this. He was physically wrought and exhausted from all the burdens that he was bearing. Vince Lombardi, the great coach of the Green Bay Packers, said fatigue makes cowards of us all. So there could be sometimes physical causes. That's why when a person goes through depression, they should get a medical checkup to make sure that physically their well. But also just write this down. There could be temperamental causes. Sometimes people in their personality and their temperament are just more prone to being depressed than others. You know, there are two great knowledges for you to have as a Christian. First of all is the knowledge of God, getting to know God. But the second one is the knowledge of yourself, knowing yourself Knowing what gets you down, knowing your temperament, knowing your personality. When are you the most vulnerable? What are the things that affect you the most? You see, God made everyone different and you have to discover yourself. You have to know yourself. Uh reading about people who are kind of melancholy Several things that I read, they said it basically they're very sensitive, moody. Sometimes they're a perfectionist, they demand perfection. They have a hard time accepting praise or commendation. And so these are personalities that have a deep love for others, but all also they're not very satisfied with themselves alive. This seems to be the way Elijah was. If you look at Elijah, you can see that um he was very courageous. He confronted Ahab. He was a man of prayer Uh he prayed fired down from heaven. He was a humble man, and that he ran before the chariot of Ahab, and that way he was acting as Ahab's servant right after that great victory. Yet despite all that, he was pretty hard on himself, because again, if you read in verse number four, notice what he says at the end. He says, For I am not better than my fathers. He's not talking about his family here. He's talking about the other prophets that were before him. In a way he was saying, I don't measure up. I'm not as good as the prophets that were before me. And so it could be temperamental. But here's another thing you could write down. It could be physical, it could be temperamental, but also sometimes depression is the result of circumstantial causes. Sometimes people are depressed simply because of their circumstances, simply because they're having a difficult time in their life. Again, we have to look at the circumstances of Elijah. He certainly didn't have it easy. One thing he dealt with was isolation. You might want to write that down. That's something that he had to deal with. He basically was alone for three years. I mean you think about it, Elijah lived by a brook for a long time, perhaps over a year. He was fed by ravens there at the brook. Really had very little human contact during that time at all. And then except for a little time with being with the widow woman and her son, he really didn't have a lot of communion with other uh people in Israel that were faithful to the Lord. Let me just say that no Christian can survive or thrive without the communion of other saints. You know, we need each other. That's why we need church so very much. Church is necessary. The Apostle John, when he was brought to the church service at Ephesus after his exile on Patmos, it is said tradition tells us he was carried in, and as he was carried in, he repeated over and over again, O the fellowship of the saints. Because that's the thing that he had missed most, being in exile. In Psalm 42, when the psalmist was dealing with depression, he talked about being cast down, bowed down. He talked about his soul being restless or disquieted. One person translates it, why are you singing the blues? Inwardly he was singing the blues. And what he mentions is his absence from the temple of god of God where he worshipped God and where he met with the people of God. He was cut off from all of that. And that was a big part of his depression. In verse 6 of that chapter in Psalm 42, he says, I will remember you from the land of Jordan, from the heights of Hermon. This was a place that was far, far north. Way away from Jerusalem. He couldn't worship with the people of God. He couldn't be in God's house. He looked forward. That's why he says that his soul thirsts For the Lord. Let me ask you a question. When you're not with God's people in a public worship, do you thirst for God in that context I've said this before, and it's so very true that there's something that takes place in the public worship of the church that you can't emulate any other way, being in church with God's people And here this man, he was isolated from it. He says in verse 2, when shall I come and appear before God? He was longing to give back. to the house of the Lord with the people of God. Isolation. But also there was spiritual oppression. Think about the fact that Elijah had been and engaged in spiritual warfare With Jezebel and Ahab and all the false prophets for three years. He really, in a way was standing alone many times because a lot of the other prophets uh he had no connection with or they were hiding. And so he was battling these forces on his own. He was Suffering, I think, from the battle, battle fatigue from the spiritual oppression that he was dealing with. A relentless spiritual oppression is bound to bring a believer to the point of being depressed at times But then I I think also another thing is we looked at the life of Elijah was an emotional letdown. This was right after a great victory, remember, on Mount Carmel? He had just seen God do something great. And now he has a letdown. You know, this is kind of a a a postpartum depression after a victory. And if you are observant You might know that this kind of seems to be the normal rhythm of human emotion. When you're on a mountaintop for a long time, there's always coming down off that mountain. There's always kind of a letdown afterwards. This is something that is real. And Elijah was experiencing that. You can't dwell on the mountain all the time. And sometimes the higher the mountain, the deeper the valley when that mountaintop experience is over with. But then I think there's another reason why uh his circumstances may have made him depressed, and that was unfulfilled expectations. I think that when Elijah had this victory on Mount Carmel, he was thinking that this would be the straw that broke the camel's back. This would be the victory that would bring down that whole false religion of Baal worship And Israel would completely go back to God and that the war would be won. But that's not what happened. Because look in chapter 19, look down at verse number one. And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with a sword, and then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me and Morse also If I make not thy life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time. When Jezebel heard of what had happened on Mount Carmel, It didn't bring repentance to her. It didn't produce repentance because she heard about the mighty power of the true God of Israel. That's not what happened. She determined more than ever that she was going to be in control and that she was going to get rid of Elijah. And she said that she was going to do the same to him that he had done to those prophets. And so I think Elijah's expectations at this point were shattered. He knew that as long as she was alive. As long as she was on the throne. You say, well, she wasn't on the throne, her husband was. Well, yeah, but she was controlling him. And as long as she was in control. Then there would be no real victory. And so all these circumstances kind of piled up on Elijah and made him depressed. Again, we could look at our own life. Normally it's not just one thing. If we're talking about circumstantial things that cause us to be depressed, a lot of times it's not just one thing, it's a combination of a lot of things. That are all working together to get us down. Elijah was isolated. He had been fighting a spiritual battle. He had an emotional letdown. He was uh he had unfulfilled expectations, all these things. happened. And it may be that that's where you are. In the circumstances of your life, there are several things that are just all happening. And it's just all the weight of all those things are causing you to be depressed. Then there's another thing. There's physical causes, temperamental, circumstantial, but then also it could be spiritual. Sometimes depression is a spiritual issue. It could be that there is sin in your life that you have not confessed and you have not forsaken. Nothing can rob you of joy like sin. David knows this, and David wrote in Psalm 51, verse 8, Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. The sweet psalmist of Israel was silent for one year. His heart was depressed, and you know why? Because he had unconfessed sin. He had sinned against the Lord. And David wanted his joy back And so he prayed in Psalm fifty one, too, restore unto me the joy of my salvation. As Christians, this should be the way we live, with joy. It doesn't mean that we won't have sorrow, but you can have both at the same time. On one level, there may be sorrow in your heart, but deep down there's always that abiding joy that a believer should have. The one thing that takes away that joy is sin. David again in Psalm 32, when he wrote Psalm 32, it was the same occasion as he wrote Psalm 51, he speaks of groaning all day long. Not rejoicing, but groaning. He was depressed. Now you might say, well, now what sin did Elijah commit? Well, again, if you look at verse 4, the verse that we read in our text, notice where he says, I am not better than my fathers. Some commentators see some pride in that statement made by Elijah. Apparently, he expected to surpass his father's in his faith. This kind of reveals a proud ambition. Sometimes to be down on oneself is not really humility, it's more about pride. It's because you thought you were more than others, or you were better than others, and then you discover that you're not Elijah, I think, in a way fancies himself as being a prophet on the level of Moses. And we're going to see this later as we go into the text when. When Elijah runs to Mount Horeb out in Sinai, what is special about that mountain, Mount Horeb? Well, that's the mountain where Moses met with God. And Elijah's going to that same mountain, even though it's way far south. It's a long journey. He's going to take that journey himself because Again, in a way, he views himself to be a prophet on the level of a prophet like unto Moses This is where Moses had an encounter with God, and Elijah wants the same. He's going to the same place. Sometimes Our depression may be because of sin, and the sin of pride is a root sin that causes many other sins. And we can see some of this pride in Elijah. But also it just could be simple unbelief. There's a sense here in which Elijah seems to lose his faith. One statement from Jezebel sends him reeling. Here's this man that just had a great victory on Mount Carmel. And now one statement from a wicked queen, he just seems to collapse, and there's a lapse of faith. And he's no longer trusting in the promises of God. Well So we have to, and when we're looking when we're dealing with depression, we have to look at our own life and ask ourselves these questions, is my depression is it physical? Is everything okay with me physically? Is it temperamental? Is it just part of who I am and I need to learn myself and how to deal with it in my own personality? Is it circumstantial? Is it just the things that are happening around you that are crawling on your shoulders and weighing you down or is it spiritual? Is it a spiritual issue in your life? We have to find The cause. Now I think in Elijah's case, as we saw, it was a mixture of all these. And by the way, it that could be true of you. It could be a mixture of these things. Not just one thing, but several of these things. Again, Elijah was worn out His personality was prone to being down. He'd been through very difficult circumstances, battling spiritual powers. He was wrestling with doubt now and fear, not trusting in the promises of God. He expected more. And it didn't happen the way he thought it should happen. And so he's got this bout of depression. I read a report in the Wall Street Journal it had an ad that talked about the subject of nervous breakdowns. This is what it said. The nervous breakdown, the mysterious affliction that has been a staple of American life and literature for more than a century, has been wiped out by a co combined forces of psychiatry pharmacology and managed care. But then it goes on to say this. But people keep breaking down anyway. All these things that they've tried. Seems like they're still breaking down. According to the USAA Today, anxiety disorders are the number one mental health problem in the United States, costing Americans more than $42 billion a year in Dr. Bill's and workplaces. I think as we look at Elijah here, we he I I think he's on the verge of a nervous breakdown. How does God deal with This his prophet. So this is the second part. Number one, we have to diagnose the cause, but secondly, we have to apply the cure. And one thing I would throw in here is that Elijah's suppression is a challenge for us not to get the wrong idea about Christianity. Many people have the idea that if you put your faith in Jesus and you get saved then everything after that is going to be well. All your troubles will be over. Somehow because you're a believer, because you're a Christian, you are immune to a lot of the sufferings that other people in this world have to deal with. People in this cursed earth. And that just simply is not true. People have wrong ideas about Christianity. I think this is in part as what uh What one commentator wrote, let me quote you where he says, The American Church as it gets big, unhealthy doses of all the health and wealth gospel um or getting into the church, which goes something like this, and then he quotes this poem. Name it and claim it. That's all what faith is about. You can have what you want if you'll just have no doubt. So make your wish lists and keep on believing, and you will find yourself perpetually receiving. Sometimes that's the way people view Christianity. If this sounds like the gospel, to you, then you need a heavy dose of reality. Trusting Jesus as your Savior doesn't mean that all your troubles are going to go away. In fact, it might mean that when you trust Jesus, you might have more troubles. You might add troubles to your life. It's because now you're not going the same direction as the world. You're going against the world, and your troubles may get worse. But what God does do, He doesn't promise that He's going to take away all of our troubles and our burdens. What he does promise to do is to give us grace, to give us strength, to deal with those burdens, and that he will meet us at the point of our need. We're not going through this alone He's there with us. And this is what we're going to see in the life of Elijah. God comes and God ministers to his prophet. And notice how God's grace meets him right where he is. Look down in verse number five. And as he lay and slept under a juniper tree, Behold, an angel touched him and said unto him, Arise and eat. And he looked, and behold, there was a cake, bacon, on the coals, and a cruise of water at his head And he did eat and drink, and laid him down again, and the angel Lord came again the second time, and touched him, and said, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for thee. God sends this angel to minister unto him. Elijah said, you know, it's enough. I've had enough. But what he discovers here Is that God's grace is more than enough? This angel was a messenger of God sent to give to Elijah God's grace in his life Many times God, again, his grace will meet us at the point of our need. God will send an angel, maybe not literally an angel from heaven, but he might send another believer or someone in our life That God has sent there to help us, to meet us at the point of our need. I think about this, I think about our church here. You know, we have a wonderful church of people who love one another. And there are many angels, so to speak, here at Grace that just reach out and minister. to others. I know that's going on right now. I think that while people are battling with uh uh this virus, I I I see at least where I am as a pastor, I see people ministering to one another, trying to help one another, being there for one another This is all an expression of the grace of God. God will bring people into our life that He sends that will minister His grace unto us. And what this angel does is very simple. He gives them two meals, a meal of bread and water. I mean, God literally spreads a table for Elijah right there in that wilderness. And God knew that Elijah had a long journey ahead of him. He knew he planned to go all the way down to Sinai. And that was a long journey. And so that was, again, about 300 miles. And so this angel fixes this meal for him two times. So what do we see here? We see sleep and nourishment. That's what Elijah needed at that time. You know, sometimes in dealing with depression in our life, the best thing you can do is just go to bed and get a good night's sleep. Just rest. Eat a good nourishing meal. A good night's sleep. A good meal can do wonders for you sometimes. Again, I read an article called Sleepless in America. And this article basically talked about how that um people uh when they rob themselves of sleep, it kind of adds up at the end. You know, you lose an hour here, you lose a little bit there. Uh you're not getting the eight hours. And then each weeknight you get less and less. And then by the end of the year, the article goes on to say you're short Um something like 300 hours of sleep that you should have had, that you don't have, and now you're not operating the way that you could. It goes on to say That people are like sleepwalkers. They're dangerously unaware of that risk to their health. What Elijah needed is he needed to rest. He needed to lie down. And he needed to be ministered to. There are many people in that condition. You just need to rest. You need to lie down. You need to allow God to minister to you. But then also another thing I see here, part of the cure, was seek God. Because right after this, um this this encounter with this angel Look at verse 8. It says he arose and did eat and drink. This is the second time the angel came and prepared a meal. And went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb in the mount of God. That must have been some meal. If it lasted the strength of it for forty days. But I think what it's talking about here as well is that for forty days Uh Elijah didn't eat. This I think was a purposeful fast. And he was in that desert for 40 days. Now it doesn't take 40 days to get from Beersheba. So Mount Horeb. So why did he take so long? And I think what he's doing here, again, I think he likened himself to Moses. You remember Moses, he fasted forty days? And he met God, spent forty days uh there at Mount Horeb with God. And I think there's a sense in which What's going on here is that in the life of Elijah, what he's doing is he's seeking God now more than he had before. There's an intensity in seeking the face of the Lord I think that that's something that we should do when you go through a time of being down and in despair. Let that motivate you to seek God more than you ever have. in your life. This is what he's doing. He's seeking the Lord. But then here's another thing I see. Write down, examine yourself spiritually. Sleep and nourishment. Seek God. Examine yourself spiritually. Look down at verse number nine. And he that is Elijah came thither unto a cave and lodged there. And behold, the word of the Lord came to him, and he said unto him, What doest thou here, Elijah? Here is Elijah. He gets to Mount Horeb. He takes up residence in a cave. And what I want to point out to you about this where it says a cave in verse 9. In the Hebrew it's articular. There's an article before the noun. So we could say the cave. This wasn't just any cave. This was the cave. Is it possible that this is the very cave? that Moses occupied. You remember in the Old Testament in Exodus 34 when Moses said, God show me your glory. And God said, I can't show you my full glory. You can't take that. But what I'll do is I'll put you into a cave or the cleft of the rock Now put my hand over it and I'll pass by and you'll see my afterglory. You'll see manifestations of me. And perhaps this is the same cave. That Elijah is occupying right now. He comes to the cave of Moses. Perhaps he's expecting the same thing for him. That God did for Moses. But he hears a voice from God. And what does the voice say in verse 9? What doeth thou hear Elijah? Now, whenever God asks a question, it's not because he's seeking information, because he already knows everything. When God asks a question, a lot of times it's to bring us into reality. It's to cause us to think. And here God is asking Elijah a question, not because God wants the information, because God already knew the answer. God wants Elijah to examine his own heart To take a good look on the inside and find out why he's acting the way he is. And notice his response in verse 10. And he said, I've been very jealous. For the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with a sword, and I, even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. So when we see in this response the heart of Elijah. And what we see is it's filled with a lot of self-pity and a lot of pride. I mean he exaggerates the size of the opposition against him. He exaggerates his own self-importance. He says, I am the only one left. Well, in truth, Elijah, you're not the only one left. Um God has more people that you don't know about. But I think the bottom line here is that Elijah was disillusioned at what happened. We could even say it like this: I think that Elijah was disappointed with God. And it says what he's saying is, God, I've done all of this for you. I've done everything you've asked of me. I have stood firm. And I'm disappointed that more wasn't done, that we still have to fight this battle. The bottom line root cause of Elijah's depression. was pride. He felt like he deserved better. He was disappointed in what had happened. He thought something different should have happened. This whole bail worship system should have been crushed by now. Revival should have already come. And so there's a sense in which he's really dealing with his feelings towards God. You know, his expectations were not met. And you know that can be true of us sometimes. Sometimes we can get the same attitude that Elijah had because God doesn't meet our expectations. We would have thought that more would have happened by now. This should have been solved this problem I had or this burden I shouldn't have to be bearing at this point in my life or this prayer that I continually prayed wasn't really answered in the way that I needed it to be answered And so sometimes God doesn't meet up with our expectations, and that could be a source of depression because of our own pride. But let me just remind you, God is not our servant, he is our king. And we have to submit to his ways and not demand that he submit to our expectation. Elijah needed to repent and submit to God. He needed to lay aside his expectations and trust in God's plan. This would be the next thing I see here. Trust in the quiet gentle work of God. Because notice in verse 11, and he said, this God said, go forth and stand upon the mount before the Lord. And behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and break in pieces the rocks before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. And after the winter, earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake, a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire, a still small voice. What's God doing here? God commands Elijah to do something that he told him Moses to do. a long time ago. Remember, I think there's this dynamic happening here where Elijah's comparing himself to Moses and God sees that and God says, well here I want you to stand here at the mouth of the cave, and I will pass by. Does that sound familiar? That's exactly what God told Moses in Exodus 34. The Lord said, I'm going to pass by And what happened? Well, when the Lord passes by, you remember in the Old Testament when that happened? There were these, whenever there was the presence of God in Exodus, there were these great theophanic manifestations of God. There was an earthquake, sometimes there was a fire, sometimes there was a strong wind All these were ways in which God manifested himself before Moses. However, when God passes by Elijah, the Bible says there was an earthquake, and there was A fire and there was a wind, but God wasn't in any of those things. But then there was the still small voice. Literally, it reads a gentle whisper. And God was in that gentle whisper. What was the lesson to Elijah? Well, God was saying one thing, what I do for one servant, I don't necessarily do for another. And this is one way I might work. Certainly there are times for great demonstrations of the power of God, but that's not normally the way God works. God doesn't always work through the dramatic. Sometimes he works in the quiet ways. In fact, I would say that's probably more the normal working of God. He works in quiet ways. in unexpected ways and the still small voice and his word as it continually goes out it has its effect it has its power sometimes we don't always see it You know, I'm preaching the word right now. I have no idea what it's doing. I'm not even sure you're listening. There's nobody here in this auditorium except for a few people. I do know this that God's word doesn't return void. And God's going to use it however he chooses to. The spectacular and the dramatic, they have their place in God's order of things. But most often, God carries forth his work through the still small voice, speaking to the hearts of people, doing his work. inwardly in the hearts of people. Jay Oswald Sanders said this. He said the whispers from Calvary are infinitely more potent than the thunder of Sinai. And bringing men to repentance. And what God was saying to Elijah, Elijah, you just need to trust in my word Trust in what I'm doing. Trust in the power of the word. The still small voice. The challenge here is not to forsake The word, not to always look for the dramatic, for the miracle. You know, a lot of people are doing that today. They're looking for the something dramatic. They want God to zap them and take away all their problems. That's not the way God works Day by day, through his word, he does his quiet work in our hearts. It's a process of sanctifying our hearts, of teaching us to trust in the Lord more And if you look at this passage, Elijah, he's not healed of his depression. Because look down in verse number 13. Right after that it says, and it was so when Elijah heard it that he wrapped his face in his mantle, and he went out and he stood at the entering in the cave And behold there came a voice unto him and said, What doest thou here, Elijah? Shame question, verse fourteen, and he said, I've been very zealous or jealous for the Lord, God of hosts, because The children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with a sword, and I even I am left, and they seek my life to take it away. Does that sound for me? It's the exact same answer that Elijah gives He wasn't just all of a sudden zapped and healed from his depression. Because that's not the way God works. This was still a process that God was teaching Elijah. It was still something he had to work through. He had to learn to trust the ways of God, to trust the word of God. This didn't hinder God from using Elijah, because notice what God does next. He gives them a new purpose in verse 14 Verse 15 rather he says, And the Lord said to him, Go return thy way to the wilderness of Damascus, when thou comest anoint Hazael to be king over Syria, and Jehu the son of Nimshai shall thou anoint to be king over Israel And Elisha, the son of Shaphat, shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy room, and it shall come to pass. That him that escapes the sword of Haziel shall Jehu slay, and him that escapes from the sword of Jehu shall Elisha slay. And what was God's plan? God was saying to Elijah, Elijah, I'm not done yet I want you to anoint these men, two kings and a prophet. And whoever escapes Haziel, Jehu will deal with. I'm bringing this whole Baal worship system down. I'm doing it my own way. And if you want to say it like this, the um the two kings, they will uh they'll do it in a very dramatic way. They will be like the wind and the fire and the earthquake. They will have a dramatic impact and shaking up things, but Elisha would be that still small voice of the Word of God. that will also be effective in this whole process. The two kings would create these tumultuous upheavals. Like the wind and the earthquake and the fire, but the prophet Elisha will be that voice of God bringing repentance before And so God was sharing with Elijah, you're not done, and I'm not done with you, and the work is not over. And sometimes the best thing to do when you're depressed is to go back. Into the work, get back to what God has called you to do, and get busy for the Lord. But then notice the reassurance that God gives. Look at verse 18. Yet I have left me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which he hath not kissed him. And God again was saying to Elijah, it's not as bad as you think it is. I have 7,000 you don't know about. In times of despair, we need to be reminded that God is in control. When we're depressed, we have a tendency to think of things worse than it really is. No, it's not as bad as you think it is. And God is at work behind the scenes. Doing things that we don't see. He's at work. And he's accomplishing his will. And in a sense, what God is saying to Elijah is, don't give in to those negative emotions. Don't allow yourself to uh your negative thoughts to bombard you. But trust in me. Make a determination and a decision to trust in what I am doing. Don't allow yourself to wallow in self-pity. I'll close with this. Elizabeth Elliott was the wife of the missionary Jim Elliott, who was martyred as a young man. And uh she had to bear the the burden and the sorrow of a husband that she lost in that way. And she learned not to give in to self-pity, and this is what she said. She said, self-pity is a death that has no resurrection. A sinkhole from which no rescuing hand can drag you because you have chosen to sink. Most people choose to allow themselves to sink in and to give in to all the negative emotions and allow the circumstances to cause them how they should think. And here God is in a sense saying to Elijah, Elijah, look, I'm not done. Don't give in. to these half-truths that you're telling yourself, these negative emotions that are bombarding you, remember that I am at work And you're going to have to trust me. Just like the psalmist said in Psalm 42, hope thou in God. He was talking to himself. He was saying to himself, you need To choose to put your hope in God. And that's an answer right there. When you're overwhelmed, when you're stressed, When you're depressed, make a decision that you're going to put your hope in God and don't give in to the negative emotions. And you know what? In that process, God will bring you out of it. And he'll use you in a greater way. This is what God does with Elijah. God's going to use him greater than he ever did before after this. And Elijah, remember when he said, you know, God take my life? Elijah's not going to die. In fact, he's one of the few men in the Bible that never die. God's going to take him to heaven on a chariot. God had great things in store for him. And God has great things in store for you too. Let's bow for prayer. So, Father, thank you for this narrative and what we can learn from it. I pray, Lord, that this will minister to the hearts of many that are watching on live stream. That are just bombarded with difficult circumstances. They may be dealing with a battle of depression in their life right now. They need the strength of your word. They need to make a determination not to give in to the negative emotions, not to give in to self-pity, to repent of the pride that they may have in their heart. To trust God as God is doing his progressive work in every heart, teaching us to trust in him, teaching us to live Dependent and righteous. Lord, continue to do your work. May we have a renewed trust and hope in you in these difficult days. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.