Joshua chapter 14, and again while you're finding that a few years ago, a Newsweek magazine report gave an article on what it called a new wave of mountain men. And the article said that it estimated that there are some 60,000 serious mountain men, or what they would call mountain men, but they're climbers in the United States. But the article goes on to say, but in the upper echelons of serious climbers, there's a small elite group known as quote-unquote hard Now what did it mean by that? For for these hard men, conquering mountains, it says, is a way of life. And so here's a group of hard men And all they do is they go around and they look at impossible mountains, mountains that are impossible seemingly to climb, and they conquer these mountains. And they are called hard men. Well, when I read that, I couldn't help but think, you know, the church needs hard men for God. People that are willing to take on seemingly impossible mountains. Where are those hard men? I think that's what it's going to take to uh to reach the world to take the gospel into this world in this 21st century. Now here in Joshua chapter 14 I want to introduce to you one of God's hard men. one of God's men who is not afraid to conquer mountains. Look in Joshua chapter 14 and look in verse number 12. Now therefore give me this mountain. Whereof the Lord spake in that day, for thou heardest in that day how the Anakin's were there, and that the cities were great and fenced, if so be the Lord will be with me, then I shall be able to drive them out as the Lord said. Now, here in Joshua 14, it all centers in verses 6 down to verse 15 It all centers on one man. It's a man that I'm sure that you know very well, a man by the name of Caleb. He is the gray-haired conqueror, we could call him A man that was one of God's hard men that was willing to take on a mountain. Now let me give you a little background. If you haven't been with us here in our study on Joshua, it's been a few weeks since we've than in this book. But let me just kind of give you the context and the setting of chapter 14. Now the last sermon I preached was in Joshua chapter 10 where we saw the miracle of the long day. And we saw that God was willing to move heaven and earth to give victory to his people. But then when you come to Joshua chapter 11 and 12, what you see is the record of Joshua's conquest of the rest of the land of Canaan. In fact, just go back to Joshua chapter 11 and look at verse number 11 and 12. of Joshua chapter 11 as we kind of set the context for what we're going to talk about tonight. Look on chap Joshua 11, 11 and 12. And they smote all the souls that were therein with the edge of the sword Utterly destroying them, there was not any left to breathe. And he burnt Hazor with fire. And all the cities of those kings, and all the kings of them did Joshua take. And smote them with the edge of the sword, and he utterly destroyed them, as Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded. Drop down to verse 23. So Joshua took the whole land. According to all that the Lord said unto Moses, and Joshua gave it for an inheritance unto Israel according to their div divisions by their tribe, and the land rested from And so what we see here in these two chapters is a summary of the conquests that Joshua had. The Bible says he took the whole land. Now, it's important to understand a distinction between the work of Joshua and what God gave Joshua to do And the work of Israel and the twelve tribes and what God gave them to do. Because what we see here is that Joshua's job is complete, but Israel's job is not yet complete. You see, Canaan had been conquered. All the standing armies had been routed. The principal strongholds had been destroyed. All the mighty kings of the Canaanites had been slain. In fact, if you look at the end of chapter 12, verses 9 down to verse 24, and I won't read this. You can read this on your own. But what you see here is just a list Of all the kings and the strongholds that Joshua had conquered, from verse 7 on down to verse number 24. Yet The actual territories was still in the hands of many of the Canaanites. Because when you come to the beginning of chapter 13, Notice what it says in chapter 13, verse 1. Now Joshua was old and stricken in years, and the Lord said unto him, Thou art old and stricken in years, and there remaineth yet very much land to be possessed. Now while Joshua had completed his job, he broke the back of the military strongholds And the kings, they were all routed and defeated. You know what that did? That just opened up the land for the twelve tribes to begin to drive out the Canaanites that were in those And so we could say that what Israel had left was the mopping up operation. After the major battles were won, after the kings were defeated, now it was up to Israel. To go in and take possession of what God had given them. But that didn't mean there wouldn't be any battles. There would be battles To kind of use a spiritual analogy for us, did you know that Jesus on the cross defeated Satan? Satan's back was broken. His head was crushed But does that mean that as a Christian we don't have battles against Satan? No, it doesn't mean that. We still have battles. But Satan is like a snake that has been defanged. He can't harm us, all he can do is rattle. He can try to scare you, but friend, he can't harm you if you're a child of God. And just because Satan has been defeated at Calvary, Jesus gave that death blow, it doesn't mean that we still don't have that, we didn't we don't have battles, we do have battles And we still have to claim what is ours. We still have to claim the victory that the Lord gave us. And so that's what we see here in a very real way happening. with Israel. The major battles had been had been conquered. The Canaanites had been defeated. And yet there still was a lot of land. that Israel had to go out and possess for themselves. So what we see then in the remainder of chapter 13 is God, the divine realtor, he begins to divide up the land, he begins to assign lots to tribes In fact, in chapter thirteen, verse fifteen, down to verse twenty-three, we see the inheritance of Reuben, and the Lord gives them their inheritance And then in chapter 13, verse 24, on down to verse 28, there's the inheritance of Gad, and the Lord gives them their inheritance. And so what's happening is the Lord is now assigning lots to the twelve tribes of Israel, and now after they get their lot, they then drive out the Canaanites. There's nothing holding them back from doing that. You see, so that's what's happening. Now As we come to chapter 14, Joshua is giving out land, and a familiar face shows up. His name is Caleb. And you know Caleb. Caleb was one of the first generation of Jews. He was one of the twelve spies that originally went into the land, and he and Joshua were the only ones that said, hey, by faith we can do this. You remember that the ten spies, they had a bad report But Joshua and Caleb said, we can do it. He saw the miracles of God. He believed in the power of God. And yet, because of the unbelieving Jews, he had to wait. And so now here, he comes to Joshua and he reminds Joshua of something that perhaps Joshua may have overlooked As he was giving out lots, and he gives this speech. Look at verse number six. Then the children of Judah came unto Joshua and Gilgal, and Caleb, the son of Jephenah, the Canazite, The uh the Kennesite, I should say, said unto him, Thou knowest the thing that the Lord said unto Moses, the man of God, concerning me, and thee and Canaish Barnea, Forty years old was I when Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me from Kadesh Barnea to spy out the land, and I brought him word again as it was in my heart. Nevertheless, my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people melt, but I wholly followed the Lord my God. And Moses swear on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thou feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance and thy children's forever, because thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. And now behold the Lord hath kept me alive, as he said, these forty and five years, ever since the Lord spake this word unto Moses. While the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness. And now, lo, I am this day fourscore and five years old. And yet I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me. As my strength was then, even so is my strength now for war, both to go out and to come in. Now therefore, give me this mountain. That was Caleb's speech. Isn't that a good speech? Joshua, don't forget about me. When you're giving out the land, you remember what Moses said to me. You remember what God promised me Don't forget me. I want that mountain that God promised to give. William Peterson writes this. Caleb concluded his speech to Joshua with an astounding request. At the age of 85, when he might have asked for a quiet place to spend his last days, doing a little gardening or playing checkers. He requested instead the section of land which had struck fear into the hearts of the ten unbelieving spies. This was the inheritance he desired in fulfillment of God's earlier. Promise. Give me this mountain. The one that God promised me. And let me read you another comment. This is from Gene Getz. He kind of fancied a fictional dialogue that happened between Joshua and Caleb. And this is what he imagined them saying. Joshua says to him, Caleb, it's yours. You deserve it. I'm sorry, I forgot. It's because of you that I mustered enough courage to stand against Israel's hostility and disobedience. It is because of you that I spoke out against their rebellion and unbelief. You helped me become the man that I am, a man that could trust God to lead Israel I drew strength from you, Caleb, and you have been faithful to me. I'm sorry I didn't remember. I'm glad you reminded me. It's yours. Take the mountain that God promised you. And you know what? Caleb did exactly that. Because look in chapter 15, look in verse 13 and 14. And the Bible says, and unto Caleb the son of Jephanah, He gave a part among the children of Judah according to the commandment of the Lord to Joshua, even the city of Arba, the father of Anak, which is which is Hebron. And this and this and Caleb drove thence the three sons of Anak, Shishai and Ahyman and Talmai, the children of Anak. And he went up thence to the inhabitants of Deber, and the name of Deber before was Kerjeth Sefer. And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kerges Sefer, and taketh it to him, will I give Asa my daughter to wife and the s the uh the simple story is this. He did exactly what he said he was going to do He took that mountain and he drove out the Canaanites and he drove out the giants. They say, well, how does this speak to me personally tonight? You see, Joshua is a picture of Jesus our conqueror. And just like Joshua won the victory for Israel, Jesus won the victory for us. Caleb is a picture of the believer. And just like Caleb came to Joshua to claim his inheritance, we have to go to Jesus to claim our inheritance. Let me ask you a question. What is the mountain that the Lord has promised you? You need to go and claim it. You need to say it's mine by faith. I claim it. I'm going to take it. What is the mountain? That the Lord has given you. You know what this mountain here stands for? Fellowship. Look in chapter 14, look in verse 15. In the name of Hebron, before was Kerjeth Arbah Which Arba was a great man among the Anakin's, and the land had rest from war. Kerjith Arba simply means the city of Arba. Arba was obviously a very great man among the Canaanites And when Caleb takes that city, I admire Caleb because you know what? He didn't name the city Kerjeth Caleb, city of Caleb. What does he name the city? Hebrew. You know what Hebrew means? Fellowship. That tells me a lot about the heart of Caleb. What did he desire from God? Fellowship. That mountain to him represented fellowship. You know one of the greatest blessings of the Christian life is fellowship with Jesus. That's one of the blessings of salvation. You see, when the child of God goes to heaven and meets Jesus, they don't meet a stranger They meet someone face to face that they have known heart to heart. And the fellowship that we have with Jesus is so very real. Write down 1 John chapter 1. Verses one through three, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, our hands have handled the word of life For the life was manifested, we have seen it, and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifest unto us, and that which we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that you also might have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father. You know what John is saying? The fellowship that I enjoyed with Jesus, that the disciples enjoyed with Jesus, we saw him, we looked upon him, our hands have handled him, we heard him. You can have that same fellowship. You know that? And it can be just as real. You know, when I was in Israel on one of the off days, and we didn't have too many of those But on the off day, I went up to northern Israel. It was about an hour away. And one of the places I wanted to visit was Capernaum. That was the headquarters of Jesus. Jesus. And I just wanted to see that little village right there on the Sea of Galilee. And I went in there and I saw that village and I sat under a tree and I just began to imagine What it would have been like to be one of the disciples there with Jesus in Capernaum, looking out over the Sea of Galilee. It was a beautiful little place. But I will I I've got good news for you. You don't need to go to a place like that to have fellowship with Jesus. Jesus. The fellowship that you have through the Holy Spirit is just as real as the fellowship that the disciples had. And that's one of the blessings of the Christian life. And if you're not careful, you can lose That fellowship, you can't lose your salvation. But you can lose your fellowship if you're not careful. And so there's fellowship, but then there's, you know what also that mountain represented? Fullness. Fullness. You know, Hebron, that area that Caleb conquered was the most lush. It was the most beautiful area in that land. And you know what? Caleb, he didn't conquer half of it. He conquered all of it. And that's a picture of the Christian getting all that God has for us. Friend, I don't want half a Hebrew, and I want it all. I want all the fullness that God has for us. The Apostle Paul wrote in Ephesians 3. 19 that you might be filled with all the fullness of God. And so this mountain represents fellowship. And this mountain represents fullness. But also write down fruitfulness. This mountain represents fruitfulness. You know, this was the very place that the spies spied out This is the very place where they took fruit and took it back to the Israel to show them how lush, how fruitful it was. This very place. And so this mountain represents fruitfulness. And I don't know about you, but I want the fruit of the Spirit in my life. I want to be fruitful as a Christian. And so I want to say like Caleb and I want to challenge you to say the same thing tonight. I want that mountain. Want that mountain. Now, all that's introduction. So let me just give you three qualities of Caleb's life that we need to have in our life if we would have that mountain. If you're taking notes, write down number one, commitment. Here's the first thing, commitment. Now I want you to look at a few verses with me tonight. Go back to Numbers chapter 14, verse 24. I want you to see a phrase that is used of Caleb over and over again in the scripture. Look at Numbers 14, just go back two books. It's very close. Numbers 14, verse 24. And notice what it says in verse 24. But my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him. And hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereunto he went. Notice where it says, he hath followed me fully. Look in Numbers 32. Go to Numbers 32, verse number 12. Let me show you another phrase. It says that in Numbers 32, verse 12, save Caleb the son of Jephanah, the Kenesite, and Joshua the son of Nun, for they have wholly followed the Lord. So here again it says of Caleb, he wholly followed the Lord. Now go to Deuteronomy chapter 1 verse 36. Just go over one book to the right. Go to chapter 1, it's a few pages over, and look in verse 36. And another verse about Caleb. Notice what it says there. Say if Caleb, the son of Jephthanah, he shall see it. And to him will I give the land that he has trodden upon and to his children, because he has wholly followed the Lord. Now go back to Joshua 14, our text. And I want you to look at a few verses there. Look in verse number eight. Nevertheless, my brethren, that went up with me, made the heart of the people melt, but I wholly follow the Lord my God. Look in verse number nine. And Moses swear on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance and thy children's forever, because thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. Then look in verse 14. Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb. Drop down the latter phrase, uh, because that he wholly followed the Lord God of Israel. Do you see the common denominator there? What's the phrase that we keep seeing over and over again about Caleb? He wholly followed the Lord. He was totally committed. Now, if you want to be a Canaanite conqueror and not a wilderness wanderer, Then you have to wholly follow the Lord. You can't half-heartedly follow the Lord. You can't do it. You've got to wholly follow the Lord. Uh many Christians uh only they've had one foot in the church and they try to live with one foot in the world. They kind of have an escape hatch back to the old life of sin, and friend, if you live like that, you'll never be blessed of God And you will never have that mountain. What does it mean to holy follow the Lord? You know what the phrase actually means? It means to close the gap This was a phrase that was used of hunters who was referring to them closing the gap between themselves and their prey. And it refers to the fact that Caleb was committed to keeping the distance between himself and the Lord at a minimum. He wanted to wholly follow the Lord. Every inch Every ounce, every nerve, every fiber of Caleb belonged to the Lord. He wanted to wholly follow. Now you might be sitting there thinking, well, that's true if you're a preacher or a deacon. No, friend, that's true if you're a Christian. If you're a believer. God expects you to wholly follow him. Listen to what Moses said in Deuteronomy 6. 5. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. Holy follow the Lord. Commitment. D. L. Moody was greatly used of God. You know why? Because one time he heard an evangelist. Hen Henry Varley say this. He said, the world has yet to see what God will do with a man wholly committed to him. And you know what D. L. Moody said? By the grace of God, I'm going to show you. try to be that man. And you know what? Here's this man, D. L. Moody, uneducated, and yet uh just a shoe salesman Totally sold out to the Lord. And you know what? God used him in a mighty way. And you know what? We're still feeling the influence of his ministry that happened a hundred years ago. years ago because he wholly followed the Lord. In nineteen oh four, William Borden, he was the son of uh the man who started the Borden Dairy a state. He graduated from high school. His father sent him on a trip around the world and when he went to uh Africa and the Middle East and Europe and Asia God put a burden on his heart for missions and he decided he was going to be a missionary. And writing home he said this, I'm going to give my life to prepare for the mission field. And when he made this decision, he wrote in the back of his Bible two words, no reserve. No reserves. He turned down high-paying job offers, and he wrote in his Bible, no retreats. And when he graduated from Princeton Seminary, he went out onto the field. He first stopped at Egypt to prepare. But while he was there, he got a terrible disease and he died. And some people might say, what a waste, but they found written in his Bible, under the words, no reserves and no retreats, they found the words no regrets. No regrets. And you know what else? This is what he wrote. William Borden wrote this. He said, In every man's heart, there is a throne and a cross. If Christ is on the throne, self is on the cross. And His self, even a little bit, is on the throne. Jesus is on the cross in that man's heart. If Jesus is on the throne, you will go where he wants you. And then he prayed this. He said, Lord Jesus, I take my hands off as far as my life is concerned. I put thee on the throne of my heart. Change, cleanse, use me. As thou shalt choose, and I thank thee. And when I read of the story of men like this, I have to ask myself, am I that committed? to the Lord. And God has used this man's life to challenge and call many people to the mission field. You will never accomplish anything for God unless you're totally clear. Committed. So there's the first thing we see about Caleb, commitment. But then I want you to write down number two. Here's the second quality. Confidence. Confidence. Because I want you to see this another reoccurring phrase in this passage. Look in verse number 6 Where it says uh of of of uh Caleb in verse six, then the children of Judah came unto Joshua and Gilgal, and Caleb the son of Jephthah the Kennesite said unto him, Thou knowest the thing that the Lord said unto Modus. Notice where it says that the Lord said. Look at verse number 10. And now behold the Lord hath kept me alive as he said. And again, notice he's emphasizing what the Lord said, even since the Lord spake this word unto Moses. Look in verse number 12. Which says, Now therefore give me this mountain whereof the Lord spake in that day, for thou heardest in that day how the Anakin's were there. And again at the end of verse 12, as the Lord said, you know, Caleb had confidence. But I want you to see from these verses that his confidence was not in himself. What was his confidence in? It was in what God said It was in the promises of God. He had confidence in what God said. When God said something, Caleb knew that you could depend on In fact, what he was saying is, the reason I'm so uh uh in such good shape and I'm so youthful is because of the Lord. Again, look in verse 10, and now behold, the Lord hath kept me alive As he said, these 45 years. Ever since the Lord spake this word unto Moses, you know what he's saying? He's saying, I'm youthful. I'm just as strong as I was when I was 40 years old, and here he's 85. But he didn't attribute it to good genes or eating healthy or living right. What did he say? He said the Lord is the one that's done this. The Lord is the one that has given me a youthful uh health. You know, did you notice it today? Everyone's looking for the secret of youth. I heard about a preppy-looking man who was arrested for peddling a fountain of youth pill, and he promised that if you take this pill, it will reverse the aging process. And he was arrested, and he came before the judge. The judge was outraged at such a scam. And he asked if there was any prior arrest of this man, and the prosecutor said yes indeed, referring to her notes. She said this, she said he was arrested for the same offense in nineteen eighty one, and nineteen sixty-five, and nineteen forty two, and nineteen oh eight, and eighteen seventy three, and in eighteen forty seven. I would say that pill works. Everyone's trying to look for the fountain of youth pill. And everyone's trying to fight old age. Someone said you know you're old when you sit in a rocking chair, you can't get it started. So instead everything hurts and what doesn't hurt doesn't work. Your knees buckle and your belt won't. You have too much room in the house and not enough in the medicine cabinet You know Caleb here found the secret of youthful strength. He said, I'm as strong now as I was when I was forty. You know why? Because he was trying to Trusting in the Lord. He was trusting in the promises of God. You see, the God who reserves the promise for the man is the God who reserves the man for the promises. promise. So in verse 12 he says, now give me this mountain, because he was confident in the promises of God and he had faith. Now, so I can see Caleb just climbing that mountain with a sword in one hand and a title deed in the other, singing his song, I Want That Mountain. The mountain that the Lord has given me. Now let me give you the third thing, and we'll be done. Number one, what I see in Caleb is great commitment, is great confidence. But here's the third thing and the final thing. Great confidence Great courage. He had great courage. Now just because you wholly follow the Lord doesn't mean you're gonna you're not gonna have challenges. You will have challenges And the Christian life is not the absence of problems, but the addition of power to handle those problems. And there is no easy way to serve God. And Caleb had challenges. Look at three of the obstacles he had to deal with. First of all, there's what I want to call the problem of grasshoppers. Look in chapter 14, verse 8. Where he said, Nevertheless, my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people melt. But I wholly followed the Lord. You know what he's referring to? He's referring to what's recorded in Numbers 13 when the ten spies came back and they had a bad report. And they said, we saw giants there in the land, and we were like grasshoppers in their sight. You know why? They were focused on their circumstances. And not focused on the Lord. William Peterson wrote this: the problem with the other ten spies was that they looked at God through the wrong end of the telescope. They looked at God through the lens of their problems. And by magnifying the problems and obstacles before them, they minimize God. And friend, I want to tell you that you're always going to have grasshoppers around you. Telling you that you can't, you can't, you can't, when God says you can, if you just trust me. Then there is also the problem of giants Look in verse number 12. Now therefore give me this mountain whereof the Lord spake in that day, for thou heardest in that day how the Anakin were there. Who were the Anakin? They were the giants. The Caleb, he wasn't afraid of the giants. He knew that they were there. But he said, if God is with me, I can drive them out. Now I want you to know that in the Christian life, all of us are going to have giants. Yeah that we face. In fact there are people here tonight and you have some giant in front of you right now. I don't know what it is, but God knows. It might be the giant of disease or dis Disappointment or depression or addiction or financial reversal or a career setback or a family breakdown or some personal failure in your life, whatever it is We all have giants. Steve Ferrar said the man who desires to be used of God will not face one giant in his life, but many giants. But we go from faith to faith, and we could say it like this, we go from giant to giant. You get one giant slain, guess what? There's going to be another. We all face these giants. And by the way, look at the giants that Caleb had. Look again in chapter 15, verse 14. It gives us some names here. And Caleb drove thence the three sons of Anak, Shishai and Ahyman and Talmai, the children of Anak. You know it's what's interesting, the names, what they mean. The Shishai, the name means who am I? A Hyman means what am I, and Talmud means what I can do. You know what these represent? These are the giants of ego, who am I, or who I am. Pride, what I am. And self-reliance, what I can do. All these are giants, really, you know what they are? They deal with self. And I want to tell you, one of the biggest problems I face every day is the giant that I look at and the mirror in the morning. You know, Jerry Harmon would be a good Christian if it wasn't for Jerry Harmon. And a lot of times I have to get my ego out of the way I have to get my pride out of the way. I have to get my self-reliance out of the way. And I have to be like Caleb and wholly follow the Lord and wholly depend upon God. So there was the problem of grasshoppers, and he overcame that with faith and patience. And there was the problem of giants, and he was able to drive out the giants by trusting the Lord. But then th thirdly there was the problem of gray hair, and we already talked about that. He was not a young man, but you know what? Caleb did not let age keep him from doing The will of God. He did not let that become a factor in doing what God wanted him to do. At 85, he said, I want that mountain. And he trusted the Lord and God gave it to him. I want to read a uh uh illustration about this. Uh many of you probably have heard of Dr. Paul Brand. He was a doctor who wrote the book made in the image of God. And Dr. Paul Brand was a well-known doctor, author. He was raised in India. His parents were missionaries there. And in the book that he wrote, another book in his image, he writes this about his mother. He writes that when his mother was seventy-five years old, she was still walking miles every day, visiting the villages in the southern part of India Teaching people about Jesus. And Dr. Paul Brandt says that one day at age 75, she was traveling alone and fell and broke her hip. And after two days of just lying there in pain, just two days, no one saw her, lying in pain, finally some workers found her. They put her on a makeshift cot, and then they loaded her into their Jeep, and they drove 150 miles over bumpy, rudded roads. To finally get her to a doctor who could set the bones. But the ride was so bumpy that it damaged her bones, and her hip could never be completed. Completely set right and healed right. And then he said this. He said, I visited my mother in her mud-covered hut several weeks after all this happened. He said, I watched her as she took two bamboo crutches that she made herself and moved from one place to another with her feet just dragging behind because she had lost all the feeling in them. And then he said this at age 75 with a broken hip, unable to stand on her own. I thought I made a pretty intelligent suggestion. He said, Mother, I suggest that you retire. And he said, she turned around and looked at me and said, What value is that? If we try to preserve this body just a few more years and it's not being used for God, of what value is that? And she kept on working. He said she kept on riding her donkey to villages until she was 93 years old. And she continued to tell people about Jesus Christ until she died at age 95. That's the spirit that Caleb had. Caleb overcame all of those obstacles, and he was still doing what the Lord wanted him to do, no matter what his age. How many of us are like Caleb tonight? How many of us are willing to say, I want that mountain? I want to serve the Lord. Now in closing, let me just say something very interesting. interesting about Caleb. You know what? He shouldn't have really even been considered in the inheritance. You know why? Caleb wasn't even a Jew. The Bible tells us in verse number 8 that he was a Kenesite, which means he was a Gentile. So he was born outside the covenant of God. A gentile. And yet somewhere along the line, Caleb had to come to faith in God. Just like Rahab, we looked at Rahab in chapter 2. A Gentile woman who placed her faith in God and she was adopted into the family of God. That's the same thing that we learn of Caleb. Somewhere along the line, he believed in God And he put his faith in God. And he was adopted into the family of God. And you know what that means? That made him available to all of the promises of God. You know what? When I think of Caleb, I think of me, I think of you. You know what? We weren't born with any special spiritual privilege. We were all outside the covenant. And we all have to come to God by faith. And I want to tell you that anyone here, if you want mercy from God, you'll get it if you come. And you put your faith in Jesus Christ, you know what will happen? He will adopt you into the family of God. And all of the spiritual blessings, all of the inheritance that God has will be yours. When you come to God by faith. And so my question tonight to you is do you know the Lord Jesus? And are you willing to come to Him? And if you do Friend. Blessings, the blessing of fellowship, the blessing of fullness, the blessing of fruitfulness, all of that will be yours. And you can say, like Caleb said, I want that mountain. And by the way, you know what the real promised land is? It's heaven. He'll prepare a place in heaven for you if you come to him. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, we thank you for the promises of your word. Thank you for this man, Caleb. As we look at his life, we cannot help but be inspired. To see his commitment, his confidence in the Word of God, his courage to overcome all the obstacles that he faced in his life. To serve you. Lord, give us that spirit. And may we say tonight with him, I want that mountain. And so, friend, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I ask you tonight, what's the mountain that the Lord has put before you? What task? What burden? What call has he placed in front of you? What challenge? And maybe you're kind of shrinking back from it and saying, oh, I can't do this. Well, friend, you can if God's calling you to it. He will give you the strength to do what he's called you to do. If you'll have that commitment, if you'll wholly follow the Lord, if you'll have confidence in his promises and courage. To meet the challenge. Friend, you can say like Caleb, I want that mountain. Father, bless these words to every hearing heart. May they inspire your people. May they Encourage your people to be all that you call us to be, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.