Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of First Timothy, chapter six. We are going to pick up in our study where we left off months ago, last year actually. And uh 1 Timothy chapter 6 and verse number 3 down through verse 5. And tonight I want to talk about identifying false teachers. This is the issue that Paul deals with. as he warns Timothy, his young son, in the faith. And the warning that he gives to Timothy is one that the church needs to listen to today. Our world is filled today with so many called ministers who make merchandise of spiritual things and deceive desperate people. That is nothing new. We see that in Scripture all the way from the beginning of Balaam in the Old Testament, the the the false prophet for hire, and you can go to the New Testament all the way to Simon the sorcerer who also wanted to make religion his prophet. Throughout the ch history of the church there are examples of so-called ministers that use religion and spiritual things for merchandise or for profit. So maybe m remember years ago there was a a man by the name of Reverend Ike. And uh he openly flaunted his materialistic greed. Uh his his creed, he said, was, I don't want pie in the sky when I die. I want cash in the stash here and now. Asked how much his church was worth, Ike replied, a lot of money. This is a very successful, prosperous, multimillion dollar operation, and I'm very happy to say that. He also claimed not to have uh not to have known his personal salary. He said, but I it's whatever I need. It's whatever I need. And he was simply boasting about all that he had earned um in spiritual things. Others promoting the so called uh word of faith movement or health, wealth and prosperity gospel tell people that it's God's will for all of God's people to be financially successful. And they will find verses of scripture to proof text that will back up that erroneous theology to make you believe that God wants all of his people rich. In our day, false teachers abound, perhaps now more than ever in the history of the church. And that may be due perhaps because of mass media. um and the and the internet and so on. It just seems like false teachers have more contact now with the multitudes than ever before. And so the question is how can you be discerning so as not to be led astray? How do we distinguish a true teacher from a false teacher? And Paul gives an answer to that here in chapter 6, verses 3 through 5. Now, this is not a comprehensive answer, of course. In order to give that kind of answer, we would have to take time to go through all of the scripture, and certainly we could do that. But this is the answer that Paul gives simply to the church at Ephesus to expose the false teachers that had invaded that church there. And if we take heed to what he says, we can also be warned and we can help unsuspecting people from falling into false teaching. So the first thing I want you to see tonight are what I call the marks of false teachers. Look at verse number three. If any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words. Notice the if there. That is a first-class condition, Greek scholars call it. And what it means is it assumes a reality that's true In other words, this was already going on in the church. There were already some in ethicists who were teaching doctrines that were not sound doctrine. They were teaching false doctrine in the church. We weren't we're not really sure historically what exactly they were teaching. It could have been s uh a form of Gnosticism that boasted in a kind of an esoteric knowledge. Or it may have been the sophist teachers that like to travel around and give great oratorical speeches for money. But we know this, they were false teachers already in the church. And Paul had warned Timothy earlier. Go back to chapter one, look at verse number three, where Paul said, As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when I went into Macedonia, that thou might as charged some that they teach no other doctrine Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies which minister questions rather than godly edify, which is in faith, so do Drop down to verse six, from which some have swerved, having turned aside unto vain jangling, verse seven, desire to be teachers of the law, understanding neither what they say nor whereof they affirm. And drop down to verse 20, of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered unto Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme. Look at chapter four, verse one. Now the Spirit speaks expressingly that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrine of devils. Speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their conscience seared with a hot iron, forbidding to marry, commanding to abstain from meats which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth And so on. So we see here that Paul has already warned Timothy before about this. And so here in chapter 6, verse 3, he says, If any teach, any man Paul indicates he did not want to limit his warning to any specific teaching or teachers, but just anyone in general who teaches things other than sound doctrine. He's giving kind of a generic warning about false teachers. and their teaching. And look at the word teach there. The word teach otherwise. That is one word in the Greek. It's a compound Greek word. It's hetero. Didaskelo. And what is that? Hetero is a word that means other. Didaskelo means to teach, to teach something other, to teach something that we could say is heretical, other than what is orthodox, what is sound. doctrine. It describes teaching that contradicts God's word, the revelation of God. Some teaching is is heterodox. and others is orthodox. Orthodox teaching is straight doctrine, true doctrine, heterox Heterodox would be the opposite. So false teachers teach things other than sound doctrine. They don't teach the Bible. What they do is they offer alternatives rather than the Bible, and they cloak it very well. They may even use the Bible to support their idea. This is a preacher that says, Hey, I got a good idea for a sermon. There has to be a verse in here someone somewhere to help me out on this. What they do is they pull a verse out of context and they use the verse to support their own teaching their own idea rather than teaching the Bible and the Word of God in its full context. That's not sound doctrine. We must never forget that the Bible is our only source, our only reliable guide for truth. It is our authority. No person can be authority on truth, no matter how much education they have or how much experience they might have in the ministry. Our authority is the Word of God. It was A. W. Toza that said the devil is a better theologian than any of us and is a devil still. But notice the word wholesome here in verse 3. If any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words. The word here for holes from the Greek word hygieneo, which where we get the word hygiene from. Hygiene simply means health giving. Healthy, sound. False teachers don't teach healthy doctrine. They don't teach sound doctrine. Have you ever wondered how um cults ensnare people? How how do they get people into their trap? Well, basically what they do is they identify unmet felt needs of people and then offer them ways to s to satisfy those needs apart from the living and true God They usually prey on people who profess to be Christians, and these Christians are either untaught or they're very young in the Lord, or they're very unstable in their theology and their understanding of God's Word, and they prey on people just like that. Just to give you an example of this, in her book, My Turn, this is from the former First Lady Nancy Reagan, she tells how She claimed to be a Christian, but she tells how she got linked up with a astrologer, Joan Quigley. You see what happened was Mrs. Reagan was very upset over the assassination attempt of her her husband, the president And to calm her fear her fear, she tried everything. She tried prayer. She tried counseling with spiritual leaders. She had Billy Grant come in as counsel. uh with him and she had counsel from her own pastor. None of that really seemed to help her much. But then one afternoon her friend Merv Griffin mentioned this astrologer who claimed that She could have warned the Reagans in advance about that assassination attempt, and so Mrs. Reagan called her, and the astrologer responded And responded with warmth and compassion. That's what the First Lady needed at that time. And this began many months of counsel. And uh she says in her book, she didn't say how much it cost, but she said it wasn't cheap. And when the president, Mr. Reagan, found out about it, his response was, if it makes you feel better, go ahead and do it. But be careful, it might look odd if it ever came out. In other words, the bottom line is not whether it conforms to the Word of God, but the bottom line was how does it make you feel? And how does it look to others? You see. And what Mrs. Reagan did, millions of professing Christians in our country do. They don't really diligently seek the Lord and and when when when a trouble comes they don't try to you know, depend upon the Lord or maybe judge their own sins or try to grow in godliness in some way. When trials come they don't know how to deal with it. They're not sound in the scripture, sound in the Word of God. All they know is that there's this loss of peace. And they want that back in their life. And along comes some false teaching that offers them a solution. And it mingles the Bible in just enough to make it sound like it's Christian. But it's really not. And they buy into it, and they're never realizing that what they're actually seeking is their own personal gain or their own happiness rather than seeking godliness. Seeking to be made more like the Lord Jesus Christ. That's how false teaching gains momentum. Beloved, let me tell you, sound doctrine matters. It matters. And our study of 1 Timothy demonstrates that, that sound doctrine matters greatly. It was Jonathan Edwards that observed the ideas and images in men's minds. are the invisible powers that constantly govern them. In other words, what you think always affects how you behave. Satan always begins his attacks with wrong thinking. Wrong theology leads to wrong living. And we live in such an anti-theological day. I've even heard some pastors of successful churches, you could call them mega churches, boast we're not into theology. You know, we're into and they'll mention other things, maybe management or technology or technique or style, and they target audiences, they design church programs to attract this demographically um defined swath of people and they they they make sure that they have a program that meets all of the felt needs of all that all those people. But I want to tell you something, a true move of God always begins with correct theology. It always begins with truth. And and you might not even be aware of it, but every person in here tonight, you're a theologian You are a theologian. Now you're either a good one or you're a bad one. But you're a theologian. Everyone is a theologian, whether they realize it or not. Now you might not be able to articulate your theology, and you may even be bored by the subject of theology, but rest assured, you're a theologian. And I can tell you what you believe by watching how you behave. Because what you do really demonstrates what you truly believe about God. And that is your theology. You see, what you think about God, what you think about sin and human nature and salvation and judgment and other biblical things, that affects how you live every day of your life. Again, you're either a good theologian or you're a bad one. And good theology leads to good behavior, and bad theology leads to bad behavior. But in our day, I would say that the prevailing theology is man-centered, heavily subjective and relative. And by man centered I mean that people conceive of God as a servant of mankind. You know, he's not the sovereign, omnipotent creator God who fashioned men for his own purpose and pleasure, but rather he's a sort of a cosmic Aladdin's genie who exists to make men happy. You know, do you have problems in life? Then try God. I mean after all God is there to make me happy when I need him. He'll meet all your needs, give you a happy life. And so the emphasis in most people's theology is on man's needs rather than on God's glory. And here's how this works. You know, here's a guy who's lived perhaps a self-centered, sinful life. Then personal tragedy strikes. And his response is, how could a good and loving God allow this to happen to me? And he says, if God exists, he should be there to serve me, he should be there to make me happy. It doesn't matter that God is sovereign or that. Uh he may have sinned and deserved judgment from God in some way. All that matters to that man is me himself. I'm in a jam now, God, and I need you to help me out of this jam right now. And so God isn't central in his thinking or his theology. Man is And all that wrong theology determines how the person reacts when a problem hits. Most American theology is not only man-centered, But it's subjective and relative. And what I mean is that how one experiences God takes precedence over the objective truth of Scripture. That's the that's the prevalent theology in prevalent theology in our country today. God is not seen as objective, an absolute being. with certain unchangeable attributes and with absolute moral laws that stem from his holy nature. Instead, God is however you experience him And so professing Christians say things like this. If you're into a God who judges sin, that's up to you. But my God, you notice that? My God, every time someone says that, I want to say, stop right there because you're committing idolatry. You are fashioning your own God out of your own mind rather than submitting to the God who has revealed himself in Holy Scripture. My God is a God of mercy and love. And so they fashion their own God that includes attributes of mercy, but has nothing to do with wrath or judgment. But that's not the God of the Bible. You see, personal feelings and experience are central, not objective, revealed truth. And that is what false teachers prey upon. And beloved, that is why sound theology, sound doctrine matters Now, Paul mentions two things regarding sound doctrine. Here's the first thing. Number one, sound doctrine is centered on Christ. Look at verse three. If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ. And this doesn't mean just the things that Jesus said, but it's all of what Scripture teaches about Jesus, about Christ, words about him. You can detect a false teacher by what they teach about Jesus Christ. What do they teach about him? And we were going over some of this this morning at 945 in the Sunday school adult hour, adult Sunday school class here. Uh there's a lot of bizarre theology going out there by people who are very well known that teach blasphemous things about Jesus. Blasphemous things about Christ. Sound doctrine always points to the centrality of Jesus Christ. It always points to his sacrificial death on the cross, Jesus Christ as Lord Christ is all and in all, as it says in Colossians 3. 11, talking about the church and God's people. Christ crucified. 1 Corinthians 1. 23, Christ the power of God, the wisdom of God, Christ in you, the hope of glory, you being complete in Christ. The centrality and supremacy of Christ were the major themes in all of Paul's theology and all of Paul's letters. And so Paul's goal was to exalt Christ. Sound theology does not center on man. Sound theology centers on God and on Jesus Christ. And here's the second thing. Sound doctrine conforms to godliness. Again, in verse number three. Even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ enter the doctrine which is according to what? Godliness, the ultimate test of any teaching is whether it produces godliness. Teaching not based on scripture will result in an unholy life. Godliness is uh is the word translates the word Eusebia. It's a word that means piety, or it means reverence, or it means Christ-likeness, or I should say likeness to God, a behavior that is the fruit of sanctifying truth in a person's life. In Matthew 7, Jesus warned, Beware of false prophets. They come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their what? By their fruits, right? Grapes are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor figs from thistles, are they? Even so every good tree bears good fruit, and a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot produce bad fruit Neither can a bad tree produce good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire, so then you will know them by their fruits Instead of being characterized by godliness, the lies of false teachers will be characterized by sin. Peter describes them very graphically, write down 2 Peter 2 14, having eyes full of adultery, they cannot cease from sin, beguiling unstable souls, a heart they have exercised with covetous practices cursed children, which have forsaken the right way, and are gone astray, following the way of Balaam, the son of Basor, who love the wages of unrighteousness. And that is a beautiful summary of false teachers. But here's the second thing. Not only the mark of false teachers, but number two, the mentality. The mentality. Paul lists several characteristics. Look at verse number four. He is what? Proud. We could say first one is conceited. Proud knowing nothing. False teachers can be summed up in one word, pride. They place themselves as judges over the Bible. They usurp the place of God, and they replace Scripture with their own ideas. That is very arrogant and proud. I can't imagine anything more proud than a preacher getting up and giving his own ideas rather than giving the revealed truth of God's word. You have to be pretty proud to do that, thinking you can know better than God what the church needs. And so pride here is the Greek word that is the same word used in 1 Timothy 3. 6. That verse says, Pastors cannot be a novice lest being lifted up with pride, same word there, fall into the condemnation of the devil. God requires humility from his servants. Whereas the sign of a false teacher is pride. And the Greek word here actually means to puff up like a cloud Or a cloud of smoke in English, we would describe a person as being full of hot air. Um I know I've perhaps been accused of that maybe, but the word actually applies to false teachers here. It implies someone who is the epitome of arrogance, setting themselves up as someone superior to the Word of God. Again, Peter said it in 2 Peter 2. 18, for when they speak great swelling words of vanity, they allure through the lust of the flesh, through much wantonness. Those that were clean escape them who live in error. False teachers, he says, speak words of vanity, useless talk that reveals their arrogant attitude. That was uh certainly the attitude of Simon the Sorcerer, a man who claimed to be someone great in the book of Acts Paul describes such a one as inflated without cause by his fleshly mind. Just write down Colossians 2. 18. Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary humility and worshiping of angels, intruding into those things which he has not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind False teachers have an over-inflated sense of their own importance, not hesitating to rebel against God and his word. But Paul here says, really, they they know nothing. Look at verse 4. He is proud knowing nothing, although a false teacher may be filled with pride. over his supposed knowledge and reality, he understands nothing, Paul says. All of his imagined intelligence, all of his pretended scholarship And his supposed deeper insights amounts to mere foolishness in the sight of Almighty God. He lacks spiritual insight because The Holy Spirit is not illuminating truth to him. The natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God And so he's conceited. But here's the next thing. He's contentious. Look again in verse 4. He is proud, knowing nothing, but dotting about questions And strife of words. Instead of focusing on the truth, false teachers are interested in controversial matters that have no real value. The words questions here is a word that refers to just foolish questions, strife of words, interesting Here, the Greek is logo words and then um machia. Umcha is where we get the word macho. Like a macho man. You ever heard of a macho man? It's that's someone who always has an attitude, always wants to fight, always wants to dispute They want to engage in arguments and fight over terminology. They want to have a debate. They want to have a a word battle. They want to argue, they want to fight, they indulge in these pseudo-intellectual theorizing that really amounts to nothing rather than talking about pers There's a lot of examples of fruitless um arguments, fruitless theorizing. Uh the one that I hate the most, perhaps, is this attack on six-day creation. We we had not too long ago answers in Genesis in here. But the Bible teaches that God created the universe in six literal days. Um you think that's a problem for God to do that? I mean, the Bible's really clear about that. Six literal days. There was evening, there was morning, day one. How much clearer? Does God have to be in describing a day? And yet, there are some out there intimidated by scientific theory, the bankrupt theory of evolution, that they reject clearly stated biblical truth And they instead opt for compromising positions such as theistic evolution or progressive creationism. They engage in speculation over the word day. All the word day can actually mean a long, long time, you know, a long period of time and so on. And that's all because they're trying to fit man's, you know, philosophy, man's scientific ignorance into the the Word of God because they're intimidated by science. You know, the worst thing in the world, and it really just cracks me up Even theologians, Christian theologians, you know, the thing that they fear most is being called unscholarly. Oh, that's a word you don't want to have that tag on you. You're unscholarly. You know, that's the thing they fear most. And so rather than being called unscholarly, they'll engage in all these meaningless theories that contradict and compromise what the Bible says. But friend, if I have a choice of being called unscholarly and just believing simply what Scripture says, and engaging in mindless, empty, bankrupt theories, you just call me unscholarly. I'll stand in that line. And just believe what Scripture says. Yeah, I'm dumb. I'm dumb enough just to believe what God has said in his word. So go ahead and put me there But they arrogantly seek to give their own theory about what happened at creation, and they end up saying the Bible doesn't mean what it says. Instead of being humbled and fearful over that kind of deviation, they are proud of their own ignorance. And and so it's it's uh it's really sad. Notice again in verse 4 where it says this, he is proud, knowing nothing, but dotting about question and strife of words, whereof come Envy, strife, railings, evil surmising. What's the result of this of their fruitless speculations? Envy, that means a state of ill will towards someone, strife, rivalry, railings is a word that means blasphemy. simply speaking evil of another, evil surmisings, that's the idea of evil suspicion, you're constantly suspicious of others. That's all of this that this produces This is why false teaching is so damaging to the body of Christ. They are conceited. They are contentious, but then they're corrupt. Look again in verse 5. Perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds. The Bible characterizes false teachers as men of corrupt minds. The word corrupt here is used as someone who has become perverse, someone who is depraved. It's referring to an unregenerate mind. Paul said that the mind set on the flesh is hostile towards God. Romans 8 seven, because the carnal mind is enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be. Such a mind doesn't function normally in the spiritual realm. It doesn't react uh in a normal way to truth. But they're natural men, and again false teachers, they can't understand the things of God because they don't have the Holy Spirit that's illuminating them as to the truth of God. They don't have that. And as a result, they they become depraved in their thinking. And it's like Romans 1, God gives them over to a reprobate-depraved mind. Not having the mind of Christ's false teachers can only produce error. Notice what Paul says in verse 5. Destitute of the truth. They don't have the truth. Destitute is a word that actually comes from apostero, which means to steal or deprive. The passive voice indicates that someone pulled them away from the truth. Someone or something pulled them away from the actual truth. This doesn't imply that they were saved. It implies that they were around truth, but they didn't really hold on to it, and they were pulled away from the truth. And so they're destitute of truth. They've gone away from it. And their spiritual condition because of that is terminal. And because they have rejected the truth, the Bible says they are headed for judgment. Peter says that they bring swift destruction upon themselves. And let me give you the the final thing. We talked about the marks of false teachers, the mentality of false teachers, but here's number three, the motive. Look at verse 5 again where it says, Supposing that gain is godliness, from such withdraw thyself. Supposing a gain is godliness. We can translate that like this. Who suppose that godliness is a means of gain? That is, these false teachers were living for material values, not spiritual values. They were They were really interested in the treasure of this temporal world, not in eternal things. Instead of being prophets of God, they were making a prophet on God. Apparently they were living well off their ministries and and they were flaunting it. Earlier in First Timothy, Paul had shown that it is proper for a man who labors in the gospel to to be adequately supported by the gospel, but it's wrong for a man in a ministry to focus on money or to make his ministry all about money. That's wrong. If you're in it for financial gain, then you're in it for the wrong reason. They're using God for personal gain and self- promotion. And that's what Paul is saying here. You remember in 2 Corinthians, Paul defended himself against that charge. You remember Paul was collecting an offering? um from the Gentile churches and he was giving he was going to give it to the to the church in Jerusalem because believers there were suffering. And this was a beautiful way to show the unity of the gospel. And what happened was is there were people in Corinth that were accusing Paul of making this collection for himself. Oh, they said he's not going to give that to anyone. He's going to take up this offering and he's going to keep it He's conning us. And Paul had to defend himself. He said, we're in in 2 Corinthians 2. 17, he said, We are not as many which corrupt the Word of God, but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God we speak. Paul said, you know, we're not like that. And he's using we here. That's kind of the editorial we to speak about himself. He didn't like to use the word I So he says, look, I'm not in this for myself. I'm not like those who corrupt the Word of God. I'm not out there trying to make a merchandise of others, getting gain for myself. I'm not The copelas is the word that he used there. That was a con man. That was a huckster. Paul said, you know, you might have people like that in Corinth, false teachers like that, but that's certainly not me. I'm not them. But then in contrast, he said, but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God we speak. Unlike those commends, Paul spoke the message sincerely. He said, in the presence of God. The word sincere sincerity here is a word that means to hold up to the light to judge. It has the idea of holding something up to the light so that you can see it clearly, so you can make a judgment. Paul says, look, you can hold my life up To the light of God's word and the light of the things of God. And what you'll find is there's nothing there that reveals that I'm in this for myself or for personal gain in any way. He wasn't in it for selfish reasons. But there are many false teachers who lack true spiritual power and operate In order really just to fill their pockets. And our world is filled with ministers and religions that make a merchandise of desperate people. And and it reminds me, uh I know I've told you this before, but back in the 16th century, when Pope Leo wanted to you know make do a fundraiser, he needed money. What he did was he announced a special sale on indulgences. This is the Pope of the Catholic Church Because he wants money, he said, I'm gonna I'm gonna give a special sale on indulgences. What is an indulgence? An indulgence is granted by the Pope where a person could take merits from the from the from the treasury of the saints uh in heaven. The saints supposedly have, you know, good works and righteousness added up in the tr in the treasury of merits of saints in heaven. And you can have some of those merits applied to your own record For a special price. If you're willing to give a certain amount, you can have that apply to you, or maybe you can have that apply to your dead loved ones. There was what is called a plenary indulgence, which was a full indulgence, and a partial indulgence, where, you know, it's you get partial pardon, it really is dependent on how much money you're willing to pay. I mean if you want to get grandma out of purgatory, you have to be willing to pay the price for it. And Pope Leo even had a special salesman named John Texel who went around to people telling them, you know, that you know you this is a special opportunity for you to get your loved ones out of hell. And you know, can't you hear the cries of your loved ones there in hell saying, oh please get me out of this place? He even had a little jingle. He said, every time a coin in the coffer rings, a soul from purgatory springs. And and we look at that, and that's by the way what made Martin Luther so angry. And that's why he nailed his 95 thesis to the door of the church. If you wanted to have a theological debate about something, you would put it on the church door And you would debate it. And these indulgences were again or excuse me, these uh these ninety-five theses were against the sale of indulgences. And one of the things that Martin Luther posted in that document was, if the Pope has the authority to release people from purgatory, why doesn't he just do it for free? Good question. Well the reason is because he was trying to earn money. First of all, he doesn't have the power to do it But secondly, his whole goal was to do nothing but to reach into the pockets of people and for his own personal benefit. Now that happened a long time ago in the sixteenth century, but I want to tell you there are still some tetzels around, some modern tetzels around today, who really don't really care about the souls of men. All they're concerned about is making a profit for themselves. They peddle the word of God. And Paul said, this is a characteristic of a false teacher. What would he do about that? Well look at the last part of verse 5. From such withdraw thyself. Stay away from them. Just withdraw yourself. Don't give another time of day. Stay away from that dangerous individual or individuals or religion. that that teaches false theology and makes merchandise of men. So the message to Timothy was a warning to beware. And that is the message for us today. There are still, again Many false teachers, many bizarre theologies and doctrines that are out there, many wolves that are preying upon the sheep. We need to be careful. On March seventh, eighteen eighty-eight, in New Rockford, North Dakota, Mr. Olson and his son were walked outside their home, shoveling snow to make a path between their home and the barn. And they were talking, enjoying their time together. They were unaware of what was happening around them. Suddenly, without warning, they were surrounded by a pack of ravenous, vicious wolves. Mrs. Olson, who was holding her baby in her arms, happened to pass by the kitchen window right at the time where she saw the horrible sight of wolves lunging and attacking her husband and her son. She stood and watched in horror at the terrible death of her husband and son, and was unable to help them in any way. The father and the son were ripped to shreds by the pack. They were literally eaten alive. After the wolves devoured every bit of flesh from the bones of the men, they turned toward the house where Mrs. Olson and her baby were watching And these vicious wolves circled the house, unable to find a point of entry. Reluctantly, finally, they retired back into the woods. The investigation after the incident found nothing but the bones of the husband and the son. And the St. Paul Daily Globe that wrote up this whole report ended. With these words, wolves are more numerous and dangerous now than ever before. And you know what? We can say that's true in the spiritual realm. In the day in which we live, wolves are more numerous and more dangerous now than they ever have been before And we need to be on the alert. We need to prove and test everything by the word of God. And be careful. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for your word. And Lord, how it comforts us, it encourages us, it blesses us, it strengthens us. And at times, it sounds a warning to us as we read tonight in the words that Paul wrote to Timothy, his young son in the faith, to be careful. As he described false teachers, their marks, their mentality, their motives, what they're after. Lord, give us discernment in these dangerous days, not only for ourselves, but for our loved ones, for new believers, for those that are unstable in their faith Father, may we be guardians of the truth. As Paul wrote to Timothy, that was his charge, but not only to him, but Lord, all of us, we are all given that same charge to guard the truth. So Father, help us to take this responsibility seriously. Give us discerning minds. Give us knowledge of your word so that, Lord, we will are able to protect others from dangerous Errors and false theology, that damn souls. Help us, Lord, in this important task. And I pray, Lord, again, for all that are here tonight that They understand the true gospel and all of its beauty and all of its purity and all of its simplicity. And that every person here tonight has the absolute assurance. That they're dependent upon Christ alone. That their hope is in the righteousness of Christ alone. Not us, not our works, not our righteousness. But the righteousness of Christ, that we have put our full faith in his finished work on the cross. And let nothing Deter us or pull us away from the purity of the gospel. Lord, help us to stand firm in this. Bless us as a church as we go forward to always be faithful and true. to the precious gospel that you have entrusted to us. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful matchless name. Amen.