Alright, turn your Bibles to Romans chapter 8. The book of Romans, chapter 8, the passage we read. And uh the title of the sermon this morning is God Be For Us. I just wanted uh beginning of the year to preach some sermons in the beginning to be an encouragement to God's people because I know that there are many that are going through difficulty and hardship. I don't know of a more encouraging passage of scripture than Romans eight. This passage that we just read. It's been called the Triumph Song for the Believer. One person said about this passage, it's the highest plateau of the whole of divine revelation. Really, the whole theme of this section is really centered around the phrase that we find in verse 31, the last part of that verse where it says, If God be for us, who can be against us? What a great expression that is. If God be for us, who can be against us? A lot of us remember the story of Martin Luther when he stood before the uh The deity of Worms where he was asked to recant his faith or recant the gospel. But most of us don't know that alongside him there on that day was another man by the name of Melanchthon. He was a brilliant young scholar. He was someone that loved God's word And in fact, church historians say of him that was really he was the one who sparked an enthusiasm for the study of Greek, which really led to the rediscovery of the gospel in the Middle Ages, the Dark Ages. And so he was just a great, godly man. When Melanchthon was on his deathbed, a pastor came by and he read Romans 8. When he got to verse number 31, Melanchthon asked him to read it again. If God be for us, who can be against us? And Melanchthon said with great joy and peace, That's it. That's it. Right there. If God be for us, who can be against us? This verse was the source of his supreme confidence and security as a Christian. Now in this last section of Romans eight, the Apostle Paul is going to give us a great message of security. These verses teach us that we are secure in Christ. That if God is for us, and indeed He is, as we'll see, no one or nothing can be against us. These are verses of tremendous verses of God's love for us. Because there are some people out there that believe that a believer can lose their salvation. There are some denominations and some faith Our salvation, we would lose it. We can't hold on to it. It was given to us by God's grace. It is God's grace that keeps us. And so this is really this whole passage here is going to talk about the security of Now the structure of the passage is really clear. Paul is going to ask a string of rhetorical questions, and these questions all prove the conclusion that you are Are secure in Christ. John Stott calls these five unanswerable questions. This is what he wrote. He wrote this. The apostle hurls these questions out of the And nothing can harm the redeemed people of God. And that that that's really the whole message. So I want you to see then five reasons why you are secure. As a believer. You're secure for these five reasons. And we already read Romans 8, verses 28 down to verse 39. And so the question I would ask you What does this leave out? Doesn't really leave anything out. There are only two things that can fuck you out of the Father's hands. That's people or circumstance. One of those two things. And in this passage it is so exhaustive, it's so sweeping that really it leaves no stone unturned. this and understanding this, you're forced to conclude that there is nothing that can pull you out of the Father's hand. Absolutely nothing. And what Paul's doing here in this passage Grace and salvation. And so let's look at the reasons why you're secure. Number one, because of God's sovereign purpose. Look again in verse thirty-one. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? Notice the who there. Who can be against us? That's the who means people. Remember I said there's only two things that can take you out of the father's hand that's people or circumstances. And first, Paul's going to do with going to deal with the idea of people. Is there any person that can take you You out of the Father's hands. Is it possible for people to pluck you out of the Father's hand? What if a person who was saved Came to know the Lord, was later influenced by someone that didn't believe the Bible, and caused them to question what they had previously Learn. Think about in the Bible, the Judaizers, they came along after Paul preached the gospel to the Galatians, and they caused some of the Galatians to turn away from grace Someone today might wonder, what about if a believer that embraces some form of legalism or some religious system out there that doesn't really uh support what the scripture teaches? What if a young person that was raised as a Christian, grew up in a Christian home, was taught the gospel early, and they learned the gospel and they repented and submitted Committed to Christ and they were committed as a believer until they got out of the home and they came into contact with some of this this false philosophy that's out of out there in the world. This this postmodern cr uh idea of no you can't be sure about anything and they begin to question everything that they learn. Or maybe they got with some really And they went down that road of sin. And they were influenced by the evil of the world. Could those people cause that believer to be plucked out of the Father's Is that possible? Well the answer is in verse 31. Look at it again. It says, if God be for us, the if there is really a conditional part Which simply means that the if we could say is sense. The thought of Paul is not some form of a hypothetical condition as if it were a question Of whether or not God was for us, that's not it. His thought is: in view of the fact that God is for us. And so it goes like this: since God is for us Who can be against us? And the answer to that question is obviously nothing. No one. For if anyone could rob us of salvation, they would be great John ten, verse twenty-seven says, As my sheep And listen to this I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand. So who can snatch us out of the Father's hand? No one. No one. Now some people come along and they object and they say, well, you know, maybe someone else couldn't take us out of the Father's hands, but we could probably pluck ourselves out of the Father's of the Father's hands. That's just ridiculous thinking. That's quibbling over words. No one includes the person who is in Christ's hands. Fred, if you're truly Saved, you know the Lord Jesus Christ, there's nothing that you could do that could pluck you out of the Father's hands. No one on the outside can pull you out of the Father's hands. You can't pull yourself out. The Bible says, and they shall certainly not perish. When Jesus said they shall never perish. It's very emphatic there in They shall certainly not perish forever. Forever. So that means nobody. What about God? Is it possible that God Himself changed his mind about us? Is it possible for God to say to the believer, you know what, I don't want you anymore. You're too much trouble I mean I've saved you and you know how high maintenance you are? I don't want to mess with you anymore. Is it possible for God To say that? Well look at verse thirty one again. What shall we say then to these things? What are the these things that Paul is referring to here? preceding verses to know what it is. Back up to verse twenty eight. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Verse 29, for whom What is the purpose? The purpose of God is revealed in verse 29, and that is that you be conformed to the image of his Son. Look at verse thirty moreover whom he did predestinate them he also called, and whom he called, then he also justified, and whom he justified, them he also glorified. These are really what they call five golden Links in the chain of salvation. There's foreknowledge. God saw us in eternity past. There's predestination. God predetermined you. What did he predetermine? It tells us in verse 20 He predestined that we be conformed to the image of his son. Now I ask you if it was God's purpose in eternity past to make you like Like his son, how is it possible that you lose your salvation? If you lost your salvation, that means God's purpose could never be accomplished. And God's purpose was That when he foreknew you, he saw you coming to salvation, God says, Okay, I predetermined then that you will be just like my son. God determined That all the way back in eternity past. And if there's anything that you could do or anyone else could do to lose your salvation, that would thwart the purpose of God. And let me tell you something, friend, God's Purposes cannot be undone. The Bible says this in Fort Isaiah forty six, verse nine Remember the former things of old, for I am God and there is none else. I am God and there is none else Like me, declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times the things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, I will do all my purpose. You can't undo the purpose of God. And God's purpose for you when you got saved is God says, I determined that you be just like My son. That is God's purpose for you. And what God has decreed in eternity cannot be undone in time. So guess what? God's not going He's not going to change his mind about you. Because he determined that all those who are justified, verse 30, will be glorified. You will be glorified. That means you will go to heaven and you will see the full realization of your salvation. We talked about glorification last week. That is God's purpose. You say, well what if I disobeyed God and God chastised me and I I continue disobeying God and God continued to chastise me and I said, you know what I'm just gonna do my thing and and what what if that happened? You know what would happen? You know the Bible says there is a sin unto death for a believer. And if you continue to disobey God, you know what God might do God might say, okay, that's enough. I'm not going to let you embarrass me. You bear my name. So I'll tell you what, I'm going to call you home early. And you know what happens when a believer, when they die? They're glorified So guess what? You're going to be made like Christ one way or another. If God has to call you home early, so be it. But guess what? When you're called home early, God glorifies you. So his Write down Philippians 1:6. Being confident of this very thing that he which began a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Jesus Christ. And so there's number one, because of God's sovereign purpose. But write down number two, because of the sacrifice of Christ. Look at verse thirty-two He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Here's another reason I know That God's not going to give up on us is because you and I cost him too much. You and I cost God way too much for him to give up And here in this next verse is an illustration of how much God call uh how much we cost God. He paid the highest price Price imaginable for our salvation. Highest price. I remember a few years ago I was on a plane, I landed, the people picked me up, they were Taking me to where I was going to stay. The traffic was horrible. We were on uh you know some uh interstate and it was just bumper to bumper and it was just people inching along. And while I was in the car I got a phone call on my mobile phone and it was the airline calling me and they said uh Dr. Harmon you left your iPad on the plane Yeah, that's my thought. And I I I I thought, you know, well, I could have said this. I could have said, you know what, I'm in bumper to bumper traffic and you know what, it it's too much too much trouble to turn around and get it You all just keep it. You know, just just just go ahead and keep it. I could have said that. But guess what? I didn't. You know why? That thing cost Way too much. And not only that, I invested a lot into that. I had all my sermons on there. I had a lot of information on there So you know what I told them? I said, hold on to it, please. I'll be back. I told the driver, I said, do what you gotta do. Get me out of here. Let's get back there. I went back. There was no way I was gonna get give up on that thing because of the cost. And this is the idea here. You know what you cost God? Your salvation cost his son. Again, look at verse number 32, he that spared not his own son. Look at that word spared not. That contains a strong reference to the store story of Abraham and Isaac. In fact, the word for spared not Is the same word used in the Septuagint to talk about the fact that Abraham spared his son, but God spared not his own son. Of course, Abraham was going to take the life of his son, but God said Said, don't do it, he was spared. But when it came to God's own son, God didn't spare him. His own son, the Bible says it pleased the Lord to Bruise him. And so the idea then is if God would not spare his own son for us, that means he's going to give us all things freely. By the way, this is what gives me confidence in prayer God's not going to withhold any good thing from his people. If he didn't withhold his son from you, you think he's going to withhold any good thing from you? He spared not his own son And so he says here in verse thirty two, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Spiritual blessings, including eternal glory. So I'm secure because of God's sovereign purpose. I'm secure because of the sacrifice of Christ. But here Here's the third thing. I'm secure because of the believers no condemnation status. Look at verse 33. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifies? What about Satan? What if is it possible for the accuser or the brethren To come before God, the throne of God, and make an accusation. The accusation is so accurate, so strong, that God says, I'm sorry, Jerry, I'm gonna have to let And so the idea here is that no accusation before God's tribunal will cause the believer to lose their salvation. If Satan came and made an accusation against me Before God's tribunal, you know what Jesus would, he would step forward and he would say, Father, I've already paid for that. There's no charge that Satan can make. I've already paid Pay for that. And there's no higher a court in which to appeal because God the Father is the supreme court in heaven. And so even if Satan does bring an accusation Against me. There's nothing that can be done. Because Christ has already paid for my sins. I am under no condemnation in Christ Jesus Jesus There is no charge, no matter how accurate Satan might be, that can cause me to lose my salvation. Martin Luther was a man who was very, very uh uh aware of spiritual warfare. Said that one night he was uh awakened and he he thought he saw a figure at the foot of his bed that he thought was Satan and of course this was a dream that he later recalled. And he could could li could hear him making all these accusations. He had a scroll in his hand And all the accusations he was making against them were accurate. They were right. And Luther said he felt as if his soul was slipping away into hell. And he heard a voice from heaven. It was the voice of the Savior And Luther said to that figure which he thought to be Satan, I I command you in the name of Jesus, unroll the rest of that scroll. And when he did At the bottom of the scroll, written in crimson red, were the words paid for by the blood of Jesus Christ. Any accusation that Satan might make against the believer has been And so I know I'm secure because of God's sovereign purpose, because of the sacrifice of Christ, because of the my notion of the Condemnation status before him. But here's number four, because of Christ's intercession. Look at verse 34. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, gave Rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. What about Jesus I mean, will Jesus ever change his mind about us? Will Jesus ever say I've had enough of Jerry? No. The answer to that is no How do we know that? Because in thir verse thirty four, this is how I know because Jesus is constantly praying for me in heaven. He is interceding for me. where it says who also maketh intercession for us. Our salvation is secure because Christ is constantly interceding for me. He's interceding for you. The Bible says in first John two one, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. It says in Hebrews seven twenty-five, Christ is able also to save them to the The uttermost that cometh unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. And so whenever we sin or Satan accuses us, Christ acts as our divine defense attorney, and he is praying for us. Remember what Jesus said to Peter? He said, Simon, Satan has desired to sift you like wheat He's asked permission to get at you. But don't worry, Peter, I prayed that your faith wouldn't fail. The reason I'm not falling away is because Christ is praying for me, not because I'm any Good or holy is not anything of me, friend. It's because Jesus prays for me. That's the reason. You say, what does he pray? Well let well let me show you something. Hold your Place here in Romans 8. I want you to see this. Look in John chapter 17. This is a beautiful passage. I want you just to see it. This kind of gives us a preview of Christ's ministry as an intercessor. In John 17, Jesus is praying for his disciples. And we don't have time to go over over every little bit of this, but in verse eleven, he asks for God to unify them. 13 He asked for God to give them joy. You know what Jesus is praying for you to have joy. In verse number 15 to 16, he asks the Father to protect them. Look at verse 17. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. You know what Jesus is praying for? He's praying that you become more holy, more sanctified. Remember the purpose more like Christ. That's what he's praying. Sanctify them. He said, wait a minute. Jesus is praying that for his disciples back there. Praying for me, is he? You don't think so? Look at verse 20. Neither pray I for these alone. I'm not praying for just these disciples. But look watch this. But For them also which shall believe on me through their word. Who does that include? That includes everybody. Have you believed on Jesus through their word I have, I know you have. So he's praying for all of us. We're all included in this prayer. And notice what he's praying. Look look down in verse number twenty-four. Five Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me, for thou lovest me before the foundation What was Jesus' prayer? He says, Father, I want them to be where I am. Where was Jesus? Or where was he going to be? Heaven. He's up there in heaven. You know what he's praying? Father, I want Jerry to be with them. Where I am. I want Jerry to be able to behold my glory. You know, when Jesus walked the earth the first time, his glory was veiled. He came in humiliation. But one day, Jesus, he's praying that his glory would be revealed before all of his people, and he's praying that all of us will be there to see it. And so guess what I'm going to be there. And so will you. Because Jesus gets all of his prayers answered. And so that's why it's impossible for me to ever lose my salvation Because Jesus is praying that I be there with him to behold his glory. And friend, if you don't if you can still believe you can lose your salvation after all of this, you got Issues. You got a problem. Your problem is you just don't believe the word. Let me give you number five. Not only because of God's sovereign purpose because of the sacrifice of Christ, because of the believers no condemnation status, because of Christ's intercession. But here's number five. Christ. Now, Paul's already gone through the litany of people. Remember, I said there's only two things that can keep you or that can separate you or cause you to lose your salvation. If it were possible, and one is people, and Paul's already concluded that there's no one that's going to cause you to lose your salvation. There's no evil person that can come along and snatch you. It. You can't snatch yourself out of the Father's hand. God the Father's not going to change his mind on you, neither is Jesus. And Satan can't bring a charge against you. So that that's Pushes aside all the people. So the other thing is circumstances. Is there any circumstance that could cause you to lose your salvation? And Paul again is going to show us no look at verse 35. Who, or we could say what, shall separate us from the love of Christ? And he's going to give a litany of Circumstances here. What is it? Any possible circumstance that will separate us from the love of Christ? And by the way, when he says love of Christ here, he's referring to Christ Christ's love for the believer, not the believer's love for Christ. What can cause Christ to stop loving me or love me less? Nothing. He cannot love me more. He already loves me completely. He will not love me less. There is no circumstance. And so Paul goes through some possible circumstance Circumstances. Are there any? Verse thirty-five. Shall tribulation that's talking about outward pressure. It includes suffering and rejection and bodily harm or distress That's inward pressure talks about a the word literally means a narrowness of room and it pictures someone who is caught in a narrow space hemmed in with no way out Or persecution that's just suffering, or famine, that's just simple hunger, unemployment, being unable to pay the bills, not having enough. Many Christians in Paul's They were discriminated against because they were Christians and they could not get a job because of that. Or nakedness, that just t talking about poverty, peril, that's talking about Any kind of danger, sword that's talking about just simple death. Today we have it pretty easy here in America, but there are many Christians over the world that are facing death. Death. All these things. What about look at verse thirty six? As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long, we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. And here Paul is quoting from Psalm 44, and it's basically saying that it shouldn't surprise us when we have to suffer as Christians. This is very real This adversity is very real. The Bible says, For thy sake we are killed all the day long. We're made partakers of Christ's suffering. But look at verse 37. In all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. And I love that. You know what it's saying there? That God, because of his grace and his love for you When you go through these things, he's going to make you a conqueror. He's going to make you victorious. Because of his grace. It might be that you're here this morning and You say, yeah, that's me right there. I'm going through this thing right here. Well, guess what? Because of Christ's love for you and his grace, he will help you to be a victor over them that. He will make you more than a conqueror through Christ. Not because of our strength, but because of his strength. He makes us more than conquerors. The Bible says. None of these things will ever cause Christ to love us less. Look at um verse thirty-eight. For I'm persuaded that neither death Nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor debt, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God Which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. What does he leave out there? He leaves nothing out. There's no circumstance left out of these things that he had Just given us. And this is the capstone of what he's saying here. You're saved. You're secure against death. You are secure in life. You're secure against angel No angel can come and pluck you out. We're secure against demons. We're secure for both time and eternity. Nothing will separate you from the love of Christ. We're secure against everything in the celestial realm. Height or death, height is these are astronomical terms from the height of the highest star to the lowest Lowest depth at its nader, all of these things, none of these things can separate you from God's love because you are his child. He will not stop loving you. I I I remember one time a person was challenging me on this, that you could lose your salvation. I just said to them, Do you have any children? Oh yes, I have a I have a daughter. Well what could that daughter do that could cause you to stop loving her What could that daughter do to cause you to disown her? He said, nothing. I'll always be that she'll always be my daughter. I said, So you think you're a better parent than God? If you won't disown your children, do you think God is going to disown his? Do you think there is any circumstance that could cause Jesus to stop loving you? No. He doesn't stop loving you, friend. He gives you his grace. He showers his love on you more when you go through those circumstances. And so Paul says not Nothing, absolutely nothing. Paul allowed for no loopholes, no exceptions, nothing can ever separate you from the love of God And so I don't know what you're going through right now, but just know this. You're secure. You're secure. He loves you. And friend, he's going to make you more than a conqueror. because of his love for you. It reminds me of the words of the song written by George Matheson, a blind man, who uh His fiance decided she didn't want to marry him because he was blind, and he wrote down these words to a hymn talking about God, O love that will not God's love is a love that will never ever let us go. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you for the security that we do have. That we are your beloved children. That you have a sovereign purpose in our life to make us like your son. And you paid the highest price for our salvation. And that we are now under no condemnation In Christ. And we know that, Lord Jesus, you pray for us. And the reason we're not going to fall away is because you're praying for us. That we would see your glory. And we know that there's no circumstance that could ever separate us from your love. Lord, I'm preaching to people here today that may feel that because they're going through an adversity, that perhaps you stop loving them. And I pray, Lord, that you'll show them that that's not true. That your love is just as real as it's always been, and that through your grace you will make them more than a conqueror through Christ. Father, show them this. Let them feel that That security in Christ, that love that you have. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, how many are here today and say, I just want to ask God for His grace to help me through this trial Would you pray for me, preacher? I need this. I need to affirm this in my own life. I'm praying for God's grace to help me through some of the trials, some of the burdens and heartaches and friend God sees all those hands. He sees your heart. And He loves you dearly. Maybe put your hands down. Maybe you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior And friend, I just want to invite you. On every service, we want to invite people to come to Christ. In fact, the gospel is really not an invitation, it's more of a command. The Bible says that God commands all men everywhere to repent. So his command to you today is to turn from your sin and turn to the Savior. Come to Him. He died for you. He paid the greatest price with his own death. He took all of your sins upon himself and salvation is a gift and he's commanding you turn to me. Come to me Repent of your sin and receive the gift of eternal life. And if you're here today and you've never prayed and you've never trusted Christ, I want to invite you today to do that right there where you are. you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, save me. Make me your child. Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you today, friend? Or are you willing to reach out to Christ and say, Lord, save me? Can I pray for you today Anyone here? Lift your hand and let me pray for you. Anyone here would say that? All right. Father, use these words to bless and strengthen your people, and we'll forever Never give you the praise and the honor and the glory in Jesus' name, Amen