Would you take your Bibles tonight open to uh the book of Psalms? I want you to go to chapter 124. It's our joy to be able to go to God's Word again tonight. And as you know, we've been looking at some of these Psalms and applying them to our own life. It seems like every time I read through one of these songs, it just seems seems to speak to the situation that I'm in. And I always seem to draw encouragement from that. And I wish to encourage you tonight. But really specifically I have more of a uh the the purpose is to teach a a discipline, a spiritual discipline from this psalm In my Christian life, I've read some books that have had a dramatic impact on me. And the reason is, is because when I read these books, they kind of change my thinking in certain areas. Uh this was I read a book many years ago at a time in my life where I thought I had really failed in making some decisions. Anybody ever feel that way? You made some bad decisions? And you feel like you messed your whole life up. Almost like God's in heaven going, now what am I going to do with you, Jerry? You made this terrible decision. All my plans I had for you were all messed up because of this one bad decision you made And I had to learn that that was simply not the truth. God is in control, amen. He's in control of everything, every detail of our life And uh but the book that I uh read was a book titled The Mystery of Providence. It was written by John Flavell. John Flavil was a Puritan minister. I don't know if you ever read a Puritan book, they're not easy to go through. If you ever want to read a Puritan book, try to get an abridged version because the Puritans when they wrote their sentences were paragraph paragraphs long and sometimes you would have to just take your time and read through it, but they're very valuable when you read them And uh let me tell you a little bit about John Flavor. This was a book that encouraged me in my life. It really put me back um on the road in my spiritual walk. It was not written by a man who didn't have trouble in his own life. In fact, it was written by a man who had a lot of trouble in his life. And uh let me tell you a little bit about him. John, as I said, John Flavor was a Puritan minister. His father actually was a minister that lived in the 17th century in England. His father was put in prison because he refused to compromise the Word of God. And he du actually his father died of a plague in prison for ri just absolutely refusing to compromise truth. That was his father and John Flavel learned much from his father. He went to Oxford. He studied very diligently. He was ordained a minister. He married Joan Randall, a godly woman, who died while giving birth to their first child And the baby died also. This was in 1655. He would marry a second time only to see his second wife die He would remarry a third time, and again tragedy struck yet again as Slaver watched his third wife die of an illness. In 1656 he was called to minister to a seaport town called Dartmouth. It was a very small area uh uh not a very large church. He had a very small income, but the people loved him there and many people were converted under his preaching. But in 1662, there was an act that went out called the Act of Uniformity, which said that any minister who refused to conform to the Book of Common Prayer should be ejected from the Church of England and they couldn't preach in any church That would kind of be like the government of the United States coming to me and saying, You can't use your Bible anymore. We have a book here we want you to use. This is this is the book that we want you to use. And it was kind of a an exercise in the control of what the preachers would preach. And of course Flavel refused. He was like his father. He refused to compromise. He refused to just use the book of common prayer. And as a result of that, he was removed from the pulpit. Not allowed to preach in any of the churches, but this didn't stop Flavor. He would meet secretly in the woods. He sometimes would even disguise himself and go to meetings and preach to people that were there waiting Uh and many times soldiers would rush in when they found out that he was preaching in a certain spot and uh disperse the congregation. So he was constantly running for his life. Many times he narrowly escaped being arrested. He was hunted, he was hated, he was hounded. This is how he lived much of his life. He suffered many, many heartaches, many trials, many afflictions, constantly on the run, people that constantly wanted to capture him And you would think a person like this would get a bit maybe embittered about having to live this way or tired or maybe want to quit ministry altogether. Not John Flavil. He continued faithfully serving the Lord, not compromising truth. On June 6, 1691, he suffered a massive stroke. And he died that same evening. His final words, he was 63 years old. His final words were, I know that it will be well with me. Now when you read of a life like this, one of the questions I ask is, what was the secret of his perseverance? What kept him going on through all of these afflictions? Well, I think one of the things that really helped him in his life was he learned the spiritual discipline of meditating on what he called the mercies of God. What does that mean? He it was just really looking back at the providential hand of God in his life. He would have a discipline daily of thinking about how God in his grace sustained him and helped him through all of the difficulties that he faced. And that was the book that he wrote, The Mystery of Providence. And in this book, he tells us as Christians that what we need to learn to do, what we need to get in the habit of doing daily in our life Is meditating on God's hand of providence. Looking back. It's kind of looked like looking in the rearview mirror of life And realizing that it was the Lord that brought you through that, and thinking specifically of ways of how God brought you through Seeing his mercies in your life, seeing his providences in your life. Y'all know that famous poem about footprints into sin You know, I look back and realize the Lord had carried me. That's really what we're talking about here. This is John Flavil saying what you need to do as a Christian daily is you need to look back in your life And you need to see God's hand that has carried you through so many of the difficulties, so many of the valleys that you've gone through. You say, yeah, well, a lot of those valleys I've brought on myself. Yeah, I know that. Me too. And yet, did God bring us through that? Did he help us out in that? Was he merciful to us in that? Absolutely And this is what John Flavor wrote. He said, this is our duty, talking about meditating on God's providence. This is our duty because God has expressly commanded it. And called his people to make the most serious reflections upon his work. In fact, Flavor will argue in his book that God has commanded us And if we don't do this, then it's a sin. He argues for that one point. He wrote this. It is plain that this is our duty because the neglect of it is everywhere in Scripture condemned as a sin. He quotes from Isaiah 26, 11, Lord, your hand is lifted up, but they do not see it. Friend, do you see God's good hand in your life? Are you able to recognize that? He quotes from Isaiah 5 Twelve and thirteen, where it says they have lyre and harp and tambourine and flute and wine at their feast, but they do not regard the deeds of the Lord or see the work of his hands And then again from Psalm 28, verse 4 and 5, where he says, give them according to their deeds, according to the wickedness of their endeavors, give them after the work of their hands. Render to them their dessert, because listen, because they regard not the works of the Lord. They don't regard the works of the Lord. And so he writes in his book, let me quote, labor to get as full and thorough a recognition as you are able of the providences of God concerning you from the first to the last. What is he saying there? You need to labor, think. Think about your life from the very beginning up until now. And think about God's how God's hand has brought you through. And has brought people into your life. And has brought mercies into your life. And has brought you to the very point that you are right now. Now, where did he learn to do this? I think that John Flay will learn this discipline of meditating on the providences or what he would call the mercies of God simply by reading the Psalms. Because if you read the Psalms, what you're going to find is this is what many of the psalmists are doing all the time. They're looking back at the work of the Lord. For example, in Psalm 77, Asaph said, I will remember what the works of the Lord. I will remember them, he said. Surely I will remember thy wonders of old. Now, with all that in mind, this is exactly what the psalmist is doing here in Psalm 124. He is remembering God. God's providences. And the key phrase here in Psalm 124 is this phrase, if it had not been for the Lord. Look at verse 1. It starts off that way. If it had not been for the L been the Lord who was on our side, now may Israel say, if it had not been the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us, Then they had swallowed us up quick when their wrath was kindled against us. The psalmist is looking back over the history of the nation of Israel, and he's saying, If it hadn't been for the Lord We certainly wouldn't be here. We certainly wouldn't be where we are. We can all relate to that, can't we? How many of us can honestly say if it hadn't been for the Lord, I wouldn't be able to be here tonight? I wouldn't be able to make it This far. I wouldn't have been able to make it through this last year. This reminds me of the song that we sing sometimes had it not been for a place called Mount Calvary. Y'all remember that song? Had it not been for the old rugged cross. And so this is what the psalmist is doing here. He is remembering the goodness of God. He's remembering the mercies of God. It's kind of a what-if type of thinking. We're called to kind of do that. What if God had not intervened in my life? What if God had not stepped in the way he did? What if God had left me to my own devices? What if God had not been on my side? Where would we be? So let's think about this. This is what the psalmist is doing here. He's using kind of poetic images to describe four disasters that would have fallen upon him had it not been for the Lord. So let look at let's look at him. Had it not been for the Lord, number one, he would be defeated by a surprise attack. That's what he talks about in verses one to three. If it had not been for the Lord who was on our side, now may Israel say If it had not been for the Lord, who was on our side when men rose up against us, then they had swallowed us up quick when their wrath was kindled against us. Notice when men rose up against us. This is talking about a surprise attack, a sneak attack. And by the way, this is exactly the way Satan comes at us, isn't it? You know, the devil never warns us and says, Here, I just want you to know a week from today I'm gonna really hammer you. It's always a sneak attack, right? Winston Churchill one time said, we have to always be ready at our average moment to meet what the enemy will throw at us at his select moment. And that's hard to do sometime. But here he's saying, you know, we wouldn't make it because of these surprise attacks that come upon us and that's exactly the way the devil has sometimes tried to get at you and get at me. He will just all of a sudden come at you, surprisingly, and had it not been for the Lord, we wouldn't have made it. Now this psalm here uh Most scholars believe that David wrote it. Others believe that maybe Hezekiah wrote this. In fact, if you look at the background of this psalm, I think the better explanation is it was um written by Hezekiah. It was just the circumstance when Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians, came to take over Jerusalem. So this may be what he's referring about here. Here's a wicked king coming against Israel, and his desire was to wipe him off the face of the map. Only because of the Lord was Israel protected. And they're looking back and they're saying that very same thing. And folks, we can say the same thing today, had it not been for the Lord. I wouldn't have been able to make it through that surprise trial that I was in, that surprise attack from the devil in my life. But then number two, not only defeated by a surprise attack, but number two, drowned in a sweeping flood. Look what the next image he gives here. Look at verse 4. Then the waters had overwhelmed us. The stream had gone over our soul. Then the proud waters had gone over our soul. Now the people in the Near East and Palestine knew about flood waters And the rainy season, they were a real danger. It was very dry in m in central Palestine, but when the rainy season came, it was very easy for the land to be to be to be flooded over Uh with the rain coming along with the uh the snow that melted from uh the snow capped Mount Herman's uh Mount Hermon there, uh it was very easy for a sudden flood just to come and sweep people away if they weren't careful This is what he's referring to here. He's kind of using it in a figurative way to talk about a trial. Because you know what? A flood in Scripture. They're actually Flood waters in Scripture symbolize two things. First of all, they symbolize trials and troubles. The floodwaters are the troubles that come in our life. And so here's a picture of a person struggling to keep their head above the water. They're overtaken by these floodwaters and carried along. We kind of know what that's like here, right? Those that live close to Ellicott City, remember the two floods that kind of swept through there? And very sadly, the last time that happened, it was a terrible story of a good man that was kind of swept away in a flood and lost his life. Just a terrible thing. This is the idea that he's giving us here. And Scripture again often refers to floodwaters as troubles. Psalm 427 says, All thy ways and thy billows have gone over me. In Psalm 69, 1, he said, Save me, O God, for the waters have come up to my neck. And Psalms again in verse 2, it's Psalm 69, I sank in deep mire where there is no foothold. I've come into deep waters. The floods sweep over me. So number one, it's a symbol of trials and trouble. It's also a symbol of can symbolize God's judgment Because sometimes in Scripture, when God would pour out his judgment on a nation, he would use this imagery of floodwaters coming against someone. And by the way, if it were not for the Lord, that's where we would be. We would be judged. Thank God for Jesus Christ. Thank God that He spared us from the judgment of God. Some of you might remember that in December of 2004, there was a terrible tsunami that took place. You remember in Indonesia? Remember that it was a while back. But I was reading an interesting story that there was a town in Indonesia call called Mi Lebo. if I'm pronouncing that right. But anyway, this town in Indonesia was absolutely destroyed by this tsunami. Eighty percent of the people in that town died. But you know there was a story that took place. There were 400 Christians in that town. And on December the 25th. They wanted to worship Christ. They wanted to celebrate the birth of Christ. But the Muslims in that town said you can't do it If you want to worship Christ, you're going to have to go outside the town, go up to that mountain area, that high hill, and there you can worship your Savior, but you can't do it here in town. So because these Christians wanted to celebrate Christmas, four hundred believers left the city and they went up to this high hill on December the twenty-fifth to celebrate the birth of Christ, and they stayed there overnight. And most of you know that the next morning on December the 26th, that's when the earthquake came. That's when the tsunami waves hit that little village, and 80% of the people that were there died. But those four hundred Christians, because they weren't there, because they were on a mountaintop, were spared. They can all say like the psalmist, had it not been for the Lord. Had it not been for the Lord, then these waters would have overwhelmed us. Listen to these promises. You ever feel like you've been drowning? Maybe last year that was you. I've been drowning. And all these things happening in my life. All these things going on. I feel like sometimes I'm drowning and I'm about to go under. Listen to Isaiah 43, 2. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned. Psalm 186, He sent from above. He took me, He drew me out of many waters And so the psalmist recognizes, had it not been for the Lord, he would have drowned in a sweeping flood. But he gives a third poetic image here. A surprise attack. God saved me from that. A sweeping flood. God protected me from that. How about devoured by a savage beast? Look at verse 6. Blessed be the Lord, who has not given us as a prey to their teeth. And here the psalmist uses the imagery of some dangerous animal seeking to sink its fangs into a helpless victim. But God wouldn't allow it. The enemy would have loved to sink their teeth into us or you. But you know what? God doesn't allow that. I was reading an interesting story about a man. Let me just read to you this story. It's best read because of the detail in it. While hunting deer in the wildlife area in Northern California, Jay Rathman climbed to a ledge on a slope of a rocky gorge. As he raised his head to look above the ledge, he sensed movement to the right of his face. A coiled rattle struck with lightning speed, just missing his right ear. The four-foot snake's fangs got snagged in the neck of Rathman's wool turtleneck sweater. And the force of the strike caused it to land on his left shoulder. Then it coiled around his neck. He grabbed it behind the head with his left hand. You can almost picture this, right? With his left hand and he could feel the warm venom running down the skin of his neck. The rattles were making a furious racket He fell backward and slid headfirst down the steep slope through brush and lava rocks, his rifle and binoculars bouncing beside him. He would later say as luck would have it in describing this incident, I ended up wedged between some rocks with my feet caught uphill from my head, and I could barely move. He goes on to say he got his rifle, or he got his right hand on his rifle, and used it to disengage the fangs from his sweater. But the snake had enough leverage to strike again. He went on to say, he made about eight attempts and managed to hit me with his nose just above my eye about four times. I kept my face turned so he couldn't get a good angle with his fangs, but was very close. He went on to say, This chap and I were eyeball to eyeball, and I found out that snakes don't blink. He had he goes on to say he had fangs like needles. He said I had to choke him to death. It was the only way out. I was afraid that with all the blood rushing to my head I might pass out. When he tried to toss the dead snake aside, he couldn't let go. He said, I had to pry my fingers from its neck. Rathman 45, who works for the Defense Department in San Jose, estimates that his encounter with the snake lasted 20 minutes. Can you imagine twenty minutes of wrestling with a rattlesnake? Twenty minutes. Warden Dave Smith says of meeting Rathman Quote, he walked towards me holding the string of rattles and said with a sort of grin on his face, I'd like to register a complaint about your wildlife here. End of story. When I when I read that I thought, you know, uh that's kind of a picture of the Christian life, is it not? Because if you really want to serve the Lord, you know what you're going to do. You're going to be wrestling with the devil every day. And he's going to want to sink his fangs into you. He's going to want to come against you. But you know what? God is the one who keeps us protected. If it hadn't been for the Lord I spoke to a young lady recently on the phone and she told me how she'd been saved and the Lord delivered her from drugs and yet she had backslidden some, and she was afraid of what Satan was doing in her life. And I had to remind her that if you are a child of God, Satan can't touch you unless you give him permission to. He can't touch you. Snake Satan is like a snake that's been defanged. All he can do is rattle and make a lot of noise. But he really can't hurt you. Write down 1 John 5. 18 It says this, we know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not, but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself. Listen to this. And that wicked one touches him not Who's the wicked one there? That's Satan, right? He can't touch you. He can't get at you. God won't allow that to happen. And by the way, when it says sinneth not here, this is not talking about sinless perfection. The key to understanding a lot of these verses in 1 John to seem to indicate this is to understand the verb. This is a perfect tense verb We could say it like this. He that is born of God doesn't live in a continual pattern, a lifestyle of sin. That's the idea there. Because if you're a true child of God, you're not going to live like the world You're gonna repent, you're gonna you might struggle with sin, but you're not gonna live in an unbroken lifestyle of sin. And then he says this because he keepeth himself. That means to guard It's also been translated as obeying orders or commands. And so the idea here is that you're going to be guarded. You're going to keep yourself because you're going to stay close to the Lord. But also God is the one who watches over you. God keepeth himself. And he will not allow Satan to sink his sayings into a child of God. And so had it not been for the Lord, we would have been defeated long ago by a surprise attack. We would have been drowned in the sweeping flood, we would have been devoured by a savage animal. But here's the last thing, the last picture. Destroyed by a sudden snare. Look what he says in verse 7. Our soul is escaped as a bird. out of the snare of the fouler. The snare is broken and we are escaped And so the idea here is this, and by the way, the Hebrew is so very expressive. It's kind of an outpost of immersion, of emotion, excuse me. Literally it reads, the snare was broken. And we, yes, we escaped. It's kind of giving the idea of God just miraculously coming in and just blessing you. Delivering you, helping you in a great way. That's the whole idea here. Let me ask you, has God ever done that for you in your life? Just kind of come in and Just just took a situation. It might be that you're some of some folks are here tonight. You might be in a situation. Maybe your heart is broken. And you're waiting for God's deliverance. Just keep waiting. You know what? The Lord has sustained you, and He's going to continue to sustain you. Just wait for the Lord's deliverance. That's what the psalmist is saying, as he looked back. He says, you know, it was the Lord. Look at verse 8. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. God is our helper. He's the one who helped us. And so what we see here again in this psalm is exactly the very thing that John Flavell was writing about in this book, teaching me to do as a younger believer, to meditate, to think back. To remember back how God in his mercies has been with you, he has delivered you, he has helped you. And let me close this sermon tonight. I just have a few minutes left. But I want to close with John Flavil. And he lists many spiritual benefits to the believer for this spiritual discipline of meditating and thinking about the providences of God in your life, the mercies of God. in the past. And by the way, this is what we do, right? This is all this is Thanksgiving coming. This is part of what we should be doing anyway. It's just looking back. Seeing the mercies of God. And John Flable, he says, this is what this, when you do this spiritual discipline, this is what it does for you Let me just go through these quickly. He says, number one, you maintain a sweet and conscious communion with God from day to day. That's what happens when you do this, he says. He says it sweetly refreshes the heart. Psalm 92, 4, for thou, Lord, hast made me glad through thy work, and I will triumph. in the works of thy hand. He says, number two, a great part of the delight of the Christian life is made out of the observation of providence, he says. And then he quotes Psalm 111, 2. The works of the Lord are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein. That is, the study of providence is so sweet and pleasant that it invites and allures the soul to search it. To dive into it. Number three, it will overpower and suppress the natural atheism that is in your heart, John Flavel says. He says there's a natural atheism in all of our heart He said, but recognizing and meditating on God's providences will suppress this natural unbelief. It will revive our faith in God. Number four, he said it will develop in the soul continual praise and thanksgiving to God. And that's what we want. Psalm 103, 1. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Number five, he says, it will endear Jesus Christ every day more and more to your soul. Because it's through him, John Flavel says it's through Christ that all the streams of mercy come. Is that not true? Of course it is. All the mercies we have come through Jesus Christ. And so he says this will endear Your soul more and more. Number six, he says it will melt the heart and make it submit before the Lord He writes, how can a sanctified heart do less than melt into tears while it considers the dealings of God from time to time? And then number seven he says this, due observation of providence will both begot and secure inward tranquility in your minds. amidst the vicissitudes, that's not a word you hear every day, and revolution of things in this unstable vein world. And then number eight, it will improve holiness in our hearts and lives. He says, if we duly observe, the ways of God. It will promote holiness and stop us from sinning. And then lastly he says this. He said the study of providence will be of singular use to us in a dying hour. And then he look he uses the story of Jacob and his death as an illustration. He says you find when Jacob died, what reflections he had upon the dealings of God. in the various providences of his life. In Genesis 48, 15 he said, and he blessed Joseph and said, This is Jacob, the Lord before whom my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, walked, the God who has been my shepherd all my lifelong to this very day. And so I just want to encourage you, especially now in this time of year, Just to follow this spiritual discipline of taking time to think and remember back the providences of God in your life, the mercies of God in your life. And may it cause our hearts to be filled with wonder, love, and praise, and gratefulness to our faithful God. Let's bow in prayer together tonight. And so, Father, we thank you for this word spoken to me so many years ago as a younger minister. To learn to think about your providences and your blessings, your mercies. It's a discipline I'm afraid, Lord, we don't practice enough. But Lord help us. Help us to remember. We are so prone to forget. Even the things that you've done for us today, the simple mercies. The the things that we may think are take for granted are are small, yet Lord, there are mercies from you. Thank you, Lord. With all our heart we thank you for your great faithfulness to us, your mercies to us, your providences to us. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.