Today, I'm going to uh have a different message because of this Memorial Day weekend. So Joshua chapter 24, and I want you to look down at verse 26. And verse 27. Can we stand for the reading of God's words as we read this passage together? Joshua chapter 24, verse 26 and 27. Just two verses of scripture together. And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God, and took a great stone and set it up there under an oak that was by the sanctuary of the Lord. And Joshua said unto all the people, Behold, this stone shall be a witness unto us, for it hath heard all the words of the Lord which he spake unto us. And it shall be therefore a witness unto you, lest ye deny your God. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, bless our hearts today as we look to the Scripture, Lord, speak to us. Remind us, Lord, of our duty as Christian soldiers to serve you, to never forget you. And Lord, may we also never forget the sacrifice of those who have given the freedom that we have, given us the freedom that we have. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to speak this morning on if m if memorial stones could speak. If memorial stones could speak. And Dennis Rainey's book Stepping Up. He tells this story about the short life of his granddaughter, Molly. When his granddaughter was born, she had a brain aneurysm, and Molly lived only seven days. As difficult as those days were, Molly's parents and grandparents held firmly to their faith and trust in God, confident that they were going to see Molly once again in heaven. But Rainey concludes a chapter in his book on Molly's story with a memory. I want to just give you a little excerpt of what he said. He said a number of years ago my wife, Barbara, and I were vacationing. in southwest England, and stumbled upon the little town of Saint Burian, a crossroad in the country with a pub and a decaying church and a graveyard He says we stopped and read a few of the gravestones. One that was barely legible commemorated a family that lived in the 1600s. He said, buried beneath the stone were the mother who gave birth to a son and died just ten days later at the age of twenty-four, her son, who lived thirteen months and the father, who died a few days later, at the age of 25. He says the faded words on the weathered limestone grave marker moved us so deeply that today they are etched on Molly's headstone. And these are the words, We cannot, Lord, thy purpose see, but all is well that's done by thee. Those were the words. And I was reading that. I thought, you know, we can learn something by gravestones, by looking at gravestones And today when we think of gravestones or memorial stones, we remember the lives of the fallen on Memorial Day as here in our country. We celebrate or we remember the lives of those who gave their their own life so that we could be free. These are people who served in our military services and died in service of our country. We remember them and we honor them Now in the book of Joshua, we see some gravestones and memorial stones. In fact, the book of Joshua is unique because this book opens up in a funeral. If you read Joshua chapter 1, it begins with the funeral of Moses, really. The Bible says Moses, my servant, is dead. And then when you get to the end of the book of Joshua, we see another funeral. It is the funeral of for Joshua himself. In fact In chapter 24, we see really three funerals, or we could say three gravestones. There's the gravestone of Joshua himself, and then it mentions in in uh verse number uh 31 it mentions the uh grave of Josh of Joseph. I should say verse 32. You remember Joseph? Joseph said to the children of Israel uh The Israelites I should say. When you leave Egypt, don't leave my bones there in Egypt, bring my bones with you. Don't leave me in a pyramid there somewhere. Because Joseph believed so much that God's word was true, that God was going to come and deliver them out of Egypt into the promised land. Joseph said, When God does that, bring my bones with you. So they carried his coffin into the land of Canaan and there and at the end of the book of Joshua they lay it to rest. Can you imagine carrying a coffin around for all those years? Finally laying it to rest. So we have, and then we have the funeral of Eliezer. So you have three funerals, three burials at the end of the book of Joshua. And really this is a military book. The whole book is about military strategy and winning victories. It's also about laying to rest soldiers who fought a good fight It's a book about memorials. Did you know that in the book of Joshua there are nine memorials that are recorded in the book of Joshua? all the way from the stones in the midst of the Jordan to the stones on the west bank of the Jordan to the stones that are in the valley of Akor and the heap of stones at Ai and on we go. We come to this passage here in chapter 24 and we see Joshua setting up yet another memorial stone This will be a stone of witness, he says. Look down in verse number twenty-seven, and Joshua said unto all the people, Behold, this stone shall be a witness unto us, for it hath heard all the words of the Lord which he spake unto us It shall be therefore a witness unto you, lest ye deny your God. So I want to focus on this memorial stone that Joshua sets up He sets up this large stone, and the Bible says he sets it up by the sanctuary of the Lord. That is to say it's by the tabernacle. This would be a very well-traveled place Where no doubt the Israelites would see it every day or every time they passed by that tabernacle. And this stone, this big, large stone, was a reminder of the words that God gave to Israel And their agreement, their covenant that they made with God. In fact, Joshua says, look again in verse 27, behold, this stone shall be a witness unto us. Notice the next phrase, for it has heard all the words of the Lord which he spake unto us. This is an unusual stone. This stone had ears. This stone could hear It's as if Joshua is giving a kind of a personification to this object. He's saying, this stone heard all the words of the Lord. And in fact, this stone heard your words also. And then when you pass by this stone, when you go by the tabernacle, this stone will remind you of the words that you heard from God. It'll remind you of the words that you gave to God. And this stone will, as it were, speak. And what will this stone basically say? Don't deny your God. Remember your God. Remember the words of God. Remember the promises that you made to God. It's as if this stone could speak. Don't forget. It would say, don't forget. And again, we're here today to remember. And uh, you know, this week I had the uh opportunity to go down to the Arlington National Cemetery. And the reason I did that is we had my my in-laws were in town, Will's parents, and they're from England. um uh in Devon, England, and they wanted to see some of Washington, so I thought I'd show them what a powerful nation looks like. J just just kidding. And uh we don't have a a king or a queen. We have a president who thinks he is a king, by the way. And uh but I went down there to show them the sites there and one of the things that they wanted to see is they wanted to see uh the uh graves. They wanted to see Arlington National Cemetery. I thought it was a good appropriate time to go and be there And looking at those stones that are there, I was reminded again of the ultimate sacrifice that many have paid for our freedom. It's a very solemn moment, a solemn occasion. And if those stones could talk, as if Joshua was saying right here, if those stones could talk, they would say, remember us and don't forget God. Don't forget the providential hand of God that gave us the freedom that we have. You know, we are a people that it's very we're prone to forget. Do you know that? We we seem to forget things very quickly. Which is why all through the Bible we see memorials. The Bible has there's 38 times, at least in the Old Testament, where I see where God sets up memorials to remind the people of Israel of what He has done And how he has used people to accomplish his plan and purpose. And so people constantly need to be reminded. We need to be reminded. That's why we have the Lord's Supper. That's why Jesus instituted the Lord's Supper. He said, This do in what? In remembrance of me. Don't forget the sacrifice that I paid for you. with my death on the cross to pay for your sins so that you can have forgiveness of sins and eternal life. And so When I look at this passage of scripture here, I again am reminded that memorial stones speak to us. And they speak loudly. I want you to see three things that these stones here said to the children of Israel and how they relate to us as well. First of all, I think one of the things that these servants would say, if they could talk to the people of Israel as they would pass by their the tabernacle, they would say, don't forget his gracious providences. Don't forget God's gracious providences. Look in chapter 24. Back up to chapter 24 and look down at verse number 6. where God is speaking there, chapter 24, in verse number, actually start in verse number two. And Joshua said unto all the people, thus saith the Lord God of Israel, your fathers dwell on the other side of the flood in the time even Terah, the father of Abraham. And the father of Nachor, and they served other gods. And I took your father Abraham from the other side of the flood, and led him throughout all the land of Canaan, and multiplied his seed, and gave him Isaac. And it it just continues to go on And what Joshua is doing is reminding the nation of the many things that God had done for them in the earlier time. How that God was the one that gave birth to Israel as a nation He's saying this here at Shechem. This was the ideal place for him to add. And who is he addressing in chapter 24? He's addressing the leaders of the nation. I wish that I had an opportunity to address the leaders of our country. Because I would say to them the words that Joshua said, Don't forget God. Don't forget that the reason that we are a nation today is because of the gracious providences of God. It was the hand of God that formed us. That's what Joshua is saying to these leaders. We see this all throughout, the the personal pronoun, really it's the Lord who speaks. As Joshua reviews the history of the nation, I took verse 3. I gave unto Isaac verse 4. I sent Moses verse 5. I brought your fathers, verse 6 I brought you into the land, verse 8. I gave you the land, verse 13. This is God. God does all this. Remember the providence of God. And friend, I could say the same thing about our country. It is the providential hand of God that gave birth to this nation, and God, in his providence, determined that this would be a free nation. This will be the first time in the history of mankind that there would be a nation with religious liberty. Did you know that America in the beginning Uh it could this is many years before Christopher Columbus came to the shores of America, or before even the uh the pilgrims that came to America, the human many, many years before that. Did you know that the Muslim nations sent a fleet to colonize This uh side of the uh Atlantic, the uh Atlantic coast, one historian says they sail through the Mediterranean westward. Through the gates of Gibraltar, out into the Atlantic Ocean. They were on their way to found and colonize America But he goes on to say, but a great storm rose up, and before they were far beyond the straits of Gibraltar, the entire Muslim fleet sank into the depths of the sea. Because he goes on to say, God has not designed or determined that America was to be an Islamic nation or a Muslim nation. God had ordained a different plan than that. And then he goes on to write about how that the the p uh the uh pilgrims when they came to America there was no place on the east coast that they could have landed except where they landed right there at Plymouth where that they would not have been able to survive. Had they land anywhere else, they couldn't have lasted out the winter. It was at that place It's he says here that three times they tried to leave and go further south and they were driven back by winds, the place where they landed. That was the a place where just before they landed there, it was occupied by fierce Indian tribes who would have surely killed them. But before they arrived there, a pestilence had come and wiped out the tribe Leaving the pilgrims a storehouse full of corn enough to get them through that first winter. The pilgrims who landed there were Bible-believing Christians. Many of them had their Bibles with them on the Mayflower. William Bradford, who was the first governor of that Plymouth colony. He was a lover especially of the Old Testament. He studied Hebrew on the Mayflower, can you imagine that? And he imagined uh them as being the new Israel that was going to the new promised land. The Atlantic Ocean was the Red Sea. King George was Pharaoh. The Indians were Canaanites. They were there coming to the promised land That's the way he imagined all of it. And they came seeking religious freedom and with the desire to spread the gospel. to those who are already here. It was a providential hand of God that brought them here. And it was a providential hand of God that through the armies of uh of George Washington when he was fighting for the independence of our country. It was his prayers, I believe, that got honored. It was the providential hand of God that kept that army together. Do you realize that when we began to fight for our freedom as a nation, we were fighting the mightiest army in the world at that time? A very well-organized army where the generals were just military geniuses. And who did George Washington have? He had a bunch of farmers with pitchforks and guns. And yet with that army, we were able to win our independence. How is that? It was the providential hand of God The hand of God. It was the prayers of Washington, I believe, that moved God on our behalf. Every once in a while, I'll hear some historians say, Well, George Washington was a deist Really? A deus? You know what a deus is? A deus is someone who believes that God is far removed from his creation. He just created it. Now he has nothing to do with it. He's like this immovable God who is impersonal and transcendent. He's never imminent. George Washington did not believe that God was a deus Let me read to you what he said. Here's a quote: No people can be bound to acknowledge and adore the invisible hand which conducts the affairs of men more than those of the United States Said George Washington. It's the hand of God, he said, the invisible hand of God that gave us our freedom. And I don't have time to tell you of all the incidents that took place during the battle for independence where God watched over the American army. And it is said that during his retreat from Philadelphia when the British took that over, one historian said you could see the you could uh see the blood stains in the snow of that army that was retreating out of Philadelphia because many of them were so ill prepared, ill equipped, many of them didn't even have shoes. You can see the bloody footprints as they retreated out of Philadelphia and they spent that winter in Valley Forge Which many of them died. But the army that emerged out of Valley Forge was a army that was toughened by that winter. And before Valley Forge they ran from the battlefield, but after Valley Forge they never ran again And that was the army that won us our independence. But it was the hand of God that did all of it. And so if we would pass by the stones today in places like Arlington, I think we could probably hear them say, don't forget God. Don't forget the providential hand of God. Don't forget his gracious providences. But here's another thing. Don't forget his guiding precepts. Look at chapter 23. Look at verse number 6. This is all Joshua's speech Just before he dies at the end of his life. Look in chapter 23. Look down at verse number six. Be ye therefore very courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses. That ye turn not aside therefrom to the right hand or to the left, verse 7, that ye come not after those nations, these that remain among you, neither make mention of the name of their gods Nor cause to swear by them, neither serve them, nor bow yourselves to them. Look at verse number 8. But cleave unto the Lord your God, as ye have done unto this day. And here in this scene, again, he's making a speech to the elders and the leaders. And he's basically saying, listen, don't forget God's word. Don't forget the word of God, the law of God, these guiding precepts. You see, Joshua is afraid of their complacency. He's afraid that they might take the words of God for granted or forget the words of God. And so he warns them, don't do that. Because if you do that, that will be your destruction. And friend, I think that the same warning is true for America today. We had better not forget the Word of God in this country, but I'm afraid in some cases that's already happened, where we have forgotten the Word of God and we've made compromises, we overlook God's Word, and now God's Word is not even thought of. We're in danger. We've forgotten the principles which made us great. Recently a radio talk show host and a call-in listener were talking about Christianity in America. And as they began to talk, this is this is the typical conversation you hear on the radio, by the way, nowadays. The one man said, Why do Christians think they have anything special to do with the founding of this country? Anybody who reads history knows that Christianity was no more involved in America's founding than any other religion And he went on to say that this is not a Christian nation. Revisionists want to rewrite our history. And they want to forget that we are a Christian, that we were founded as a Christian nation. But let me ask let me entertain that question for just a minute. Are we a Christian nation? But really we have to define what we mean by Christian nation. If we mean by Christian nation that everybody in the nation is a Christian, we would have to say, no, we're not a Christian nation in that respect. But if we mean by Christian nation, were we founded upon the principles of Christianity, upon the Bible, the Word of God, I would have to say we are absolutely a Christian nation. That's how we started out. Let me give you some facts here today. Did you know that the legislature of New York declared in 1838, this is a Christian nation. Ninety-nine hundredths, if not a larger proportion of our whole population, they said, believe in the general doctrines of the Christian religion. The Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court in 1892 declared that the United States was a Christian nation. In 1776, 11 of the 13 colonies required that one had to be a Christian in order to run for political office. Did you know in 1777 the Continental Congress voted to spend $300,000 to do what? To buy Bibles, to do what? To distribute them to people in the country The Congress voted to buy Bibles to give everyone a copy of the Word of God. Do you think Congress would do that today? 94% of the writings of the Founding Fathers of the U. S. contain quotations from the Holy Scripture. The state constitutions of all 50 states mention God. The liberty bell has on it Leviticus 25, 10. Proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof. An image of Moses carrying the tablets of God's law faces the speaker of the house of representatives. And when the president takes the oath of office, he puts his hand on the Bible. And at the end of the oath, he says, So help me, God. Where did he get that from? He got that from George Washington, who started that And again, I don't have time to go through all the facts that I have here, but all the facts declare that this was a Christian nation from the very beginning. The Plymouth Charter says this to advance the enlargement of the Christian religion to the glory of Almighty God They said this colony, this is the reason this is being established to advance Christianity for the glory of God. And on we could go But I I'm sad to tell you right now, friend, what's happening in our country is there's a move to take God out of government and to forget the Word of God. We hear this expression, you hear it all the time. Separation of church and state. Separation of church and state. In case you don't know, that phrase, separation of church and state, never appears in the Constitution You know where it came from? It came from a letter written by Thomas Jefferson. He wrote to the Danbury Baptist Association. In that letter, he mentioned the phrase separation of church and state. And in the letter, he assured that Baptist Association that they would keep the government out of the church. That's what he meant by that. Not the church out of government, but the government out of church He was basically saying, Never again will there be a government sponsored church like you had back in England. Check it out for yourself That's exactly what happened there. If there is a such a thing as separation of church and state, it's a one-way street. It's keep the government out of church, but not church out of government. The church is the conscience of the state. When the state, the government does wrong, it's the church that needs to rise up and say that's not right. You're not obeying the word of God. And friend, while I respect our government authorities, I don't respect them higher than Almighty God. And when the state does wrong, the church needs to be the conscience that rises up and tells them that very thing. Well again, but there's still there's some people that say all no our founding fathers wanted to keep it separate. They wanted to keep the church out of government All right, well let's think about that. Our first president was George Washington. He took the oath of office office and he put his hand on the what? Bible. And then when he held his first official act as president was this. He after he swore the oath, he kissed the Bible, and then he had a two-hour praise and worship session in Congress. How did they determine to open sessions in Congress? Through prayer. Who would make those prayers? Chaplains. How would those chaplains be paid? Tax dollars. Does all of that sound like they wanted to keep God out of government? Not at all. John Quincy Adams, the sixth president of the U. S. , said this, the highest glory of the American Revolution was Do you know what he said? This is the highest glory, he said, of the American Revolution. Can you guess what it is? Oh, he secure our independence, you know, the T tax, dissolve The bonds of parliament, any of that? No. This is what he said. The highest glory of the American Revolution was this. It connected in one inseparable bond the principles of civil government with the principles of Christianity. That's what he said we did. We united the two together. Call me crazy, but that doesn't sound like separation of church and state. But we have a nation today that seems bent on forgetting God. And I want to tell you something, friend, when you walk by the stones in Arlington, you can hear them almost, you can hear them saying, don't forget God. Don't forget the God who gave you this freedom. Don't forget his gracious providences. Don't forget his guiding principles. But here's the last thing before we leave. That is, don't forget your godly promises. Look in chapter 24. Look at again, these are the words of Joshua. Look down at verse number 14. And notice what he says to them. He says, Now therefore, fear the Lord, and serve him in sincerity and in truth, and put away the gods which your father served on the other side of the flood, and in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. Look at verse 15. And if it seemed evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve. Whether the gods of your fathers that which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood Or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Joshua said these were part of his last words. And remember, this is a retiring general. This is a soldier who's saying his last words just before he dies. And he says, It doesn't really matter what anyone else does, as for me and my house, we're going to serve the Lord. We're going to serve God. And so he challenges the people. And I love the response of the people. Look at verse 16. And the people answered and said, God forbid that we should forsake the Lord to serve other gods. And then down in verse number 21, notice, and the people said unto Joshua, Nay, but we will serve the Lord. We're going to serve God. And that's why Joshua set up that stone. Because again, Joshua's saying, this stone heard that. This stone heard the words of God given to you and heard your words. And it's a reminder to you. To keep what you said, to keep the words of God, and to serve the Lord. Now I know that You know, when we get saved, we don't necessarily have markers like that. But you know what? When you got saved, you know what you did? You entered into a covenant with Almighty God. And you know what you basically said, I'm going to serve the God, serve God, serve him only I'm going to obey him. I'm going to obey his words. That's what a Christian does. So I want to ask you, friend, are you doing that? Are you honoring your commitment to God, to serve God, to be faithful to God? Because I want to tell you what I'm seeing here in the last uh months and years of my life is that many Christians are gone, eh well they're not faithful to the Lord anymore. They're not serving God. And Joshua says, Don't forget, don't forget your promises. The promise you made when you entered into a covenant and salvation, that you would obey him, that you would put him first, that you would love him with all. Your heart. Friend, are you doing that? Are you doing that? As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. So I say, where are the Joshuas? Where are the people that are willing to keep their commitments to Almighty God? Let's bow for prayer today And so, Father, we thank you for this reminder. We thank you, Lord, that we know that we are what we are because of your gracious hand. And on this day, Lord, when we remember the fallen, when we remember their sacrifice, when we think about the memorial stones that mark graves all over. We're reminded of the memorials in Scripture that you set up. And all these stones seem to cry out in unison with the same voice and harmony, which says to us, don't forget God. Don't forget you. Lord, I pray that you will forgive us for the times that we have. Now I pray that Lord this passage of scripture will challenge us all to examine our own heart to see How faithful are we? How committed are we? Are we really serving the Lord? Are we really worshiping God and loving Him with all our heart? Lord, may we with greater determination say the words that Joshua said, as for me and my house. We will serve the Lord. May we take inspiration from reading these stones. May they inspire us to greater faithfulness to you. Heads are bowed and eyes are closer. And I just want to before we dismiss today, we've spent a lot of time talking about memorials and stones. But let me just ask you, it may be that you're visiting here today. I want to ask you, friend, do you know for sure if you die, you go to heaven? Because the greatest sacrifice that was ever given was given by Jesus Christ He paid the ultimate price. He gave his life so that you can have eternal life when he died for you on the cross. And you know what there's if you go to the grave of Jesus Christ today, you know what there's nothing there because he came out of that grave. He arose. And he arose in power. And now he waits to save you from your sin. He reaches out to you today in faith and says, Come to me. All ye that are heavy laden, I will give you rest. Friend, if you've never turned to Christ I encourage you to do that today. Put your faith and trust in Christ. Would you be willing to pray right where you are and say, Lord Jesus, save me. Make me your child. Come into my heart. Be my Savior. Pray that imminent friend, and he will save you today. Father, bless all these words to hearing hearts. Thank you for this time that we've had here today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.