Well certainly not the special music, I'll tell you that. We're gonna skip over that today. But would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of Matthew, chapter 18. Matthew chapter 18. It's good to be back here with you in Baltimore on this side of the Atlantic. Thank you for praying for us. We had a wonderful trip visiting there with our daughter and our grandsons and my son-in-law Will. I know you're probably watching Will. We love you too Matthew chapter 18. Uh I want to ask you to stand. You've been standing, but let me just read a few verses in verse number twelve. We're going to look there and move on down. How think ye? If a man have a hundred sheep and one of them be gone, doth he not leave the ninety and nine and goeth into the mountains and seek that which is gone astray And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoices over that sheep, and the ninety and nine which went not astray, even so it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone. And if he hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. People today in America seem to be obsessed with these reality TV shows. There's one in particular called Intervention. I don't know if you've ever seen it, but the show basically follows the lives of people who their life is spiraling out of control per because of some problem that they have, because of some addiction. It might be an addiction to alcohol or drugs or maybe some kind of a destructive behavior. And family members and friends gather together and they confront their loved one. It's a carefully planned event called an intervention. If you ever watch the show, it's pretty raw, it's pretty emotional. Often it's filled with tears. The person who's confronted often feels like they're being ambushed. And they at first seem to reject and deny uh whatever they're saying. But as over time the voices of those that love them are finally heard and something begins to shift and the truth breaks through And many times they choose to get help, which is what really they wanted. They want healing in that person's life. But the striking thing about that is this: the people who staged the intervention aren't enemies. They're not critics standing at a distance. They're family. They're friends. They're the ones that love this person very much. And they don't want to see this destructive pattern in their life continue because what they want for that person is blessing. And so really an intervention isn't an act of judgment, is it? It's really a it's an act of mercy It's painful. It can be very painful, and yet it is loving. Long before the TV show intervention, Jesus taught his followers the same principle. Jesus taught loving, gracious intervention for believers who have sinned or have been overtaken with some fault in their life. You see, beloved, the church is a family. We're the family of God. God is our father. Christ is our elder brother. We are brothers and sisters adopted into the family of God by faith in Jesus Christ. And in the family we are members one of another. You understand that you're accountable to each other, right? The church just isn't isn't a place where you come and you hear a sermon and you leave and that's it. Especially if you decide to unite with the church and join a church, you're part of that family. And so, therefore, not only should there be care in the church, but when it's necessary, there should also be confrontation. A parent who never corrects a child doesn't really love that child like they should. A doctor who sees a disease and refuses to diagnose that disease, that's not compassion to overlook that. That is malpractice. That's criminal. And a church that overlooks unrepentant sin in the name of niceness is not gracious. That is negligence. When we see one of our loved ones go astray in a destructive pattern of behavior, we are not to sit back and do nothing. Jesus makes this very clear. We're to love them enough to confront them and to say what is right. So this is what Jesus teaches us here. He outlines for us in Scripture a spiritual intervention. Again, this is not to shame or to punish, but what is the ultimate goal? Well it's restoration. That's what he wants. He wants us to go after that that lost sheep. And so I want you to see today that, by the way, this is a forgotten doctrine. There's not many churches that do this or practice this because there's not enough courage, frankly, to deal with this But it doesn't really matter what society thinks, and by the way, society's view of love today is just you tolerate everything. It's total tolerance. But that's not the biblical idea of love. And regardless of what culture and society think, we are to obey the words of our Lord Jesus. Amen. So I want you to see three elements of this discipline that the Bible talks about. First of all, there's the purpose of discipline, and then secondly, we're going to talk about the procedure and then the promises. What is the purpose? Well, we alluded to it already, and that is restoration. Look again in verse 12. Jesus starts off this whole section by giving a parable. Well, how think you, or what do you think about this? Here's a man who has a hundred sheep and one of them be gone. Doesn't he leave the ninety and nine and go after that one? Notice in this parable here, Jesus places a premium on restoring a lost brother. And the church is like a flock. If one sheep goes astray, we are to go after them. Now in that culture in that day normally a shepherd had about a hundred sheep and he knew his sheep very well and he knew if there were one that had gone astray and when one was missing he would P take his uh flock, put it in the in the in the hand of uh maybe a neighboring shepherd to watch over, and he would go out and he would diligently seek that straying sheep. And why would he do that? It was all out of love. It was all out of love. Dietrich Bonhoeffer wrote this. He said, nothing can be more cruel than the leniency which abandons others to sin. Nothing could be more compassionate than the severe rebuke which calls another Christian back from the path of sin And the Bible is very clear, we cannot really love our brothers and sisters in Christ if we do not deal with their sin, something that is hurting them, something that is destructive in their life. The Bible says we are to bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ, and that's what part of bearing that burden is, because beloved, sin is a burden that is too heavy for any one person to bear. And every once in a while they need help. Why do we discipline our children? Because we love them. We want them to have character. Why does God discipline us? If you're a child of God, you will experience at times in your life the discipline of God. And why why does he do that? Well the Bible's pretty clear. The Bible says if you are are if you are without chastisement, then you are illegitimate children. You're not really a child of God. If you can go astray and live in sin and not experience the chastisement of God in your life, what does that mean? That means that you are not a child of God. Because God will discipline his own. God will chastise his own. And why does he do it? Out of love. For whom the Lord loves. He chastens Hebrews 12, 7. And it's not pleasant. I've been under the chastisement of God before in my life, the discipline of God, and it's not pleasant. But friend, it is necessary. And one of the and the greatest response that we can give is submission. It's re true repentance. Repentance is beautiful. It's a beautiful thing. It's something that we must practice in our life all the time. Believe me, beloved, there's not a week that goes by that I don't have to repent of something in my life before God. It's a continual thing if you are a believer pursuing godliness in your life that you deal thoroughly with your own sins and that you repent when you need to repent of your own sins. But one purpose for discipline is restoration, another is holiness. God's holiness is a dominant theme in the Bible. Salvation is a call to holiness. In the Old Testament, God told Israel, He said, You shall be holy, for I, the Lord your God, am holy. At Mount Sinai, God called Israel to show forth his holiness to the world. And you know what? Israel failed. And now commits uh God repeats that command to the church today. Now God says to the church the same thing, you be holy because I'm holy. God says to the church in 1 Peter 1:14 that you're a holy priesthood now. You're a holy nation. There's a sense in which Israel failed to do this, but now God is looking to the church to present his holiness to the world. That's part of our calling. And in the Old Testament, when Israel did not live up to that standard, when they didn't show God's holiness and they sinned, you know what God did? God disassociated himself from Israel. And then he would severely discipline them. And God says the same thing to the church in the New Testament In the book of Revelation, chapter 2 and 3, when Jesus spoke to the churches, you read it, he constantly warned them about being tolerant about sin in the church, tolerating sin. He said, if you don't deal with the sin, I'm going to remove your lampstand. Or I'm going to leave. In Revelation 2, verses 20 to 23, Jesus said to the church of Thyatira, I have a few things against you. I would hate for the Lord to have to say that about me or about our church. I have some things against you. What was the problem with Syatire? Well, he says, because you tolerate that woman Jezebel who calls herself a prophetess and is teaching and seducing my servants. Here was this woman in the church and she was teaching wrong things, she was teaching lies, she was reaping havoc in the church, and they were tolerating it They were overlooking it saying, well, that's okay. It's all right. Jesus does not want the church tolerating that type of sin. This type of sin that is damaging to the whole body of Christ. That has to be dealt with. God would rather have no testimony in a city than to have his name mingled with sin. The church is to be the pillar in the ground of the truth. It must not be complicit in sin or in hypocrisy in any way. When a lighthouse keeper fails to keep the lighthouse clean, ships crash. And the church is called to shine the light in a dark world. Our neighbors, they don't read the Bible. You know what they read? They read you. They read us. They read what is the people of that church like. What what what kind of church is that? What does our church tell the world about God's holiness? That's really the issue In 1 Corinthians chapter 5, there was a man in the church that was uh committing sexual sin. He had an ongoing affair with his stepmother, and the church was tolerating the sin. The Corinthians, in fact, they were very proud of themselves. They were puffed up, Paul said. They were proud of the fact that they were being so lenient and so tolerant and so non-judgmental. They were very proud of their gracious tolerance of this individual sin. And Paul writes them, and Paul tells them In 2 Corinthians or 1 Corinthians 5, 2, and ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourned that he that has done this deed might be taken away from you. When Paul wrote this letter, he was shocked. He was shocked that this thing was being tolerated. And you know what he says? Cast that guy out. Cast them out. 1 Corinthians 5, 7. Purge out therefore the old leaven, that you might be a new lump. Leaven. or yeast we could say is a type of sin. And if you put a small amount of leaven into a a dump or a lump of dough, uh it'll spread all throughout the lump. And that's the idea that when sin is not dealt with, that type type of damaging sin, it spreads all throughout the body, it is damaging and it smears the name of Christ before the world. And we understand this, right? I mean we know there has to be discipline. I mean in a family, if but if a parent allows one child to get away with everything, then all the other children are going to file suit. If a teacher doesn't discipline a classroom, if they don't discipline a student in the whole clas in the class, the whole class gets out of line And the same is true on every level, even in the government. When the government refuses to punish criminals, criminals run wild. Such is the nature of sin. And in the local church, God has given authority to pastors In Hebrews chapter thirteen, verse twelve, obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account account, that they might do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable for you. Believe me, beloved, I understand and know that one day I'm going to have to give an account to Almighty God for how I have been a pastor here at this church I have to give an account for your soul. That is a fearful thing to think about. If we don't uphold God's standards of holiness, it doesn't take long for the church to become just like the world. And again, part of the responsibility of the pastor is to uphold God's standard to make sure that the church doesn't go off doctrinally or morally that becomes impure in some way. Many times church members live just like the world. The membership is not godly. They talk and walk just like the world. They attempt to reach the world by acting like the world. And as a result, the church is so whirly today that people see little, if any, difference in the world whatsoever. And I want to tell you something, beloved, when that happens, God is not glorified in his church. He's not glorified. He doesn't bless the church. You know what he does? He leaves it. He says, I'm out of here. This is not this is not of me. He leaves it just like he threatened to do it to church churches in Revelation. I read about a pastor who became involved in immorality and and uh he he he became involved with a married woman in his own church. And they divorced each other. The pastor divorced his spouse. This woman divorced her spouse. And they married each other. But they married each other in that same church where the pastor pastored And the congregation turned out in mass, and they gave their support and their approval of all that was going on. That is a disgrace in the name of God. That's a sin. That's a tragic story, but that really captures the dominant mood in the American church today that we should show love and toleration for those who sin Sin openly, sin without any remorse, without any repentance. They live in sin. This is exactly what was happening in the church of Corinth. A man was sinning and they were tolerating it. They were puffed up about it. They were very proud of their own toleration of that sin in the church. So, why is discipline necessary for holiness? Beloved, salvation is a call to holiness. God expects you to walk a holy walk. Do you understand that? You understand you're supposed to walk a holy walk before God as his people if you claim the name of Jesus Christ. Another reason is protection. Protection. Sometimes it just becomes necessary to protect the sheep from the wolves. According to Matthew 7. 15, they enter into the flock, they do a lot of damage. And the shepherd, he has a staff for direction, but he has a rod for protection. And by the way, the type of sin determines the discipline process that you use. There are times when the danger to the flock is so great that it requires a different process. What we're going to look at here is we're if I can get to it. But what we're going to look at is Jesus' whole process for how to deal with a sinning member. And it's a four-step process. But I want to tell you that sometimes the danger in the congregation is so great, the sin is so hurtful that we don't see four steps. Sometimes the process is skipped over. There are some sins that are so dangerous that we have to forego the four steps and we have to we have to deal more urgently. We have to deal quicker. You know, if I see my child playing with a loaded gun, I don't say to them, I'm going to give you to the count of three to put that down. One No, that that's crazy. If I see my child playing with a loaded gun, I go over there quickly and snatch it out of their hand carefully. I don't want them playing with a loaded gun. Some sins are so dangerous to the body of Christ that you need to deal more quickly and decisively. For example, if a person is divisive, you deal with them quicker. Listen to what Paul wrote to Titus in Titus 3, verse number 10. As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once, then twice, have nothing to do with him. There's only three steps here. Jesus gives a four-step process, but Paul says there's only three steps here. You warn them once, you warn them again. If he doesn't listen, you have nothing to do with them. The idea here is don't tolerate it. Deal with it quickly. And Romans, Paul said this in Romans 16, verse 17: I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught, and avoid them. For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own appetites, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive. There's only two steps here. Mark them, and then avoid them. Only two steps. Paul gave instructions to the church at Thessalonica. There were some people in the church at Thessalonica. They weren't working, they were busybodies, they were busy in other people's homes, they were gossiping, they were stirring up strife. And Paul rebukes those people there, and he says this in 2 Thessalonians 3, 6. Now we command you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you keep away from any brother who is walking in idleness and not accord with the tradition that you received of us And then he goes on to say in verse 14, if anyone does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person and have nothing to do with them, for they may that they might be ashamed. There's only one stuff there. You warn them if they don't listen, you stay away. Leave their presence. So the church and believers must be protected from divisive and hurtful and harmful people. It must be protected from the wolves. That's why Paul in First Corinthians five said to the church there at Corinth, here's this man sitting in the church with the with his stepmother, and they were They were glorying in it, and Paul said, Look, I'm not there. I'm not part of the process, but I'm there in spirit, and I want to tell you what you need to do is cast them out immediately. That sin was so damaging to the body of Christ, Paul said, you take immediate action and you get him out. You don't let the cancer spread. Purge out therefore the old leaven. So discipline is needful in the body of Christ. It's absolutely essential to have a holy, healthy church. But just know that the desire is for restoration more than anything. You desire restoration. So the purpose of discipline, but think about number two, the procedure. Because Jesus lays out the procedure and he's pretty clear about it. Notice step one. Talk to them privately. Look at verse 15. Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone. This is the first thing. You talk to them privately. Notice the possibility. If this is a possibility, we're all sinners and from time to time we may get out of line and we may need to be confronted But by the way, please know this, and let me make this very, very clear. This is not a process for trivial things. It's not for small things. It's not for offenses. If you offend me, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to overlook that immediately. I'm going to forgive you immediately. Why? Because the Bible says love covers a multitude of sins. So I'm going to give you a pass. You criticize me, you're forgiven. I'm already giving you a free pass on that for even after this sermon after church. I forgive you in advance. I'm not worried about it. Even if you give me a public insult, I'm gonna I'm gonna pass over that I'm going to let that go. Why? Because that's the default mode of a true believer. We just forgive. And most of the time our forgiveness is unconditional. I have no conditions with it. You offend me. I love you. I'm over it. I forgive you. That's the way it should be. That's the what by the way the way it should be in a marriage. And I counsel marriage couples all the time who come together because they have offenses and they're They're dealing with issues and they have conflict. I remind them of that principle. Look, love covers a multitude of sins. You don't need to confront each other over every little thing in your marriage You understand how odious that relationship is going to get real quick? If you confront them about every little thing that they do wrong that you don't like, that you're offended about That's not the way we're to operate. I'm grateful my wife doesn't confront me about every little thing I do. I mean, my goodness, I couldn't bear that. You know how you know how imperfect I am Just ask Carolyn, she'll tell you. So this isn't this isn't something that you do for every little offense You overlook it, you forgive. That's what the Bible means when it says we're forbearing with one another, loving one another. That's the way we are to operate continually. But this is this is talking about something different. If the sin is damaging to the offender, if a person is in a pattern of behavior that is damaging to them. Or if that sin is damaging others, or if it's hurting others in the body of Christ, or if it's a sin that brings reproach to the name of Christ in a public manner. That's when I can't be unconditional in my forgiveness. My forgiveness at that point has to be conditional. And what is it conditioned upon? That person recognizing the error of their way that will ultimately hurt them, or the church, or the name of Christ. Then I have to get them to acknowledge that and to repent of that. And that's really again the whole goal. So this is not for every little thing. This is for sins that are damaging. to that person, damaging to others, damaging to the church. And even there we confront out of love Notice the first it's your brother. Again in verse 15. Moreover, if thy brother. This is for believers in the church. We're not called to confront or discipline those who are not part of the church. We be doing that all the time. The Corinthians didn't understand that when Paul wrote to them in 1 Corinthians 5 about disciplining that one member, Paul said, Look, I wrote to you my br my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people, not at all meaning the sexually immoral of this world. Because if he said, in order to do that, you need to go out of the world. Because they're all over. Paul said, I'm not talking about people outside the church. I'm talking about people in the church. But notice again in verse 15 more with thy brother shall trespass against thee. This is a sin against you personally. This could be directly. Or it could be indirectly. Maybe they might not be sinning against you, but what they're doing is harming the others or harming the body of Christ. And ultimately that will harm you because you're part of the body of Christ. So what's the plan? Look at verse 15 again. If thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell them his fault between thee and him alone. You go and you tell them his fault. And the Greek literally reads: go and reprove the person. Now again we go in the spirit of gentleness, we go in love, but we go to to confront them and to let them know this is wrong. This is not wrong, this is not right. Please stop doing this. And this has to be private. And you know what the tendency is in the church when you see someone overtaken in the fall is to go out and talk about it and gossip and pick up the phone and yada yada. And that's not the response of a godly person. If you see them overtaken in a fault, you go to them. Why? Look again in verse 15. You go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone, and listen to this, and he if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. Again, the whole purpose is restoration to holiness It's not to throw people out, it's not to embarrass, it's not to be self-righteous. The word gain here is a commercial word used to speak about gaining wealth. Like money or commodities. And in connection with this sinning brother, what it basically means is to lose them is to lose a valuable treasure. They are a treasure. And that's a treasure you don't want to lose And so if you go to them and go to them in a spirit of love and say, please stop doing this, please come back, you have gained a treasure. You have gained your brother. That's the whole idea there. We have to do this, and by the way, this is the heart of God. God does not want to lose one soul to sin. What if they don't repent? What if you go and they don't repent? Well, step two, look at verse 16. But if he will not hear thee, Then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. Do you give up? No. You don't give up If the private confrontation is rejected, you go back with a group, two or three witnesses. Why? So that every word would be established. This is for the benefit of the one who's being confronted as well as the one who is confronting. So that the You know, every once in a while a person who confronts someone else, they might have a bias. They might have a chip on their shoulder. They might try to use this or abuse this whole process that Jesus is giving. But when you have a whole group there, there's accountability in everything that is said And the whole manner and spirit in which it's all done. So it's for the good not only of that person who is being confronted, but also of the confronter, so that every word can be established, so that you make sure that it in this whole process it's done with the spirit of love. And true gentleness. And it's for protection You say, Well what if what if what if they don't listen? Is there ever an instance in the of this Do we see this in the New Testament, this second step that Jesus talks about? I think there is in 2 Corinthians chapter 13. Listen to what Paul says, verses 1 and 2. This is the third time I'm coming to you And in the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established. I told you before and tell you before again, as as if I were present the second time, and being absent now I write to them who hithertofore have sinned and to all others that if I come again I will not spare. What's Paul saying? Paul said, look, I've already gone through step two, I've already gone with two or three witnesses, and if you still don't repent, then the next time I come, I'm not going to spare the discipline. Paul had gone through the second step here. He's calling for the Corinthians to respond to the second time that he's gone to them over the issue that was in the church, that was dividing that church. What if they don't repent? Well, there's step three. Look at verse 17. And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it to the church. Step three is tell it to the church. Again, the hope is for repentance. The hope is for peace. What if they don't listen? What if they don't hear you? Well, you tell it to the church. Now you make it public. And you tell it to the church not to gossip. But so that all may know and all may pray. And this is the local church. This is not the universal church. And this might not mean a a public proclamation. This might be a group of representatives from the church, but either way, you you get the word out and you let the people know that this person is under this process of trying to be restored And by the way, you know, I I I've seen this on social media, which is so abused today by Christians. In this day of the internet and social media, I've seen many Christians place their local church problems on their blog. Or on their social media, it's a family issue. You keep it in the family. Don't besmirch the name of Christ by airing that on some kind of social media platform. How does God get glory in that? How do you glorify God in that? But you tell it to the church. So that the church can collectively go To this person. And this tells me there has to be a unified effort. There has to be a unified love where they see the damage of sin Because if the church isn't unified in this, what will happen is that person will be emboldened in their sin all the more. Some people will, in the name of tolerance, say, oh, we can't be so we can't be so harsh. Look, love, sometimes love is tough love. And and f and and like Paul said to the Corinthians there, look, you know, you're puffed up. You're proud of your your toleration. But you have to understand that God expects this. And so it has to be a unified effort Is there a case in the New Testament where a person didn't repent after the third step? Yeah, I think that there is in 2 Corinthians again, chapter 2, verse 5. Now if anyone has caused pain, he has caused it not to me, but in some measure Not to put it too severely to all of you. Sin he's saying doesn't just affect me, it affects everyone. And in that, Paul's assuming that all of the church knows they've gone through all of the steps With this one person and this person still didn't repent of their sin. We say, well what if they still don't? What if you What if you go privately and then you go with two or three or a group and then they still don't repent, and then you tell it to the church and they still refuse to acknowledge their own Fault and sin and they don't repent, well then what's the last thing? And this is the thing you don't want to happen, but look at verse seventeen again. If if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it to the church, but if he neglect to hear the church Let him be unto thee as a heathen man and as a publican. This is the final step, and it's grievous and it's heartbreaking This person continues to be defiant. They continue to reject any counsel. They've been lovingly confronted. They've been gently sought What do you do at that point? You treat him as an outsider. And when when Jesus here says you treat him like a heathen or a gentile or a tax collector. We can relate to that, can't we? In in that day, in Jesus' day, there were two people that a Jewish person normally did not associate with. One was a Gentile or a heathen, and the other was a Jew who betrayed his people, became an IRS agent for the Roman government, and was collecting taxes from the Jewish people. You don't associate with them. And so what's the principle here that Jesus is giving? You disassociate. You have nothing to do with them. That's the whole idea here. This is the last step. Now the Bible doesn't give a time frame for this. We have to use subjective wisdom from God to know when. I guess if you feel the person that you're dealing with is getting harder and harder and absolutely refuses to acknowledge their need to repent. The Spirit of God really has to give you that sort of subjective wisdom when it's time to say, you know what, they're just, they're just they're just not responding. They're just not going to acknowledge what they need to do. There's no desire to be right. Then that's when you take this next step. And again, we see this in 1 Corinthians 5. Paul said, You deliver such a one on this day for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit might be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. These are harsh words from the Apostle Paul He said, look, you just cast them out. Uh you give them over. They're no longer underneath the protective covering of the covenant community of the church. You let them out because now they're Maybe subject to uh Satan's abuse. But even if their body dies, if they're truly a believer, their spirit will be saved in the day of judgment. That is, it's if they truly know the Lord, if they're truly saved. It's not an easy thing to do. But Paul Paul in the New Testament we see it several times in First Timothy one, verse twenty. Paul said, Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered unto Satan, that they might learn not to blaspheme. Paul had already done this with two men in the church. That was hurting the church at Ephesus. Paul said, I've delivered them over to Satan so that they can understand. That they should not blaspheme. When you put someone out of the sanctifying graces of God's assembly, that means they're no longer there. Why? So that they can think about how much that the fellowship really meant to them and they can be ashamed over their hardness and their lack of hearing. Let me give you the third thing quickly. We see the purpose of discipline. We see the procedure that Jesus gives, but then number three, there's the promises. Jesus gives his full weight and backing to this whole procedure. Look at verse number 18. Verily I say unto you that whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. And whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. What is he saying here? He's making some promises. First of all, when you do this, you have authority. You have authority. The church has all the authority of heaven when they go through this process. By the way, these are rabbinical terms. To bind on earth means that that sin has not been forgiven. To be loosed means it has been forgiven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven, and the idea is that whatever action happens on earth, you have the full support of heaven with it. It's already taking place in heaven. If they're forgiven on earth, that's because they've been forgiven in heaven. And if they're still bound That means God still has bound them. In other words, you're working in total harmony with the authority of heaven on this whole thing. You have authority. That's the promise that Jesus gives. And by the way, again, um, you don't want to interfere with the process or disrupt it. Because heaven is working in harmony with this. So you don't want to disrupt it. In the first church that I pastored, a young man with his new wife They were going to have a baby. And this this husband began to do the wrong thing. He left his wife. He moved in with his friends. Let me tell you something. This is just a precaution to young couples. Look, when you get married, that means you are to bind yourself to each other. And you need to be careful about hanging out with your old friends. Especially if they're a bad influence. I've seen this so many times in churches where I've counseled married couples where uh either a woman will go with a bunch of single women or divorced women who are angry. Or a young man will go out with a bunch of loose-living other young men, and it always affects the marriage. Always interferes. And here this guy, he went out, he began a relationship with another young lady. It broke my heart. I went to him. I I one-on-one, just like the Bible says, please stop doing this. Please go back to your wife. They had a newborn child. He refused. Went with two or three witnesses. Still wouldn't listen. Took it to the church He still wouldn't repent. But you know what during this whole process, and by the way, he was a gifted singer, worked in music in our church, gifted. And during this whole process, another church down the road, the pastor, brought him in and said, Why don't you leave music in our church? Why don't you serve in our church? If he won't let you serve there, you can come in our church and serve. And I and I and I wrote that pastor a letter. I said, please, he we're going through a process. He's left his wife and she's by herself and they have a new child, and please don't don't interfere with this. And he wrote back a letter to me telling me how judgmental I was. And that man never got back to his wife. She ended up rearing that little boy by herself. By the way, years later, 30 years later, he eventually went back to her and said, I was wrong. But you know what? It's too late. It's too late. She had moved on. He had missed out. What if that other pastor had not interfered with that process? Would he have repented? Would it would it have salvaged that home We'll never know. But the point is, you better be careful about interfering with this because heaven is behind this whole process when it's done in the right way. Authority, but then agreement. Look at verse 19. Again I say unto you, that two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything that they shall have, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven. Again, this is God acting in accord with that. That's great authority. God says, you know, you're acting in agreement. And you know, this is important because sometimes when you're going through this process, you you know you had a tendency to second-guess yourself and you're saying, maybe I'm being too judgmental Maybe I'm not doing this the right way. And so this is affirming when the Lord says, you know what, I'm behind you in this. There's agreement. But then there's also an accompaniment. Look at verse 20. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them. How many times have you read that verse? But always when we read that verse, it's always in the context of, you know, just maybe in a prayer meeting or in a small group. But the context of this whole thing is in the process of discipline. Of going after someone who needs to be restored. We had the promise that Jesus says, when you do that, I'm going to be with you. I'm in this process as well. Jesus is right there with you. Jesus says, I am in the midst of this whole activity. So we see the purpose, we see the procedure, we see the promises. Now let me just say restoring a brother or sister is not the duty of just the pastor or some select committee. It's the duty of all of us to love one another. To remember that we are accountable one to another. And if we truly care about people, we're not going to look the other way and allow them to make shipwreck of their faith. And we're not going to look the other way if someone is doing damage to the body of Christ. That's not love. That is not commendable. But again, discipline is not a hammer for crushing someone. It is a redemptive intervention that calls people to turn to the Lord who loves them. You know you know what I want? I mean you may not believe this. You may not believe this, but I'm gonna put it out there anyway. I live to see you blessed. I don't have any other motive than that. I I live, I live, my joy, my strength, my life is from seeing you blessed To see you prosper in the Lord. That is my reward. That is my joy. That's all I want. That's all I desire. I'm not even asking for a raise. I don't want to raise. I I had no desired I have no I could care less about that. I'm not even sure how much I get right now anyway. Carolyn takes care of all the money. I I I I live to see you blessed, prospering in the Lord, growing into the image of Christ. Walking in Christ's likeness. That's how you're blessed. You know how blessing comes? Through obedience to Christ. Through obedience to Christ. That's all I desire from you: that you obey Christ. That you be blessed. That's all I want. That's what we're here for. We're here to proclaim the name of Christ, his glory to the world, to be a holy light in a dark world. And in order to do that, we must be submissive to this. And beloved, I have to give myself to the submission of God's word. I'm as accountable to God as you are, and to this book right here. I don't have any extra authority. Any authority I have comes from the Word of God. And I'm accountable to it. I have to be submissive to it as well, as well as anyone else. So I pray that you'll just take this to heart and be willing to bear one another's burdens. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for your clear word. Lord, may we take heed to it, may we receive it In the way that we should, with submissive hearts, with humble hearts, with ready hearts, to be submissive to you. Lord, I pray for blessing upon grace. Help us, Lord, to be that light that you've called us to be. Help us to love one another, to encourage one another, but help us also to realize that sin is destructive. It's a cancer that we cannot tolerate. And it has to be dealt with in our own lives as we pursue holiness in the fear of the Lord. Lord, give us grace, give us wisdom. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen