Take your Bibles and open to the Book of James, chapter four. We're going to pick up our series where we left off. On Sunday mornings, we were going through the book of James, and we're going to finish this, and we've We're going to deal this morning with James chapter 4, verses 13, down to verse 17. I titled the sermon this morning, If the Lord Wills. It's the Lord wills. We are in a brand new year. Many of you have already planned out your whole calendar year, 2017. Nothing wrong with planning. Planning is a part of life. Some people here you have your appointment books and you've got all your appointments lined up, and that's okay. Fathers plan on how to provide for their families financially High school graduates plan on where they're going to go to school and college and what they're going to do after that, pursue a job. We plan vacations, family activities. Pastors plan ministries. Nothing wrong with planning. In fact, did you know scripture encourages good planning Write down Proverbs 27, 12. A prudent man foresees the evil and hides himself, the simple pass on and are punished. So it's good to try to foresee some things that might happen. And to prepare for those things. If you turn into the scripture and read about the Apostle Paul, you'll find that he was constantly planning, planning missionary trips in Romans 15, 24. Paul planned to visit the believers in Rome on his way. to Spain. And even God plans. Job 42, verse 2. No plan of yours, God, can be thwarted. Planning is good. Someone said, he who fails to plan plans to fail. Another person said, plan ahead. It wasn't raining when Noah built the Ark. Now there's a certain, however, kind of planning that is condemned in Scripture. It's not good. And we could call it presumptuous planning And that's what James is describing here in these verses of chapter 4, verses 13 down to verse 17. There are plans that are dishonoring to God. There are plans that are done in a sinful manner. It's a foolish planning and it doesn't include God in it And this is exactly what James is attacking here. He saw a lot of this going on in his day. It's the attitude that says, this is my life. I'll do what I want. I'll do what I please. Irregardless of the Lord. And we don't want to make some of the same mistakes that this man made here in this passage about planning. So I want you to see three mistakes that are made. when people plan for the future, and these are sins in the sight of God. So if you take into it right now, first of all, there's an attitude we should never take. An attitude we should never take. Look again in verse 13. Go to now, ye that say today or tomorrow, we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. There's an attitude here that James condemns. What is the attitude? It's an attitude of self-sufficiency. It's an attitude that says, I can get along without God. And what he's describing here is a first century businessman. He's kind of a wheeler-dealer. He's very astute in his plans. He knew exactly what he was going to do. He knew exactly how he was going to get there. At least he thought he did. But he was planning as if there was no God. And this man has an arrogant attitude. He has a self-sufficient attitude. The attitude that says, I don't need God's help. And so James introduces this with the phrase, notice again in verse 13, go to now. This is a way of expressing negative disapproval. Uh that's the way it's used here in the Greek. We would say it like this. Now listen to me, you. Listen to me what I'm gonna say. You that are planning. Without praying, without God. Here's this man. And first of all, notice he plans the period. He says in verse 13, today or tomorrow. The Greek literally says where it says, who say, the ones who are saying The Greek verb Lego means to say something based on reason and logic. And so he's reasoned it all out. He's used his logic, and he's saying, you know, this is what I'm going to do This is pure logic to him. This is the right thing to do. And again, there's nothing wrong with logic, nothing wrong with reason, but that's all he's using. He's got it in his schedule. He's planned out his year. He's counted out 365 days. It all seems reasonable to him, logical. He plans the period. He plans the place. He says in verse 13, we'll go into This city, such a city. This was an age of founding cities when there was opportunity to start businesses. So he spreads out his map. He looks at all the trends in business. He says, here's a place that's growing. Here's a place where I can go and I can make uh a good business And so he plans the procedure in verse 13. Today or tomorrow we'll go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. He knew exactly what he was going to do. He's a merchant. He studied all the Wall Street charts and Fortune 500. He's quite confident. That he's going to be able to make money where it says buy and sell is one word in the Greek, it's where we get our word empurium. He wants to build a large successful business. And he thinks that if he's there for a certain amount of time, he could do it, no problem. And he he plans to profit. He says buy and sell and get gain. So we see we see the man he plans the location, the vocation, and the duration. Now we see the motivation. What's he after? He's after money. This man wants to make money. Now again, there's nothing wrong with making money. You can't have a good business unless you do make money. But if your whole sole goal in life is to get rich, that's a wrong motive, friend. The Bible says, don't set your heart upon riches. Jesus said you can't serve two master if your eye be evil, your whole body is full of darkness. Someone says, well yeah, money talks. That's right. It says goodbye. Jesus said, seek ye first the kingdom of God. Now again, there's nothing wrong intrinsically in what he's doing here. He's planning, he's planning ahead He's planning where to live. Everyone has to live somewhere. It's okay to plan all those things. Nothing wrong with making a profit. That's all good. You say, what's the problem? The problem is he's doing it all without God. He's forgotten God in this whole procedure. Look at verse 16. But now ye rejoice in your boastings. And all such rejoicing is evil. Here's a man who's planted out everything, but he's done it in a spirit of self-sufficiency and pride. He's boasting about what he's going to do all by himself. He's self-sufficient. He's arrogant. It reminds me of that poem, Invictus. I won't quote the whole thing to you, but there's one line in that poem. Invictus is in Latin, it means victorious. Here's a man who's conquering life, and there's a last expression in that poem that says, For I am the master of my faith, I am the captain of my soul. That spirit of arrogance. Whenever I read that I want to say, Captain, your boat is about to sink. This is the attitude that James is condemning here. You ever feel like you're the captain of your own soul? Every once in a while, I talk to students that have their whole life planned out and they haven't really prayed about it. They haven't really talked to God about it. And so, as Christians, we must make our plans centered around God. That's what's missing here. We have to ask the question, what's going to bring God the most glory? That should be the central thing. And this man is living basically like a practical atheist. He's not even thinking about there being a God He said, this is what I'm going to do. I'm the master of my fate. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do that. I've got it all planned out. There are a lot of people living like that in our world today. And they've got all their plans But they've left God out. This is an Aryan attitude. So there's an attitude we should never take. But I want you to write down point number two. There is an assumption we should never make. Look at verse 14. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time. And then vanishes away. You say, what's the assumption that he's making? He's assuming that he's guarantee tomorrow. He's assuming that everything's going to work out just as he plans it. Many people assume that. They make their plans, they got it all figured out. They assume that everything is going to go just exactly the way they want it to go. They assume that the future is certain, and that they have this sense of entitlement about how things should turn out, about how things are supposed to be And you know what they find out? It doesn't happen that way. You know, I've met many people that have shattered dreams. Things didn't turn out the way they planned, and so they lived oppressed They lived in bitterness to God because things didn't happen the way they planned them. I even mean sometimes ministers who are angry and frustrated over things that have happened in their life and in their ministry, the plans that they had made, and it just didn't work out that way. God didn't call them to do the thing that they thought they were called to do. That reminds me of the story of Jonah. Remember Jonah? He didn't want to go to Nineveh. God said, go to Nineveh And Jonah got on a boat and went to Tarshus. And what did God do? God put him on a submarine back to Nineveh. He didn't want to be the pastor of the First Baptist Church of Nineveh. He wanted to be the pastor of the Temple Baptist Church of Tarsus. God says, no, that's not what I want. And so what do we find about Jonah? He's bitter. At the end of the book of Jonah, he's angry against the Lord because things are not turning out the way he wanted them to turn out. There's some things that this man here in this story fails to comprehend. First of all, he fails to comprehend the complexities of life. Look again in verse 14. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. Things are not as simple as we think they should be. It doesn't you know, the life is not a fairy tale that turns out and they live happily ever after. How many of you know that? That's not the way life is. We have our dreams dashed at times. Some people may count on things happening. They don't happen. We think we know what the future is going to hold, but we don't Over 40 years ago, futurists peered into their crystal balls, and they predicted that one of the biggest problems for the coming generation was going to be what will they do with all their spare time? A Senate subcommittee claimed, this is many years ago, that by 1985 people would be working just 22 hours a week or 27 weeks a year and people could retire at age 38. Anybody here retired at 38? Anybody here just working twenty-two hours a week? Best laid plans. There's no way to comprehend the complexities of life. Life is not that simple It's a complex matrix of forces and events and contingencies and circumstances, many of which we have no control over. And so we don't know the future. Again in verse 14 he says, whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then it vanishes away. James says, you don't know what's going to be on the morrow. The Bible says, boast not thyself for tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We don't know what tomorrow is going to hold. I'll never forget years ago one morning I got up and turned on the television And there was a a young girl there on the television sh uh that was putting up a picture of her mother and she said, if anybody sees her, please let us know. What had happened that day was that her mother went to work in Oklahoma City in the federal building there And some of you remember that event. A madman parked a truck in front of the building and it blew up. That woman that was lost, she was a member of the church I pastored. I knew her very well. She got up that morning, she went into work. She had no idea what the day held. And that bomb blew up and many died. They found her body eight days later after digging out through the rubble. She had no idea. We don't know what the day is going to bring. Sometimes I'll be driving here to church and I'll turn on the radio and I'll hear the news about the traffic and y'all hear something like this, don't go down 95 South. There was a traffic accident. There was a fatal car accident. And you know the first thing I'll think? Here is a man or a woman that got up that morning, got ready to go to work, probably rushed out of the house. without kissing his wife and hugging his children. Off to work. He had no idea that he only had a few minutes to live And that was it. We don't know what tomorrow is going to hold. There are some people here in this congregation. And there was an event last year, and I and I'm not talking about anybody specifically, but I'm just imagining in a crowd this big, there were probably some people here. You had something that happened in your life that changed your life And you didn't see it coming. It could have been something good or something bad. Or just an event that happened that you could not predict. Friend, we don't know the future and don't let people tell you they can predict the future, things like election results. I don't care how many polls you take Some of you are old enough to remember the book, 88 Reasons Why Jesus is going to return in 1988 Some of you remember that guy wrote a book that said Jesus is going to come in 1988. And and and the Trinity Broadcasting Network developed their whole television show around that one event. And people flew to the Holy Land so that they could be in the Holy Land when Jesus came back. By the way, I have that book. If you want it, I can give it to you for free. Didn't happen. It didn't seem to matter that Jesus said, That day and that hour knoweth no man. We don't know the future. This man, he failed to comprehend the complexities of life. He failed to comprehend the uncertainty of life But also he failed to comprehend the brevity of life. Notice what he says again, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then it vanishes away. James says life is like a brittle thread. Life is like steam from a tea kettle. Life is like a puff of smoke. Life is like breath on a frosty morning. And as you sit here today, there is but a heartbeat between you and eternity, and someone has described that heartbeat as a muffled drum beating a funeral march to the grave. Someone else has also said that life is so short that the wood of the cradle rubs tightly against the marble of the tomb. So no wonder Moses said, Lord, teach us the number of our days. That we might apply our hearts under wisdom. We just don't know what's going to happen. James says life is like a vapor. It appears just for a little time and then it vanishes away. I read a thought-provoking article years ago. It said if you're 35, you have 500 days to live. And the whole thesis of the article was this If you subtract the time spent sleeping and working and tending to personal matters and hygiene and and all these other little things, uh and you in the next thirty-six years you have equivalent the equivalent of only five hundred Uh hour, or five hundred days rather, to spend how you would wish. Kind of a sobering article Reminds you how brief our time here really is. It passes by so quickly. When as a child I laughed and wept, time crept. When as a youth I dreamed and talked, time walked. When I became a full-grown man, time ran And when older still I grew, time flew. And soon I shall find in passing on time gone. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now a grandfather. That still has not sunk in. Where did the time go? Job said, or the Bible says, our days are on earth are as a shadow. My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle. Remember that my life is but a breath, Job 7-7. In Psalm 102, the Psalmist said, For my days are consumed like smoke. That's why Richard Baxter, the great Puritan preacher, said we're to preach as though never to preach again and as a dying man to dying men. Because that's exactly our situation. Don't assume that we have tomorrow. Whatever you want to do, do it today. Say I love you to your family today. Hug your children today. Don't assume that you have tomorrow. There's an attitude we should never take, and that is we can do what we want to do without God. There's an assumption we should never make. And that is to assume that all the plans that we make are going to go just the way we want them to go, and that tomorrow is guaranteed to us we are entitled to tomorrow That's an assumption we should never make. Then number three, here's the third mistake. There's an acknowledgement we should never forsake. And James teaches us here that we're to make our plans, but those plans must be made in acknowledgement of and in submission to the absolute sovereignty of Almighty God. The one who's in control. Look again in verse number 15. For ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. He's teaching us to submit to the sovereignty of God, who is over all. You can propose one thing, but God is the one who's in charge. He can overrule that plan. He can do something else. And God has done that many times throughout history. Some of the most grand plans of So-called mighty men have been overruled by God because God is the one who's in charge. Little Napoleons out there that say, My will be done. God can overrule that. God does whatever he wants to do. And that's why James says, look, we ought to say, if the Lord wills, I'm going to do this. Or I'm going to do that. We have to live our whole life in submission to the sovereignty of God. That's what he's telling us here. And by the way, if you read through the New Testament, you'll find that this is the attitude of the Apostle Paul. You see that all the time. In Acts chapter 18 verse 21, he told the Jews at Ephesus that he's going to return and he's going to renew a ministry among them if the Lord wills. He said, if God wills, I'll do this. In 1 Corinthians 4. 19, he said that he would make another visit to Corinth if the Lord wills, and that he would remain with them for a considerable amount of time. if the Lord wills. Paul uses this expression throughout the New Testament. And James is telling us this is what, and by the way, this is not just a cliche. This is an attitude of dependence upon God, humble submission to God in our life, to whatever the Lord wants. And James is telling the Christians here, this is to be our attitude of life. It's okay to make your plans. Go ahead, plan well. But you better say if the Lord will. You better say, Lord, if this is what you want, I'll do it Because I'm going to live my life in total submission to your plan, whatever you want. And that way if things don't turn out the way I think they should, I won't get bitter, I won't get disappointed, I will submit to the sovereign will of God and say, this is what the Lord wills. And so if the Lord wills, I'm going to do this. And by the way, this was the way many Christians lived. Centuries ago. And if you read history books and you read the lives of Christians, sometimes they'll have letters written from one Christian to another, and you'll notice that at the end of the letter they'll have Two little letters there, D period, V period. You say, what does that stand for? That stands for the Latin dio valente, which means Lord willing. Lord willing. And they wrote that there, not as a meaningless expression, but a heartfelt submission to God. In other words, I'll do this if the Lord wills. A. V. Simpson once said this, I like to interpose in all of my appointments if the Lord wills. Now why do we do that? Because we recognize that God is sovereign over all of our lives. Everything. You say, what does it mean that God's sovereign? It means He's in absolute control. It means that there's no detail that's not under His control. He controls everything Now again, by the way, I I believe in planning well. I believe in you know having a life insurance policy in case I should die, that my family would be taken care of. That's all good, that's good planning But when we make all of our plans, we say, okay, Lord, my life is in your hands. Do what you will. And go ahead and save and invest. But understand this, the only real financial security is in God. Our economy could crash tomorrow Things could happen. Our retirement investments could crumble. The only real security that you have, that I have, is faith and trust in a gracious God. That's the only security that we have. When I was flying in here to the states, I was something happened to me never happened before. We were landing at JFK. And we came in for a landing, and as soon as the plane touched down, he he gunned the engines and he took off again. And then kind of flew around. Talk about an adrenaline rush I think what in the world? People were scared. And finally he came over and he said, look, we were landing a plane and we found out there was still another jet on the runway. Saw it at the last second had to take off. You know, talk about you know, not knowing what's gonna happen. But the Lord is in control, isn't he? And trusting God as our only source of security. Because God is exhaustively sovereign. Did you know there's nothing that happens in your life by chance? God has total control. The very hairs of your head are numbered. A bird can't fall to the ground unless it be by the will of God. And James and the Jews that he wrote to understood this. This was taught throughout the Old Testament. He's in control over creation, the Bible says, fire and hail, snow and frost, stormy wind fulfilling his command. He's over control of animals. The Bible makes that very clear. He's over he's in control of seemingly random or chance events. The Bible says the lot is cast into the lap of the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord The lot was two stones. You could just throw those stones, and that's how they would determine the will of God in the Old Testament. You can go ahead and throw the stones, but how they landed was the way God determined they would land. The whole disposing, the whole revealing of what he wanted was of the Lord, the Bible says. He's sovereign over the affairs of nations. And some people say, well, that's He's in control of nature and these things that don't have a will of their own, but he's not really in control of people that way, really. The Bible says this, the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord, as the rivers of waters, he turns it whatever way he wants. Easy to control and control people. Even the most stubborn monarch, God can turn that part as easily as a farmer can divert the irrigation canals on his farm. He can turn the heart to whatever way he w he wants. And by the way, that's comforting to know because sometimes it might seem like our life is in the hands of someone else The decisions they make, a government official can deny a visa. A professor can determine the academic success of a student. A supervisor can block or promote a career. It might seem at times that we're at the mercy of other men, but that's not true, dear friend. Because God is the one who controls hearts. To accomplish his will. One of my favorite stories about this is George Washington. When he was 17 years old, he wanted to join the British Royal Navy. And his mother consented. She said, Okay. And he g he packed up all his things and he went down to the dock and he was gonna put his things on a frigate and go on a boat and join the Royal Navy. And had he done that he would have been fighting for the British instead of the Americans But there came a messenger from his mother and said she changed her mind at the last minute. She refused to sign the consent form. Because he wasn't eighteen yet. So he didn't go join the British Royal Navy. You think that was an accident? God controls the hearts. The Bible says in Proverbs 16, 9, a man's heart devises his way, but the Lord directs his steps. And that's why James says, you ought to say if the Lord wills. Now, let me just qualify here. I'm not talking about fatalism. James isn't talking about fatalism. You know, whatever will be will be. It doesn't really matter what I do. That is not the teaching of Scripture. Because every decision that you make is a real decision, it has real consequences, and you will be judged for the decisions that you make. The Bible teaches absolute human responsibility, but it also teaches divine sovereignty. Both of those things are equally taught in Scripture. You say, how do they work together? I don't know. I I can't figure it out, and neither can you, by the way. It's just true. Think about Jesus. He knew he was on a divine timetable. He knew that no one could kill him un unless it was his time. But it didn't cause them to act presumptuously. He didn't he didn't do foolish things. He avoided those who wanted to kill him He acted wisely, yet he also knew that his life, his very steps, were in the hand of the Father, and that's the way we are to live. We are to live our life, plan wisely, make wise decisions, be responsible, but ultimately know that our Life, our steps are in the hand of Almighty God. And so when we make our plans, we say, if the Lord wills. I'll do this or I'll do that. This Proverbs says, the horse is made ready for battle, but victory belongs to the Lord. So go ahead and prepare for battle. Make your plans, but you better remember God's the one who gives the victory. It comes from Him. And so there's an attitude we should never take. There's an assumption we should never make. There's an acknowledgement we should never forsake. In light of all this, we have to realize life is brief, it's complex, it's uncertain, but God is sovereign and we must submit. all of our plans to him. We must live in submission to him. And the very first thing you should do if you want to live in submission to God. is to turn to Him. Repent of your sin and trust Jesus as your Savior. That's the greatest decision that you can make. And by the way, that's your responsibility. The gospel is not just an invitation. It is a command. God commands all men everywhere to repent. He issues that call. And he's commanding you here this morning, if you haven't already, to repent of your sin, to turn to Christ. That's your calling. That's your responsibility. That's what God wants you to do. But you know why? Because you don't know what tomorrow is going to hold. You might sit here and say, I'll do it tomorrow. Really? You might not be here tomorrow. You don't know what a day is going to bring. Life is like a vapor. It's no accident that you're here today. It's no accident that God has you in this place at this particular time to hear this particular word. To command you to repent, to turn to Jesus Christ, submit your life to Him, find grace and salvation and mercy in Christ. Because you don't know what tomorrow is going to bring. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord help us. To live the way James tells us here. May we say with everything that we plan or determine to do, if the Lord wills. If God's willing. May we acknowledge that, Lord, you are sovereign over our lives. And this sovereignty doesn't cause us to be fatalistic, to throw up our hands. Rather, Lord, it it causes us to realize that we're we are responsible agents. We are to plan. We are to make wise decisions. And yet we realize, Lord, that you rule and overrule. And we live in submission to you. And we live in dependence upon you. And we realize that our only security comes in knowing you. So Lord, I pray that if there's someone here today that's never repented of their sin, never trusted Christ as their Savior, that today they would obey the command of the call of the gospel. And turn to Christ and repent of their sin. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to just throw out this invitation to you today. What does it mean to repent? It means to turn. You turn from your sin and you turn to Christ. You say why? Because sin, your sin Is damning you to hell, friend. And God provided a way of salvation through his Son Jesus Christ through what He did on the cross He died for your sins. He paid the penalty for your sins. And if you'll turn to him and say, Lord, forgive me and save me, he will save you today. And that's the greatest decision you could ever make How many of your day say, I made that decision already, and I praise God. Would you lift your hand and say, that's my testimony? I praise God. Put your hands down. If you could not raise your hand With certainty. I'm telling you, based on the authority of the Word of God, God is commanding you here this morning to repent and turn to Him. Friend, are you willing to do it? Would you pray in your heart and mean it? Pray this prayer. Say, Lord Jesus. Jesus, I'm turning to you today. I realize that your death on the cross paid the penalty for my sin and provided the way of salvation the only way. So I'm Calling upon you, Lord Jesus, save me. Be merciful to me. Is that your prayer? Say, preacher, that's my prayer. I'm coming to Christ today. Would you pray for me? Can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand and say, yes, that's my prayer today? I'm coming to Christ. I'm turning to Him with all my heart. God bless you, sir. God bless you. Anyone else say that's my prayer, I'm turning to Christ today? In a minute, I'm going to give an invitation If you're here today and you've never come forward and made your profession of faith in Christ public, the Bible says whosoever confesses me before men Him will I confess before the Father. And if that's your dis your decision to trust Christ, come and make it public, and we want to pray for you and we want to encourage you in the faith. There'll be ministers down here that will meet you Let's all stand together. We're going to sing just as I am. Pastor John and Pastor Earl will be down here in the front. Friend, if you've raised your hand, you say, that's my decision. I want to trust Christ. I'm going to invite you to come forward. Let us pray for you and rejoice with you together.