Well it's good to be here in the Lord's house, and as you know, we're studying First Peter, so open your Bible there to First Peter chapter number two. It's our privilege to study God's Word and to learn from it And Peter has a great message for us today. And I hope that this is a something that's helping you to learn and grow as we go through this epistle together. But tonight we're going to look at chapter 2, verses 18 down to verse 25. We'll finish up chapter 2. And the title of my sermon tonight is In His Steps. Look in um 1 Peter chapter 2, look in verse uh we'll we'll look at verse number 21. This is a key verse in here, for even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us. Leading us an example that you should follow his steps. And I want to call your attention to those words to follow his steps. Now, in the book The Top Ten of Everything in 2001, the author uh gives a list of the top ten best-selling books of all time. These are the top ten best selling books. Can you guess which one is number one on there? That would be the Bible, right? Of course. The Bible is the number one best-selling book And then right under that is number two, quotations from the work of Mayo Ta Seitung. And then under that is the American Spelling Book, which I've been recommended I should get that book. And then there is the Guinness World Book of Records. And on down the line, it gives a list of books. But number nine on this list is a book that's titled In His Steps. Which sold 30 million copies. This is a book that I read when I was in high school, and I will not forget this book. This is a very unique book. It was written in 1896 by a Kansas newspaper man named Charles Sheldon. And really it's a it's a novel. It's something that he made up, but it's based on this one premise. What would it be like if in every situation we ask this one question, what would Jesus do? If in every situation we were in, before we acted or did anything, we would ask that one question. And so in the book, basically what he does is he describes Uh, life in in an American city where all the people in the city, doctors and lawyers and uh merchants and salespeople and teachers and students and clergy and so on. Everyone in that town made a commitment that they would not act until first they asked the question, what would Jesus do? That was really the whole book And he just describes different things, what would happen if people would ask this one question. Now, of course, this book has been relatively forgotten. However, it was this book and this whole idea that later led to the bracelets that a few years ago, how many remember the WWJD? bracelets. Really it came from this idea of this book, which is, you know, you're to wear this bracelet that had on it the letters WWJ D And the bracelet was to remind you that you're to live with this premise that before you do anything, you're to ask the question, what would Jesus do? That was, I guess it was a Christian sad. I don't see many of those bracelets around But that was the whole idea. Now, I don't know this for sure, but perhaps Charles Sheldon learned this whole idea. from maybe reading 1 Peter chapter 2, specifically the verse that we just read here, verse 21, where it says that cr uh that we're called because Christ also suffered for us Leaving us an example that you should follow in his steps. This is the whole theme of this whole section. Peter is calling upon believers to walk in Jesus' steps, to do as he did. In fact, look at the word example in verse number 21, leaving us an example. That's the key word, I think, in this whole passage. From verses 18 down to verse 25. This one word. Now, this is an interesting word because this is not the normal word for example. Whenever you see the word example in the in the in the New Testament I normally go to the Greek word, which is tupos, and it's where we get the word type from. However, that's not the word that is being used here In fact, the word that is being used here is used only here in the whole New Testament. Whenever that happens, I my antennas always go up. Whenever there's one word that's used one time in all of the New Testament That to me is kind of a unique word. And you want to know exactly what the word means. Well this word example comes from two words in the Greek hupo, which means over and above, and grammon, which is where we get our word grammar. And literally the word means to write over and above. And it really refers to copying letters or sketching something. Again, this word's not used anywhere else in the Bible. So there's it's we can't really look at it in other context. However, it is used in classical Greek literature, and whenever there's a word that is not used in the New Testament But one time, you always go out to other sources and find how was this word used in that time in these other sources? And it's used in 2 Maccabees to talk of outlining a sketch that artists would outline and then later they would fill in the details. But also pupils, this was used to talk about uh students Pupils in school that would learn the alphabet. And you know how they would learn the alphabet? They would trace the letters with their hand. They would go over the letters. They would trace them. And so basically you're just copying, you're imitating. The letters, you're tracing those fine lines. And so later then the word uh had the idea of Imitation. It came it came to understand figurative figuratively speaking, whenever the word was used, it came to mean that you're imitating someone else. You're watching their life You're kind of tracing over the ABCs of a person's life, if you would. You're looking at them, someone that's worthy of imitation, and you're imitating that person And this is the idea that Peter has when he uses this word. We are called to follow in the example of Christ. In fact, we are to imitate him. We're to put our feet in his steps. We're to follow him completely. And if you want to know what the life of Christ was like, of course we look into the Bible. We look at his life If you want to learn the ABCs of Christ's likeness, you look at the life of Jesus and you imitate the life of the Lord Jesus. And this is what Peter is calling us to do here, to follow in the steps of Christ. Now, whenever we think of this, in fact the book in his steps kind of has these romantic notions of things that would happen to people if they follow in the footsteps of Christ, all these good things were listed here. All these good outcomes were given in the book. If you just ask the question, what would Jesus do? And then you follow in his steps, all these good things can happen Well, let me just tell you this. If you make a determination that you're going to follow in the steps of Jesus, it's not easy. It's not an easy road. It's a very difficult road. And that's really what Peter is telling us, he's teaching us here in this chapter, because remember who is Peter writing to? He's writing to believers that were going through what? They were going through suffering. They were going through injustice. They had a corrupt government that was persecuting them under a corrupt leader who was on the throne at the time Peter wrote this letter, and that was Nero. And so they were suffering unjustly. They were suffering wrongfully. And in fact, many of them, no doubt, perhaps were ready to lash out in vengeance. And that's the nature of human nature, and we're like that. When something happens to us and it's not right, it's unjust, or we see others around us that we love suffering, there's something inside of us that wants to lash out And wants to take vengeance. And Peter's telling them, don't do that. In fact, there's a hint of that. Look at chapter 4 real quick. Look at verse number 14. Notice what Peter says to them there in chapter four, verse fourteen, he says, If you be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are you, for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. On their part he's evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified. But look at verse 15. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief. or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters. Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed. There's a sense in which Peter is telling them, look, don't take matters into your own hands. If you suffer, you don't want to suffer as someone who's done wrong. You don't want to suffer as a murderer You say, how could a Christian ever think about committing murder? Well, if if you live under some of the unjustice that was taking place in Rome that some of these believers had to endure, perhaps there was a temptation in your mind to go out and to make things right in your own mind and maybe even commit murder or or or to steal something, take something that's not yours because you haven't been treated justly or fairly And so on. And so Peter is calling these believers to follow in the footsteps of Christ with regard to suffering wrongfully or suffering injustice. We see what he did when he suffered unjustly, and we look at the life of Christ, and we are to follow in those steps. We're to trace his life. And what happened with Jesus when he suffered? Well, we see how he kept silent, and we kind of trace those letters in our own life. We see how he didn't strike back. You know, we see what his life was like specifically in the last, we could say, weeks of his life, especially the Passion Week, when he was unjustly tried, when he was unjustly punished. When he was crucified, and we see how the Lord was treated, and Peter is going to point to the cross as we're going to see, and he's saying, basically, you, if you want to follow in the footsteps of Jesus, let me tell you what happened to him And let me tell you how he was treated by a cruel Roman government and by others around him. And you know what? This is what Peter's calling us to do. So if you want to make a commitment to follow in the footsteps of Christ, you better remember what Peter's saying here. You better look at the context of it. Like one writer said when he commented on this passage, he said, this is Not a rule to be kept, but a miracle to be experienced and a grace to be received. We can't live like this in and of ourselves We can't do this. This is something that the grace of God has to do in us. And I think that he's right when he says that. Apart from God, it is totally impossible to live this way to live exactly the way Jesus lived. When we are mistreated, we uh want to retaliate. We don't really want to turn the other cheek. We don't want to bless those who curse us. We don't want to do any of that. And yet this is what Peter is telling us here about the Lord Jesus. So let me just show you four things here in this passage. Following in his steps means four things. Number one, it means following following Christ means suffering submissively. Look at verse number 18. Back up to verse 18. Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and the gentle, but also to the froward. And here when Peter is referring to servants, this is the word for actually slaves. And we understand that in this culture and in this society, slavery was still something that was taking place These were not just domestic employees. These were people who worked very hard outside of the home doing other things. They belonged to their owners. And immediately there's something inside of us that would cry out, now, wait a minute, that's not fair. Slavery is evil. Slave owners are wrong, and that is true. It is evil. And slaves, we should we would say slaves shouldn't have to submit to unjust authority. They should revolt. But that is not the biblical approach. to writing the social evil of slavery. The biblical approach was to exhort slave owners to treat their slaves with dignity back in this time Uh it was said that you treat your employee or your servant as if it were Jesus himself working for you That was what Christians were told to do. Slaves were encouraged to be submissive workers if they had the opportunity to gain their freedom, Paul said in 1 Corinthians 7. Look, if the opportunity is there for you to get your freedom or to move to another boss, then do that. Go for it. But other than that, you are to be submissive. You are to uh to be a hard worker. And while it wasn't i it didn't result in a slave revolt, uh the the the uh what the Bible was teaching Um what the apostles were teaching slaves to do. It didn't result in a vote and a revolt. However, it did topple slavery. It did bring the evil of slavery down. That's what I would say that we have to understand that it was the principles that were taught with reference to how to act under this kind of s uh society that eventually brought this whole thing down. But in the meantime It demonstrated Christ's likeness within this existing social structure at that time in a way that led to the spread of the gospel. And so Peter here says to these, submit yourselves. He says, servants be subject to your masters. Notice with all fear. That is fearing God is what he's talking about there. Phobos is the word where we get the word phobia. And it's not the fear of men that he's talking about here. It's the fear of God. You do this fearing the Lord, respecting God. You do it for his sake. You be submissive for his sake. Respecting the social order at that time. Now, this would translate to us today with employers and employees. If you're an employer You're to treat your employees as if they were the Lord Jesus. You treat your employees with respect and with dignity and in fairness and in justice And if you are an employee and working for an employer, you be submissive, you be a good worker, you treat that employer with respect. That's the whole idea here. That's how it translates with respect for the leaders. You say, well what if what if I don't have a good boss Look at verse number 18. Again. Servants be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and the gentle. So there are some bosses that are good and gentle. And again, Peter's writing in this society at that time about slave masters. There were some slave masters that were very good, they were very gentle, they were very giving. However, there were some that were not. Look at verse 18 again. Not only to the good and the gentle, but also to the frowert. And this word here is from the Greek word scolios. It's where we get the word scoliosis, which means, you know, when you talk about scoliosis, you talk about something that's crooked. And this is the idea of someone who is crooked or perverse, someone who is harsh or unkind or ungracious. If you're someone that you're working for someone like that, even someone like that, you're still to be to show good works. To be submissive. Now in our society today, we have a lot of things that we can do. If you're working on a job where your employer is not treating you right, there are legitimate and legal things that you can do to protect and defend yourself And there's nothing wrong with doing that. There's nothing wrong with using those legitimate and legal means to defend yourself against someone who is unjust and who is doing wrong. But what we can't do is we can't go beyond the law. And we can't rebel and revolt when it's beyond the law. And so, however Peter's exhorting. Now you have to remember back in this day, however, slaves in this society, in this situation, they couldn't just move their employment. They were owned by their slave master. They couldn't just pick up and say, I'm going to get another job or I'm going to talk to the labor union about the way my boss is treating me or I have certain rights that I can, you know, I there's a chain of command that I can go through and I can protect myself against uh treatment that is not right. Back in that day they didn't have any of those things. And so what was Peter's advice? Look, just be submissive. Just do it as unto the Lord, knowing that if employers are unfair, God will deal with them. You have to commit your situation to God because God has sovereignly established the social order we are to serve and we're to do it as unto the Lord. Just write down Ephesians 6 verses 5 through 9, where Paul says the same thing: servants be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling and singleness of your heart as unto Christ. Knowing, verse 8 it goes on to say, knowing that whatsoever good thing any man doeth the same shall he receive of the Lord In other words, it is God who is watching, and he sees what is unjust, and he's able to reward those who do right, and he's able to punish those who don't do right that are unjust. So you commit it unto the Lord And again, this doesn't mean that we cannot use all the legal means at our disposal to defend ourselves. But it just means that once we've gotten to that, once we've done all the things that we can do in a gracious manner to defend our own rights Then there, where there's nowhere else to go, then we stop there. We don't go beyond the law. Peter is not encouraging a revolt. He's not saying be lawless and take matters into your own hand. He's saying don't do any of that. But you learn in that situation to commit unto the Lord, that situation that you're in, and be submissive unto him. I like what Stephen Cole wrote about this. He argued in his writing that there are times for self-defense. After all, Jesus and Paul both, he says, defended their character when they were under attack. He said the Pharisees accused Jesus of being born of fornication. Jesus defended himself saying he was from the Father. He defended himself by attacking the critics. He said that they were of their father the devil, that hardly seems like a passive, silent response there, right? And then the Apostle Paul wrote 2 Corinthians and Galatians. And part of those letters were of in order to defend his character and ministry, which was under attack. And so there are times When we have to, even though we don't want to, in fact when Paul had whenever Paul had to defend himself, uh he called it foolishness. He said, you know, I have to go into this, I have to do this foolishness And he never used first person when he talked about himself. He always used first third person, we, we, because that was a humble way to refer to himself. He didn't like using the word I I I And whenever in 2 Corinthians he defends himself, he always says, well, you know, I know of a man, he's talking about himself there. Or we went through this, he's talking about himself. But he had to defend himself. He didn't like to do it. And there are times when we must defend ourselves. It's okay within the biblical framework to do that. But what Peter is saying here is that we don't go outside the bounds of that. Even when we're treated unjustly. And again, Stephen Cole says that if you're being treated unjustly, there are certain questions that you need to ask yourself. Here's the first one. First, am I under the authority of the one attacking me? He says. If so, I need to examine my life to see if I'm doing something to provoke that attack. Is there anything that I'm doing that's provoking this? And he says, if so, then I probably deserve what I'm getting. I might need to ask the person to help me with maybe some blind spot. that I have. I might need uh to just humble myself and realize there are changes I need to make. And then he said the second question we ask is, is God's truth being called into question or ridiculed? If so, I should clearly defend the truth. If there's ever a time when the truth of God is under attack and being called into question, we have no uh no choice there but to defend the truth of God. to defend what is wrong and to make it right. And we see Jesus doing that in his earthly ministry. We see the Apostle Paul doing that. And then Stephen Cole says this, here's a third factor that we should should concern us, and that is our witness to outsiders. He says, if I'm being falsely attacked on the job, I need to ask myself how I can bear the most effective witness for Jesus Christ. If you're being treated unfairly in a situation, he said, ask that question. How can I, in this situation, be the most effective witness for Jesus? And he says this, it may be that a quiet and confident answer would be most effective. If you have to defend yourself, give a good, quiet, yet confident answer to that Or, he says, but if they've heard where I stand, it may be that quiet submission where I let go of my rights would be most effective at that point. But the main principle is this. Am I under the authority of the person who is acting unfairly towards me? And if I am, then I can appeal with the proper attitude of submission. But if the appeal fails, then I have to submit. Then I yield my rights at that time. Now, does this mean you have to remain under an unjust authority for the rest of your life? No, if you can change the situation, change it If you have that power, do it. If you can get out of it, then get out of it. But be careful about that, because I have found in life that when you run from one problem, you normally have the same problem waiting for you at the next place You show me a place where there is perfection as far as relationships. There's always going to be a little bit of this, a little bit of injustice that we have to endure. It may be that God has you in a certain place because God is using that situation to mold your character, to humble you, to humble me, and to help us to be more Christ-like. And so there's a time for moving out from that problem, and there's a time for submitting to that problem. But now Jesus, in his earthly life, he suffered submissively. He suffered injustice, but he submitted to all the earthly authorities that were around him, even those submitting. Meant that he would get some abuse, but he accepted that because he knew that was part of the calling that God had for him So if you want to follow in the footsteps of Christ, it might mean that there are times when you have to suffer submissively. But here's the second thing. Following Christ means suffering sinlessly. Now I don't mean that we're sinless. I mean that we're not suffering because of our sins. It's nothing that we did that caused this. Look at verse 19. For this is thankworthy if a man for conscience towards God endure grief, suffering wrongfully This is thankworthy, Peter said. Look at verse 20, for what glory is it if when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye take it patiently? But if when you do well and suffer for it and you take it patiently, this is acceptable with God You see, there's a difference. There's nothing virtuous about being punished and suffering for your own faults, for your own sins, for the things that you brought on yourself. There's no virtue in suffering for that I remember one time years ago I would go down and visit in the city on the bus route down there and spend hours on a Saturday just knocking on doors. And there was a person that came to me one time. They no longer come to the church here. This was years ago. And they came to me and they said, Listen, I want to go bus visiting with you. And I said, Sure. He said, let's just take my car down. I said, great. Save on gas, no problem. So we went down and we parked in Baltimore City on the side of side of the curb there. And we went out and we were visiting for several hours. And then we came back to the car. And when we came back to the car, there was a policeman standing there at the car writing out a ticket and getting ready to put that ticket on the windshield. Well, we approached the police officer and the gentleman who was with me said to the policeman, What are you doing? And the policeman said, I'm writing you a ticket. He said, Is this your car? And the man said, Yes, it is. And the policeman said, Turn around and put your hands behind your back, you're under arrest. And the police officer began to handcuff him, and he said Why am I under arrest? He said you're under arrest for unpaid parking tickets and for the failure to show up in court. He said, You know how many un unpaid parking tickets you have, sir? And they called the paddy wagon. Paddy wagon came down there, opened up the back doors, they put this guy on the paddy wagon Close the doors. And when they were getting ready to drive off, the person put his face up to the bars and he said, Pray for me, Jerry. I'm suffering for Jesus. Now some of you are looking at me like he really is suffering for Jesus. But let me tell you, and I didn't have and by the way he started singing some Christian hymn as they were driving him away. And I didn't have the heart to tell him, but you know what, you're not suffering for Jesus here. You're suffering because of your own foolishness. There's no virtue in that. He kind of wanted to make it a virtuous thing. Oh, I'm suffering for Jesus. No, you're not. You're suffering because you didn't pay your parking tickets. And because you failed to show up in court. There's no glory in that. You can't act like a martyr on that situation. That's what Peter's saying again in verse 20. For what glory is it if when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye take it patiently? I have to admit, he took it patiently. But there wasn't any glory in that There's no glory and suffering when you are at fault. However, on the other hand, What if Peter says in verse 20, he says, but if when you do well and you suffer for it, and then you take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. In fact, go back to verse 19. It says, For this is thankworthy if a man for conscience towards God endure grief, suffering wrongfully. The word thankworthy there that this is a grace. It refers to what is intrinsically attractive or pleasing to God. When a servant patiently endures harsh treatment to honor God's name, God was pleased. If you're suffering as a Christian because you've done what is right, Or if it's a matter of conscience towards God. Someone's asked you to do something, and your conscience will not allow you to do that. You cannot violate your conscience. You cannot compromise your convictions. And you stand, and even there you're not doing it in a rebellious way, but in submission to the Word of God, in submission to your conscience, because it is never a good thing to ignore your conscience. And if your conscience says I have to take a stand here and I know that by doing this I'm going to have to suffer for it, I will take it. Willingly. I'll accept that. I'll accept whatever consequences come, but I'm not going to violate my conscience. Listen, brother, there's nothing wrong with taking a stand for what you believe in. But look, just be willing to accept the consequences. Just be willing, because there might be some consequences for that. And if you're By doing this, you're mistreated and you suffer grief and you endure it. With God, this is acceptable, Peter said This is something that God looks down upon with approval, with acceptance, with Almighty God. Look at the word buffeted in verse number 20. It literally means to strike with a fist. And I think Peter may be referring here to the Lord Jesus, who was treated this way before his crucifixion. At his trial, when he did nothing wrong and he said nothing wrong, they beat him. They hit him with this their fist when he didn't deserve it. He was buffeted. And it may be that this might happen to you. In some scenario, in some situation, we are treated in a wrong way, that's not for anything that you've done wrong, and yet you do and you endure this patiently. Peter says to these believers who are being persecuted, he said, if you do this, if you suffer in this manner, sinlessly, it's not for anything wrong that you've done, and you do it patiently, this is acceptable with God. This is pleasing to the Lord. So following Christ means suffering submissively. Following Christ means suffering sinlessly. Here's the third thing. Following Christ means suffering silently. Look in verse again verse 21. For here even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in his steps. Look at verse 22. Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again, when he suffered, he threatened not, but he committed himself to him that judges righteously. And again, this is not a natural way for us to live. When we are insulted, what do we want to do? We want to return that. When we are reviled, we want to revile back. But Jesus put uh chose another way. He didn't retaliate in any kind. And this wasn't weakness on the part of Jesus because remember what Jesus said when Peter picked up the sword in the Garden of Gethsemane? And Peter took out that sword and he cut the guy's ear off. By the way, he wasn't aiming for his ear. He was trying to cut the guy's head off. But you have a fisherman here trying to wield a sword. And he got the guy's ear. And you remember what Jesus did? Jesus said, Peter, look, put the sword away. Don't you understand that if I wanted to I could call 12 legions of angels. That's not hyperbole there. All Jesus would have had to do was to say to those angels, come and take care of these guys. And it would have been over. This was not weakness on Jesus' part. He simply submitted himself in silence And notice Peter points out four things about the Lord Jesus. By the way, he's quoting here from Isaiah 53, where it says, As a sheep before her shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. He's making reference to that. When they scourged him, he didn't retaliate. When they pushed the crown of thorns on his head, he didn't curse at them. When they drove nails in his hands, he didn't threaten them. In fact, Peter says four things. First of all, he did verse twenty-two who did no sin. During that whole unjust trial, he did not sin at all. He always acted in obedience to the Father, never in self-will, never in self-defense. Secondly, there was never any guile or deceit in his mouth. He didn't bend the facts to win the argument. He didn't try to get his own way. He never really actually ever defended himself. The only time he ever spoke was when he had to, when they forced him to. under law to speak, and even then he spoke truth. He uttered no threats. He didn't say, you know, you just you wait. Your day's coming. And by the way, their day was coming. But he didn't say any of that. He didn't respond with verbal abuse. He didn't threaten revenge. And Peter's point is this again, remember who he's writing to? These Christians. He's saying, look, Christ has called you to follow in his steps. And here's what, let me tell you what it was like. And let me tell you what he didn't do. And let me tell you how he suffered. He suffered submissively He suffered sinlessly. He suffered silently. He didn't threaten revenge. And the whole point is, you're going to have to endure some of this. This might happen to you. It might be a time when you're put into a situation where it's so unjust, and really there's no real defense that you can take at that moment. Perhaps all the legal means have been already utilized, and there's nothing more for you to do. Than just to accept it and to be silent. You say, how can anyone live like that? How could Jesus do that? Well, the key is in verse number 23. Look at verse 23, who when he was revolved, revolved not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. But listen to this, but committed himself to him who judges righteously. That's the key right there. During that whole thing, what did Jesus do? He said, I'm committing myself to the Father. I'm appealing to a higher court, the judge of all. He'll take care of this, he'll make it all right So while he was there in silence inwardly, he committed himself to the Father. He committed the whole situation to the Father. By the way, the word for commit there is a banking term, like whenever you put your money into the bank You're committing all of those resources to the bank. The bank has charge of it. When you commit yourself to the Father, you're saying, Lord, this whole situation that I'm in, I'm just going to deposit this here with you. You take care of this for me You be my judge, you be my defender, you take this issue up, I'm giving it to you. That's what Jesus did. That's why he could be silent during all of the Injustice, all the lies, the false witnesses, all those things that were going on. He was silent during that whole thing. And look in verse, and let me just give you the last thing where time's slipping away. Following Christ means suffering submissively, suffering sinlessly, suffering silently, but finally, following Christ means suffering sacrificially. Look at verse 24. Who his own self bare our sins and his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness, by whose stripes ye were healed. For ye were as sheep going astray, but are now returned unto the shepherd and bishop of your souls. Now in these verses, there's an enormous amount of gospel truth here in these verses. You could preach a whole series on these verses here. The suffering of Christ. His suffering was personal. It was he himself. It was substitutionary. He bore our sins. By the way, where it says bear our sins, the word here is of a priest carrying this sacrifice to the altar, laying it there on. Normally a priest uh would uh When he was carrying the sins, he would carry them on the body of the animal as he carried the body of that animal to the altar. It was the body of the animal that was actually carrying those sins. But here, Christ, our high priest, carried sins in his own body. He bore our sins upon himself. His suffering was severe. Where it says his body was a tree. in his body on the tree, literally the wood. Peter refers to the cross. It was redemptive in verse number twenty four where it says that That we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. It was the death of Christ that brought about our release from sin's guilt and the power of sin so that we don't have to listen to sin or the sin nature anymore. It is possible for us to live a righteous life because of what Christ did for us on the cross. It was reconciling it, reconciled our souls to God. But here's Peter's overall point. All of this suffering that Jesus did on the cross, everything that took place there, it was for you. It wasn't for himself. It was for someone else. He was suffering sacrificially for somebody else. And there may be times in our own life where, again, we may be called upon to suffer unjustly, not really for anything that we've done. But we're doing it on behalf of somebody else. We're suffering on the for their part. And that's exactly what Jesus did for us when he suffered on the cross and he took our sins upon himself. And so let me just give you kind of a hypothetical situation for a moment. What if Jesus didn't suffer this? What if he answered back? What if he said, you know what, you guys are all wrong, this is unjust, not going to stand for it. I'm going to defend myself. He could have called twelve leisure angels, but in truth it only took one angel to take care of those guys. Would have been over at that moment if Jesus said, I'm not going to put up with this. I'm not going to take this. I don't deserve this. I want my rights. And as the sinless Son of God, I have rights. If he had taken that approach, none of us would have salvation today. We would still be lost. But Jesus said, no, I'm gonna take this. I'm gonna suffer in this manner. And his suffering in this manner brings to us salvation. And now Peter is saying, look, you see the cross, you see what Jesus did, you see how he suffered injustice? You're called to follow in his steps. Go and do likewise. Trace his life, specifically when he was crucified, when he was unjustly tried. Trace those letters. And imitate that because you live also in an unjust world and be willing to submit Because who knows what good God's going to use to bring about as a result of your suffering. He might choose you to suffer in this way. Are you okay with that? Are you ready for that? If God so chooses to put you in a situation like that where you're going to have to suffer the way Jesus did, are you willing to do it? Because that's what it means to follow in his steps. That's exactly what it means. I'll close with a story. Bill Gothard tells this story of a Christian boy. He had a hostile, unbelieving father. And the boy asked his father if he could go to church at the prayer meeting one evening. And the father reluctantly gave permission. And so the boy, after the prayer meeting Saw a friend who had a car, and the friend with the car offered to give this young man a lift back home. And when the father saw his son getting out of the car of this friend, The father said to the son when he got home, You lied to me. You told me you were going to church at the prayer meeting. When in fact you went out with your friends. And so I'm going to whip you because you lied to me. And the voice said to his father, I didn't lie to you. I went to the prayer meeting. And the father said, I'm going to whip you two times because you lied to me twice now. And the father whipped his son severely for supposedly lying and the son took it, he silently took it And said nothing because he loved his father. And he wanted to see his father come to know Christ. So he took it and he said nothing. A few days later, the father was in the hardware store and he ran into the pastor of the church And the pastor recognized this man as being that boy's father, and the pastor said to the father, You know what, you have a really fine son. And when he came to church at the prayer meeting, he gave a wonderful testimony. And the father said to the pastor, you mean my son was at the prayer meeting? I thought he went out with his friends. And the pastor said, Oh no, he was there. And he gave a wonderful testimony. And when the father found that out, it broke his heart. And he went to his son. And apologized. And that led to this father. When he saw his son's behavior, when he saw how respectful his son was, that broke his father's heart, and it led to the father coming to know Jesus Christ as Savior. Friend, you never know what your testimony will do for the cause of the Lord Jesus Christ. But one thing is for sure, we're called to follow in the footsteps of Christ. Now, this isn't easy for us to apply. Again, this is not something that is part of our natural makeup, but friend, we need God to help us to follow Christ in this manner so God can use us for his glory. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, help us. We know Lord that life isn't fair. We know we live in a world where there's so much injustice. So much wrong that goes on. And we see how our Lord Jesus, when he came to this sin-cursed earth, how he Lived and modeled his life in the midst of a crooked world, in the midst of an unjust world, how he lived, and how he endured this unfair treatment, and he did it on our behalf Bearing our sins, that we could receive eternal life. And now here, Lord, you tell us very clearly we are to follow in the footsteps of Christ. And so, Lord, we can't do this on our own. Help us. Help us, Lord, to know, to have the wisdom, to know when to stand and when to simply submit. And receive this and commit ourselves unto you, the judge of all, who judges righteously. Lord, give us this wisdom, give us this grace to live in this manner. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.