Would you take God's word this morning and would you open please to the New Testament letter of Galatians, Galatians chapter 4. And we're going to look at verse 4 of that chapter, verse 4 and 5. So go to Galatians chapter 4. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word, please? And we'll start reading in verse number one of chapter four. Now I say that the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be Lord of all. But is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the Father. And even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. But when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. To redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And because ye are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of the Son into your hearts, crying Abba, Father. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's inspired word. May we worship in the way that we listen and heed and apply His truth. Would you pray with me today? Father, thank you for the Scripture. Thank you for the Word of God that teaches us of our Savior. And as we Look forward to celebrating the first advent of Christ. We look at this passage of scripture that is so rich. Lord, would you please open our eyes and give us understanding? And Lord, may we leave today with Our hearts filled with wonder and praise and amazement at the precious gift that has been given to us in our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, someone has described the Old Testament as a series of billboard sides advertising the coming of Jesus Christ the Messiah. It seems as if every book in the Old Testament in some form or fashion pointed to this momentous event when the Savior, the Messiah, would come into the world and change the history of the world. A Messiah, a Savior, was promised to the people of Israel as far back as Genesis chapter 3, right on the heels of man's fall. In the Garden of Eden, God promised a Savior. We call this the proto-evangelium, the first gospel in Genesis 3. 15, when God promised the seed of the woman that would come and crush the head of the serpent. And that Messiah did come in the fullness of time. But prior to that, the Jewish people were waiting and they were longing for the Messiah to come. They were anxiously awaiting for this king, this deliverer. The parallel would be that we here today, we are longing for the second advent of Christ, or at least we should be. How many of you are ready for Jesus Christ to come back? Okay. I'll let the Lord know about that. We're all ready. Of course, He does know. And as we have this anticipation in our heart that our our King will come and set up his kingdom, his literal physical kingdom on earth. Already we know he's king over a spiritual kingdom, but he'll come again in the second Advent. But just as we are anticipating that, in the Old Testament times, the people were anxiously awaiting their king, their messianic king and his kingdom. One of the hymns of our faith, written by Charles Wesley, the great hymn writer, kind of captures that anticipation in the words he wrote, Come thou long expected Jesus. Born to set thy people free from our fears and sins, release us. Find us, let us find our rest in thee. Israel, strength and consolation, hope of all the earth, thou art Dear desire of every nation, joy of every longing heart. Now, Paul here in the fourth chapter of Galatians Is reminding us of this kind of anticipation how the God in his time fulfilled those expectations with the coming of his Messiah, the Savior. And again, look in verse number four. But when the fullness of time was come, God indeed did send his Savior into the world And what I want you to see from this passage of Scripture are three important lessons about this coming of the Savior Jesus Christ into the world that I hope will uh Give you a greater understanding of the Christ and will enrich your celebration of the first advent. Here's the first thing I want you to write down. If you're taking notes, think about the sovereign fullness of his coming I call it the sovereign fullness of his coming because again it says in verse 4, when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son. Jesus came into the world at the right time. At the exact time when God the Father wanted him to come. God was sovereign over all of these events. All of history is divided into that one point when Christ made his entrance into the world. We divide history between B C and A D, B C before Christ. A D is means the year of our Lord and so on. Now I know they're they're they're kind of changing that a little bit, but I like the old A D or B C and A D and really what it shows us is that Jesus is at the very center of all history. Indeed, all history is is really uh centered in Jesus Christ. All history revolves around Jesus Christ and his coming into this world. God's universal clock was set when Christ came into the world. He was not late. He was not early. He was right at the time in which God sovereignly orchestrated all of these events. The the time was right culturally. Did you know just prior to the coming of Jesus Christ, Alexander the Great conquered the then known world. He brought in Hellenistic culture. The world Then began to speak all one international Koine Greek language. That all prepared for the spread of the gospel in that time. The world was ready politically under the reign of Caesar Augustus Peace extended uh all over the earth. Prior to that there was warfare all through those pr previous centuries, but Roman Uh law had instituted what was called the Pax Romana, that is the Roman peace, that provided stability into the world, that gave great economic and political stability so that the world could make great progress. Again, this is all preparing for the coming of Christ. The Roman Empire built five hundred thousand miles of roads that were constructed. Which would later be used by the missionaries that would take the gospel over all the world at that time. The world was ready prophetically. When we read the Gospels, what we are constantly reminded of by the Gospel writers are the Old Testament prophecies that tell us that all these things happen just like God said. Just like God the Father planned. For example, in the old test the Old Testament prophesied the time of Christ's birth. Did you ever wonder why the wise men were able to come at that precise time? And to see the Christ child. How did they know of his birth? Well, they were called the Magi. They they came from Babylon. They had learned of the Messiah through the study of scripture. They s evidently, I believe, study Daniel's prophecy in Daniel chapter nine by studying Daniel chapter nine. you can know the approximate time of the coming of the Messiah into the world. In Daniel chapter 9, verses 24 and 25, Gabriel gave Daniel the precise time for the coming of the Messiah. He said it would be from the decree of Artaxerxes, the King of Persia to uh into the rebuilding of the temple which was in 455 457 excuse me b c he said it would be 69 weeks A week being seven years, that's 483 years. You do the math. And what you do, if you do the math, you'll come up to the approximate time when the Messiah was in his ministry here on earth. And besides that, you know, the wise men had a star to guide them. In Matthew chapter 2, we're reminded of this when they came looking for Jesus. They came to Bethlehem. And they were guided by a star, and they said in verse 2: Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and we are come to worship him. They followed a star. Again, that was prophesied in the Old Testament in Numbers chapter 24, verse 17, there shall come a star out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. That passage has always fascinated me, the fact that this star, and you've probably hear heard me preach about this before, it didn't act like any ordinary star because it it it led them to the very place where Jesus was. I don't know too many stars that can do that. The Bible calls it his star. They said, where is his star? They knew that this was his particular star that pointed the way to him, to the Messiah. And in fact, the Bible says in Matthew 2. 9, it went before them. Again, I don't know too many stars that can do that. This star seemed to appear, disappear, and then reappear, because when they left uh Herod and Jerusalem, they saw it again, and the Bible says they rejoiced because they saw the star again, which led them all the way to the very place where Christ was. I think that this star was the Shekinah glory of God actually. The word for star is Aster, which means of something that is shining. It has the idea it can be used of literal stars, but it could be used of anything in the sky that has a shining. And I think this was the same glory of God that led the children of Israel in the Old Testament, led these wise men, these Gentiles, to come and worship the king. And so they knew of the time, the time of Christ's coming. God was sovereign over all that. They knew the precise time. The Old Testament prophets prophesied the place in Micah 5 2. But thou Bethlehem Ephraim, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of these shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel, whose goings forth have been of old from everlasting. Micah the prophet, 700 years prior to the birth of Jesus Christ, prophesied that this Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. God was sovereign over the very place, not only the time, but the place where Christ would be born Now, the precision in this prophecy is what's amazing. It didn't just say that he would be born in Bethlehem, but Bethlehem Ephreta, or that is Bethlehem in Judea. Because you may have heard me say before that there were two Bethlehems. There was a Bethlehem in the North Territory and the territory of Zebulun that was just five miles away from Nazareth. And there was a Bethlehem that was in the south region in Judea that was 80 miles away from Nazareth. So if you just heard the prophecy, he was born in Bethlehem. You might automatically assume that since he grew up in Nazareth, he would be born just five miles away in the Bethlehem of the north. But that's not what the Bible says. It says he would be born in Bethlehem in the south of Israel. In a very small town out of the way, and Micah makes a very precise prophecy so that there could be no mistakes about that. It's amazing that Micah knew this seven hundred years before the event took place. That would be like somebody predicting Who the President of the United States would be 700 years from now and what town he would be born in. You know anybody that could do that? That could make that prediction? That kind of prophecy? And yet we find it here in the Old Testament prophet Micah. And Matthew is very careful to point this out. In Matthew chapter two, because after the wise men left Herod, Herod called in all of the scribes, all of the experts, and said, Okay, where is this This king of the Jews is going to be born. And they pointed to this very prophecy here, Micah 5, 2, and they quoted from this passage of scripture. And do you know why Matthew is very careful to list this, and why Luke is also very careful to point this out? Because there were many going around during the time of Jesus saying he cannot be the Messiah because he's from Nazareth. Can any good thing come out of Nazareth? We know this man that says in John 7. 27. We know whence he is. We know where he is. He couldn't be the Messiah. The Messiah is supposed to be born in Bethlehem. It says in John 7. Verse uh forty one. This is the cr some some said this is the Christ, but some said, Is the Christ to come from Galilee? Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offering of David, comes from Bethlehem, the village where David is? How can he be the Messiah? He's from Nazareth. How can any good thing come out of Nazareth? And then Matthew, along with Luke, is very careful to clear up this misunderstanding by saying, hey, wait a minute. He was born in Bethlehem. And then the next question that would come to mind is, well, if they lived in Nazareth, if Joseph was a was a carpenter in Nazareth, why would his son be born eighty miles south? in Judea, what would cause Joseph to take his wife, who is pregnant with child, on a long journey? If you've ever been to Israel the Holy Land, you know it's a it's a land of hills. a difficult terrain to travel and you know it wasn't easy for this young couple to make that journey. What would cause Joseph to take his wife, put her on the back of an animal, and make that long journey 80 miles, right when she's ready to bear a child. Well, we don't have to wonder because Luke makes it very clear. What does it tell us that Caesar Augustus, who called himself God He was the first Caesar to actually say that he was a God and he wanted everyone to worship of his God. He felt like he was in control of the world. He was in control of everything. Caesar Augustus, Augustus meaning the great one And the Great One decided that he was going to tax the world. That meant that everyone had to return to their ancestral home. And there had to be a deadline on that, right? We know what the tax deadline is. The the Romans knew what the tax deadline was. They knew that they had a by a certain time to to go back to take part of this census, which was for the purpose of taxes and perhaps military, raising a military, knowing the number of men that you had. And so they had to leave at a certain time to go back to their ancestral home. And the reason they did that was because Caesar Augustus made this decree, Luke tells us. That all the world should be taxed. Caesar Augustus thought he was in control. What he didn't realize is that the sovereign God was the one who was in control. Because had not Caesar made that decree at that time Jesus would have been born in Nazareth, which would have been a violation of Old Testament prophecy, which meant he could not be the Savior But God the Father is in control. He's in control of every little detail. The heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. As the rivers of water, he turns it whatever way he wants to. And Caesar Augustus made the decree which made Mary and Joseph make that long journey from Nazareth down to Bethlehem in Judea. Because the Bible made a very specific prophecy about where the Messiah was to be born. And by the way, if you go to Bethlehem today, you can go to the place called the Church of the Nativity. We were in our trip to Israel. We did go by that church. And you've probably heard me talk about this before. I'm not really impressed with that church, to be honest with you. This is a church that was built over a cave that was supposedly the site of where the Messiah was born. But I think that the Bible gives an even more specific prophecy about this and again in Micah. Before there was Micah chapter 5, there was Micah chapter 4, verse 8, but thou, O tower of the flock The stronghold of the daughter of Zion unto thee shall it come, even the first dominion thy, the kingdom shall come to the daughter of Jerusalem Micah also mentions the tower of the flock, Magdal Eder, that is right there in that region of Bethlehem. That was the place where lambs were birthed. The sheep that were in the field around there, they would birth lambs. The specific purpose for that was so that they would be sacrificial lambs for the temple in Jerusalem just a few miles away. And Alfred Eldersheim, the great Jewish scholar, makes it very clear that that section of Bethlehem was sacred ground. It was dedicated for that very purpose. And I believe, beloved, by the way our tour guide was not very impressed with my interpretation of all of this. They still pointed to the cave. That was there where you have to stand in a long line for two hours and go down some winding staircase and go down to a little cave that's filled with incense where you look where the Messiah was born over there in this cave. You know, but I think that it was Micah was very precise at the Tower of the Flock, there was a tower there that they would bring You sheep to give birth they would wrap those little birthing lambs in swaddling clothes after birth And you remember in the story in Luke, the only really two facts that we get about this whole birth narrative are just two. One is that there was no room in the inn. And we assume that there was an innkeeper because there was an inn. If there was an inn, we say there has to be an innkeeper, right? But the word for inn there is uh cataluma, which really means a guest house. Luke used this very word when he talked about Jesus when he had his last supper with the disciples, they met in a what? An upper a cataluma is the same exact word. Because every house had a guest room and they borrowed a guest room to have the last supper. If Luke wanted to talk about a little motel, you know, we took we think about it in, we think about a little motel six in our mind, you know when we if he wanted to talk about it in he could have used the word Pandokion, which is the word for a motel And by the way, he did use that word in the story of the Good Samaritan, the man who fell among thieves, and the Good Samaritan came along and he took them to an inn, a Pandokion, where there was a Pandokios, an innkeeper. Who took care of them. But Luke doesn't use that word. So we have in our mind, you know, they they they they went to the to the inn, the innkeeper said, I'm sorry we're full and And so they turned Mary and Joseph away. That's the thing that we think about in the Christmas story. I heard about one little boy who was in a play and he was a f part of the innkeeper. And Mary and Joseph come, that dramatic scene in the play where, you know, he has to turn them away, and Mary and Joseph were two little dramatic actors in this play, and they looked so sad and they turned away and a tear came out of Mary's eye And the boy who played the innkeeper totally ruined the play by saying, All right, come on, I've got room after all Totally messed up the whole story. Where do you go from there? You know. But the truth of the matter is, uh I don't think there ever really was an innkeeper because there wasn't an end the way we think about it. Um because I think Bethlehem was such a small little place that would they even have a motel there? The guest room of the house was full. And so they they took Mary and Joseph and then said, well, he was born in a manger, so we naturally think that, you know, it was he was born in some stable somewhere. But we're talking about cleanliness, and the Jews had a very high standard for cleanliness. But there at the tower of the flock, it was a place that was kept ritually clean. And the only facts that the shepherds knew when Christ was born, the only thing that the angels said is said, Look, this will be a sign unto you. A sign is something that you don't normally see. He said, the sign is you'll find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes laying in a manger. The angels didn't give him an address, didn't tell him where house to go to. All the angels said is, look. If you want to see this child, this child is wrapped in swaddling clothes and it's in a manger. And those shepherds already knew in their mind where that took place. And they went to that place. And so I think it was the very specific spot where all of these things were prophesied in the Old Testament. All the specifics were spelled out there in the Old Testament. Again, I read I would challenge you to read Alfred Eldersheim And Cooper Abrams, both Jewish scholars that give a case for what they call Big Dol Eater, the Tower of the Flock, which I persuaded that the that Christ was born there. But the the whole point I want you to see Is that God the Father was absolutely sovereign over all of the events that took place when Christ came into this world? It all happened precisely at the right time, at the right place, the one that would change our world. The Messiah, Jesus Christ, came into the world, the sovereign fullness of his coming. But I want you to see a second thought here in this verse. What I want to call the sinless form of his coming. Look again in verse number four. But when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. Now, Paul calls attention to three special characteristics here about the Lord Jesus. First of all, there's what I want to call his pre-existence. God sent forth his son. To me, this emphasizes his deity. Notice that the Son already existed. It does not say that God created a Son or made a Son, but that He sent forth His Son. Jesus did not begin to exist in the womb of Mary. Jesus existed in eternity with the Father. His existence was not in maternity, but in eternity. When Jesus was born, he was older than his mother and as old as his father, God the Father. The Bible says in Isaiah 9, 6, for unto us a child is born, that's his humanity, for unto us a son is given. That's his deity. And when Paul says in verse number four, he sent forth the Greek word here, carries with it the idea of sending forth an authoritative Representative with a specific task. God the Father sent his son into the world with a very specific task to do God the Father agreed to send his Son into the world, Hebrews 10, 5. Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body have you prepared for me. God the Father prepared a body for his son. When Mary gave birth to Jesus, she was a virgin. The Bible says the Holy Spirit came upon her. What was in her was made from God the Father a mirror a miracle. The virgin birth is a miracle. It's the greatest miracle in all humanity. That she would bring forth a son. God the Father prepared a body Jesus agreed to come into the world to live under the law and become obedient unto death. Notice what it says here in verse number four. Made of a woman It was the virgin birth of Christ and made under the law. That is, the Son agreed to come in to live and be obedient. Now the Holy Spirit empowered Jesus to carry out his mission. You remember at the baptism of Christ, the Holy Spirit descended upon him like a dove and empowered Christ to fulfill his mission. But we see his pre-existence. We see his person here again, born of a woman. This emphasizes his humanity. But it also calls attention to the virgin birth, and again we're reminded of Genesis 3. 15 that God promised the seed of a woman would ultimately destroy the servant, or excuse me, the serpent It was the virgin birth that made possible the uniting together of the full deity and the full humanity in one person. When we talk about Jesus Christ, we're talking about the miracle of the incarnation. There's a reason we call it a miracle. Because nothing like this has ever been seen or ever will be seen again, where here is a man who is truly God and yet truly man. And those two natures dwell concurrently in one person, we can make a distinction between those two natures, but those two natures are not separated. Because if you try to separate those two natures, what you do is you fall into heresy. And again, this is a mystery. Paul said, Great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. This is a mystery in theology that we can't quite wrap our mind around. Throughout the history of the church, there have been men who have tried to rationalize or deny the mystery of the virgin birth, of the incarnation. And by doing so they they they drift off into heresy. For example, there was a bishop from Laodicea Apollinarius who taught that Christ had a human body, but not a human mind or spirit, that his mind and spirit were divine and his body was human. And that that's heresy. Then there's Nestorianism. Nestorius was a popular preacher at Antioch, and he taught that there were two separate persons in Christ. There was a human Person and a divine person, these were two separate persons. Figure that one out. There weren't two different people It was one person. And then there's m what is called the monophysite heresy, which is his human nature was lost in his divine nature. His humanity was totally swallowed up in his divine nature. This is just examples in church history where people have gotten it wrong. I'm going to tell you something, I've told my theology students many times, theology is not a problem-solving venture, it's a mystery-discerning venture. There's just mysteries that we're not going to be able to fully comprehend, and reason is our our faith is reason at rest in God I believe what the Bible says that he was truly God and truly man, and those two natures were united together in one person. We can make a distinction again between those natures, but we dare not separate them. It was finally theologians that got together in the early church and came up with the with uh the phrase the hypostatic union. Which meant that the human nature and the divine nature were united together. Neither one was lost. Neither a nature caused the other nature to be less than what it was. And that, again, this is a mystery. In his human nature, Jesus was weak and tired in his divine nature. He never slumbered nor slept. He was an omnipotent. In his human nature, he grew in wisdom and knowledge. In his divine nature, he already knew everything. I mean, this is what we call the mystery of the incarnation. While he was a babe in the manger, he was upholding all things by the word of his power. In his human nature, he died, but in his divine nature, he did not die. In his human nature, he was tempted in all points like we are, yet without sin, yet in his divine nature he could not be tempted with sin, and he could not sin. And so all of this is something that's important for us to understand. It's important because Jesus was born of a virgin, therefore the sin nature was not passed on to him, and so therefore he was completely sinless. And did not sin, and the Bible says that he lived under the law. You understand that you are saved by the life of Christ as well as his death. And again, this is where theologians make a distinction between the active obedience of Christ and the passive obedience. In the active obedience of Christ, Jesus fulfilled all of the law for the For us, for me. He fulfilled every part of the law. He was absolutely without sin. And he did that on our behalf. You know, we say that we're not saved by works, but actually you are saved by works. You're just not saved by your works. You're saved by the works of Christ. In his act of obedience, he obeyed all the law on our behalf. In his passive obedience, he submitted himself unto death. Even the death of the cross. And this is what we mean when we talk about the next point. We see the sinless form of his coming. But then there's the special focus of his coming again in verse number four. But when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, verse five, to redeem them that were under the law. That we might receive the adoption of sons. This is what I call the special focus of his coming. And here is the climax of the incarnation. The main purpose and reason for his coming is to die that we might live. To redeem us from the curse of the law. You don't understand that you're under a curse If you don't know Christ, all those that don't know Jesus. I remember one time I was witnessing to a man and uh He had this this kind of this pessimistic attitude and I started to share with him the gospel and he said, Preacher, I'm cursed. I'm cursed, I'm cursed, I'm just cursed. God's cursed me. And I I think he meant, you know, God had put some X on him or something like that, you know I'm cursed, I'm cursed. He couldn't get past that. And I tried to get past that to share the gospel, but he kept saying over and over again, I'm cursed, I'm cursed. And finally I looked at him and I said, You're right, you are cursed. You're absolutely cursed. When I said that, he stopped, he got silent, his eyes got big as saucers. He said, you agree with me? You think I'm cursed? I said, you are absolutely cursed. He said, why would you say that? And then I read to him Galatians chapter 3. Verse thirteen. Go there, look at that verse here. It says, For Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us, for it is written, Curse is everyone that hangeth on a tree. You know that we're all under a curse. I explained it to him. You are under a curse. You know why you're under a curse? Because you haven't been able to obey the law of God. We've all sinned against God. We've all fallen short. Therefore, the curse of the law is on all of us. But when Christ came, he was made of a woman, made under the law, obeyed all the law perfectly, and on the cross, he took the curse of the law upon himself. Because the Bible says cursed is the one that hangs on a tree. And the Jews believed that anyone who hung on a tree in the Old Testament was suffering the curse of God. That's why Paul draws attention to that very fact there You look at many times in the Old Testament stories where kings were conquered, they would be hung on a tree and that bear witness of the curse. The Jews couldn't understand how the Messiah who would come would be cursed by God and would be hung on a tree. And Paul reminds him, I'll tell you why, because he was bearing the curse of the law for you. That's why he did that. That's why he hung on a tree. The real tree of Christmas is not the evergreen tree that we decorate. The real tree of Christmas is the old rugged cross. And the gift was not under the tree, it was on the tree. And it wasn't wrapped, it was stripped. And humiliation, he bore the curse of sin for all of us. To what? To redeem us from the curse Of the law, the Bible says, again in verse number five, that we might have the adoption of sons. To redeem them that were under the curse of the law, that we might have the adoption of sons. And Paul points out two things here You've been redeemed because of what Christ did on the cross. There are several words used for redeemed. This one here actually means to buy out of the slave market. That's the whole sense of the word there. You say, were we slaves? We were absolutely slaves of sin. We were cursed by the law. Therefore we were slaves. And Christ redeemed us out of that slavery. And we're no longer slaves. Here's the imagery that Paul's giving. You're no longer a slave under the law because Christ became a curse, redeemed you from the curse of the law. And what did he do? He took you from being a slave under the curse of the law to adoption. He adopted you into his family, and now you are a child of God. You went from being a slave to a son. That's the whole point that Paul's making here. That we might receive the adoption of sons. And remember when Paul writes this, he's writing to the Galatians. He had explained the gospel to them. They understood it. However, false teachers later came in and said, Oh, you need the Old Testament law, you need Moses, you have to add Moses to Jesus. And they were going back into the bondage of the law. And Paul said, Why would you want to do that? Why would you want to do that? You're sons. Why would you want to go back into slavery under the law if you are sons? That's why he says here in the previous verses that we read, it says in verse 1, now I say that the heir, as long as he is a child, different nothing from a slave or a serv or a servant where we could say a slave, though he be Lord of all, he's under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the Father. Even so we, when we were children, were in the bondage under the elements of the world. Paul is saying, look, when you before Christ, you were under the law, you were like a child that was a slave, you had no inheritance, you were slaves to the law, that's what you were like But when Christ came and he redeemed you from the curse of the law, he made your children. Why would you want to go back into that? Why would you want to do that? That would be like when he talks about the elements of the world, he's talking about the ABCs, you know. That would be like a person who earned a PhD going back to kindergarten. Why would you want to do that? When you got saved, you went to graduate school and the gospel. You don't need to go back to those things because you've been redeemed by Christ. You have been adopted into the family. You're now his child, so much so. You ready for this? Here's the best part of it, verse number six, and because your sons, God has given sent forth his spirit, the spirit of his son, Into your hearts crying, Abba, Father. What's the evidence that you really are? truly redeemed from the curse of the law, adopted into the family of God. What's the evidence of that? Because there's something inside of you. That causes you to cry out to God in in an intimate way and you say, Ah the Father. Has that ever happened to you? You ever just run to God, the Father? An intimate prayer, running to him like a child running to their father, and just cry out, Abba Father. There's something that wells up in us. That's not of us. And if you've never had that, if you've never had something drive you to prayer or drive you to cry out to God. And you need to examine whether you really have been redeemed from the curse of the law. You may still be a slave and not yet adopted as a son, because if you are a son, that spirit of adoption has been planted inside you. And this is the most natural thing for a child of God to do is to cry out, Abba Father, Abba Father. And that's what Christmas is all about. That's why Christ came. So that we can be redeemed from this curse. So that we can have true salvation, true forgiveness. That we can have the inheritance. Now all that is his is mine. And we are now rich. Talk about a gift. I heard about a man that was sitting on the street corner crying and a man came along and said, Why are you crying? He said, Haven't you heard? Rockefeller died. And the man said, Well you're not one of his relatives. He said, That's why I'm crying. He wasn't going to inherit anything from that whole ordeal. But I want to tell you something. When we get saved and we are adopted into the family, we inherit all the riches. and the blessings that God has for us in Christ. That's the greatest gift that you could ever, ever receive. Let's bow for prayer together. And so I would ask you, friend, my heart's desire before God The greatest desire in my heart is that everyone who comes to sit in this church to hear the Word of God. Would have an absolute certainty that they know Christ. Not a false assurance or a false sense, but to have an absolute certainty That you know Christ. That's what I pray for. That's what I plead with God for. That God would open your eyes to see the beauty of Christ. That you would truly be redeemed, adopted into his family as his child, that you would know all the blessings of being in Christ. And I would ask you to examine your heart. Is that true of you? Do you know that of you? Please, friend, get that settled. Please, please, please. You can't really have Christmas without knowing Christ. You can't really have Christmas without knowing that you have been redeemed from the curse of the law. That's why in the fullness of time God sent forth his son. To obey the law for us, to die for our sins. And if there's any doubt with you right now before God, I don't want to embarrass you, I don't want to point you out, but I do want you to do business with God. Run to him, run to him, cry out to him. Say, God save me, redeem me, make me your child. Father, thank you again for this precious salvation, for the coming of our Savior May we worship this Christmas with a greater passion and a greater sense of all than we ever have. May we our hearts be filled with greater gratitude and praise for the amazing grace. That you have given us in knowing our Savior Jesus Christ. And it's in his name that we pray. Amen