Now somebody told me there's a big game one tonight, I'm not sure about that. Is that true? Did you know when uh when uh King James, the ones that we ha got our Bible after, who ac actually authorized a new version of the Bible. This same King James, who was King of England and ascended to the throne, who was a Protestant from Scotland and united Scotland and England together. when he came to the throne. Actually the Puritans and the Protestants thought that they had a friend in King James, but they were disappointed on several several levels He did authorize the Bible that we use, the King James, but also in 1618 he wrote a book called The Book of Sports. And in that book, he said that Sunday ought to be a day for sports and athletics. He said, my subject should uh you know get out and have fun, have athletics on Sunday. Now the Puritans had a problem with that. Because they were trying to teach the church that Sunday should be the Lord's Sabbath, that they should treat Sunday the way the Sabbath was treated in the Old Testament. And so there was a war that started right there, and we're still seeing that war today, aren't we? Uh, you know, when when football began to be broadcast on Sunday, this is way back, uh a lot of people said, uh, you know, the NFL's not going to survive because, you know, people aren't going to watch football on Sunday, they're going to be in church. Well, we lost that culture war. So I'm glad to see you here tonight. And by the way, the reason I don't change times for games like that is because I'm still mad at King James for writing that book to begin with. And I'm not gonna I I love football, but I'm not bowing to the God of football at all. I love Jesus more. So anyway, let me stop preaching on that. But actually there are two teams tonight that are going to be competing for a trophy. They named the trophy the Vince Lombardi trophy. You know why they name it that because it was named after who they believe is the greatest coach in the NFL. Uh and I was reading that um during a speech one time, uh he gave what he called three ingredients for a winning team. And this is what he said. He said if you want to have a winning team, a great team Number one, the first ingredients is what he called fundamentals. You have to learn the game. You have to know the fundamentals of the game. Then he said number two is if you want to have a winning team, a great team, there has to be unity Unity. They have to play together. They have to work together in teamwork. And he said, here's number three. And he said, this is the difference between a good team and a great team He said a great team has this ingredient and he said you want to guess what it is? He called it it's very simple, love. Many people were startled when he said that. Fundamentals, unity, and if you want to have a great team, they have to love each other. There has to be love. Now, when I read that, I thought, you know, there's nothing new about that at all. In fact, all he's doing is he's repeating the words that Jesus already said. Because isn't that what Jesus told the church? This is exactly what he told his disciples. He said, first of all, he talked about the fundamentals. You have to know my doctrine. Know what I'm teaching you. That's why we come to God's house. We come to learn God's word. We want to know the fundamentals of faith. So we have to know the fundamentals. Number two, uh uh a unity, Jesus prayed that we would all be one. And you know he's still praying that. He's praying for unity in his church. And then number three, Jesus said to his disciples He said that you uh that the world will know that you are Christians by your love. And I want you to love one another. And so those are the ingredients really for the church And so I want to talk tonight about building a winning team, but I'm not talking about any athletic team. I'm talking about a winning team that is together committed to sharing the gospel through this world just like the song that we heard tonight. There are people that need salvation. They need help. And we need to reach out to them. And so look in Philippians, did I give you a passage yet? Go to Philippians chapter 1. Be finding Philippians chapter 1. And I want you to look down at verse number 27. And notice what it says there, only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs that you stand fast in one spirit with one mind, striving together. for the faith of the gospel. And that notice the word striving together. We're to work together like a team. And what are we to do for the faith of the gospel. But look in verse 27 again. Only let your conversation be as becometh the gospel. Now, conversation is not referring to your talk, but rather to your walk, how you live your life. And the word becometh is really a word that means worthy of or an equal weight too. So kind of picture in your mind a giant scale. There's a crossbar with cups on each side. On one side is the gospel, on the other side is your life. And the idea here is this does your life uh uh balance out The gospel. Do you measure up? We could say it like that. If God weighed your life in the balance, would he find a life that is worthy of the gospel message? that we proclaim and that gospel message that has saved us. Many, perhaps. Weight in the balance would be found wanting. Mahatma Gandhi said this one time. He said, I would be a Christian if it were not for Christians. That's an indictment against Christians. I would be a Christian if it were not for Christian. What he's saying is, I uh uh have heard the message of the gospel, and I think he was persuaded by that message. That's why he considered becoming a Christian, but then he began to look at the lives of believers. And he saw that they were weighed in the balance and found wanting. And so he said, I would be a Christian if it were not for Christian. Christians. And so the first gospel that a lot of time that a lot of people will ever see is the gospel in your life. And in my life. Someone wrote this, you're writing a gospel, a chapter each day, by the deeds that you do, by the words that you say. Men read what you write, whether faithful or true. Just what is the gospel according to you? When people see your life, what gospel do they see? Do you know that 80% of people come to church because they know someone in that church? And so when people see your life, do they see a life that measures up to the gospel that's being proclaimed? Now, with all that in mind, I want you to see. Just really what I call three ingredients. We could say this of a life that's worthy of the gospel, or we could also say three ingredients that builds a winning team where we're striving together for the faith of the gospel. And here's the first thing. Number one, consistency in conduct. Look again at verse 27. Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. that whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit. Now look at the word again, conversation. This is the Greek verb polis. It comes from the noun form of the word. And the actual Greek noun means city, or we could say citizenship. In fact, we hear this word in some of the cities that we have named here in the U. S. For example, here in Maryland we have Annapolis. That's the city of Anna, right? And then in Minnesota, there is Minneapolis. And in Indiana, there is Indianapolis and so on. And so this is from the Greek word, again, which means city or citizenship, but this is a verb here. And it's an imperative verb where we could say command. And it's really in the passive or middle voice, so we can literally translate it like this: let your citizenship be known. Let people see your citizenship. That's the idea here. And really the idea is living in a way where people when they see you, they know immediately where you're from. What city you're from, you see. Now we can understand that, especially uh, you know, we know who's in the Super Bowl, we know who's not in the Super Bowl. The Ravens are not there, right? I don't see anybody wearing a Ravens jersey tonight You know, normally, however, during the season people were most proudly would wear their colors. They would wear their jersey wide and let everybody know that uh where they were from. I remember when we uh traveled to England overnight on a plane, I wore my purple Raven sweatsuit. And people were saying, Yeah, go ravens, go ravens. They saw me, they knew they knew immediately my citizenship. They knew where I was from. There's a sense in which what Paul's saying here is that when people see your life, let them know immediately your citizenship. Now we're not talking about an earthly citizenship here, however And we're not necessarily talking about what you wear. We're talking about how you live your life. And by the way, this word would have a deep impact with the Philippians. They understood exactly what Paul meant. You know why? Because the city of Philippi, it was 800 miles away from Rome, and yet it was a Roman colony. It was uh all the people that were in that city were citizens of Rome, even though it was 800 miles away because it was a colony. So therefore the people of Philippi were citizens of Rome living in a foreign land. Now, if you were living back in Paul's day and you walked into the city of Philippi, it would immediately be evident to you that this city was different Why? Because of what the people wore. They would be wearing the Rome the white Roman toga that Roman citizens would wear. They would have perhaps uh the the architecture would all show uh Roman architecture and so on. It would be like a little Rome away from Rome. Literally if you walked in. One time I was in Israel, I went to the city, maybe some of you have gone there, to the city of Bethsheon, which is basically a Roman city uh in the middle of Israel. And if you walk into the ruins of that city, it's like you're walking into the ruins of Rome. You can look at the the the uh Corinthian pillars and the bathhouse and the amphitheater and all of it looked like you were walking into Rome. And again, if you were living back in that day, you would see that the way the people dressed, they dressed like Romans. They talked like Romans. They lived according to Roman law. Everything would look Roman. And that's the way it was with this city of Philippi. When Paul went into the city of Philippi to share the gospel, he was going into a little Roman colony, and he understood immediately that the people there were very proud of their citizenship. They were proud to be citizens of Rome. And we don't have time to look at it, but you could look in Acts. In fact, why don't we just go ahead and take the time? Look in Acts chapter 16. And uh look in Acts chapter 16, look down at verse number 12. When Paul walked into the city at Philippi, look at verse 12, and from thence to Philippi, Acts 16, 12, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia. and a colony where we were in that city abiding certain days. In other words, it's a colony of Rome But drop down to chapter 16. Look at verse number 20. This was after Paul and Silas were teaching. and uh preaching. And it says, and they brought them to the magistrates saying, These men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city. And teach customs which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe, being what? Being Romans. We're Romans. And they're teaching things that are not according to our custom. They're teaching things that are not according to our laws. We being Romans. And so they were very proud of their Roman citizenship. Now, you know what Paul's saying here in this letter and Philippi now that he Philippians that he's writing? You know what he's saying to them? You're proud of your earthly citizenship. But you should really live in a way that shows your real citizenship. I want to tell you something, friend. I'm I'm glad uh to be a part of uh this earth and to be a citizen where I am. But I want to tell you the thing I'm most proud of, and I'm not proud in myself, but proud by the grace of God, is that I'm a citizen of heaven And that's what you are as well. And you know what? When people look at you and they look at me, you know what they should see automatically? There's something different about this person. They might live here in Baltimore, but they have a different citizenship. Their citizenship is not local, they are different. And that is, we should live in a way where people know that we're citizens of heaven. Look in Philippians chapter 3, look at verse number 20. Paul will use the same word there again. Look at verse 20 for our conversation again that's the word citizenship polis for our citizenship is in what heaven Our citizenship is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what we are? We're a colony of heaven here on earth We're not citizens of earth trying to make it to heaven. We're citizens of heaven living here on earth. Our home is in heaven. Our citizenship is there. And yet here we are on earth, and you know what the church is? The church is a colony of citizens of heaven. And when people see us, they should see that in our life. They should see that we're not like the rest of the of the world. Um we're we're different. We live differently. We walk differently We talk differently. You know what makes evident a person's citizenship the way they talk? You ever notice that? The way a person talks. You can tell where they're from Just by the way they talk. Isn't that true? Heard about two men that were going to South Southern California and they were visiting a friend there And they were kind of lost. They were looking for the the place and they pulled over to the gas station and guy said to the gas station attendant, Excuse me, sir, can you tell me how I can get to El Khajan? And the gas station attendant said, sir, it's not El Cajon, it's El Cajone. He said, because of the Spanish influence, you pronounce the J's with the H sound He said, how often do you guys come out here to California? He said, Oh, we come every hoon or hulai. We we lived in Louisiana for a while and and uh you know nothing pr is pronounced in Louisiana the way it's spelled. If you've ever been there, nothing is pronounced the way it's spelled. I remember one you know I heard a story of one guy, he was visiting Louisiana, he was going all over the place, trying to pronounce it, and he could never get it right. Finally he was exasperated, went into a restaurant Said, excuse me, can you tell me and speak very slowly? Tell me where I am. And the person said, Yes, I'd be glad to. You are in Burger King. Anyway, you can tell a person's citizenship by the way they talk. You know what? When people hear us talk, they should know that we're citizens of heaven. They should hear us speaking in a way that glorifies the Lord. I was reading about the life of John Bunyan. You know how John Bunyan got saved? John Bunyan, the one who wrote Pilgrim's Progress, he got saved After overhearing a conversation between two women, he was just listening, listening in, and they were talking, and they were Christians. And as they were talking, they were talking about the Lord, and they had such joy, and they began talking about the gospel and how wonderful it is to be saved. And John Bunyan thought, man, I want that. I wish I could have that And that led to the conversion of the great preacher, John Bunyan, who later wrote Pilgrim's Progress. Now, friend, when people hear you talk, do they know that you're a Christian? Did they know that you're a citizen of heaven? Our talk is will reveal our citizenship, but our taste Uh the things that are our appetites. You know, I I go to some foreign countries. My problem is I just don't have the taste for some of those things that they serve over there. And you know, our taste sometimes will determine our citizenship. Listen to what Peter said. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts. which war against the soul. That is, once you become a citizen of heaven and you're a pilgrim on this earth, that means you no longer have an appetite for the things of this world. That's not what satisfies you. That's not what you look for or long for because you have a different taste. But also our treasure, not only our talk. But our taste, but also our treasure. Jesus said, where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. A second century man describing the way Christians wrote, he wrote this. Listen to what he wrote. He says, While they dwell in Greek or barbarian cities, according as each man's lot has been cast, and follow customs of the land and clothing and food and other material matters in daily life Yet the condition of their citizenship, which they exhibit, is wonderful and admittedly strange. They live in countries of their own, but simply as sojourners, and during the lot of foreigners, yet they exist in the flesh, but they don't live after the flesh. They spend their existence upon the earth, but their citizenship is in heaven. They obey all the established laws. And in their own lives, they surpass those laws, and they love all men, and are persecuted of all, yet they still love all. Isn't that a great testimony? That was what a man wrote about these early Christians. And so it may be said of us that our life shows our citizenship. But not only our conduct, but our consistency. Look again at verse 27 where it says, only let your citizenship be as it becometh the gospel Look at the word only there. Um this might not look like much in the Greek, but or excuse me in the English, but in Greek it means no matter what happens, and it's placed at the beginning of the Greek sentence for emphasis And Paul's kind of referring back to what he already wrote in this letter. Remember the context. Remember the situation. Paul is in jail in Rome. He wrote this letter to the Philippians. They were concerned about him. He's under house arrest. He's waiting to appear before Caesar himself to defend the gospel. He's going to court. He's going to have to defend the gospel before the Supreme Court of Rome, before Caesar himself, and he knows that he could live, that Caesar could find the message to be harmless Or he could die. Caesar could render a judgment of death because he views Paul and the gospel as a threat. And Paul's thinking about it. He understands the situation. That's why he said in Philippians 1:21, if I live. For me to live is Christ. To die is gain. If I live, it's Christ. If I die, it's all the better. And Paul's saying to this church here, look, it doesn't really matter what happens to me. If God chooses to magnify himself through my death, I'm willing to give my life. If not, I'm going to live, I'm going to live for Christ. And so he says, no matter what happens to me, however, you live a life That is where people could see a life that is worthy of the gospel. No matter what happens to me, make sure that people know that you're citizens of heaven. That's the whole idea here. Um again in verse 27 where he says that whether I come and see you Or else be absent. That is, I could be released here from this prison and I could travel back to Philibi and see you, and that would be wonderful. Or If that doesn't happen, if I'm absent, and the idea is if I'm taken out of this world, or even if I can never be there. He says, I may hear of your affairs that you stand fast, that you just be faithful no matter what. You know what I'm finding more and more? It's hard to find people who are faithful. Just faithful. Just will stand fast no matter what the circumstances are. And they will just be faithful to the Lord. Faithful no matter what. Faithful despite the obstacles. Faithful despite the difficulties that they face in life. And so this is the first thing. Now let me give you the second thing quickly. First of all, he said there has to be consistency in conduct and really he gives us there a picture of being citizens. But now he's going to talk about more Use an athletic term here. I call this cooperation and contest. Look again at verse 27. He says that you stand fast in one spirit with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. So again, I think Paul here is kind of switching metaphors. He's switching pictures The first picture is that of citizens, and now he's going to use the language of an athlete. And really what he gives us here is a picture of an athletic contest. Look at the word striving together. Now that's two words here in English, but it's one word in Greek. And you know what the the word is? It's a combination of two words in Greek, soon, which means together, with or together And then the other word is athleto, and it's where we get the word athlete. And it just means we are agonizing together. Or we could even say we're competing together like athletes on a field. And so really the picture here is of athletes working together for a common goal. And what's the word that we would use today? It's just simple teamwork. You're on a team. Um, you know, we're thinking about football tonight, you know, eleven men on a team, on a field. They all have their various roles. They all know their job. They know what to do. And they're all working together for one goal. What is that goal? That goal is to win. That goal is victory. And that's the whole idea here. Notice Paul uses the word one several times. We're striving together in one spirit and one mind, he says there. striving together for the faith of the gospel. You know that's what the church is to be like. We're to be like a team. All of us have a different function, a different role, according to the way God has gifted us. But you know what? We're all working together for one thing. And what is it the faith of the gospel? You know what we want to see? We want to see people come to know Jesus Christ as their Savior, amen. And everything that we do. Is for that goal, to see the gospel expand, to see people come to know Jesus Christ. And there's even a goal that is that is superior to that one. We want everyone to come and know Jesus Christ. Why? Because it glorifies God. It's for the glory of God. That's the goal for us. That's winning for us when we glorify the Lord. So we're all, Paul says, we need to be striving together. Total unity, total love, all working together. During a little league baseball game, the coach had his little players together. He gathered them all together. And he said to the team, do you understand what cooperation is, what a team is? And one little boy nodded, yes. And he said, do you understand what matters is in winning together as a team? That's what matters is that you win as a team together. And the little boy nodded, yes. He said, So do you understand that when the umpire calls a strike or you're put out at first, you don't argue with the umpire and you don't curse at the umpire? And the little boy nodded and he said, Yes, I understand that. And the coach said, Good. Now go over there and explain that to your mother over there. We have to be together. And that and the reason Paul uses this word, uh, and w we've looked at this before in Philippians, is because there was a there was a division brewing in the church. They weren't all working together. You know, Satan's goal is divide and conquer. And so Paul, we can't see this in the English, but in the Greek, if you read this Not that you can, but I'll just tell you, you know, there's the one prefix s soon or or with or together that is used all over in this letter. And it's translated different ways in this English translation or in other English translations, but in the Greek it's used all over. And that is not an accident from Paul. Paul is emphasizing over and over again, in fact, 16 times in this book, Paul will use this prefix. Why? Because he's reminding them that you need to work together. You need to strive together. You need to be together. That's how you develop a winning team. There has to be togetherness. There has to be teamwork. You know what destroys a team is a glory hog. Someone who wants all the glory. And that's not the way it works. You know who gets all the glory? Jesus does. He gets all the glory And so we work together. We strive together. So number one, there's consistency in conduct Number two, there is cooperation and contests. We're kinda like athletes working together. But now here's the third thing He uses another metaphor, soldiers, courageous and conflict. Look down in verse 28. And in nothing terrified by your adversaries. Which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God. And so he moves from citizens to athletes and now to soldiers. And Paul says there has to be courage in conflict, or we could say competition. You know, one thing that cripples an army is fear. It kind of spreads. It's very contagious. And that will also cripple a church. And as you read through this book, you're going to find that another problem that was plaguing the church. was conflict from the outside. They were outside enemies. We don't know for sure who they were. We don't know who for sure was giving this church persecution from the outside. It could be the city magistrates that opposed Paul In Acts chapter 16, that we saw in those verses there. Maybe it was the Judaizers that were following Paul all around and attacking his ministry. We don't know. But one thing is they were experiencing persecution from the outside. And one thing is for sure, if you stand together for the faith of the gospel, beloved, you're going to get persecuted somehow, some way. to some degree. It's not always going to be easy for you. And so this is spiritual warfare. So don't be surprised if you are attacked. And one thing Paul says is don't be terrified, look again at verse 28, and nothing terrified by your adversaries. This is the word that means don't be intimidated, don't be frightened, don't be startled. Don't panic, keep your head. This might even be an allusion to a historical event that took place in the Philippi. Do you realize that there was a battle, a famous battle that was fought? uh by this city called the Battle of Philippi. We call it that now. That during the battle there was a man in the battle who was a leader of the troops. His name was Cassius. This is the man that helped in the murder of Caesar. You might remember that story He was fighting in the Battle of Philippi and he lost hope and he thought that he was going to be defeated. So out of sheer terror and fear on the battlefield, he committed suicide. He was terrified by his adversaries. And Paul says, look, don't ever be spooked by your enemies. Don't ever be intimidated. Don't ever retreat in defeat. Now he gives us some reasons for our courage. And here's the first one. Our boldness in battle is a sign that we're on the winning side. Look again in verse 28, the word evident token. And in nothing terrified by your adversaries, which to them is an evident token of perdition. Your boldness In the face of hostility, and I'm talking about as you stand for the gospel, you stand for the word of God, your boldness in the face of hostility, again, beloved, if you stand for the truth, that's going to happen from time to time. But your boldness, your refusal to be intimidated, that is a token, Paul says. What's it a token of? It's a token that the message that you're preaching is true, that you're on the winning side. And they're on the losing side. And actually, the Greek scholar Lightfoot says that when Paul is re referencing here this token, he's talking about an ancient custom. When two gladiators fought, it became evident who was going to win. One would begin to dominate the other. And uh when the stronger gladiator subdued the opponent, he would look to the crowd for a token. And if the crowd gave a thumbs up sign, that meant that you do not kill the guy. Don't finish him off. Let him live. Be merciful. And if they gave a thumbs down sign, that meant that, and this was a bloodthirsty crowd back in these days, that meant that you kill them. Finish him off. That was the token. And Paul is saying, look, look, your boldness in the standing for truth, the truth of the gospel, in the face of the opposition. From the world. You know what that is? That's a token to them in verse 28, a token of perdition. But to you, salvation and that of God. When he says perdition here, he's talking about eternal punishment, eternal. Destruction. You know what I have found today is that when you begin to talk to people about eternal punishment, people laugh at you now. Or when you share the gospel, the truth of the gospel, people laugh at the gospel. And if you stand for truth, people are going to come against you. But if you stay bold and you stand for truth, they know that the message is true. And that boldness is a token that there is a real hell to shun. And if you don't repent, you're going to go there. So the greatest thing we can do is be bold. Our boldness in battle is a sign that we're on the winning side. But here's the next thing. Our boldness in battle reveals that we're truly saved. In verse 29, for unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but But also to suffer. It's an assurance that God's given you the real thing. In other words, you know what? Fake believers run when persecution hits, they retreat. Many people come to Christ because they want the benefits of the gospel, but they don't want the uh to suffer any reproach for the gospel. And there's a lot of people that claim to be a Christian, and when they come to Christ, everything's going good, all roses, no thorns. But when persecution comes, there are some people that say, well, I didn't sign up for this And they they they retreat. They say, I don't want to fight. I don't want to stand. And so they leave. You know. You have to have a warfare mentality as a Christian. You know, the church is not a cruise ship. The church is a battleship. So somebody there are saying, well you confuse me, preacher, because this morning you were talking like the church is a cruise ship when you gave that illustration about the good ship grace. Well that's just an illustration. Just put that out of your mind. We actually were on a battleship. And we have to go to our battle stations. And because we are in a fight. And when you stand up in the face of persecution, that reveals that you have the real thing. Look where it says given in verse 29. For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe, But to suffer. The word given is charisomai, is where we get the word charismatic, and it's a gift that's graciously given. God graciously gives us What does he give us? He gives us two things here in this verse. Number one, he gives us the ability to believe. Look at it. For unto you it is given in behalf of Christ, not only to believe. That's one thing God gives you. Now friend, if you have faith tonight, if you're able to believe on Jesus and all who he is, you better thank God because God gave you that ability to believe. God gave you that faith to put in Christ. And that's why that's a sign that you're truly saved. But also the second thing, and this is also to suffer, it says For His sake, to suffer for His sake. And this would lead us to the third point here. Our boldness in battle demonstrates that we count it a privilege to suffer for His sake. This is the other gift that God graciously gives us. Not only does he give us the ability to believe, but he graciously gives us the privilege to suffer for Jesus' sake. Now, friend, if you ever, because you're standing for what's right, the truth, or you're standing for the faith of the gospel, if you ever have to pay a price for that and you have to suffer for that Do you understand that's a privilege? Do you understand you stand in a long line of people, of godly people that God counted worthy? To suffer for his sake. You remember when the Bible says about Peter and John, after they were beaten for the gospel, it says this, and they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy. to suffer for his sake. And then let me give you the last thing. Our boldness is a sign that we're on the winning side. Our boldness in battle reveals that we're truly saved. Our boldness in battle demonstrates that we count it a privilege to suffer. But then our boldness in battle shows our willingness to stand beside others who have been in conflict. Look at verse 30 how Paul closes this out Having the same conflict which he saw in me, and now here to be in me. And Paul's basically saying to the Philippi, you have enemies. Oh yeah, you have enemies. But guess what? Join the club. You saw that in me. You saw when I went to Philippi. You know what happened to Paul in Acts chapter 16? What happened? He went to Philippi, preached the gospel, everyone loved him, carried him on their shoulders, and said, He's the greatest thing ever, right? No, that's not what happened. What happened was when he went to Philippi preached the gospel. He was thrown in jail. He was beaten. The Bible says he was persecuted and he suffered much. And they saw that. Paul said, look, you saw this conflict in me. And now you hear about what I'm going through in Rome here in this prison. You hear about all the sufferings that I'm going through. And if that's happening to you, you know what? Join the club. Join the club. Don't be ashamed. Paul would say that to Timothy on certain occasions. Timothy, don't be ashamed of the sufferings. Don't be ashamed of me as prisoner. You stand boldly as well. You join the club. You join a long line of godly saints who have stood for the truth. And the head of that line, you know who's first in that line is our Lord Jesus Christ. He was persecuted, and behind him there are others, Paul, all the uh Apostles. John died of on the Isle of Patmos. It is said exiled. Peter was crucified upside down. Andrew died on the cross. James, the brother of Jesus, was thrown from the pinnacle of the temple. He was beaten with clubs. Bartholomew was slayed alive. Philip was hanged against a pillar. Thomas was run through with a lance. Paul was beheaded in Rome, and then you can go through the early church and see all the various persecutions that took place in Rome. And you know I I've been to England several times to visit my daughter, but I also go around and see some of the historical spots that have to do with Christian history. And you can still go to some of the places where Preachers were burned at the stake. Their places are marked there where preachers have been killed, have been martyred. I went to uh The church where Hugh Latimer preached and his pulpit that he preached from is still there. And there's a spot that you can go to and see in Oxford. There's a cross on the on the ground, which is the very spot where he was burned at the stake, and other Christians before us. And so if you're being persecuted for the faith, if you have this conflict, Paul says, look, this is the same thing you saw in me. Just join the club. But the main thing is this: does your life measure up to the gospel? Consistency in conduct, cooperation and contest, courage, And conflict. That's what you need to be in order to be a winner on God's team. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So Lord, I pray that your word will speak to us. It's very convicting to read through some of this, Lord. And to compare our own life, to lay our own life down next to this passage of Scripture. And see the areas where we need to improve. Lord, forgive us for the fears that sometimes we have displayed instead of boldness for the gospel message. Forgive us, Lord, for the times when we've been selfish about our own agenda, not caring more about the message of the gospel, working together. Forgive us, Lord, for the times when we have not revealed our true citizenship, that we're children of heaven. Lord, help us to reveal all of these things. Help us, Lord, to be what you've called us to be here. Citizens of the heavenly kingdom. Athletes competing together. For the gospel, soldiers in conflict with courage, standing for the truth. Lord, may that be our testimony. Help us, Lord, to be Exactly that. And we we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. With heads bowed and eyes closed. And let me just give a brief invitation here tonight, friend. Might be that you're here and you've never put your faith in Christ. I just want to invite you to reach out in faith and ask him to save you, to be a child of God. It's wonderful to be saved. Now I'm not going to tell you that once you become a Christian, everything's going to go great for you. That's not what it's all about. That's not what salvation is about. Salvation is not about God giving you a happy, fulfilled life Salvation is about you turning from your sin and turning to Christ. Because there's a holy God that judges sin. And He doesn't want to judge you. That's why he sent Christ to take your sins upon himself. And the very first thing you have to do is to get your heart right with God, to put your faith in Christ and have your sins forgiven. You might even have to pay a price for that, but let me tell you something, friend, it's worth it. To know that you're saved, to know that Christ lives in you, that your sins are forgiven And then you pick up your cross and you follow Him. It's not about you having a fulfilled life, it's about you glorifying God and thanking Him for salvation and living in a way that's worthy of the gospel. And if you haven't done that, I'm asking you right now, would you put your faith in Christ? Would you pray right where you are? Lord, I'm a sinner, save me, forgive me, make me your child. Pray that a minute, friend, he'll save you. Father, bless again your word to hearing hearts. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.