Now if you take your Bibles and open to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 10, verse number 45 this morning, the Gospel of Mark, chapter 10, verse 45. Recently I read a very interesting article and I would like to kind of read you an excerpt of that article. The title of the article is this, Is your church a cruise ship or an aircraft carrier? Let me just read you what it says. It says people who attend cruise ship churches, much like cruise ship passengers, often come to be entertained and catered to by the staff. Very little is expected of these church attendees. In fact, they tend to rate the quality of their experience based on the music, the sermon the way it made them feel, much like cruise ship passengers rate their satisfaction with various aspects of their trip. Cruise ship churches tend to be internally focused on the needs of their regular attendee members. The main goal in these churches, as on a cruise ship, is to keep the customer happy and the complaints to a minimum. Leaders in a cruise ship church focus on their the existing members rather than pursuing those that are far from God. Or encouraging others to do so. Very little of the church's calendar, training, or communication is spent on activities to reach the lost or help those in need outside the church. There are, however, churches that are more like aircraft carriers. These churches are designed to empower all members to find their God-given purpose in life. To equip them, to send them out on mission into the world, to reach and serve those who don't know about Jesus Much like the crew of an aircraft carrier is all about launching military planes and equipping them well to carry out successful missions, so is an aircraft carrier church. Did you know An aircraft carrier is the same size as cruise ships housing thousands of people, but what distinguishes an aircraft carrier ship isn't its size, it's the efficiency of the flight deck. And then it goes on to just talk about equipping God's people. And then it ends like this. An aircraft carrier church has a clear mission That stems from the Great Commandment and the Great Commission. Everyone in the church knows why their church exists and plays a role in the mission. I thought that was an interesting read, that article there. And it forces us to ask this question ourselves. Are we the Grace Carnival Cruise ship? Or are we the USS Grace? Are we an aircraft carrier or are we a cruise ship? And really that question is really more personal. We need to ask it like this. Am I serving the Lord? Am I using the gifts that God has given me? Am I being equipped to employ those gifts and to serve the Lord? Am I active serving in the church? What the church needs are people who were will serve. So are you just living for pleasure? Or are you focused on God's given purpose for your life and serving the Lord in that manner? Now the reason I bring this up is because I'm beginning a new series here on Sunday morning through the Gospel of Mark That I'm going to call Behold My Servant. The whole series title is Behold My Servant because Mark presents Jesus as the servant, the servant of God. And the key verse for Mark, I would say, is in chapter 10, verse 45. Look at that verse with me. It says this, for even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. The word minister there Dicon Diconeo is where we get the word deacon. You can hear the word deacon in that Greek word, can't you? Diconeo, and the word means to serve So Jesus said it like this. I didn't come to be served. I didn't come to this earth to be served. I came to this earth to serve And to give my life a ransom for many. And if we would be like our Savior, we would have to say the same thing. I'm not here to be served, I'm here to serve. I'm here to serve my master. So by studying the life of Jesus in the Gospel of Mark, I hope that we can follow in his footsteps and be excellent servants of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I want to kind of introduce the book of the Gospel of Mark to you today and give some application principles I hope that will be a blessing to us. And I want to just talk about the man who was Mark and then the message. What was the message of the Gospel of Mark and the meaning? I kind of use this same kind of general introduction on our Wednesday night sermon when I introduced the book of Habakkuk I want to kind of use the same way uh introduction here. And so first of all, I want to talk about the man. Who was Mark? Let's think about who was Mark. Now think about his name Because the writer of the Gospel of Mark, his name was really his official name is John Mark. You might r hear that name or read of that name in the New Testament. John was his Hebrew name Which I guess it's appropriate that we talk about John on the day when a John was dedicated to the Lord, right? The name John means grace of God And the word Mark is from the Roman name Marcus, which means the hammer. The hammer. We could call John the holy hammer, I guess. This is what his name means. Now the reason he calls himself Mark, I think there are two reasons, because there were so many Johns in the New Testament. Uh it would be easy to confuse him with one of the other Johns But also I think he uses his middle name, Marcus or Mark, because the letter that he is writing, this gospel of sixteen chapters, he's writing to the Romans And so it's appropriate then that he would use his Roman name. And by looking in the book of Acts, we can piece together Some of the life story of John. Did you know that his mother's name was Mary? Here's another Mary in the Bible And she was a godly Christian woman. She was a wealthy Christian. According to Acts 12, verse 12, she owned one of the largest homes in Jerusalem. And this became the base for the apostles after Pentecost. They were always going back to this house, this one house, John Mark's house, the house he grew up in, his mother's house, which is a very big house. And so he grew up in a rich home. He was accustomed to the good life, creaturely comforts. Night after night, however, he would gather together in that house and he would hear the store the story of apostles of what was going on, of how the church was beginning to expand in the regions beyond. And I think that he wanted to be a part of that. He was eager. He was ready to spread that gospel. That's why I call John Mark first or Mark rather the ready disciple. He's Mark the Ready Disciple because he's ready to go out And Watts' mentor was Peter himself. John was led to faith by the Apostle Peter, and he grew very close to Peter. In fact, we could call Peter the mentor of John. In fact, in 1 Peter 513, Peter calls John his spiritual son. And so John Mark learned much at the feet of Peter, hearing his sermons, hearing stories about the Lord Jesus Christ. One of the earliest statements, extra-biblical statements about Mark, was written by the early church father Papias who wrote uh who was a bishop of Heropolis in about 140 AD. He said this, Mark became Peter's interpreter and wrote accurately all he remembered That is the idea that when John wrote down this gospel, he was dependent upon Peter and Peter's historical accounts of everything that took place in the life of Jesus. Now, Mark being a young man, he saw some of those things, but he wasn't always with the Lord Jesus. He wasn't one of the twelve disciples or twelve original apostles. But he studied under Peter, and he learned a lot from Peter about the Lord Jesus, and so therefore he puts it down in this Letter, I can just imagine Mark asking again, Peter, now what did Jesus do here? And writing it down. Here's what the Lord Jesus did. So I call him Mark the Ready Disciple But also I call him Mark the restored deserter. Because when you look at Mark in the New Testament, what you'll find out about him is that he failed the Lord Jesus. Have you ever failed Jesus in your life? You ever failed the Lord, not just on one occasion, but on several occasions? And you ever have the feeling like, I don't know if God could ever use me. Well, if you ever feel that way, Mark is the gospel for you. Because Mark was a man who failed the Lord Jesus. He failed Jesus in that he ran from Jesus during the Lord's trial and crucifixion. Right up to the night he was arrested. In fact, why don't you take your Bible and look in Mark chapter 14? Let me just show you this. Look in Mark 14. Look at verse number 51 and 52. Now, this is on the night that Jesus was betrayed. And most scholars agree that the upper room where Jesus met with his disciples was actually the home of Mark. His mother's home. They met in his house at the Last Supper when Judas betrayed the Lord Jesus and then went out into the night. And then you remember the disciples, they they partook of the of the Last Supper there, where Jesus instituted his Lord's Supper, and then they went out into the night. to Mount of Olives. There by the Mount of Olives is the Garden of Gethsemane. And I imagine John hearing about them leaving. uh got up, it was late at night, and ran after them. And John got to the Garden of Gethsemane, or I should say Mark, so don't confuse you. I I sound confused already, don't I? Mark got up and he ran out to follow them. He followed them at a distance. I think he saw Jesus praying in the Garden of Gethsemane. And Mark saw the disciples fall asleep. And Mark saw Judas come with the soldiers to betray Jesus, to arrest Jesus, and then to take him off to that false trial. And look what it says in verse number fifty-one. It says, And there followed him a certain young man having a linen cloth cast about his naked body, and the young man lay hold on him. That is, who's the young man, the certain young man that's mentioned here? Most scholars agree this is John Mark. He had on a linen cloth. Two things about this cloth. Uh it was probably his garment for sleeping. It was probably his pajamas. It was linen, and by the way, back in that day if you wore linen clothing like that, that indicated that you were wealthy, that you had means, because not many people were able to afford that kind of cloth. And so here he is, and he runs out in, I could say, his pajamas, his linen cloth. He has nothing on but just his linen cloth. He's there by a tree, he's watching Jesus be arrested and taken away. And all of a sudden, one of the young Roman soldiers sees him hiding behind a tree and grabs Mark. As if to arrest him. And what does the Bible say happened when he laid hold on him? Verse 52. And he left the linen cloth and fled from them naked. The guy grabs his pajamas and he runs, leaving the guy with the linen cloth And the Bible says he flees away naked. He ran in shame. He ran in fear. While Peter denied Jesus, John Mark ditched Jesus. He ran away. He slithered away in the darkness of night with nothing on. And in that moment of nakedness, his soul was more exposed than his body. He ran away in fear from the Lord. So he failed the Lord. Who among us has not failed? The Lord Jesus. But then not only that He he fled from Jesus, but also he folded on Paul. Years later, I think Mark got over that. I'm sure he asked for forgiveness and he repented. But years later, Mark's cousin Barnabas and the Apostle Paul wanted to take a missionary journey. They wanted to go on their first missionary journey. The Bible says in Acts chapter 13 that the Holy Spirit singled them out to take this journey to share the gospel. And Barnabas was the cousin of Mark. The Bible says. And while Paul and Barnabas were ready to take this first journey, Barnabas said, I want to bring Mark with us. Mark will be useful to us. And so the three of them went on this journey, and the Bible says in Acts chapter 13, verse 5, John Mark was a minister. of Paul and Barnabas, or we could say a servant or a helper of Paul and Barnabas. But while they were on that missionary journey, things got a bit difficult. Mark wasn't accustomed to this rugged type of living. And during their first stop on the Isle of Pathos, they encountered a sorcerer, perhaps that unsettled Mark And he wasn't ready for this being so dangerous. Paul basically called this sorcerer a son of the devil and told him he would go blind for the rest of his life for not believing in Jesus. And it got a little bit dangerous. And the Bible says that when they arrived at Perga, Mark couldn't take it anymore. And so he decided to leave. He departs from them And in Acts 13, 13 it says this, now when Paul and his company loose from Paphos, they came to Perga and Panthilia, and John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem. John said, I'm done. Got too tough here. Some someone said that John missed his mom. He missed the good life. I don't know if that's true. Maybe we're being a little hard on him, but wherever the reason, he ran Later on, Paul wanted to take another missionary journey. And Barnabas said, that's a good idea. Let's take Mark again. And Paul said, oh no. We're not taking him again. And the Bible says in Acts 15, 39, there was a sharp contention between Paul and Barnabas. Paul said, I'm not going to take this guy. This is a Harmon paraphrase. He's a loser. He will never amount to anything. He ran the last time. I don't want to take him again. Barnabas, who's an encourager, the Bible calls him the son of consolation, he's always encouraging brethren. Don't you need people like that in your church? That, you know, when you fail, it's not final to them. They want to give you another chance. And Barnabas said, let's give them another chance, Paul. And Paul said, no way. And Barnabas said, I'm going to take him. Paul said, well, you go ahead and take him and go your way, and I'll take Silas and go my way. And that's exactly what happened. They split company because the Bible says the contention was so sharp. But you know the faith of Barnabas was rewarded Because Mark grew and he became a good soldier for Jesus Christ And he just had to mature some. He just had to have another chance. The Lord forgave him and restored him And even though it was probably hard for Paul to admit, later on, Paul says, at the end of his life, the Bible says in 2 Timothy 4. 11, he says to Timothy, bring Mark with you. When he's there in Rome, Paul says, hey, bring Mark. Listen to this, for he is profitable for me for the ministry. Even Paul said later on, you know what? Mark is profitable. Bring Mark. Aren't you glad that if you fail the Lord, that's not it? God gives you more chances and He can use you. He can give you grace and help you to grow. He can restore you. Well, that's the man, Mark. Let me talk to you a little bit about the message of Mark. Why did Mark write this gospel? Now there are four Gospels. There's the Gospel of Matthew, of course, Mark, Luke, and John. And each of the Gospels had their own unique purpose. For example, Matthew was written to the Jews And the theme of Matthew is Jesus who is the king, the Messiah. Matthew is writing to convince Jews that Jesus is the Son of David. And so he starts out his gospel with a genealogy that traces the son of David all the way back to, through the line of David, back to Abraham. Because he's convincing the Jews. Now, Luke, he wrote his gospel to emphasize the humanity of Jesus. And so he writes about the humanness of Jesus, and his genealogy goes all the way back to Adam. Because he's focusing on the perfect baby who became the perfect man and who was sympathetic to all the outcasts of society. Now John, when he writes his gospel He starts with eternity. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and he emphasizes Jesus as the Son of God, the one who is God in the flesh. Well, now how does Mark fit into this? How does Mark's gospel fit in? Mark wrote to Romans, and he presents Jesus as the servant. That's why that in the Gospel of Mark, Jewish customs are explained. When Matthew wrote his gospel, he didn't explain Jewish customs because he was writing the Jews. They knew it. But when Mark mentions Jewish customs, he explains them because he's writing to an outside audience, he's writing to Romans. That's why he will translate Aramaic terms into Greek That's why he'll use the Roman reckoning of time rather than the Jewish reckoning of time. And he was writing to Roman Christians who were going through a severe persecution Let me tell you the time when he wrote this gospel. Nero was on the throne. You ever heard that name? A very, very cruel dictator. And Peter had just died, his mentor. And you remember that according to the Roman historian Taxitus, or Taxius, whatever you however you pronounce that The Roman historian said that Nero turned the blame against him for the burning of Rome against the Christians. And Christians were being persecuted. And they were running for their life. They were driven into the catacombs. And during this time of misery, Mark writes this gospel because he wants to encourage those believers. So we see the purpose of this gospel. But I want you to notice the particulars about this gospel, certain characteristics about it, and that is Mark focuses more on the works of Jesus, less on his words. For example, Matthew, his whole gospel is focused around the five great sermons that Jesus gave. But Mark, his is built around 19 miracles, and he only gives four parables And even those four parables are all parables about serving. So Mark is really more interested in what Jesus does rather than what he says. It's a very fast-moving book. It's a gospel of action. It's moving rapidly from place to place. In fact, there are two words that occur constantly in the Gospel of Mark: it is immediately and straightway. Let me give you an example. Go back to chapter 1 and look in chapter 1. Look down at verse number 10. Notice what it says there. And straightway Coming up out of the water. Look down at verse twelve. And immediately the Spirit driveth him. Look at verse 18. And straightway they forsook their nets. Look at verse 20. And straightway he called them. Look down at verse twenty-one. And he went into the Capernaum and straightway on the Sabbath day. You get the idea? He's constantly moving. He's going. In fact, the the conjunction and It starts two-thirds of the verses. Say like this, and Jesus did this, and this, and he did this, and this. He's just moving through like that. Most of the chapters begin with Anne. Look in chapter 2, verse 1. And he entered into Capernaum. Look in chapter 3 verse 1. And he entered again into the synagogue. Look in chapter 4, verse 1. And he began again to teach. Look in chapter 5, verse 1. And they came over onto the other side. You get the idea And and and it's just constantly moving. He's going through this. It's someone say this is the gospel, this is the go gospel. It's like a moving picture of the ministry of Jesus. Don't you love that Jesus is all about forward motion, getting things done? Being busy for his father. Here's another thing about Mark's gospel. It uses the historical present tense over 150 times. You say, what does that mean? What is the historical present? It's like this. You know, I was in seminary, they taught me in formal writing you always use past tense. Mark wasn't concerned about that rule. Because when Mark referred to Jesus, he did not say Jesus came. He wrote it like this, Jesus comes, even though it's in the past tense. He writes, Jesus comes. He didn't write uh Jesus said, he writes, Jesus says. Present tense. That's just part of it. And this is because what Mark wants to convey is that even though Jesus did all those things in the past, he's still working in the present. You see, Jesus is not just merely a historical figure, but he's a living reality, and he's still working today. That's what he wants us to understand. But then another thing about Mark's gospel is it emphasis the emphasis is on the last week of the minus of the life of Jesus, his passion. Almost half of the book is devoted to that last week of Jesus' life. And you might look at it like this. It's a really long introduction about the passion of Jesus. Because what John Mark wants us to see Is that Jesus the servant is the suffering servant? He came to suffer and die for our sins. Again. Jesus said it himself, the Son of Man come not to be ministered to, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. Jesus took the sins of the world upon himself and Mark wants us to see that. Now let me give you the third thing quickly and we're done. We saw the man and the message, but the meaning, what does this mean for us today? Well, this gospel calls upon us to take action It calls us to be servants. Calls you and I to serve Jesus. Again, our verse For the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. Do you understand the context in which that verse was given? When Jesus was actually rebuking his disciples because they were having an argument about they were having an argument about who would be the greatest in the kingdom. Who's going to be the greatest? And Jesus reminds them, look, I didn't come here to sit on a throne right now. That's going to be later. I didn't come here to be served. I came here to minister. And Jesus said, the greatest is the servant You're not great because people serve you. You're great because you serve others. Is what Jesus said. What he wants us to know. And so you say, well, wait a minute, I failed. Well so did Mark. And the Gospel of Mark reminds us that you can serve the Lord. There's a fresh start. Do you need a fresh start today? Because He can forgive you. He can use you in ministry. But here's the next thing about the gospel of Mark, and with this I'm done. And that is, what does it mean for us today? It calls us to make a decision about Christ Because another feature of this gospel is that people were never passive about Jesus. They were never bored with Jesus If you read through the gospel, they were either amazed at him or they were angry at him. But they were not neutral. And I want to tell you, dear friend, you can't be neutral about Jesus. How do you respond to the Savior? There's no way to ignore him. In fact, I want to give you one little trip through the Gospel of Mark, and we're going to be done. Are you guys up for this? Okay, you want to flip through a few verses with me? Alright, so go to chapter one, look at verse 27. Let's look at let's look at this composite picture of the responses to Jesus Chapter 1 verse 27 where it says, And they were all what amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What thing is this? They were amazed at Jesus. Look in chapter 2, verse 12. And immediately he rose and took up the bed and it went forth before them, insomuch that they were all what? Amazed. And glorify God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion. We never saw it like this. Amazed at Jesus. Look in chapter 4, verse 41. Notice where it says there. And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? Look in chapter five, look in verse number forty-two and verse forty-three. And straightway the damsel arose and walked, for she was of the age of twelve years, and they were astonished with great astonishment. That's one thing to be astonished. But it's another thing to be astonished with great astonishment. When they saw Jesus, the power of Jesus, just resurrect this little girl, they were astonished. Look in chapter 6, verse 2. And when the Sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the synagogue, and many heard him and were astonished. They were astonished at him. Look in chapter 6, verse 3. At the end of verse 3 it says, and they were offended. Now there was a group there that was astonished at Jesus. There was another group there that was offended at him. That's what I say. You can't be neutral about Jesus. You're either going to be amazed by him or you're going to get angry at him. You know, most of the world today is still angry at Jesus But those who see his power and we see him change lives, we've seen his miracle work, we are still amazed at him. We're astonished at the work of the Lord Jesus. I can go on. Look in chapter seven, verse thirty-seven. I'm just kind of cut it down here for time. It says this in ver actual start of verse thirty-six, and they charged them that they should tell no man, but the more he charged them So much the more a great deal they published it, just after Jesus healed a deaf man, and were beyond measure astonished, saying, He has done all things well. He has made both the deaf to hear and the dumb to speak. They were, again, just astonished beyond measure. And friend, I don't have the time, but we can go through all through the gospel. And you'll see verses like that. They were amazed. They were astonished. Some were offended. Some were angry. But here's the point. What's your response to Jesus? Are you amazed at him? Are you astonished at him? What is your response? Have you made a decision to follow him? And will you serve him actively? Not just be part of a cruise ship, but a battleship or an aircraft carrier. And serve the Lord Jesus. I'll close with this. Kent Hughes talks about this in his commentary. He said there was a classic world-renowned scholar by the name of E. V. Roo. And he was renowned for his ability to translate from classical Greek into English. He translated Homer's Odyssey. But he was an agnostic his entire life. And one day the publisher, Penguin Publishers, came to him. They asked him, would you please translate into English for us the four gospels? Well, that was a strange request for a man who was an agnostic. And Rue's son heard about it and he had a great reaction. He said, This, it'll be interesting to see what Father will make of the four gospels. And then he paused and said this. It'll be even more interesting to see what the four gospels make of Father. And you know what he did translate? the gospels. And when he got to Mark and he translated the miracles and saw the life of Jesus, he was amazed. And you know what? He put his faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He was no longer an agnostic because he was amazed. at the Lord Jesus. And friend, I don't know about you, but I am continually amazed at our Savior. And I say that that amazement should draw us into wonder and love and worship. And not only that, but also to work, to serve Him. You see, the more amazed you are about Jesus, the more you're going to want to serve him. And so my question to you is this, are you serving the Lord Jesus Christ? Let Christ transform you as we behold God's. Servant. Let's bow together for prayer. And so, Lord, as we come before you today, we are amazed at our Savior when we see his transforming work. How he changed his lives. We're amazed at his love and his grace that has loved us To the point to where he was willing to be the suffering servant and die for our sins on the cross. And I pray that, Lord, if there's someone here today that has kind of not really made a decision about Christ, That they would come to Him today, they would realize that He is the only Savior, the way, the truth, and the life. That they would allow the servant, the suffering servant to transform their life through faith. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to invite you to the Savior, friend, if you haven't already come to Him. This very moment I'm inviting you. I'm asking you to look at Jesus and be amazed at Him. The sinless Son of God who came to this earth to To serve and to die for your sins. And if you've never placed your faith in Christ, I want you to do it because you know what will happen? If you reach out to Christ in faith, He will save you He will forgive you for your sins. He will give you an eternal home in heaven. Would you do that today? Would you be willing to say yes, Jesus? This very moment I'm calling upon you as my Savior. How many of you say that's my prayer? That's my desire. Would you pray for me, Pastor? I want to trust this amazing servant, the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand? I'm not going to embarrass you. I want to lead you in prayer. If that's your desire today. To come to Christ, is that your desire? Alright, my second invitation is this is to believers I don't want grace to be a cruise ship, my friend. I want us to be an aircraft carrier. We have a mission. Our mission is to take the gospel. to others to serve the Lord. And as a pastor, I want to challenge you to do that. We need more servants. In order for the church to be effective, it can't be just a handful of people that are doing everything. If you're here and you're saved and you know the Lord Jesus Christ, He has called you into service, my friend. I want this to be the flight deck. To we get orders from our Lord, and we go out and we do what he's called us to do. So I want to challenge you to share Christ with those around you. To really make an effort, a purposeful effort, to know what your gifts are and how you might serve the Lord. I want you to make a commitment to God, not to me, I'm nobody, but to this awesome Savior. If you're astonished by him, friend, you're going to want to serve Father, bless these words to our heart. Help us, Lord, to follow in the footsteps of our Lord and our Savior and to serve. We know the time is short. May we be like the Lord Jesus and be busy about the Father's business. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.