Amen. It's good to see you here tonight. And I invite you to take your Bibles. Open to the book of Romans, chapter 11. I am going to be finishing up this chapter here tonight, Lord willing. And all God's people say. I've been actually preaching the same sermon for the last three weeks. I haven't finished it. And uh I've been working on it. I think I'm gonna finish it tonight. I kind of violated some of my own principles that I teach other um Seminary students, I teach a class on expository preaching to seminary students. I normally say, you know, make every sermon individual, don't make it dependent on the last week's sermon. You know, you want to make it just an individual sermon And uh of course I've been violating that principle, you know, just do as I say, don't do as I do. Because basically I've been uh dealing with Romans chapter eleven and uh remember I told you that This whole chapter is dealing with the one issue that Paul poses a question in chapter eleven, verse one, where he says, I say then, have God cast away his people? that Paul brings up here is this one issue is God through with Israel. Remember what I told you why Paul poses this question Because Paul has just been dealing with some very important promises and doctrine in chapter 8 of Romans. And a part of it is some of the great promises that God has given us as believers, that we are eternally secure, that there's no condemnation for us. that we have the Holy Spirit working mightily in our heart. Those are wonderful promises that God gave to the believer. But what about but the question would naturally come, If Paul's writing to the church at Rome, and many in the church at Rome were Jews, not just Gentiles, the question would come, what about us, Paul? You're making some great promises to the church, but what about the Jews? God's people, the Jews. There are many promises that God has given Israel, and it just seems like those promises haven't come to fruition. Has God cast away Israel? Is God done with Israel? And that's an important question. And remember, I told you that's an important question. uh to understand and to understand the answer of because it it really is related to us. And that's why Paul, uh when I say related to us, I mean us the church, those who were not non uh uh Jewish, those who are Christians, who are believers, uh, because our future is inseparably linked with the future of Israel Remember I told you that if Israel has no future, then we have no future, because if God can't keep the promises that he made to Israel, how can we know that God will keep the promises that he gave to us And so this affects us. And this is the reason we ought to be concerned about Israel, is because it's so inseparably linked to our future. And so Paul in this whole chapter, in fact in this whole section of chapter 9, 10, and 11, is dealing with questions with reference to Israel. Remember I told you that really in the flow of the letter of Romans, you can go from chapter 8 straight to chapter 12 with no ripple whatsoever. It's just a smooth transition from chapter 8 to chapter 12. Really, chapter 9 through 11 is parenthetical And this is Paul dealing with this one issue that is so very important. And the reason Paul puts it here in this letter is because he wants us to understand it. You understand? God wants you to understand this. This is part of his plan. And what we do when we come to church and we study Scripture, you know what we do? We see the incredible wisdom of God. And by doing that, we behold really the glory of the Lord in the pages of Scripture. We go down deep in Scripture because the deeper we go, the higher we go in praise to God And we're going to see that here at the end of chapter eleven, because chapter eleven ends with an incredible doxology that Paul gives to God, because at the end of all of theology, especially the theology, should be doxology. All of our thinking about God and His plan and as it unfolds and understanding that theology should cause us to well up with great praise and honor and glory to God for the incredible wisdom that he has manifested to us in his wonderful plan of salvation. And so Paul addresses this issue. And he answers the question, is God through with Israel? And we saw in verse 1, his answer, God forbid, God's not done with Israel. God still has a lot to do. And Paul gives four reasons here in the chapter why he's not done with Israel. And remember we've we've gone over three reasons, and let me just review them with you quickly. Paul gives a personal reason. God's not done with Israel, and Paul uses himself as an example in verse number one. He said, For I am also an Israelite of the seed of Abraham, the tribe of Benjamin God's not done with Israel and I'm a proof of that. Paul's salvation is proof that God is still saving Jewish people And Paul's salvation is also a pattern, because just as Paul was blind to the Messiah, even so there's blindness in Israel in part right now. And we'll look at that. Just as Paul held to his religion, so do they Just as Paul was basically in rebellion and unbelief as to who Jesus was, even so they were. Just as Paul saw the resurrected Messiah. the glorified Messiah, even so, one day all Israel will look upon him whom they have pierced. And just as Paul's eyes were opened to see who Jesus was Even so one day all of Israel will have their eyes open. They will see who Jesus is. And so Paul uses himself as an example. No. But then secondly, we saw historical reason, and he uses the story of the life to prove a point. He gives a very strong emphasis that God still has A remnant of believing people. At every point in redemptive history, God has always had a believing remnant. And we see a scriptural example in the life of Elijah And then we also considered God's principle of sovereign election. And then he gives us number three, not only a personal reason and a historical reason But he gives us a practical reason why God is not done with Israel, and that is because he's going to use this period to evangelize the Gentiles. Look down at verse eleven. I should I say then, have they stumbled that they should not should fall? Again, God forbid. That is, is there uh is there is God turning away from Israel? Is that is that rejection temporary? Or is it uh complete? And the answer is it's temporary. God's not done. They haven't fallen to where It's all over, that they stumble to where they could fall, and then uh God is completely done. Their rejection of uh the Messiah is right now, but God's going to turn to them once again. He's gonna open their eyes. And so, but during this period, however, during this time of stumbling, this is a blessing to the Gentiles. Why? Look at verse 11. It says, through their fall, salvation has come unto the Gentiles. That is, during this time, while there's blindness in Israel, God is turning mightily to the Gentiles These are non-Jewish people, and this is what we're seeing in our age today. We're seeing many people who are non-Jewish turning to the Messiah, and God is building his church all over the world. with many people that are coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the period of time that is called the times of the Gentiles. And we'll look at that in verse 25. But what's the purpose of this? Salvation of the Gentiles, but also in verse 11 to provoke them to jealousy. God is using this time While he's setting aside Israel and while Gentiles are being saved to provoke Israel to jealousy. Now jealousy is normally seen as a negative emotion, but God's intention was for it to be a positive stimulus for Jewish people to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. The idea is when so many Jewish people see Gentiles coming to know the God of Israel, the true God, that that would cause them jealousy, that would cause them to want to come back. Look what Paul said in verse 13 For I speak to you Gentiles, and as much as I am an apostle of the Gentiles, I magnify mine office. Verse fourteen, if by any means I might provoke to emulation them which are my flesh And might have some of them. That is, Paul says, I God has called me to be an apostle to the Gentiles. And my prayer is that I'll be so successful in seeing Gentiles come to the Lord that it'll spill over into my people. that my people will be provoked to jealousy and they'll come to know the Lord Jesus. I pray that God will use my ministry in that way. And so we see then the um Paul's response here, their purpose, the preacher, then we see the parable in verses six and seventeen And to prove his uh point that there's going to be a national restoration, Paul gives two parables. One is a loaf of bread. When a worshipper in the Old Testament would bring bread to sacrifice, they would take a portion of it, break it off, give it to the priests And Paul says, look, if that portion broken off is holy, then the whole loaf is holy. And the portion broken off represents the fathers, the patriarchs. And if they're holy to God, that means all of the rest of the Jewish people are holy to God. And so God hasn't turned from them. They are still uh in God's sight special. And then he uses the illustration of the olive tree. We saw this in verse sixteen. Again, for if the first fruits be holy, the lump is also holy. And if the root be holy, so also are the branches. Again, same idea. The roots here represent the first patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And if the root is holy to God, even so the whole tree is holy. That is, all of the nation, all of Israel is still holy to the Lord. And so they're still special in God's sight And look at verse 17. And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou wert being a wild olive tree, were grant it in among them, and with them partakest of the root and fatness of the olive tree, boast not against the branches. Verse 11 And this is the idea here. The branches broken off is really God's judgment against unbelieving Israel. In this olive tree, there are some branches that stay on. There are some Jews that are still Calling upon Jesus as the Messiah, those are the branches staying on the tree, the ones broken off. That's judgment from God. That's those who have turned away from God And what has God done? He's grafted into the tree wild olive branches. Remember when we said that represented? That represented you, that represented me. The fact that God has turned to people that are non-Jewish to the Gentile world and He's grafted us into the tree, and now we are partaker of the root of that tree. We are partaker of The fatness of that tree, we are blessed with the blessings that God promised to Abraham. Remember what God said to Abraham when he called him out? I'm going to bless you that you might be a blessing. And now we are befted in, and now we're receiving blessings. That's what Paul's saying. We get to partake of those things. Now, what should our attitude be towards this? Remember, Paul warned us of the peril of this when he said in verse 18, boast not against the branches. That is, don't get lifted up with pride Don't be so arrogant against the branches that are broken off. That is, against the unbelieving people of Israel, unbelieving Jews. The church or any Christian should never boast against an unbelieving Jewish person. They should never look down on them. They should not despise them. And we saw that there's been a history of the church of that happening, and that is simply wrong. Paul here gives a warning. What should our attitude be towards uh uh to towards the nation of Israel. Uh what should it be? And in verse nineteen, um Well, first of all, it should be gratitude in verse 18. But if thou boastest, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee. That is, it is the branches that are supported by the root. The root is the support of the branches. And the root, again, are the patriarchs, and so they support us So when we look at the nation of Israel, what should well up in our heart is gratitude. Gratitude for from out of the Jewish people came uh our religious our spiritual heritage. Our blood might not come uh might not might not be uh their blood might not be in our veins, but certainly the spiritual heritage is in our hearts The Jewish people have given us salvation, the Jewish people have given us the Word of God, the Jewish people have given us the Messiah, and so what our attitude should be, Paul saying, is There should be gratitude, there should be humility in verse 19. And thou wilt say the branches were broken off that I might be grafted in. And that's a crazy boast. Oh, you know, God broke those branches off because he wanted to bring me in. As if to say there's something special about me. And you know what, friend, there's nothing special about any of us. We're all sinners. Let me rephrase. The only thing special about us is the fact that God's loved us. That we're products or we're recipients of the grace of God. And so this is the attitude that Paul warns against. God broke off those branches because God was making room for me. Paul says you better not have that arrogant attitude. In fact, there should be one of humility and gratitude and fear. Look at verse 20. Well, because of unbelief they were broken off. And thou standest by faith, be not high-minded but fear. The issue is not worthiness, the issue is faith The issue is not racial or national inferiority or superiority. It is faith. Faith is a gift from God. The only reason we're saved today is because God was merciful to us, because God gave us even the ability to believe on Him. And we should be very humble, and we should have fear. Fear that we not be arrogant. Anyone who should not be arrogant, it should be the people of God. Because it's all of grace. And so Paul says, look, just continue in the goodness of God. In verse 21, he said, If God did not spare the natural branches, do you think he would spare the wild ones? You think he'll spare you? If Israel got lifted up and didn't believe in the Messiah, God broke them off. Do you think God would hesitate to do that to branches that were grafted in? If you got high-minded If you got proud. So there's a warning there. So he just says, look, continue in the goodness of God. Verse 22. Behold, therefore. the goodness and severity of God on them which fell. Severity but towards thee, goodness. Severity fell on them, but goodness on you. And that if thou continue in his goodness Otherwise thou shalt be cut off. Look, just be humble. Just continue in this place of goodness. Just abide in this grace that God has given you. And if you do, you'll reap blessings, but don't get so high-minded. Don't get lifted up. That's a good warning for all of us, isn't it? And then there's the promise. Verse 23, they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be grafted in before God is able to graft them in again. For if thou wert cut off, cut out of the olive tree, which is wild by nature, and were granted contrary to nature into a good olive tree, how much more shall these which be the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree. And so here Paul is saying, God still has a plan. If God was able to take wild olive branches and grant them into this tree, which is against really nature, to take wild olive branches and graft them into a domestic tree, if God was able to do that, How much easier it is for God to take the original natural branches and graft them back into the tree. Which is to say that God still has a plan for Israel. There's going to come a time when many will turn to the Lord. That's the promise that he gives us here. Alright? Now, that's all introduction now for the sermon tonight. Actually, we're going to the fourth and final point. We saw a personal reason. Paul says, you know, the evidence is God's not done with me, or he's not done with it, or look at me, I'm an example. The historical reason, God always has a remnant. There's a practical reason. Listen, during this time, God has turned to the Gentiles to evangelize them. Don't get proud. Don't get lifted up. You better watch out if you do that, because God can break you off. Just continue in his goodness, because God is going to bring back those natural branches into the tree He's not done with Israel, but here's point number four. I call this a scriptural reason. Again, Paul points to scripture, the evidence of scripture And he's already used a lot of the Old Testament in this chapter, but here he's going to use the Old Testament again, and he's going to point to two specific things here in this Final point. Two specific things. He's going to point to Israel's blindness and to their future salvation Again, verse 25, for I would not, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery. Paul says, I don't want you to be ignorant of this, I want you to know this. I know somebody asking, why are we spending so much time on chapter 11? Because I don't want you to be ignorant about this. Paul doesn't want you to be ignorant about this. God put it in Scripture because He wants you to know this. Someone said that education is costly, but ignorance is far more costly. So know this, Paul says. In verse 25. Lest ye should be wise in your own conceit. And again, Paul's basically re-emphasizing what he already said, and that is that you shouldn't be Proud. You shouldn't be arrogant that you had been brought into the blessings of God. Don't be lifted up And just to help you, to show you that you shouldn't be proud and arrogant, but you should be humble, Paul says, I want to show you this mystery. Because this mystery should serve to humble you. I don't want you to be ignorant of this mystery lest you should be wise in your own conceit. That blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles be come. Do you understand that this was all part of God's plan? That this blindness in Israel in part was all part of God's redemptive plan. This didn't come up and catch God by surprise. God's not to have going, oh, what am I going to do? Many people in Israel not believing on the Messiah. No, this is all part of the redemptive plan. Paul said, this is a mystery. And God basically planned this. And so we see here the mystery of God That Paul's talking about. What's a mystery? A mystery in the New Testament refers to something that was previously unknown, something that was previously hidden in the Old Testament, but is now being revealed. You couldn't see this just by a normal reading of the Old Testament, but now Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is going to reveal to us A mystery here. That this is all part of God's plan. To get a better understanding of what a mystery is, go to Romans chapter 16 real quick. Just look at this verse real quick Look in Romans sixteen, look at verse number twenty five and twenty six, 'cause he really spells out a definition of a mystery here. Verse twenty five of chapter sixteen. Now to him that is of faith To establish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, and here it is, which was kept secret since the world began. Verse 26. But now is made manifest by the scriptures of the prophets according to the commandments of the everlasting God made known to all nations. for the obedience of faith. And here Paul is telling us it's something that has been hidden and from the very beginning But now it's revealed. Now it's made known. And Paul's revealing it to us here in Romans chapter 11. This is the mystery. Israel is blinded. This is not something, again, that is an accident. He calls it a mystery. And Paul says, I want you to know this lest you be wise in your own conceit. You see, a misunderstanding of how your salvation took place could cause you to be proud. If you don't understand the grace of God, you're going to get proud. In essence, Paul is saying to the Gentiles, the reason you're saved is not because you are smarter than the Jewish people. It's not because you're better than the Jewish people. It's not because you're wiser and they're foolish. It's because God in His grace brought you to salvation. And God has blinded in part Israel. He's allowed this blindness in part because that is part of his plan. How long will this blindness last Well, it tells us in verse 25 that the blindness in part has happened to Israel, watch this, until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. This this partial blindness And when I say partial blindness, I mean that there are still some Jewish people getting saved, right? But not in large number. There's here and there, when I was over in uh in uh Israel at Jerusalem, and it was a weekend and I wanted to go to worship at a church. I found that there were small pockets of messianic Jews who had believed on Jesus as their Savior, small groups of people that were meeting all over there. In Jerusalem, not in large number, but in small number. There are some Jews that have come to know Jesus Christ as the Messiah, but not in large part. And so this blindness is partial And God says, this is going to last. This partial blindness will last how long? Until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. Notice where it says has come in here. It's a verb frequently used by Jesus. And he used it to speak of the entering in of the kingdom of God or of eternal life. So we could say it like this Israel's unbelief will last until the complete number of Gentiles who will be saved is finally saved, until that number is complete, there's going to be partial blindness in Israel. That's where it's all going to end. That's where the mystery will end. That's where God will turn once again to Israel in large part The times of the Gentiles will end with that last Gentile convert getting saved, and the partial blindness will be removed And God will turn wholesale to Israel, and many will come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul's saying, look, this was something that was previously unknown. That was previously unknown. Is that ten minutes to seven? Seriously? I I gotta hurry. Israel is blinded, but here's the second thing. Israel will be blessed. Israel will be blessed. Look down at verse 26. And so. All Israel shall be saved, as it is written. And there's going to come a time where God says, okay, and when he turns to them, all Israel will be saved. after this partial blindness is done. Now the big question regarding this verse is who are all Israel? What does that mean? And some say that the all refers to the believing remnant saved during the church age. This is a common non-millennial view. But I think who is the Israel that Paul's talking about? It is the branches that were broken off the olive tree. He's going to graft them back in And that's speaking then against about the Jews who previously did not call upon Jesus as their Messiah That unbelieving group will now be grafted back in. And God says that they will be saved. They're going to get grafted right back in. Again, who were the broke the branches broken off? That was the remainder of the nation of Israel, the unbelieving Jews. And so God is going to turn again to Israel. Murray writes it like this. He said, all Israel means Israel as a whole, in contrast to the relatively small believing remnant. The context makes this clear. This conclusion does not require that every individual Israelite living will be saved. It only requires the salvation of the bulk of the nation. And so There's just where there is just small remnants, small pockets. There's gonna be come a time when wholesale all throughout all of The uh nation of Israel, the Jewish people, they're gonna come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. God is gonna turn to them in a great way, and Israel Paul says they will be saved. And notice this emphasis is in the future. This is going to happen one day in the future. Look in verse number 20. 26 again, so all Israel shall be saved, as it is written. And now he's quoting here from the Old Testament. He's quoting from Isaiah. Here um Isaiah 59, 20 and 21, and also Isaiah 27, 9. As it is written, there shall come out of Zion the deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob. Verse 27, for this is my covenant unto them, when I shall take away their sins. And so this is going to be a great time in the future when God turns, there's going to be a mighty revival among the the Israelite nation and they will come back to know the Lord. Remember the I referred to this last week and Ezekiel Where Ezekiel has a vision of the valley of dry bones and he preaches to the bones and they all come back to life. That all represents the resurrection of the nation of Israel. There's going to come a time of great revival of spiritual resurrection for uh the people that are there. And we see that also in the book of Zechariah. So Israel is blind. Israel will be blessed, but then we're also going to see Israel is still beloved to God. Look in verse 28. As concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sakes. But it's touching the election there below for the Father's sakes. That is, if you look at Israel now, in a lot of ways, they're enemies of the gospel right now You know, they don't believe in Jesus the Messiah right now, and there's a sense in which they are enemies by rejecting the Messiah, by rejecting the gospel And I don't know about you, but I have witnessed to Jewish people, and they're not very open and receptive. There's a sense where they resent some of what you're trying to tell them or teach them And Paul says it looks like right now they're enemies of the gospel, but as touching the election, they're beloved of God. That is, they're still beloved of God. You could call them beloved enemies because God still loves them. Because look at verse 29. For the gifts and the calling of God are without what? Repentance. This calling here refers to God's divine choice, his divine plan. God did not change his mind. He will not withdraw from Israel. He's not going to push them away Forever. He's going to draw them back unto himself. The gifts and the calling of God is without repentance. God still has a plan And a calling for the nation that he's going to put in effect. So we see then the mystery of God, then also the mercy of God. Look at verse number 30. For as ye in times past have not believed God Yet have now obtained mercy through their unbelief, even so have these also now not believed that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy And these verses are really a summary of all that Paul said in the warning he gave to the Gentiles. Gentiles in the past were in unbelief, yet they obtained mercy. Through Israel's unbelief, now through God's mercy to the Gentiles, they also may obtain mercy. This kind of goes back to the idea of provoking the Jews to jealousy. God is going to show mercy on them once again because God is a God of mercy. And then finally, beloved, I want you to see this last thing, the majesty of God. The majesty of God. Look at verse 33. And this is where Paul ends it, and he ends with a doxology. Oh, the death of the riches. Both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. For who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counselor? Or who hath first given to him and it shall be recompensed unto him again. For of him and through him and to him are all things. To whom be glory forever. Amen. Remember, here's where Paul breaks out into a doxology now. Remember, I said all theology ought to lead to doxology. We ought to end up praising God. And after probing the deep things of God, deep into the mind of God, Paul breaks out into spontaneous praise and worship. And again, when we look at the depth of God's plan, it should provoke that in us. It should cause us to worship God. She calls us to say, you know what, God, you know what you're doing. You don't need anyone to counsel you. You are sovereign. You have everything under control. And so the depth of Scripture should lead us to the height of praise Now I know that there are some people that accuse me of being too deep. They say, oh, you know, you're too deep. I feel like I'm in a seminary class. Well, you are. You're in my seminary class. And you better stop that attitude or I'm gonna fail you. Listen, God's called me to give you the scripture. He wants you to know the deep things. Why? Because the deeper you understand God's plan, the higher you go and praise to God. We give you the depth so that you can elevate yourself in praise and worship to God. And this is exactly what Paul does. He just begins to praise the Lord spontaneous. Oh, the depth of the riches. Both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God. Look out in this world, friend. God's in control of things. It's not out of control. His plan is moving along just exactly the way he ordained it. And it's a wonderful plan. And in case you want to give God advice, just remember what Paul said here. For who has known the mind of the Lord? Who has been his counselor? That's why I hate to hear people, well, if I were God, well thank God you're not. God doesn't need your counsel He doesn't need your advice. His plan is coming to fruition. Everything that he has planned. And that's why we should praise the Lord for who he is. How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out, Paul said. Who has first given to him it shall be recompensed unto him again. For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory. Paul basically asked three rhetorical questions. Who's known the mind of the Lord, or who's been his counselor? In other words, you're not going to be able to figure God out unless God reveals it to you. You understand that? And the only reason we know God's plan now, and we don't have to sit around with headline hysteria all worried and anxious is because we know God's plan. We know what he's doing, and the reason we know it is because he in his gracious goodness has revealed it to us. Not because we were able to come up with it on our own. That's what Paul's saying here. Who's become his counselor? Who's first given to him that it might be paid back to him again? Because no one was before God, and none can give to God what has not first been received from Him. The answer is no one. Everything that we have, God's given us. He's even given us the ability to understand because he gave us that. And so our response is we stand in awe before our gracious Lord. And rejoice that from him and through him and to him are all things. And so we give him praise. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Father, indeed we do praise you. We thank you, Lord, that you are sovereign and we get to be recipients. Of this wonderful plan of salvation that Lord you have grafted us in, not because there's anything good about us, because Lord, you in grace, you reached out to us, you in mercy, you brought us in. And on top of that, you've given us revelation. You've taught us what you're doing. You show us how that this whole plan of redemption That you begin, that will one day end, that Lord, you are putting together even now. You're saving people, you're calling out your church. And this plan just continues to move on until we are going to see one day its fruition. And Lord, we like the Apostle Paul, Lord, we just praise you. We thank you. We thank you, Lord, for your grace, for your goodness, and we give you glory, Lord, for all of these things. And let me just ask this again with heads bowed and eyes closed. Maybe that again you're here tonight and you're not grasped into this olive tree yet. Perhaps you've been considering the things of God, and you haven't made a decision to follow and be committed to Jesus Christ. Let me just encourage you, friend. This is the greatest thing you could ever do, is to know Jesus It's no accident that you're here. God's teaching you his plan. He wants you to know. He wants you to be a part of it. He wants you to be grafted into the blessings That he has foreordained for his people. And so, friend, do you know the Lord Jesus? And if not, would you right there, would you pray? Say, Jesus, I want to know you. I want to be part of this wonderful plan of redemption. Save me, Lord Jesus. Make me your child Father, bless these words to every hearing heart tonight. Again, Lord, we praise you for who you are. In Jesus' name. Amen.