All right, good to see you here tonight. I encourage you to take God's word, please. Open to the Old Testament book of Zachariah. As you know, we're studying this book. Old Testament book that has so much to say to us and instruct us about the things of the end, the last days and the second coming of Christ. And I you probably have never heard a series through the book of Zechariah. And uh it's not really an easy book to interpret, to be honest with you, and I'm really learning a lot um as I'm studying through it, and I hope that you're gonna be benefited by it. But really if you want to understand what's gonna take place at the second coming of Christ and all the things that will take place take place in the consummation of God's plan for the ages. You really need to have an understanding of the book of Zechariah. And so that's why it's good that we're going through this. And tonight I want us to look in chapter two. We're going to look at chapter two We're going to look at the whole chapter tonight. And the title of the sermon is in the form of a question, is God through with Jerusalem? Is God through with Jerusalem? A few years ago, I was part of an archaeological dig and I stayed in a hotel just outside the old city walls of Jerusalem, there in the eastern part of Jerusalem. And uh it was it was nice because in the evenings after the dig you can kinda just go into the old city. It was right there by the hotel. And uh there was many times I've been to Jerusalem and by the way it's just an incredible city. If you ever have a chance to go there It's it's a wonderful place to go and visit. And by the way, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ, how many are sure that you're saved tonight? Raise your hand. Well you're going to see it eventually if you take the Bible literally. Uh you might want to save the plane fair. But if you want to get there before the Lord comes. And uh we're part of that Holy Land experience. Then uh it's really a great place to go. And every time I'm over there, I'm in awe because I think about the history, I think about what has taken place in the past. But more importantly than that, by think about what God's going to do in the future there. And again, the big question is, is God through with Jerusalem. I remember, you know, while I was there, I visited so many things there in the city and I wanted to go to the Temple Mount. I had never been there. Every time I tried to go there was always some reason why it was closed or there was tension and so on I while I was there one time I heard that on a Sunday morning early if you got up and you went there to this certain gate that you could get in. And so uh I got up early on Sunday and I went out of my hotel room and walked down, went through what is called Harris Gate Thought I could get there, you know, kind of find uh my own entrance in there since they're letting people in. Went down, was starting to go into one entrance and some Palestinian soldiers stopped me and uh they said, What are you doing? I said, I'm going to the Temple Mount. They said, You're not going to go through that gate unless you want to be shot. And I thought, well, I don't want to be shot, so I don't think I'll go in that way. And uh so I kind of w made my way around, you know, uh past the eastern gate and up on around and went by the whaling wall and there was an entrance there that I was able to get in. And finally I was able to get to the Temple Mount for the very first time there in the city of Jerusalem. Now you might want to say, well what's all the tension about Uh you know, why you know why the the threat to be shot going in certain things like that? Well there's a lot of tension there about uh Jerusalem, especially that area of the Temple Mount. In case you haven't noticed, there's a struggle over who controls the city of Jerusalem. Uh that has been the big issue. Down through history, Jerusalem has been conquered by enemies. It has been exchanged hands through so many different people. And um In the Bible, the first time we hear the city of Jerusalem is in the Genesis chapter 14. There's a king of Salem, which is Jerusalem, by the name of Melchizedek. We've heard that name. And Melchizedek was the king of Salem, also called the king of peace, because really uh Jerusalem comes from the Hebrew word shalom, which means peace. And then the next time we see Jerusalem in the Bible, it is a Canaanite stronghold with an allegiance to Egypt, and Joshua and Joshua chapter ten has its sights set on it. Because he wants to conquer that area. In chapter 15, he does conquer that area, and that's a territory that he gives to the tribe of Judah. So fifteen hundred years before Christ, the city was said to belong to Judah. And then you fast fort years later, David conquers the city of Jebus, or Jebus, or the fortress of the Jebusites And that is Jerusalem at that time. This was in 1003 BC. David conquers it. And this becomes the city of David. This becomes the capital city of Israel. And then but really it was a small city at that time and it really didn't expand much under David. It wasn't until David's brilliant son Solomon became king that Jerusalem really began to reach its zenith Uh he built a huge temple there, it was a wonder of the world, palaces there, and he extended the borders of Israel and so on. And so it was really a a bright time for Israel. But then you go to five eighty six BC after uh the nation's disobedience and Nebuchadnezzar destroys the city. And then later on Nehemiah goes back to rebuild the city. We know that in the Old Testament But finally the city of Jerusalem is destroyed again in seventy AD. And so it kind of rises meekly out of the dust of that destruction of the Romans in seventy AD. But again, it's crushed in one thirty-two AD by the Roman Emperor Hadrian. And then, you know, and and and since that time it has gone through so much conflict and war and different groups have taken over the city. In ten ninety-nine the first crusaders capture Jerusalem. And then later on the uh Saladin, the great Muslim leader, captures Jerusalem in eleven eighty-seven AD, and then the Crusaders kind of capture it again, and that two times it goes back and forth, it keeps changing hands. Until finally you fast forward all the way to nineteen seventeen and is captured by the British during World War One. And then you come to nineteen forty eight when Israel becomes a nation. But even during that time Jerusalem was kind of divided between the Jordanians and the and the uh and the Jewish people, but during the Six Day War, 1967 What basically took place was um there was fierce fighting. The Israel forces, paratroopers fought against the Jordanian soldiers. They were able to advance into the old city, capture the city of Jerusalem, and the whaling wall and the Temple Mount, and for the first time in many, many thousands of years, Jerusalem was under the control of Israel and has been under the control. But have you noticed that there's still a battle for it? There's still a fight for control over Jerusalem. Now you might be wondering and asking, what does all this have to do with this vision of Zechariah? Well, this third vision of Zechariah tells us that it'll be the Lord that'll have the final say on what happens to Jerusalem. Political leaders and uh all those that may try to you know, make decisions about what will take place with that city, but the Lord Jesus will have the final say about what happens to the city of Jerusalem. And really this vision also answers two questions. Number one Will God once again return to the city and dwell there? That's one big question. Remember, the glory of God at one time was there in Jerusalem on the Temple of Solomon, but it left because of the people's sin Will God ever dwell there again? And does the city of Jerusalem have a future in God's plan for the last days? And now the reason that's an important question is because again there are many theologians out there today that say that God's done with Israel, He's done with Jerusalem, that's all in the past. Everything God has with regard to blessing is all spiritual blessings. None of that applies to Israel. None of that applies to Jerusalem. Jerusalem has no special significance or purpose. But theologians who take that position have to deal with this third vision of Zechariah. And uh they have to decide how they're going to interpret this. And I I can't see how you can interpret it any other way than by literally by what it says. And you also might be asking, what does all this have to do with me? Well, it's everything if you're a part of the kingdom of God. If you're saved and you know the Lord Jesus Christ, this all has to do with what the Lord's going to do at his second coming. And if you're part of that kingdom, God wants you to know these things. He doesn't want you to be in the dark about these things. So I want us to look at this third vision of Zechariah, and there are three things that it reveals about God's future plan for the city of Jerusalem. If you're taking notes, just write down number one, the preparation to measure Jerusalem. The preparation to measure. Look in verse number one of chapter two. I lifted up mine eyes again. Now every time Zachariah lifts up his eyes, he by the way, he has eight visions all in one night. And you know, after each vision he s he kind of bows his head and meditates and ponders what he saw in the last vision And as he's meditating on the last vision, there's another vision appears, and he lifts up his head, and he sees his other vision. So here he is pondering the last vision. But he has another one. He lifts up his head. And what does he see here? He sees a man. That's the first thing I want you to see. The man. Now, who is this man? Commentators are divided as to who it is. Some say, well, this is just an ordinary man. He's a surveyor. He's surveying Jerusalem. Other commentators say, no, this man is the same man that we saw in the first vision, who was the man on the red horse And if you remember our study, that was none other than who? The Lord Jesus, the free incarnate appearance of Christ. This was the angel of the Lord or the angel of Yahweh, the messenger of Yahweh. And so there's disagreement as to whether this is just an ordinary man or is this the Lord. Now I think that this is the Lord Jesus. And I'll let me tell you why Because there's there's a a vision in Ezekiel, Ezekiel forty, it's very similar to the vision Zachariah has. Listen to what it says. And the visions of God brought me he into the land of Israel, set me upon a very high mountain by which was the frame of the city on the south. And he brought me thither, and behold, there was a man again he sees a man, whose appearance was like the appearance of brass, with a line of flax in his hand and a measuring reed, and he stood in the gate. Now in Ezekiel's vision there's no question that this is the angel of the Lord or the messenger of the Lord or a preincarnate appearance of Christ. And what is he doing in Ezekiel's vision? Well he's measuring and he's measuring specifically um uh the the temple there and the and the city there. And so I think that this is uh similar and so therefore I think the man here in Zechariah's vision is the Lord Jesus Now again, some may disagree with that, but I think that there's uh you know pr it's pretty clear. Another thing would be, another reason for this would be because when you're measuring something, what does that imply? Ownership. Someone came to my house and started measuring my curtains, measuring my doors, measuring as total strangers measuring, I'm gonna say, what are you doing here? Why are you measuring this? You you know you don't own any of this. If you're measuring things out, what does that imply? It implies authority, it implies ownership. Who is the one who owns the city? Well, it's the Lord. It's the Lord's city. And he's measuring it all out So notice the measuring. Look in verse 1. I lifted up my eyes again and looked and behold a man with a measuring line in his hand. Now the measuring line was a common tool used in the building trade. We would call today a measuring tape So this is a surveyor and he is scoping out a place where he wanted to build a building or a city. And that's the idea here. So he's just he's got this measuring tape. And Zechariah doesn't waste any time in asking what he's doing. Look in verse 2. And then said, I, whither goest thou? What are you doing? Where are you going? And he said to measure Jerusalem to see what is the breadth thereof and what is the length thereof. So this surveyor is going out to measure the city. Now again, this just forces the question, what city is he measuring? Is he measuring the actual city of Jerusalem at that time? Or is he measuring something else? Because at that time there really was no city of Jerusalem. You've got to remember when these exiles returned back to Jerusalem, the city was in was in a heap. It was in rubble. Because it had been destroyed. There was really no city there. It was nothing but ruins. And so it would be very hard to measure. There was no wall there The wall would not be built until 80 years later under the leadership of Nehemiah. So there was no wall there. It was nothing but a bunch of rubble there. And so I think Zechariah is a little bit baffled, like, what are you measuring? I mean, you know, he's a little bit bewildered, I think, in this vision. But this this surveyor, this uh I we could call the angel of the Lord is not measuring the now Jerusalem, the Jerusalem that was right there at that very moment. He was measuring, I think, the future New Jerusalem, the plans for the new Jerusalem of the kingdom. And I think just as in all the other visions that Zechariah had, there's a prophetic element here in this vision. It's very prophetic And so, and by the way, this alone indicates to Zachariah that God was not finished with the city. If there's someone measuring it and there's nothing there, and there's that means what? Something's going to be built there. And God's not done with the city So we see the preparation to measure Jerusalem. But here's number two. Write down the plan to multiply Jerusalem. Now again, as you look at this vision, I think Zachariah is a bit bewildered about what's going on here. He can't figure out what this man is doing. And this could be due to the fact that this man, when he's measuring out the city, he's using dimensions that are really, really enormous and big And you know, if you if you really think about it, um, you know, the cities back then weren't really that big. So, but look what happens in verse number three. And behold, the angel that talked with me, who is that? That's the interpreting angel. Remember, every time Zachariah has a vision, there's an angel there that helps to interpret the vision. And so here's this interpreting angel. The angel that talked with me went forth. That is, he's going to this man who's measuring because he wants to find out what's going on. And while he goes to talk to the man that's measuring, he's met by another angel in verse number three And another angel went out to meet him. So get this in your mind. Here's Zechariah on one side. Here's a man measuring on the other side. And here's the interpreting angel go to talk to this man, and while he's going, he's met by another angel, and they're right there, and they're having a conversation. And Zechariah is listening to this conversation And the one angel tells the interpreting angel to go back, look in verse 4. And he said unto him, run, speak to this young man, saying. Jerusalem shall be inhabited as town without walls for the multitude of men and cattle therein. And so This angel tells the interpreting angel, Look, you go back and you speak to that young man. Who's the young man? That's Zachariah. That's how we know that he was a young prophet. Remember, Haggai was the older prophet, Zachariah was the younger prophet. And the angel says, Go and speak to that young man and you tell him this message. You know, because he's kind of bewildered. He doesn't know what's happening. You just tell him this. That Jerusalem shall be inhabited as a town without walls. Why? Because of the multitude of men and cattle therein. So here's the first thing that Zachariah needs to know about this new Jerusalem, about this future Jerusalem. That's yet to be, and that is it will be a city without walls. A city without walls. And by the way, that's the reason for the enormous dimensions and the measuring. That this this man is doing and that's why Zachariah is saying, Well how you know, what are you doing? You know, city without walls. When you think about it again, a walled city in that day was not really big. If you ever get a chance to go to Jerusalem and go to the old city with the walls, you can literally not done this many times. You can go from one side of the city, go into a gate, walk through the whole city And go out to the other side of the city at another gate, and you know how long it's going to take you to walk the whole breadth of that city? It's going to take you about ten minutes. Ten minutes to walk in one gate, walk through the whole city, walk out the other gate. Now me maybe fifteen minutes, but you probably ten minutes. You can just walk through it. Why? Because it's not really big. It's not big. And the ancient walled cities back then, they just were not that big. And again, that's the reason Zachariah is bewildered because it looks like this man is measuring plans for an enormous city. And so he's like, what's he doing? And the angel comes back and says, You tell that young man that this Jerusalem, this next Jerusalem, will be a city without walls. That is, God's going to expand it. Jerusalem is going to enjoy such an expansion and a glory. The population will spill out. You know, this had to be a comfort because remember the people are there, they're exiles, they're there in a city that is just destroyed, there's rubble all around, they're starting to try to put it all back together, build a temple, and I the the question had to come to their mind, is this all worth it? I mean, are we wasting our time here? This is a lot of work. This is a lot of sacrifice. We left Babylon to come back here to build this thing. And is it really does it really have a future? And this was the encouragement of God to them saying, look, don't stop building because I want you to know this city does have a future. In fact, here's an angel measuring out, and this is going to be a city one day that's going to be so expansive, it's going to be so big, so broad. It doesn't have walls. It'll be uh you know a town like a town without walls. By the way, that translates the Hebrew word parasode, which has the idea of a open country or plains. Now we can understand this this day because you know if we we here in Baltimore, uh in the city of Baltimore, or actually not in the city, but I guess you know we're kind of close, but if you get on Highway 70 and you start driving west What are you going to see after you've been driving for a while? You're going to see open fields, right? And then if you keep driving, what are you going to see? You're going to see horses in the fields, you're going to see cattle in the fields, right? Because, you know, we don't have any walls in our city. And it just, you know, the city kind of turns into the country and then you have all the animals out there. So you could say that, you know, we're kind of living all together here in this this big expansive, you know, piece of property. That's common in our day, but something like that back in the ancient days was totally unheard of where all the cities had walls, and those walls were necessary for the defense of the city. And here God is saying, look, tell him, tell Zechariah, Jerusalem will be a city that is so expansive it's going to be without walls. That's a glorious promise to these exiles that are discouraged and trying to rebuild. But then yet It'll be a city with walls of fire. Look in verse number five. For I, saith the Lord, will be unto her a wall of fire roundabout, and will be the glory in the midst of her. So Remember now, Haggai got them started to rebuild the temple. And Zechariah was encouraging them, build a temple. And you know there had to be some pragmatic Jewish men back there saying, why are we building the temple first? We gotta have walls. I mean we gotta build a wall before we build a temple. If we don't have walls to protect us, we're not gonna have a temple left. Because the walls were needed for protection. So we shouldn't be building the temple, we should be building the walls. That's why in Haggai you read where the people were saying it's not time, it's not time that we build the house There are a lot of people saying, you know, we need to build the walls before we build the temple. And Zachariah, through this vision, the Word of God is saying, look, no, you just focus on the temple. That's okay. You put God first You put worship first. You make sure that you have your priorities right, that you have the spiritual perspective right, because God says I will be a wall of fire around the city. God will be the protection there. And so what does that mean? Well God would not only be the protection, but look again in verse number five, and will be the glory in the midst of her. And so that answers one question that the people back then were wondering, will God ever occupy this city ever again? And the answer is absolutely yes. God will occupy the city of Jerusalem again. Not only will he be there, he'll be the wall of fire around it. When you think about a wall of fire, what do you think about? I think about the pillar of cloud, the pillar of fire, remember that protected Israel in the wilderness. And what also was in the midst of them. When they would camp, the tabernacle was right in the middle of the camp, and the Shekinah glory would come down on that tabernacle. And so it was the glory of God that was in the midst of them, but was also protecting them. And this is the same idea here. This is the idea that the glory of God that left Jerusalem will come back. You remember in the book of Ezekiel, that story where Ezekiel had the vision of the glory of God just lifting up off of the holy place? coming out of the temple, out through the eastern gate, and then went down through the valley to Ke Kidron up to the Mount of Oz and then it ascended up and then it just went away. And what was that? That was God saying, I'm out of here. The glory is departed because of the people's sin. God left town. And what happened right after that? Jerusalem was destroyed by the Babylonians. And now these people are wondering, you know, the glory of God lasts. If we rebuild, will the glory of God ever come back? And here in this vision of Zechariah, the answer is absolutely. God will be the wall of fire around that city, and God's presence will dwell in the midst of that city. And again, some people ask, when is this going to happen? Well, this hasn't happened yet. And so if it hasn't happened yet, what does that mean? It's yet to happen in the future. God's going to do this one day in the future. And so this will come to pass. This is the new Jerusalem in the millennium. This is the millennial Jerusalem where Jesus will set up his throne there in Jerusalem and he will be king. He will be the glory of God that's in the midst of that city. That's yet to come. And so Jerusalem will be expansive. It'll multiply. Now let me give you the third thing. Number one, the preparation to measure Jerusalem, the plan to multiply. But then finally, notice this: the promise to magnify Jerusalem. Now we're going to look at verses 6 down to verse number 10. But let me just tell you the genre changes here. He in chapter two from verses six to thirteen, this is poetry. Whereas before, it's kind of prophetic. He's given visions. Or he's given this vision. But here, now, this is Zechariah who's talking, and Zechariah writes the rest of this chapter out in a poem or a poetry, and it has two equal stanzas divided into two, verses six and nine. And then verses 10 to 13. Now, so we see a different speaker. Zechariah is now the speaker, not the angel. And he addresses a different audience. There are two different groups being addressed. In verses 6 to 9, he addresses the exiles who decided to remain in Babylon. And he calls them, what does he call them? Look at verse number seven, what he calls them. He says, Thou that dwellest with the daughter of who? Babylon. These are those that dwell with the daughter of Babylon. These are the ones that didn't want to come back to Jerusalem when the exile ended. Remember after there's exile, God allowed them to come back, repatriate the land. But there were a lot of them that said, Ah, we don't want to leave We're not we're not leaving Babylon, we're not going back to Jerusalem, why? Well because they had the good life in Babylon. They had already settled And look at verse number six where it says, God says, I have spread you abroad as the four wings of the heavens, saith the Lord. And so you have these exiles that are still living in Mesopotamia. They've been spread abroad throughout that land. Most did not want to come back to Jerusalem. They've become rich and prosperous. In fact, in the time of Nehemiah, did you know this? They would cast lots in order for people to go back to the city of Jerusalem. And if you lost, you had to go back. The lot tell on you it's like you've got to go back to Jerusalem. And why was that? Because they were having trouble getting people to go back and repopulate the city. Why? Again, because they had it so good where they were, and they're now going back to a city that had been destroyed and needed to be totally rebuilt. Where's the pioneer spirit? I mean it was gone. They were they were wanting to settle where they were. And so that Nehemiah says they had to compel people to go back and live there. And so Zechariah has a word to say to those exiles who are dwelling with the daughters of Babylon. But then in verses 10 to 13, Zachariah addresses the people that did go back to Jerusalem. These are the people that returned to the rubble. And he calls them O daughter of Zion. Look down at verse number 10. Sing and rejoice, O Daughter of Zion. So what you see then here in these last few verses is you have a poem with a clear trunk contrast between people dwelling in Babylon. and those who are dwelling in Jerusalem. Now, Zechariah has a strong command that he's going to give to each of these groups. He has a word for each of them. Here's the word for those living with the daughter of Babylon. What's the word? It's flee. Flee. Look, he tells them to flee. Look at verse number six, where he says this, ho ho, that's not Santa Claus, come forth and flee from the land of the north. Flee from the land of the Lord, saith the Lord. Get out of there. Look at verse number 7. Deliver thyself, O Zion, that dwelleth with the daughter of Babylon. And so he says to those people that are exiles in that land, get out of the land, flee, leave, deliver yourself. From that place. And by way of contrast, what does Zachariah say to those that are living, the exiles that return to Jerusalem, living among the heaps, living among the rubble, trying to rebuild. What does he say to them? Look at verse number 10. Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion. For lo, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord. Rejoice. Rejoice. Now this goes against human wisdom. I mean it goes against human understanding because from a human's perspective, shouldn't the people living in Babylon be singing and rejoicing? I mean after all, they're the ones prospering, they're the ones making money, they're the ones living it up In that society, they were at ease. And shouldn't those that are living in Jerusalem among the rubble there, shouldn't they be the ones that flee and get out of there? That, humanly speaking, that might be the wisdom of man, but that's not what God says. God says, no, no. Why? Because God has a future plan for Jerusalem. And God also has a future plan for Babylon. And that was not a good plan. What's going to happen to Babylon? Babylon's going to be judged God's going to come against it. Why? Well, for two reasons. God's going to judge Babylon. Here's the first one. Babylon touched the apple of God's eye. Look down at verse number 8. For thus saith the Lord of hosts. After the glory has sent me unto the nations which spoil you, for he that toucheth you touches the apple of his eye. And here God is directing this to the Babylonians, and He's letting them Israel know, you know, I'm going to judge them that spoiled you, because they have touched the apple of my eye. Now when we say that expression apple over eye, you know, we we we're kind of sentimental when we say that, you know, we see my you know, see a grandson, oh he's the apple of my eye. That sounds so sentimental. You know, what does that actually mean? Here's what it means. You know the word here for apple is the Hebrew word baba, which means eyeball. You touch the eyeball or the pupil of the eye. And by the way, this word occurs once in the Hebrew Bible, only here. And so it's talking about touching the pupil of the eye, the eye. Did you know that that's the most protected part of your body, the eye? It's also the most tender. sensitive part. God protects the eye with bones. He protects it with eyelids and eyebrows and tear ducts and so on. You know. Why? Because that's so very sensitive and it's always irritating when you get poked in the eye. Anybody ever get poked in the eye? I mean, is that fun? No, not at all. And what God is saying is, look, I'm going to judge the nations because they put their finger in my eye. Because Israel is the apple of my eye. Israel is the apple of his eye. That means he loves his people. That means he identifies with his people. And when you poke Israel, you stick your finger in God's eye. So let me tell you something. Hurting Israel is not a good idea. Not a good idea. Because Israel is the apple of God's eye. And so God says, therefore, I'm going to come against Babylon and I'm going to judge it. But there's another reason. Babylon represents everything that is opposed to God. It represents everything that is opposed to God. You know, there are two cities in the Bible that are prominent in history, Jerusalem and Babylon. Both cities are mentioned in Genesis. Babylon originated in Genesis. Eleven out of rebellion against the command of God to scatter, and they all came together. What did they do? They built a tower under the heavens. Who was the founder of Babylon? Nimrod, who is a type of the Antichrist. This is a city founded in rebellion. Jerusalem is introduced to us by Melchizedek, who is a type of Christ. It's a city of peace. Babylon is the city of war and confusion. Jerusalem is the city of peace. Babylon is mentioned in the Bible the second most amount of times. The only city mentioned more than Babylon is Jerusalem. That's mentioned more than any other city in the Bible. And Jerusalem, God's temple is there, and Babylon, God's, or man's tower is there. The Bible portrays Jerusalem as a chaste bride in Revelation 21. The Bible portrays Babylon as a great harlot. And Revelation 17. Jerusalem is eternal from God. Babylon will be destroyed by God We could say that Babylon is Satan's city. Jerusalem is God's city. And so There's this big contrast that we see in Scripture between Babylon and Jerusalem. Babylon represents all that is opposed to God. Rebellion against God, man's way, materialism, wealth, prosperity, looking at everything from a totally humanistic point of view without God. And Jerusalem is represents all that is completely, totally opposite of that. And so Babylon, we could say, represents the world system as opposed to God. But you know what? It's easy for people to go live in Babylon because it's so alluring It is so enticing. It has money, it has pleasure, it has status, the good life. You can experience it all right now there. But those that focus on Jerusalem have their mind not on the things of this world, but they have their mind on the kingdom of God and everything God stands for and what he will do with his people in the future. You see, that we know by faith. From a human standpoint, Jerusalem can't compete with the allure of Babylon, but if you live by faith, you know that when you focus on Jerusalem and all that God has for it That Jerusalem is eternal. What does the Bible say? The world is in the process of passing away and all the lust thereof, but he who does the will of God abides forever. And Jerusalem is that city that is in God's will. And those of you that are saved and know the Lord Jesus Christ, guess what? You will be citizens of that new Jerusalem. You understand that? You'll be citizens of that New Jerusalem. Alright? And so that's the thing. So God says to the people there, to Israel, flee, run, get out. Deliver yourself from Babylon. Could I ask you right now, where are you dwelling? Are you dwelling in Babylon? Or is your heart and mind set on Jerusalem? Are you living for this world and what it offers, or do you seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness? And all these things the Bible says will be added unto you. So the word to those that dwell with the daughter of Babylon is flee, run from it, get out of it. But let's go to the second part. Then he says in verse 10 to those in Zion, those are the daughters of Zion, rejoice! Look at verse 10, sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion. For lo, I come and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord. And so Zachariah urges the people to rejoice. Again, why? They're living among rubble, they have to rebuild. Well, because of the future glory. of Jerusalem. That's why. Because of God's plans for it. It does have a future. And again, I can't take this any other way but literal. When is all this going to happen? This will happen when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back. He will sit upon the throne of David in that literal city of Jerusalem. So how do we know that? We'll look at the four beautiful promises and we'll wrap it up with this. The four beautiful promises that God gives uh to those inhabitants of Jerusalem. Number one, the Lord will personally come to Jerusalem. Look again in verse number 10. Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for lo, I come. I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord. God will come. The Lord Jesus will come. Verse 11, look at what says. And many nations shall be joined to the Lord in that day, and shall be my people, and I will dwell in the midst of thee. And thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts has sent me unto thee. And so, again, this is referring to the Messiah, Jesus, the son of David. He will come and he will dwell there in that literal city. This has to be literal because that's how Zachariah would understand it. That's how the inhabitants that were there would understand it. It has to be literal. That God says, I'm going to come there. And when will this happen? Again. Now there are some people that say, well, this is already fulfilled. When? Well, they say, well, you know, Jesus during his first advent when he came to earth to die for men's sin, you know. He went there to Jerusalem. Now wait a minute. Jesus didn't live in Jerusalem. Where was he born? Okay, Bethlehem. You guys don't know? You failed the test. Crying out loud Where did he live? Nazareth, right? Give that man an extra bullshit. Also, Capernaum. So we could say that he lived really up around the area of Galilee. He never dwelt in Jerusalem. He never lived in Jerusalem in his first advent during his public ministry. Now, he visited there. He went there. But that was also the place where he was crucified. That was the place where the religious establishment hated him. He wasn't really received there. He didn't reign as a king there. Here it says, when he comes, he will dwell. Look at the word dwell. In verse number 11, I will dwell in the midst of thee. That is the word Shekan, which means to settle on or to inhabit a location. He's going to live there. He's going to dwell there. And has also the idea, just like the Shekinah glory dwelt among the people, even so Jesus will dwell there in Jerusalem in that day. His presence will be there. It will be in the midst of them there. And then also, number two, many nations will worship the Lord there. Look at verse eleven. Many nations shall be joined to the Lord in that day, and shall be my people, and I will dwell in the midst of thee And thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts has sent me unto thee. When he says, and shall be my people, the term my people is the word normally that refers to Gentiles, Go Yen. But here He's and it's applying to Gentiles. And what God is saying is, look, I'm going to bring all the people together there in Jerusalem, Jew and Gentile. I'm going to bring them all together in that time as one people And they're all going to come and we're going to worship the Lord there. Many nations, many Goyimer people will come and they will be there. And again, nothing like that has ever happened before, where all these people from different backgrounds and cultures all come together and they worship there in Jerusalem the one true and only the Lord That hasn't happened in history. Hasn't happened yet. But it will. It's going to happen one day there in Jerusalem, the Bible says. And there's so much more I could say about that. I wish we had more time. But here's number three. Jerusalem will be the Lord's chosen city again, look at verse twelve. And the Lord shall inherit Judah, his portion in the Holy land. And by the way, this is the only place in Scripture where that area is actually called the Holy Land. We use that designation today, but really it doesn't apply. The Lamb will not be holy until the Messiah cleanses the people and he returns to reign there in that place. That's when it will really be holy When he comes to reign there. And a fountain will be open to wash away sin, and then the Jews shall be called the holy people of God. And that is something that had to excite Zachariah and that remnant of people that had gone back, and that should excite us as well. But then here's the last thing. Another thing will happen is that there will be worldwide judgment when the Lord comes. Look at verse 13 Be silent, O all flesh, before the Lord, for he is raised up out of his holy habitation. And so during this time when the Lord comes back, and again this will all happen at the second coming at the end of the tribulation when the Lord comes And there will be that great battle of Armageddon when the Lord defeats all the enemies. And then he sets up his stone there in Jerusalem, and he will dwell there, and people will come and worship him there and hear him there. People from all over during that time. And by the way, you know what's exciting? If you know the Lord Jesus Christ, you're going to be there. I'm going to be there. You know that that's that's the next Holy Land trip I'm really looking forward to. We will be there, and we will hear him, and he will speak. He will and but here in verse 13, during that time there will be a worldwide judgment. All flesh will be hushed by his awesome presence. God will be aroused or awakened from his holy habitation. No wonder all the earth is to be silent during that time because it's going to be a time of fierce divine wrath against those who have not obeyed the gospel. Those nations and peoples that have disobeyed, that'll all be judged there. They will receive divine wrath, and there'll be no escape. And this is all part of God's redemptive plan. And that's why God wants you to know this. So will there be a future? Is God done with Jerusalem? Oh no. There's a big bright future ahead, according to the Scripture. The preparation to measure Jerusalem, the plan to multiply, the promise to magnify, God is not done. Jerusalem is still the centerpiece. As a part of God's consummation of his plan for the ages, it still plays an important role. And we have to understand that Now, how do you apply this message? It really depends on where you are. If you profess to know God, but you're living with the daughter of Babylon, God's word is to use get out of there. Get out. Make sure you're focusing on not the world, but the kingdom. If any man loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. You're living in Babylon. If your heart's in Babylon, friend, you need to check your salvation. You need to be focused on the kingdom of God. Seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Now, if you're living in Jerusalem and you're focusing on the kingdom of God and you're experiencing trials and difficulties, And things look very hard. And as you look out into the future, God says to you rejoice and sing for joy because I am with you. And I will be in your midst. And if you're not one of God's people, his word is to you. Submit your life to Jesus Christ. Submit your life to Jesus Christ. I want to tell you something. If you're not a part of Christ, you're not a part of his kingdom, everything in this world it's coming to naught. It's coming to naught. The only thing worth living for is Jesus Christ and his kingdom and what he has in store for the people of God. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for your word. Thank you for this vision that you gave to Zechariah that has such meaning even for us today. As we look out over the dramatic events that take place in the course of this world, Lord, we can see even with our own limited perspective the stage as if it's being set. Of how, Lord, you're going to bring all these things together in your time. And that our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, will return again. And there will be a time when our Lord Jesus will occupy that throne there in Jerusalem, and we will worship together with him there. What a wonderful plan, what a wonderful future you have laid up for your people, for those that know you. And Lord, I pray if someone here tonight that doesn't know you, that they would get that matter settled immediately. Immediately and set their heart upon Jerusalem and all the things that you're going to be doing in the future as you continue to redeem and build your church. So Father, bless this word to our hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.