Would you take your Bibles tonight and open to the book of Romans chapter eleven? We're dealing with uh A very difficult passage. I know I I sound like a broken record, I say that all the time, right? Because I told you why I say that, because when I make it understandable, that way you'll be impressed with me But but truly it it is uh one of those passages that um it it it's it's very needful for us to understand these things. And Romans chapter 11 deals with the question of is God through with Israel? And I think the first thing that comes to people's mind is, you know, hey, I I made an extra effort to come out on Sunday night. Why are you talking about Israel? I need something for me. Uh well first of all because the Bible talks about it. And when we come, I think the Sunday night crowd in church are here because they're hungry over the word of God. They want to learn God's word. Is that true of you? So I'm going to try to teach it to you. And I think that sometimes when we see the incredible wisdom of God in Scripture, it draws us into wonder, love, and praise for who God is. God has an incredible plan of redemption that continues to unfold. And we see this here in the book of Romans, specifically with his plan for Israel. But the question you might say is, you know, what does this have to do with me? Well the reason you ought to be concerned about the future of Israel is because the future of Israel is inseparably linked to your future. If Israel has no future, then you have no future If you remember in Romans chapter 9, God made some awesome promises to us as believers. Do you remember some of them? He said in Romans 8 verse 1. Uh Romans eight I should say he made some promises. That's a great promise. Once you come to cr Christ, there's no condemnation He says that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. And then God said, There's nothing that will separate us from the love of Christ. Aren't those great promises? Those are just a few. And there are many of them in Romans chapter eight. But how do we know that God is going to keep those promises? If God doesn't keep his promises to Israel, then how do we know that God's going to keep his promises to us? And this is one of the questions that has come to the mind of Paul when he's writing this, because the church at Rome was filled with both Gentiles and Jews, and there were perhaps some Jews there in the church at Rome that were saying, you know, you've spoken a lot about salvation and the Gentiles, but what about us? God has made some promises to Israel. Does God intend to keep those promises? Because from our perspective, it looks as if God's word has failed. Look at chapter 9, verse 6. It's where Paul says, it is not as though the word of God has taken none effect. Or we could say it's not like God's word has failed. It might look like that to you. And there may be some people here tonight that feel like at times that God's word has failed in your life, but I want you to rest assured, and I want to basically convince you that God's word never fails. When God makes a promise, you can bank on it. But nevertheless, Paul takes on this because it looks like to the Jewish mind that God has not given or not come through or not fulfilled the promises that he made to Israel. God makes a lot of promises to Israel All through the Old Testament is literally filled with those promises. We can't even begin to try to cover all of them. They're all throughout the Old Testament But the bottom line is this, God made all these promises to Israel, and it looks like God hasn't kept those promises. In fact, it looks like perhaps that God is done with Israel. And look at chapter 11, verse 1. I say then, hath God cast away his people? That is, has God cast away Israel? Is he done with that nation? What about all the promises that he made? I mean, if God doesn't come through on those promises to Israel, how can we be sure that God is going to come through with the promises that he made to us? And so this is why this concerns us. Because the whole character of God is at stake here. The integrity of God is at stake. If God doesn't Or if God changes his promises or doesn't come through on his promises, then what assurance do we have that God won't change? The promises for us, or that God will fail to give us what He has promised. And so God's character depends on this. God's integrity depends on this. God's trustworthiness is dependent on this. And this is why Paul stops right in the middle of Romans to give you this understanding of what's going on with respect to Israel and the Jews. You can take the book of Romans and go from chapter 8 to chapter 12 with really no gap in between. It just naturally flows from chapter 8 on into chapter 12. Why 9, 10, and 11? Why does Paul give this kind of parenthetical section in the book of Romans? It's because Paul wants to deal with this one thing. Because Paul doesn't want anyone thinking that in any way God has failed to keep any one of his promises. Even though from an earthly perspective, from a human perspective, it might look like that to you, but you can rest assured that that is never true. And so Paul asks the question in verse 1, has God cast away his people? And he answers the question, God forbid He has not cast away his people. God is not done with Israel. And we and we you notice that I told you last time that Paul basically in chapter 11 gives us four reasons why God is not done with Israel. And we gave you the first two last week, and I doubt that we'll get through the next two tonight. We'll try the next one. But the first reason was a personal reason, the example of Paul. Paul gives himself as an example. If you think God's done with Israel, look at me. I'm an Israelite. Look at verse 1. For I also am an Israelite. of the seed of Abraham of the tribe of Benjamin. And Paul uses his salvation as proof that God's not done with Israel. Paul's salvation was a proof That God's not done with Israel. Paul's salvation was a pattern. His own salvation experience is a pattern for Jews who one day will turn to the Lord in the future. Just as Paul was blind to the Messiah, there are many Jews today blind to the Messiah. Just as Paul held to his religion, so do they Just as Paul lived in rebellion and unbelief, so do they. Just as Paul saw the resurrected, glorified Christ one day Israel will look upon the one whom they have pierced, the Bible says in the book of Zechariah, they will see the resurrected Christ. Just as Paul's eyes were open on the road to Damascus one day, the eyes of his people Israel will be opened. So that's one reason. Paul gives a personal reason. He uses himself as an example. Secondly, we saw that there was a historical reason. And he goes back into the story of Elijah. And verse 2, God has not cast away his people, which he foreknew. Won't ye not what the scripture says of Elijah? How he maketh intercession to God against Israel, saying, Lord, they have killed thy prophets and dig down thine altars I am alone of less that I seek my life. But what saith the answer of the Lord to him? I reserve to myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to the image of Baal God was saying, I always have a remnant. From Elijah's perspective, it looked like everyone in Israel had turned from the Lord and were now worshiping Baal. And you remember that story how he liked he ran into the wilderness, he ran to Sinai, he met the Lord there, he said, Lord, I'm the only one left. You ever feel that way? I'm the only one that's faithful around here. And Elijah felt that way. And God said, no, Elijah, I have 7,000 that haven't bowed the knee to Baal that you don't know about. I'm working in ways you don't know. God always has a remnant. This was a strong emphasis that Paul gives. He gives this scriptural example. He also talks about a sovereign election, how that God According to verse 5, the election of grace always has a remnant of people who are believing, who are his people. And so we go to the third reason then. The first reason, a personal reason, God hasn't given up on Israel. Paul said, look at me. I'm a Jew. I'm an Israelite. You see my salvation, I'm a pattern for those who are to come. He gives a historical reason. Think about the remnant that God talked to Elijah about. But here's number three, a practical reason, and this is the evangelization of Gentiles. Now look down at verse number 11. We start there. I say then, have they stumbled that they should fall? And Paul's third reason is God has not rejected Israel is that They have stumbled, but God's not done with them. The reason is because during this time, God is turning to the Gentiles God will once again turn to the Jewish people when the times of the Gentiles is over with. And so they stumbled. And the question is, Paul said, I say then, have they stumbled that they should fall? The question here is, is there fall permanent? Is there fall? Is there rejection permanent? Because you can look and see that Israel has not turned wholesale to the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so they've fallen, but is it a permanent fall? And again, Paul answers the question. Look at verse 11, God forbid. His favorite term, right? Strongest negative in the Greek. God forbid. Their fall is not permanent, but read the rest of verse 11. But rather, through their fall, salvation is come unto the Gentiles. And so I want you to see here what the period. There's just a time when they have fallen, but that's not a permanent time. That's a temporary time, Paul says. And we see the purpose. Why? Well, for the salvation of the Gentiles. The stumbling of the Jews meant that the offer of salvation to the Gentiles was now given. Israel's temporary loss. is the Gentiles permanent gain. And so God has turned the gospel, the evangelizing to the Gentiles during this time when Israel has failed. Now we see this even in the earthly ministry of Jesus. You remember in Matthew? Matthew gives several parables about this. Remember the centurion who came to Jesus and he said, Lord, my servant is sick, and Jesus said, Well, let's go heal him. And the centurion said, Oh no, Lord, I'm not worthy to have you under my roof. You just speak the word and he'll be healed. And you know what Jesus said after that? He turned to the crowd that was there of Jews and he said, I haven't seen faith like this in Israel. This was a Gentile centurion. And the faith that he was exercising was so very real. And Jesus said, I haven't seen this kind of faith. Among the Jewish people that believe on me. And then later Jesus gives a parable of the two sons. A father tells two sons to go do something, one says no, and then later repents and does it. One son says yes, and then he doesn't do it And Jesus applied that to the religious leaders who pretended like they were obeying God outwardly, but inwardly they were not They had rejected their Messiah. They were not obeying God. They were not obeying the Lord. And then later Jesus gave the parable of the vineyard. The owner of the vineyard basically uh leases out his vineyard to someone else and uh he sends his messengers to go and get the fruit and what do they do to the messengers? They stone them, they kill them. Finally he sends his son. He says, They'll reverence my son But they don't reverence the sun. What do they do to the sun? They kill the sun. And again, that's all a picture of Israel. How that Israel has not turned to the Messiah. They rejected him. In fact Jesus gave this parable while he was on his way to Jerusalem, knowing that he was the Son that would be crucified, that would be killed. And so therefore God said he would turn to another people. That is, he would turn to the Greek word ethne, he would turn to the nations. He would turn to the Gentiles. Since the Jews have not believed in the Messiah, he would turn then to people who would believe, who would trust him. And so we see this all through the ministry of the Lord Jesus. God turned to the Gentiles. And Jesus in those parables graphically illustrates the very principle that Paul is teaching us here in Romans chapter 11. Israel stumbled which led to the salvation of the Gentiles And by the way, we see this in the ministry of Paul, too, don't we? If you read through the book of Acts, what do you find? Everywhere Paul goes, where does he go first? He goes to the Jewish synagogue. And he preaches to Christ the Messiah there. And the pattern just seems to be the same. They don't believe. And so what does Paul do? He shakes the dust off, and where does he go? He goes to the Gentiles. Because they have rejected the message. We see this in Acts 13 at Antioch. We see this in Acts 14 at Lystra and Derby. We see this in Thessalonica and Acts chapter 17, same pattern at Berea, at Corinth, at Ephesus, same thing. Paul goes to the Jews, they don't listen. There may be a few that might believe But they reject his message. And Paul turns to the Gentiles, and what is he seeing there? Gentiles are coming to Christ. They're anxious. They receive the message. There's a revival happening among the Gentiles, whereas the Jews are not believing. And so Paul addresses this and he says, they've stumbled, but their stumbling, their loss, is our gain. Because they have not received the message, God has turned now to the Gentiles. And that's one purpose for it. But also Paul says there's another purpose. Look at the end of verse 11 Also for to provoke them to jealousy. That is to provoke the Jews to jealousy. Now, jealousy is normally seen as a negative emotion But God's intention here is for it to be a positive stimulus to draw his people back to himself. The Jews always had this disdain for the Gentiles. They thought of them as being unclean. They thought of them as being outside the boundaries of God's grace. Now to be told that the Jews have lost their special place with God, and now God has turned to the Gentiles, and that relationship that they lost, now the Gentiles have gained Well, that was hopefully going to provoke God's people to jealousy so that they would want to come back So that they would want to come back and uh receive the Lord. And so this is this is the whole purpose here. And and this does happen sometimes. And by the way This is a call from God to us to live the gospel out in such a way that the beauty of our life will provoke others who don't know the Lord to come to Him. You understand that? That's part of what God is calling us to do is to live out the gospel in such a way that unbelieving people but here specifically it's referring to unbelieving Jews. We as Gentiles are to live our life in such a way, in such a beautiful way, so that unbelieving Jews would come to know uh Jesus Christ as their Savior. And again, this has happened before. I read the story of Dr. Charles Seinberg. He was a tremendous scholar of the Old Testament. I've got some books by him in my library. He was a brilliant man, and uh he was an Orthodox Jew and in his home uh growing up They had a household servant who was a gentile servant. In fact, they were called a Sabbath Gentile. You say, what's a Sabbath Gentile? That's someone that would come in and work on the Sabbath because the Jews wouldn't work on the Sabbath. So they had this servant, and she was a Christian. And Dr. Feinberg said that the beauty of her life as a Christian. was so attractive the way she lived and believed that what it caused him to do was to ask questions about the Lord Jesus. It caused him to ask questions about her faith. And it ultimately led to him becoming a Christian. You see, that's the whole what Paul's talking about here. That's the way it should be. That during this time, we know that there are not many Jewish people believing on the Lord. But they should look at the life of those of us who know the Lord Jesus Christ and see the beauty of Christ in our lives so much so that it attracts them And this is what Paul means when he says it provokes them to jealousy here. And so that's another purpose here that he has. So we see the uh the purpose here. And then I want you to notice also the preacher, look in verse number um verse thirteen where he says, um Actually, let me back up to uh verse 12. Now, if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them be the riches of the Gentiles, how much more their what? Their fullness Now, if their fall, Paul says, resulted in we getting the gospel, we Gentiles, the other nations getting the gospel If their fall ended up being a blessing to the rest of the world, how much more will their restoration be a blessing to the world? You see his argument there? If their fault resulted in our blessing, their restoration should result in our blessing even more, is what he's saying. And so We see then what Paul's talking about to provoke them to jealousy, but then we see next the preacher, look at verse 13, for I speak to you Gentiles inasmuch As I am the apostle of the Gentiles, and I magnify my office. And Paul uses himself as an example of seeking to provoke jealousy. or to provoke the Jews to jealousy because Paul himself had a special call, and what was that call? That call was to the Gentiles That was his mission that God gave him. And Paul says, look, I don't underplay that calling. Paul said, I magnify my office. The word magnifying. where we get the word uh where we get doxology, Paul is saying, I praise God for my calling. I thank God I don't want to be anything else than what God has called me to be here in this ministry. Paul wanted his ministry to Gentiles to spill over into the Jewish people, is what he's saying there. Look at verse fourteen. If by any means I might provoke to emul emulation them which are my flesh And might save son of some of them. Paul said, I hope that my ministry among the Gentiles is so fruitful, and I hope that the Jewish people see so many Gentiles getting saved and coming to know the Lord that it provokes them to jealousy, and my whole ministry spills over. And to seeing many Jews as well come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. I hope that it just spills over blessings into their life as well. And notice verse 15, for if the casting away of them be the reconciling of the world, what shall the receiving of them be? but life from the dead. And again it's the same argument. If they're casting aside result of in blessing, what will it mean when they are reconciled? And Paul said, you know what it's going to be like? It's going to be like life coming from the dead. It'll be a resurrection for those people. Now, some scholars debate what Paul meant by this. And there are three different interpretations. I don't want to give you too many of the details, but let me just summarize. It means to some an unprecedented spiritual awakening in the world. Life from death, that's revival. When the people are dead spiritually and they're brought to life. And by the way, beloved, that's exactly what salvation is. Salvation is bringing life to a dead person, spiritually dead. Some think it means that. Some think it means the consummation of redemption at the resurrection. And the dead. And then some think this is a figurative expression describing the conversion of the Jews. I think what he's talking about here is a spiritual awakening that's going to take place towards the end days, that's going to happen among Israel. the Jews. There's going to be a spiritual awakening. There's going to be a revival among the people of God. There'll be a national restoration of Israel back to them believing on the Lord Jesus Christ as the Messiah. And I think that's what Paul's referring to here. So we see the preacher. Then notice the parable. Look at verse 16. For if the first fruit be holy, the lump is also holy. And if the root be holy, so are the branches. You know why God hasn't given up on his people? Because if the He says in verse 16, if the first fruit is holy then the lump is also holy. And he gives really in this parable two two real parables here. First he uses the loaf of bread. The first fruits here The Greek word actually refers to the first portion of an offering which was set aside to the Lord. In some Bible translators Translate this dough. And some translations might even say dough because it refers to the dough offering. Part of the offerings in the Old Testament were that you could offer cakes and loaves. Did you know that You can bring a cake offering to the Lord. By the way, whenever you bring desserts to fellowship, you're kind of doing that. Just kidding. You're giving them to me. No, I'm just kidding. But a person in the Old Testament could bring a cake or a loaf of bread and they would offer it to the Lord, and this bread was used to feed the priests who were who were there. But before any bread or any cake would be eaten, a part of it, or a portion of it, was broken off and it was offered to the Lord. That was the offering to the Lord. So you take a loaf of bread, break off part, give it to the Lord, give the rest to the priests. That was the way they offered. Now, Paul's logic here is if if the part was holy, if you break off part and give it to the Lord, and that part that you broke off was holy, what does that mean about the whole oath? Then the whole oath is holy If the portion is holy, and it came from the loaf, what does that mean? That means the whole loaf is holy. And that's his logic there in verse 16. If the first fruits be holy, the lump is also holy. Now The question is, what does the first fruit or the portion broken off represent? Who do they represent? And who does the whole loaf represent? And again, there are three possible interpretations. Some think that the first fruits are the Jews, the whole loaf are the Gentiles. Some think that the first fruits are the first converts And the whole loaf is the rest of Jewish converts that are to come. And then there's a third interpretation that believes that the first portion, the first fruits, represent Abraham and the patriarchs of old. And the rest of the loaf represents the rest of the Jewish people who will come to know the Lord. And I think that's the correct interpretation here. The whole loaf of bread speaks about the Jewish people, the part broken off are the patriarchs Abraham and the early fathers And if they were holy to God, if God counted them special, what does that mean? That the rest of the loaf, which represents the rest of the Jewish people, are still holy to God. They're still special to God. That's the whole point. In fact, look down in verse 28. It seems to indicate that, we fast forward to verse 28, as concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sakes. Talk about the Jews. But as touching the election, they are beloved for the whose sake, the father's sake, and there he's talking about the patriarchs. Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and so on. And since the patriarchs are set apart, then the descendants of Israel are still beloved to God. And so he uses the parable of the bread. But then there's another parable that he uses. He uses the parable of the olive tree. Look in the same verse, verse 16. And if the first fruit be holy, the lump is also holy. And if the root be holy, so are the branches. And again, it's the same thing. Paul is saying that if the foundation part of the plant, the root, is holy, then the branches, that which it produces Must likewise be holy. And the branch again represents the first patriarchs, Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And the rest of the plant represents Israel, the olive tree. And by the way, many times in the Old Testament, Israel was represented as an olive tree. or an olive branch. And so if they were holy, consecrated to the Lord, so were all their descendants the people of Israel. So for God to forsake his people would be to renege on the promises, listen, that he gave to those fathers, the patriarchs Therefore, in order for God to be faithful to his promise, there must be a future restoration of Israel. So look in verse 17. And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou being a wild olive tree, Wert grasted in among them, and with them partakest of the root, and the fatness of the olive tree, boast not against the branches And again, think of the imagery that Paul is using here. He's thinking of an olive tree. And again, in the Old Testament, Israel was called an olive tree. We see this in Jeremiah. We see it in Hosea. And when he says if some of the branches be broken off, again he's talking here about Israel. Some of the branches of that olive tree were broken off. How are they broken off? This speaks of what? It speaks of judgment. Judgment on Israel. There were times when God had to break off some of the branches. And by the way, Um olive trees sometimes produce unproductive branches, and what they had to do, if they saw a branch that was unproductive, they would break those branches off and they would take a young wild olive. tree and they would take branches from that young wild olive tree and they would graft them into the old olive tree because it would begin to produce more fruit. And this is the analogy that Paul is using. He's saying, you know, Israel, God had to break off some of the branches, and then God grafted into that olive tree wild Branches. Now who does the wild branches represent? Represents you. Represents me. Because we're the Gentiles. And when God broke off some of those old branches, he was making room to bring in and graft into the olive tree Gentiles who would believe and receive the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this is the analogy that Paul is using here. We are grafted into the tree. And since we're grafted into the tree, verse 17, look at the end of it. We partake of the root. And we partake of the fatness of the olive tree, which that simply means is this: that we partake of the blessings that God gave to Israel. We now are part of that. The blessings that God promised to Israel, guess what? We are now partakers of that because we've been granted into the olive tree. Isn't that a blessing to know? You are God's special people. You are partakers of the root and the things that God did in the life of Abraham and the early church patriot or early century patriarchs. In the beginning, we are now partakers of the promises that God gave to them. We are partakers of the fatness of the olive tree, the blessings of that olive tree. But now Paul gives a warning. You know, we are we are blessed. We are privileged. We've been grafted into the tree. We now get all these blessings. But now don't get a big head. That's what he says. Don't get proud. So I want you to notice the peril. Look down in verse 18. Boast not against the branches. But if thou boastest, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee. And Paul's saying, don't be arrogant against the branches, that is, the branch that was broken off. You know, we're now the new branches. We don't get arrogant against the old branches that were broken off. You know what this is? That is, don't despise those who have been a long time A part of God's people, Israel, and now they're broken off, and now they're not part. Don't get arrogant against them. You know what this is? This is kind of an anti-Semit Semitism. uh to be anti-Semitic, that attitude of being against the Jewish people because they have not believed on Jesus, their Messiah. And Paul's giving a warning to the church, you better be careful that you don't get that attitude against the Jewish people. Don't get that attitude. And by the way, throughout history, the church has made that mistake. There's been a long history of anti-semitism in the church. There are some who expelled Jews from their country because of it. The first crusades in 1096, Jews were persecuted. I also read about the attempts of Martin Luther to evangelize the Jews and they would not come to Christ, and then because of that, he put out a pamphlet that said concerning Jews and their lies. And this is not told about Martin Luther a lot. But then it says he admonished Christians to destroy Jewish homes and synagogues with fire and cover them with dirt, to silence rabbis on pain of death seizure of Jewish wealth, and the enslavement of young Jews in hard labor. He wrote this. To sum up, dear princes and nobles who have Jews in your domain. If this advice of mine does not suit you, then find a better one so that you and we may all be free of this insufferable, devilish burden, the Jews. That was Martin Luther. You know, a lot of times we hear all good reports about Martin Luther. He studied the first part of Romans, but obviously he missed this part. You overlook this part. Because here's a warning that God gives in verse 18, boast not against the branches It's unthinkable to hate Jews. Why? Because from the Jewish people came our salvation. Came the gospel. So what is our attitude to be? Gratitude. Look at verse 18. Boast not against the branches, but if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee In other words, it's not the branches that support the root, but it's the root that supports the branches. They are our forefathers. Even though their blood is not in our veins, their truth and their heritage is in our hearts. It's that root that upholds us branches. So what should our attitude be? Paul says it should be gratitude We should be grateful. And then it should be one of humility. And verse 19, Thou wilt say then, the branches were broken off that I might be grafted in. Boy, that's just somebody on the ego trip Oh the branches were broken off because God was making room for me. No You better keep a humble attitude. This is an arrogant boast in verse 19 that Paul warns against. And because notice what he says, this kind of pride can cause God to turn away from you. Look at verse 20. Well, because of unbelief they were broken off. And thou standest by faith, but be not high-minded, but what fear. That's the other attitude we're to have. Not only gratitude and humility, but fear The issue is not worthiness, it's faith. Do you think you are more worthy than anyone else to come to salvation? If you do, you don't understand salvation. None of us are worthy. We're all sinners. The the issue is faith, not worthiness. The issue is not racial. It's not national. It's not inferiority or superiority. It is faith. And faith is what? Faith is a gift from God. God gave you the faith to believe, you better be humble, you better be reverent, you better fear the Lord. You better be grateful about that and boast not against those who are outside the commonwealth of blessings that we now receive. You better not be arrogant about that. Paul warns there in verse number 20. But then look at verse 21. For if God spared not the natural branches, take heed lest also he spare not thee. If God didn't hesitate to break off the natural branches from the tree, do you think he's going to hesitate to break off grafted branches? That came from the outside, alien branches that were granted in. And of course we understand, of course not So look at verse 22. Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God on them which fell severity But on but towards thee goodness. And if thou continue in his goodness, otherwise thou also shall be cut off. Don't you understand our God is not only a God of goodness, he's a God of severity. And God right now may be treating his people, the Jews, with severity. And God's treating you with goodness. And friend, you better be careful. Because, and you better make sure that you continue, verse 22, in his goodness. So that you don't receive the severity. Because Paul basically says, you know what? God can cut you off too. Do you understand what a privilege it is to know Jesus? You understand that? Do you understand what a privilege it is that God in His grace has chosen at this moment in your life, at this time, to bring you to faith? Do you understand how wonderful that is? And if you take that for granted, God, instead of giving blessing in your home and seeing that your children and grandchildren come to know Him, if He sees your arrogant attitude, He can turn away from you. He could turn to others. He can say, you know what, there's others out here that will appreciate this. If you take for granted the blessings that God has given you, you can experience not his goodness, but his severity. And this has happened to churches in the world. Churches, you know, think about the churches in Asia Minor, and written in the book of Revelation, the seven churches in Asia Minor. Remember how God He warned them that He would remove their candlestick? Think about Turkey right now. Turkey is a mission field for Christianity. There are no churches over there now. There was a time when there was when when God was blessing, but not now. Think about the church in North Africa In the second and third centuries, North Africa was a place that had strong churches, great Christian preachers, apologists came from there, Tertilian, Cyprian. Athanasius, Augustine, all those great men came from there. The church in Africa thrived for many years, but now you know what? It's gone. You know what's taken over there? Islam is taking over North Africa It's gone. It's all over. We could talk about the church in Italy, the church in Germany. At one time, England was a place of great revival where missionaries were being sent out. I've been over there, trust me, it's not happening now. Christianity is scarce there. And this can happen. That's why Paul says, you need to thank God for what you have. Don't take it for granted. Make sure you continue in Christianity. goodness, the goodness of God. And then I want you to see next the promise. Look at verse 23. And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, Shall be grasped in, for God is able to grasp them in again. And again, here Paul is speaking about the Jewish people. God is able once again to grasp them in And so they can no longer abide or abide not in unbelief. What's easier to graft in a wild branch or a natural branch? The whole point is it's so easy for God to once again turn to his people and graft back into the tree natural branches. If God can graft in wild branches, he can certainly graft back in the natural branches. Look at verse 24, and we'll be done. for tonight. For if thou wert cut off of the olive tree which is wild by nature, and were grafted contrary to nature into a good olive tree, how much more Shall these which be the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree? And this is the promise that God's going to do one day. God says, one day I'm going to turn back and I'm going to graft back into the tree the natural branches. And there will be a revival. There'll be a spiritual awakening among Israel, among his people. And they'll be brought back in. In fact, this has been prophesied in the Old Testament. Remember the story in uh in Ezekiel chapter 37? Remember God said to Ezekiel He has a vision. He goes out and he sees a graveyard, basically a valley filled with dry bones. And God says, Ezekiel, what do you see? He says, I see a valley of dry bones. And remember what God said to Ezekiel? He said, Ezekiel, preach to those bones. Can you imagine preaching in a graveyard? Preaching to a bunch of dry bones? Someone says that's what preachers do on Sunday morning. I'm just kidding. Just kidding. And so here's Ezekiel. He's there in that graveyard. And God says, preach Ezekiel. And Ezekiel starts to preach. And you know what happens? Perhaps you've heard the Southern Gospel Song. The how does that go? The bones all come together. The ankle bone is connected to the leg bone. And I don't want to, you know, butcher the song. I'm not sure of the anatomy here, but What happens is while he's preaching, the whole thing comes together and then flesh comes over the bones, and there's resurrection, there's regeneration, there's life And if you look at that story there in Ezekiel 37, God says this was about the nation Israel. This is about the whole house of Israel. Right now it looks like spiritually they're dead. But one day God's going to bring all of it together. And there's going to be a revival, there's going to be regeneration. Again, this is what salvation is. Salvation is when the Word of God is preached. This is why I believe in the power of the Word of God. Because it's the power of the Word of God that brings life. And when the Word of God is preached, God blesses that word. And where there was spiritual deadness, there is life that's given. And God says, one day this is going to happen. God says, I will bring you back. I will Bless you. I will renew you spiritually. This is what the Lord is going to do. And so this is another reason that Paul gives that God is not done with his So we see a personal reason. Paul himself is an example, historical reason, God always has a remnant, a practical reason, and next week we'll look at a final reason why God's not done with Israel. Let's have a word of prayer together tonight. Now, friend, while I was preaching here, maybe God has spoken to your heart. Let me just ask you this one question. Are you have you been grafted into the tree? Is that where you are? Are you in Christ? Have you trusted him? Are you sure of that? Because that's the greatest place to be. And friend, if God has opened your eyes to see the beauty of Christ, if he's opened your eyes to give you the gospel and you've responded in faith, Even that is a gift from God. You know what? You should just take a minute and praise God right where you are. Say thank you, Jesus, that I'm saved. Thank you, Lord, that you've opened my eyes. And don't get arrogant about that. Don't think it's because of anything good about you or that you're superior in any way to anyone else. It's not it. It's because of the mercy of God. That's it. Because of his mercy And friend, if you're not sure that that's your standing, I would just encourage you right where you are, make sure of it right now. The Bible says now is the accepted time. There's gonna come a time when the accepted time is gone. There's no one here that can guarantee me that you'll live until tomorrow. We don't know what tomorrow is going to bring. And if you're not certain about your standing right now, I would ask you, right where you are, turn to Christ Pray to him. Tell him, Lord, I'm a sinner and I need your salvation. I believe you're the only way. I believe you're the way, the truth, and the life. I believe that my sins were placed on you and you died to pay my sin death All of my hope is in you for heaven. All of my faith is in you. And I'm trusting you right now, Lord Jesus Friend, pray that I mean it, and he will save you. He will make you his child. And if you pray that, please let us know. We want to help you along, encourage you in your new faith. Father, bless your word, the hearing hearts tonight. Thank you, Lord, for this wonderful plan of salvation, this wonderful redemption that we see in Scripture. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen