So grateful to see you here in the Lord's house tonight. And I want you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Jeremiah, chapter eight. As you know, we're kind of doing a selective series through uh the book Book of Jeremiah. There's really two ways to preach through a book. One is successively, passage by passage, argument by argument. Verse by verse. And then there's a selective approach where you just kind of select some passages. And that's what we're going to do here in the book of Jeremiah, unless we're in here for five years. And we don't want to do that with a successive approach, but there are certainly some great passages of scripture here. Some things that we can learn from the prophet Jeremiah. And the title of the sermon tonight is this, Is There No Bomb in Gilead? I want you to look at In chapter eight, and I want you to look down at verse number twenty-two tonight. Chapter eight, verse twenty-two. Now Jeremiah is famously called the weeping prophet. And this is for good reason. He had a very difficult ministry. I would venture to say that perhaps of all the prophets of the Old Testament, Jeremiah perhaps had the most difficult task Because his was a ministry of preaching to a people that really were very hard hearted and the judgment of God was imminent and he was trying to call them to repentance. And so he could see what was coming. In fact, God had given him some visions about the oncoming judgment. And it broke his heart, and he wept over it. He saw the tragedy of human suffering. And as we come to our passage today in chapter eight, verse twenty two, it just seems like Jeremiah is at his wit's end. He's kind of an emotional basket case, you might He's kind of beside himself. He's he's astonished. He's dismayed. And he's disgusted because he sees again the dire condition of his people, and he sees nothing really happening. He sees no repentance on their part. He's no urgency. They're not listening to him. And there's not a whole lot that he can do. And he wants them to be healed. And so look what he says in chapter 8 and verse number 22. Is there no bomb in Gilead? And is there no physician there? Why then is not the health of the daughter of my people recovered? So he he asked this rhetorical question, is there no bomb in Gilead? Is there no physician that is there? Now, of course, what does he mean when he talks about a bomb in Gilead? This is kind of a a medicinal uh a salve that was really made there. Gilead is in the region of the Transjordan in the Middle East there. And it was known for its healing In fact, the word balm comes from a word that means balsam tree. These were trees that kind of secreted a turpentine-like resin and healed the wounds of people. It was very highly sought after sought after in this day and age. So when you think of it, kind of think of an ancient uh Vic's vapor rub, I guess. you could say if we had to compare it to something today. And so Gilead was really known for this bomb. It was known also for their physicians. That were able to apply this and other things. It was known for that. Kind of like Baltimore is known for good hospitals. We have Johns Hopkins here, we have great physicians here. There's a sense in which Gilead was also known for that. And so people People sought the bomb of Gilead to help their illnesses f and they b were seeking that for centuries. In fact if you remember in the story of Joseph, remember when he was sold into slavery, the caravan that came by was headed to Egypt that is brother sold him to that caravan. You remember, you might remember in the story that that caravan were headed to Egypt and they were carrying the bomb from Gilead with them. Well later on in the history of Israel, uh they settled into the promised land and they took some of the land on the western side of the Jordan and it happened to be that area of Gilead. So Israel then became a nation that was really uh making this. It was part of it was an Israeli trade now. And they w they say that in this time that this healing salve, this bomb of Gilead, was worth twice its weight in the world. Over. Now here is a nation that has this wonderful medicinal uh medicine, and yet Jeremiah is kind of asking a question in a very poetic, figurative, rhetorical way. How is it that how is it How is it that a people can trade uh and uh with this bomb and have it available for them and have positions in g in Gilead and yet be so Sick. Now of course the point here is not that this nation was physically sick, but he's using a physical illustration to talk about the spiritual condition of the nation. The real sickness That Jeremiah is poetically referring to here is a spiritual sickness. And what was the problem with the people of Israel? They were backslidden, they were away from God. They were wounded from their sins, from their idolatries. They needed to be restored. The brokenness that was part of their life wasn't a physical brokenness, it was a spiritual brokenness. The implication there is simply this, that Israel spiritually has the bomb of Gilead. They have f uh physicians. Why? Because the nation of Israel has the word of God. And they also have the great physician himself. They have God present. So how is it that a nation that has these medicinal blessings, spiritually speaking, can be so spiritually sick? people. Uh how could they overcome their sickness? It was very simple. That was to go and apply the bomb that they already have. It was to go to the physician. Later on Jeremiah will use the same language. This time he's not talking about the Jewish people. He'll be talking about Gentiles. In fact, write down Jeremiah 46, 11, he says, Go up to Gilead and take bomb. O virgin, the daughter of Egypt, in vain shalt thou use many men Medicines, for thou shalt not be cured. So the solution for the Jews and the Gentiles was the same. Go to Gilead. Go to the physician there. Go and get this healing medicine. You can't rely on any other medicines, they won't work. And so Jeremiah here in chapter eight, verse twenty two, he's astonished What's the problem he says? Is there have we run out of medicine in Gilead? Have we run out of good physicians? Good doctors in Gilead. And of course this is a rhetorical question. They're not out of the medicine, they're not out of doctors. Then why are God's people still sick? Well the reason is is because they haven't gone to the to the physician. They haven't gone to get the bomb of Gilead. They haven't applied it. That's why they are still sick And it may be that you're here tonight, you might be suffering from some spiritual illness in your life. You know, as people of God, sometimes we can suffer spiritual Spiritually, because perhaps things have happened in our life. It may be, I don't know, the Lord knows, and you know your heart, that m perhaps you're not as close to the Lord as you need to be. You're backslidden There's a spiritual issue in your life. Perhaps there's anger that you're dealing with. You're angry at God over something that happened. Maybe it's it's defeated you're defeated by sin. Maybe discouragement. Maybe depression. Or bewilderment in your life. Something is happening. You can't understand it. You're frustrated. Maybe your faith is very low at this moment. Maybe it's loneliness. Whatever it is. We can go on. I know this. God wants to heal your soul. And He's not talking about a physical healing. He's talking about a spiritual healing, but really it's a healing of all kinds. He's able to do anything in our life. And so again, the question here is why is God's healing balm not applied? Why is it not used? The people were neglecting God And if we're not careful, we can do that in our own life. We can neglect God. We can neglect going to the position to heal our soul. We can neglect applying the balm of Gilead that God has given to us as a resource So we need to ask ourselves some questions as we look at these chapters here, and that is, why did the people of God not use this healing medicine? Well I just want to give you several reasons that um may stick out. And really what we need to do as we go through these reasons is look at our own life and ask ourselves this question are are this the reason why I have Was not yet realized. Look in chapter 8 and look down at verse number 4. And moreover, thou shalt say unto them, thus says the Lord, shall they fall and not arise? Shall he turn away and not return? And at verse Jeremiah is asking a very simple question. When people fall down, don't they normally get up? You ever see someone fall down and stay down? That's not good. You gotta get back up. And the point here is simple. People usually learn from their mistakes Jerusalem, however, does not learn from its mistakes because the people are clinging to a lie. Look in verse 5. Why then is this people of Jerusalem slidden back by a perpetual backsliding? They hold fast. Deceit and they refuse to turn. The word holdfast here means they cling. They're firmly grabbing hold of something with their strength. They've latched on to this lie, and that's why they haven't come to me, God says. And what's the lie? Well the lie is that there's nothing wrong with them. That they're perfectly healthy, they're perfectly spiritual, there's no need to do anything. They're unaware of their spiritual sickness. And that's what he makes clear in verse number six. I hearkened and heard, but they spake They're not asking, you know, what what's wrong with me? No, they're oblivious to that. They're not concerned or even feel any They said, We've done nothing wrong. They claim that they are fine. In fact, in verse 8, it says, How say ye we are wise and the law of the Lord is with us? You can see some of their reasoning there. They claim to have the law and therefore they're fine. We got we have the word of God. We have the law. There's nothing wrong with us It's kinda like a family in the you know, you uh that has a Bible on the coffee table in their living room and they never read it and they never refer to it and they never really go to worship, but they feel like for somehow that Bible makes everything Okay, that they're sanctified just by having a copy of the scripture on their table. Of the law isn't going to help you. In fact, God says in verse 10, the whole nation is culpable. The whole nation has sinned. If you look in the middle of verse 10, it says, For everyone from the least, even unto the greatest, is given to covetousness from prophet even unto priest, everyone dealeth falsely. From the least to the greatest, from prophet unto the priest. And by the way, Jeremiah uses this expression. A lot throughout this letter, from the least to the great greatest, from the prophet to the priest, everyone is culpable. This sickness that has come into the nation of Judah is not just local The cancer has spread all over. You don't think you're sick, but you are sick. You know, people don't go to the doctor unless they think that they're sick. And the problem here is that they don't realize how sick they really are. They don't understand it, you know. This is uh a lesson for us spiritually. You know, what we have to do constantly in our life is examine our life spiritually. By the way, that's the reason why it's we have to have the word of God constantly Constantly you know why? Because the Word of God is constantly reading us. I say this is the only book that when you read it, it reads you back. And it gives you a spiritual diagnosis every time you read Read it. It tells us where we are spiritually. And in order to maintain spiritual health, we have to continually study the word, examine our own life. The Bible warns us about that. In fact, God warned his people. He said, Only take heed to thyself and keep thy soul diligently lest thou forget these things. God said you better watch over your soul. In Proverbs it says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. And in the New Testament, Peter says, Give all diligence To make your calling, your election sure. Paul said, examine yourselves. You know the problem with the church in the in the book of Revelation, the church of Laodicea, you know what the problem was? They didn't really understand And God said, You don't really realize that you're miserable. You're poor, you're blind, you're naked. You don't understand how bad your condition is. And so hopefully we're not there. Hopefully we're not blind to where we are spiritually. Hopefully we're diligent in our spiritual Look in chapter 8, look down in verse eleven. For they have healed the herd of the daughter of my people slightly, saying, peace, peace And Jeremiah here is talking about the false prophets who've been speaking a message of peace when there is no peace. And he compares them to poor physicians Doctors who don't heal wounds, but they simply put a band-aid on to cover them up. Philip Riken in his commentary writes this their people needed an emergency heart transplant But these quack pastors came around with band aids and lollipops. There they said, You're okay. God will not judge your sin. Peace, peace, they said Said, shalom, shalom. And meanwhile, the patient grows worse. I was reading a story that was really uh captivating to me. Uh so many know I'm a lover of history and you know I think one of the greatest presidents of the United States we don't really hear much about because he only served in office for four months before he was shot by a crazy Crazy man. His name was James A. Garfield. He was a godly man, a God-fearing man, a man of character. Uh it's too bad that we were robbed of this great leader after only four months On July the second in eighteen uh eighty one. He was scheduled to leave Washington, D. C. by train, but in the train station a crazy man came up and uh shot him twice from behind. He hit him once in the army, hit him once in the back And immediately doctors came to the scene. Within minutes they converged upon this fallen president, and one historian writes this twelve different doctors Inserted unsterilized fingers and instruments in Garfield's back, probing for this bullet. This is the first examination that took place, and remember it took place on the floor of a train station, he says He says, I mean you can't imagine a more germ-infested environment. But he goes on to say that American doctors at that time didn't believe that germs existed at all. Dr. Jeffrey Resnick of the National Library of Medicine said they rejected the use of antiseptics pioneered by a British surgeon named Joseph Lister. Does that sound familiar? You ever use Listerine? It was named after this British surgeon who pioneered this antiseptic idea. They thought it was a theory, they didn't believe in it, they thought bad air is what calls illness, not germs, germs that you couldn't see. But the real problem was there was one doctor that was assigned to the president, his name was Dr. Willard Bliss And he was a very arrogant, ambitious person, and he took charge and he wouldn't let any other doctors look at the president. He kind of hovered over him and kept him himself because he wanted the credit, so to speak He wanted to have to make a name for himself. And meanwhile, the president who had been shot was being eaten by infection. But he didn't really know what it was. It was literally riddling his body. He couldn't keep anything down. And these pus-filled wounds began to break out on his body. And when the doctor was asked about him, he said, Oh, that's a good sign that the illness is leaving his body. But literally the infection was eating him up. Finally, uh on September the nineteenth, the president Garfield died. He died an agonizing death, and it was really infection that did it. One historian, in fact one doctor, says that the president died because of what his doctors uh uh did to him and what they didn't do to him. And so uh it was a sad story in American history. Later on, the man who shot the president, just before they hung him, he said, Yeah, I shot him, but the doctors are the one that killed him. And there's some truth to that. These were doctors who didn't know how to treat an infection. You know what? Preachers who refuse to preach against sin and preach about God's judgment are like doctors who ignore infection and ignore cancer. We have a bunch of false prophets like that all over our country. They want to give you a feel-good message. They want to preach a health, wealth, and prosperity gospel. They are uh they don't really take the things of God seriously. And meanwhile, people are wasting away in sin. And they need to be warned about the judgment of God and sin. David Wells in his book, God in the Wasteland, said this He said that in the church today, God's truth is too distant, his grace is too ordinary, his judgment is too benign, his gospel too easy, his Christ. Is too common. And that is so true. The late General William Booth, founder of the Salvation Army, feared a day when men would preach salvation without regeneration, faith without repentance, heaven without hell. And that's a dangerous position to be in. One preacher said, you know, some of these guys have DD after their name. It should stand for dumb dogs. The reason he says that is because in Isaiah fifty-six ten, it says that watchmen or that is preachers or prophets who do not warn people are like dumb dogs that don't bark What good is it to have a watchdog that doesn't bark? And what good is it to have preachers who will not preach against sin and judgment? And they're a a curse in a way. And so uh this is what's happening here. The wrong doctors. They're saying peace, peace, Jeremiah is saying, look, God is angry at your sin and judgment. But he's going to come. And meanwhile, here's a whole group of prophets that are trying to make all the people feel good. And they're saying, peace, peace, when there is no peace. There's a cancer in the land, and they're covering it up. There's an Infection all throughout the nation and they're saying, Oh no, this is all everything is good. It's all well. And that's why they're not going to Gilead. Third reason. The sickness is not yet realized. The wrong doctors have been consulted, but here's number three. The diagnosis has been ignored And this is where Jeremiah breaks down in tears. If you look in chapter nine, verse one, where he says, Oh that my head were waters, mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people. Jeremiah He's so broken and burdened over the people uh that he wants to have a crying spell. He wants to sit down and just cry tears because of what's going on That's on one hand. On the other hand, he wants to get away. He wants a vacation. Look in verse two. Oh, that I had a wilderness, a lodging place, of wayfaring men That I might lead my people and go from them. For they'd be all adulterers and assembly of treacherous men. On one hand, Jeremiah wants to cry over them, on the other hand, he says, I just want to get away from them There's a guy that's having some emotional struggles there, don't you think? But I think we can relate to that sometimes as uh preachers and Christians when we w we witnessed And on one hand, we want to cry for them because they've held on to lies and they're unwilling to let go of those lies. They won't embrace the truth. We know we have the truth. We're not arrogant when we say that. You know, our hearts are fully persuaded by the Holy Spirit of God. Our conscience bears witness. We know we have the right medicine, and we try to give it out to someone else, and they don't want it On one hand, we want to cry. On the other hand, we get frustrated and say, you know what, I just want to get away from them. On one hand, we want to put our arms around them and hug them, on the other hand, we want to strangle them You know, and that's an emotional roller coaster that Jeremiah is going through right here. But the because the people aren't listening, a diagnosis has been given And they're not listening to it. He says, first of all, there's idolatry in verse two. When he calls them all adulterers, he's talking about spiritual adultery. And that's talking about the fertility cults of the Canaanite gods that they were worshiping. Then dishonesty in verse number three, they bend their tongues like a bow for lies. Uh in other words, he's using the imagery of archery. Their tongue is like a bow bent, and they're shooting out lies like arrows coming from a bow. And verse four, take heed ye heed every one of his neighborhood, and trust ye not in any brother, for every neighbor will utter s uh utterly supplant and every uh neighbor will walk with slanderers. So there's dishonesty going on all around. Again the idea is this cancer of sin has infested all the nation. You can't even trust Your brother, you can't trust your neighbor, you can't trust anybody because they're all deceitful, they're filled with lies, and the diagnosis is that this is really bad, and yet the people they're willfully ignorant They're rejecting this diagnosis. You ever uh heard of a patient who just doesn't want to hear what the doctor has to say? He'd rather, you know, the old saying, ignorance is blessed, I'd rather just not know And yet this is what's happening here with the people. Go back to chapter 8, verse 7. Jeremiah uses a funny image here. He says, Yet the stork in the heaven knoweth her appointed times, and the turtle and the crane and the swallow observe the time of their coming, but my people know not the judgment of the Lord. And basically he's saying this is willful ignorance. To put it bluntly, the people were acting like bird brains. He compares them to birds. Birds, even birds, he says, they know their appointed time. They know their way back home. If any animal knows its way back, it's a migratory bird Geese are not the cleverest creatures, but they don't need to be told to head south in November. And here he's mentioning birds that fly through the Holy Land. Swallows going back to Capistrano, the stork The turtle dove, the swallow, and the crane, they all know their appointed season. They know when it's time to return and to go back. But Jeremiah says, God's people don't know that. These people here don't seem to get that Because they're willfully ignorant. They refuse to accept what God has said. And so the diagnosis has been ignored. But here's a fourth reason. Sickness hasn't been realized. The wrong doctors have been consulted. The diagnosis has been ignored. But here's number four. The suffering hasn't yet begun. The real suffering Look at chapter 9, go down to verse number 13. What's coming? You mark it down, unrepented of sin always results in suffering. And the suffering from this sickness is coming, Jeremiah says. Look down in verse number thirteen of chapter nine. And the Lord saith, Because they have forsaken my law which I have set before them, and they have not obeyed my voice, neither walked there But have walked after the imagination of their own heart and after Balaam, which their fathers taught them. Thus says the Lord God of hosts of Israel Behold, I will feed them, even this people with wormwood And will give them water of gall to drink. In other words, bitterness is going to come. The Lord will feed his people wormwood and gall to drink because they have turned away from the real medicine Then captivity is coming in verse sixteen. I will scatter them also among the heathen, whom neither they nor their fathers have known, and I will send a sword after them. And even in captivity, however, the sword of divine retribution would still pursue after any unrepentant sinner. And then after that there's going to be mourning if you look in verse. Verses seventeen on down to verse twenty. Uh Jeremiah says, Let's call up the professional mourners. Let's get them ready. eighteen and let them make haste and take up a wailing for us that our eyes may run down with tears and our eyelids gush out with waters. Jeremiah says Since judgment is inevitable, lamentation is appropriate, let's hire them of professional mourners and you have to remember that in this ancient culture you could hire mourners. And the more money you had, the more mourners would could come. And they would weep at a funeral. They would cry tears. This was a this was a old tradition. And um if you remember in the Bible when Josiah the king died for Professional mourners were there. Um Solomon refers to these in the book of Ecclesiastes, mourners that go about the streets. Amos says there will be wailing in the streets and cries of anguish in every public street. square and so this is something that was very common and here's Jeremiah saying okay let's get these mourners ready because the funeral's coming there's going to be great mourning and then after that there's going to be death Look at verse 21. For death has come up into our windows. Death is imminent. This is a terminal sickness. If something's not done, this illness is terminal, and death will come. Death will creep up through the windows. Now let me just explain to you. You need to know a little bit about some of what's going on here to really understand the imagery that Jeremiah's giving. The word for death here is Molvat or Mot. And the Canaanite, in Canaanite mythology, the God of death was Mot. He lived in the underworld. And according to Canaanite mythology, Baal was built a brand new palace. He was very powerful, he had grown powerful. He was the god of rain and fertility. But he decided to take a trip And Mot got angry at Baal, and so he Uh the uh Eucharitic inscription about this whole story says that Mott seized him like a lion would seize a a uh a small goat in his jaws and he Crushed him. In other words, Baal died. And what happened was Baal had a wife named Annette. She was one powerful lady. She heard about her husband. He was gone. She went to the underworld and found out that he had died. She got mad about that. She she basically let Mott know that she didn't appreciate that. This is the Harmon version of And so what happens was somehow Baal is able to resurrect and she brings him back. Now this whole story is tied into the art the uh agricultural And it happens continually. It's called the Baal cycle. And every year Baal would go to the underworld. Every year Baal would die. What would happen? The rain stopped, the dry season was there. When it didn't rain, they said Baal was dead Because he was the God of rain. He had gone on a long journey in the underworld. Remember Elijah on the Mount Carmen one said, Perhaps he's on a long journey. He's referring to that story. There. And whenever the spring came, whenever the rains came and everything revived, they said Baal was alive. Here was the problem. The children of Israel were believing that stuff And you know what? Instead of giving God the glory for their crops, they were giving it to Baal. And it angered God. And here's Jeremiah. He's kind of picking up on that story. And he's saying, okay, you believe in Baal? Well, let me tell you about death, Mott, in verse 21, for death has come up into our windows. Now, when Baal built his palace, he built it without windows because he didn't want Mot, the god of death, coming through the windows. But here, Jeremiah says, death is going to come through the windows. Death is coming. He kind of plays on that imagery there. We would say it like this, the grim reaper is going to come in through the window. Death is coming. That's the idea. And what's gonna happen when he comes? What are you gonna do when death comes? That's the idea. You're sick, this sickness is terminal, death is coming. What are you gonna do? Here's the last thing. The suffering has not yet begun, but here's number five. The wrong medicines have been prescribed. Look in verse number 23. And thus says the Lord. Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. And here's really the question. Who's going to help you when death comes? When death comes, are are what medicine are you going to use? Are you going to use wisdom? Do you think man's wisdom is enough to overcome death? No. It's a weak medicine. When that day comes when death comes, the Lord says, Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Man's wisdom has no answers in the face of death. You don't have enough wisdom to outwit the God Of death is the idea there when he comes. There's an old legend that uh about a merchant in Baghdad who one day sent one of his servants to the market And when his servants got back, he was very afraid he had been shaken. It was very obvious he was pale with fear, and the master said, What happened? He said, Well, down at the marketplace I bumped into someone, I turned around, and it was death And he gave me a very mean look, a threatening gesture, and he said, Master, let me ride your horse down to Samaria and hide from death, lest death find me. And so the master gave his servant the horse And the man wrote all the way to Samaria. And then the master went down to the marketplace and he happened to see Death. And he said to Death, Why did you frighten my servant? And Des said, I wasn't trying to frighten him. I was just surprised that he was here in Baghdad because I have an appointment with him this afternoon in Samaria The idea is you can't outwit death. You can't outrun them. You have an appointment. And you will keep that appointment. When death comes, wisdom isn't going to be enough. The wisdom of man. But strength won't be enough. Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might. You might be strong, but you're not stronger than death. Baal thought he was pretty strong, but he died. And you're not going to be able to overcome death. Solomon wrote this in Ecclesiastes 8:8. There's no man that hath power over the spirit to retain That day when death comes, that's a battle you can't get discharged from from and you don't have strength over uh death in a day of death. There's no discharging at work, your strength won't help you. Riches. Riches will not help you. You're not going to be able to barter with death. You're not going to be able to bribe death and say, let me pay you this so I can live longer. You're not going to be able to do that. All these are wrong medicines. These are poor physicians. They're not going to help you. There's only one thing that's going to help you. And notice what it is. Look in chapter 9, look at verse 24. But let him that glory, glory, glory in this. If you want to boast about something, boast about this. That he understandeth and knoweth me that I am the Lord. That exercises loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth, for in these things I delight, saith the Lord. What's He saying? There's only one thing that's going to help you in that day. There's only one physician. That can overcome death. There's only one medicine that can be applied that can overcome death. The physician is God, more specifically, Jesus. And the bomb is the grace of God. Look at the word loving-kindness there in verse 24. That's again is the Hebrew word kessed. It's really the Old Testament word for grace. You know what will help you in the day of death is the fact that you already know God. And He has already extended to you His loving kindness. grace. That is the healing bomb of Gilead. It's the grace of God. And what God is saying here is look, turn to me. I'm the physician. I turn to my healing bomb. Let me give you, let me distribute to you my grace that will overcome whatever ailment that you have. It'll give you life. We were talking about the grace of God on Sunday night. God has all kinds of grace for every situation. And if you're hearing you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ, he will give you his And if you're here as a Christian and you're going through suffering, he will give you sustaining grace. And if you're here and you're you're struggling with sin, he will give you sanctifying grace This is the healing bomb. This is the bomb of Gilead. And this is what you need to turn to. Well, how does one get this healing bomb? Well, just really a few things in closing. Number one, you've got to reject all the superficial medicines of the Men. It's not God plus or God and, no, it's God alone. He alone is your physician. You don't need to consult with another doctor. He's the great physician, and he knows what he's doing. So reject all of the other superficial medicines of men. Number two, realize that God is your only remedy And cling to him. Stop experimenting with other things. And run to the Lord. That's the third thing. Repent and run to your physician. Get to Gilead. Run to Gilead. Ask him for the healing bomb. He has a lot of it. He won't ever run out. And he'll give you as much as you need. And then here's the next thing: renew your determination to know God This is really what is Jeremiah is encouraging the people to do here. You can boast in this one thing. Boast in the fact that you know God. And the word for know here is an experiential knowledge of knowing the Lord. Lord. Boast in that. That you understand and know the Lord. You know, the more you know him, the more healing that you get. The more you know your physician, the more healthier you're going to be in your spiritual life. So get to know him. This is the bomb of Gilead. So the to answer the question, is there no bomb in Gilead? Of course there is is. There's plenty of it. And the physician is there and he's ready to distribute it. The question is, are you ready to get up and go to gil up to Gilead? Or do you realize that there's a problem in your life? Run to the Lord. Don't reject his diagnosis. When you read the Word of God and God speaks to you, don't Treat it flippantly. Don't overlook things when God gives you a diagnosis from the scripture. Take that to heart. Run to the physician, and he will help you. Let me just close with this. You perhaps have heard of the song There is a Bomb in Gilead. Perhaps you've heard that song, beautiful song. And uh I couldn't help but think of this song when I was looking at this passage here. Where did this come from? This was a hymn that was actually actually it's an African-American spiritual, and it was sung by slaves. Think about that. Slaves who were so mistreated, captured in Africa, torn from their families, taking that horrible voyage over, made to serve And they w they served long hours and were treated so unjustly. But they were allowed to sing in the fields. And they happened perhaps to come upon this passage of script. Scripture, maybe preached by a preacher, and they would sing in the field, there is a bomb in Gilead to make the wounded whole. There is a bomb in Gilead to heal the sinsick soul And so these slaves knew the gospel. They knew the truth that God would never abandon them. No matter how great the suffering, God would always be with them. And no matter how we think that things are getting bad for us, you can remember that one thing. God is with you. He's never going to abandon you. And just again, as the hymn goes, let me just read you these final words Because they might apply to you tonight. Sometimes I feel discouraged and think my works in vain. But then the Holy Spirit revives my soul Again. There is a bomb in Gilead to make the wounded whole. There is a bomb in Gilead to heal the sinsick soul. And that's so true. That's exactly what Jeremiah is saying here. And he wants to bring healing to you tonight. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you for this precious Balm of Gilead that Lord you have applied to us in your mercy. You are our great physician. You are our healer. You are Jehovah Rapha And we are grateful for that. And Lord, forgive us for the times when we've run to other doctors, when we've tried man-made medicine. Or forgive us for the times when we've been so stubborn and proud that we're not willing to admit that we're There's a problem that we're sick. Lord, break us of all of that pride and humble us. Make us willing to forsake all of the other false remedies. And all of the other The wrong diagnoses that's out there. And Lord, help us to cast ourselves upon you in humility and say, Lord, I need the balm of Gilead for my soul. I need your healing. I need your grace. For whatever situation that your people are in, Lord, we know that it's sufficient. With heads bowed and eyes closed, somebody said that's my prayer. I just need his healing bomb tonight. Would you just lift your hand and say, I'm praying for that from my own soul. God bless you. Bless all those. God seize your heart. Father, I pray that Lord you will apply your Your gracious medicine to your people, Lord, and meet the need of the heart of those that are here, so that we can truly say from our heart, there is a bomb in gifts. It's a healing bomb. And we we come to you continually, Lord, for your grace to help us. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.