Good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles and open, please, to the book of 1 Samuel. We're studying the life of David. on Wednesday night. And tonight we're in 1 Samuel chapter 25. I invite you to look there. 1 Samuel chapter 25. While you're finding that, let me just give you a fact. Here's a fact. Waiting is not easy. No. No, it's not. We hate to wait. We hate long lines, traffic jams, red lights, slow service at the restaurant. We hate when the drive-thru gets bogged down. It's slow And when I make an appointment at the doctor, I expect to be in the time I make the appointment. That never happens. Sorry doctors out there. You guys need to do something different, I guess. But we live in a world of instant gratification. And this instant gratification, sometimes if we're not careful, can become an obstacle in the Christian life. Because let me give you another fact Part of the, I think the hardest part I should say of the Christian life in the walk of faith is learning to wait on the Lord. That's not an easy thing to do. I don't know about you, but for me that's a very difficult thing because I'm not patient by nature. Now you all look very patient tonight. But for me, this is a difficult thing to wait upon the Lord. Now I've counseled many Christians who were frustrated that God was not working fast enough in their life. And that might be your condition here tonight. Maybe you're waiting for the Lord to do something for you. Maybe you've been praying for that, and it's just not happening. And you feel like you're you know time's slipping by, you're wasting time. Vance Habner said this, he who waits on God loses no time Another person said to be impatient with God, chronically, habitually, impatient with Him, because things are not to our liking, makes the Christian life a dreadful burden. And I think that's true. If we get to the point where we're not content to wait upon the Lord, if we're constantly wanting God to do things and it's not happening, it can be a burden for us. There may be some people here tonight and you're praying for God to do something and you've prayed and you've waited and it's not happening. Maybe there's some people here tonight. You're waiting for the Lord to open a door. And you uh you know what's the old saying? If God doesn't open a door, praise him in the hallway, right? But you've been in the hallway for a long time. And you're tired of being in the hallway waiting for that open door. And so it's hard. Now, if that's your condition tonight, then 1 Samuel 25 might be a help to you. I hope that it is. Why is this narrative here? Why is this story here in the life of David? Well, this narrative is designed to teach us how David learned the lesson that he had to learn if he was going to be a good king, and that is he had to learn to wait upon the Lord. And if I could give the sermon in one sentence to you tonight. Here it is. I'm going to give it in one sentence, but you have to hear me the rest of the half hour though, okay? But here it is in one sentence, alright? Waiting on the Lord is not easy, but it's worth it. It's not easy, but it's worth it. I think this is what this whole story here uh is designed to teach us. In fact, look at the end. We'll just kind of fast forward to kind of the end of the story. Look at chapter twenty-five and look down at verse number thirty-nine And notice what David is saying here toward the end of this narrative. And when David heard in verse 39 that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the Lord. That hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil. For the Lord hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And so here's David, and basically in verse 39, he's praising the Lord because he had a conflict with Nabal. And By waiting, David's saying basically in verse 39, man, I'm glad I waited for God to take care of this. I'm glad that I didn't take matters into my own hands. And so this narrative is It's showing us how David learned to wait. This was a test for him. In fact, in chapter 24, chapter 25, and chapter 26, are really to me just three tests that God gives David, a series of tests that David must take. And the question in each of these narratives is this. Will David take matters into his own hands or will he Wait patiently on the Lord for his timing. That's what each of these chapters ask. Each of these tests that he will take are designed to strengthen his faith. Designed to strengthen his dependence upon the Lord. In fact, one writer, Bill Arnold, wrote this. How he responds here will reveal how he will bear up under similar but even more drastic circumstances. This this test excuse me this text is actually about David and his evolution from young exile to ideal king. He is in transition on his way to becoming Yahweh's ideal anointed one. someone suitable to serve as king of Israel. So that's why this narrative is here. It's David is learning to wait. But also another thing that it does, it confirms what happened in the previous chapter. If you're with us last week, you learn in chapter 26, or excuse me, chapter 24 I should say. that David refused to take Saul's life in the cave of Engedia. And basically what restrained David was his conscience and his respect for authority. You remember Saul, he didn't respect authority and he was always impatient. And there's a contrast here. David is learning to be patient, and he did respect authority. And this is again a purposeful contrast by the writer showing us that David is God's suitable anointed king. But also there's something subtle going on here in this chapter, and I want to point this out to you because I think it's very interesting. There's a sense in which this narrative foreshadows what will happen eventually to Saul. Remember, what's David waiting for? He's waiting to be the king, right? And it's been a long time since he was anointed. And he's had to go through a lot of trials and tribulations. There's been danger in his life. Saul's tried to kill him, and now he's hunting him down. And I'm sure David is asking, you know, when is this going to happen? And I think there are times when David was tempted to take matters into his own hands. But this story here with Nabal is kind of a foreshadowing. It's almost like the Lord saying, David. What I do to Nabal, I will do to Saul if you learn to wait upon me, because really Nabal is a Saul-like person. He's a Saul-like figure. There's a lot of similarities between Nabal and Saul. For example, both Nabal and Saul are hostile. to David, who is a very loyal servant. Both Nabal and Saul go against the advice of family members and the people around them. Both Nabal and Saul are ultimately struck down by God We'll see that. Both Nabal and Saul will have their riches taken from them and given to David. In fact, in 1 Samuel 13, 13, Samuel Said to Saul, you are acting foolishly. And the Hebrew word there is the same Hebrew word for the name Nabal. You're acting Nabal-like. You're acting like a fool. Both Nabal and Saul had the evil they did to David return to condemn them. And so there's a sense in which David learns a lesson here in his conflict with Nabal that if he waits on the Lord and he doesn't take matters into his own hands, God will work it out in the end, ultimately, with his greatest enemy. Saul. And so this is a lesson for all of us. Again, the big idea of this whole passage is this: waiting on the Lord is not easy, but ultimately it is worth it. Now let me ask you a question again. Apply this to us tonight. You don't have to raise your hand, but are you waiting on God? Maybe there's something that you want God to do And you're waiting, and it isn't hard. Well, I want to look at this passage in two ways tonight. Number one, I want to talk about the reasons it is difficult to wait Sometimes we see this in this passage in the life of David. And then number two, I want to talk about the reasons we should wait on the Lord, even though it's hard. This is why we should. First of all, let me talk about the reasons why it's difficult. And here's the first reason if you're taking notes. Unhappy circumstances. You know, unhappy circumstances can make waiting on the Lord difficult. Look at chapter 25, look in verse 1, and notice how it opens up. It opens up with a funeral. And Samuel died, and all Israel, all is all the Israelites were gathered together and lamented him and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran. So this opens with the death of Samuel. Now this is not a small thing. This is a huge thing. Samuel was a great man of God. in the nation of Israel. And the text doesn't specifically say it, but David, I think, does not go to the funeral. In fact, when he hears of this, he goes further south rather than going north To Ramah, to weep and mourn and to go to the funeral of Samuel. What does he do? He goes further south. You know why he has to? Because Saul is still hunting him. Saul is still trying to kill him It says he went to the wilderness of Paran. Now, where was David when Samuel died? Well, we left off in chapter 26 when it says he went up to the hold. We said that was the Hebrew word Masuda, Masada, that huge fortress there in the wilderness, just right by the Dead Sea there. And he was held up there, and when news comes to him that Samuel died, rather than going to the funeral, he goes further south He goes down into the uh the Sinai Peninsula, farther into that wilderness. Why did he do that? I think that's perhaps because he felt that the loss of Samuel's influence in prayers meant greater danger for him. There's a sense that perhaps maybe Samuel was somewhat of a restraining force, and Samuel's prayers helped David a lot, but now he's gone And David perhaps now feels himself to be in greater danger than before. And so he kind of retreats. He feels himself to be more vulnerable. And he probably feels himself to be friendless at this time. This was a great loss to David. Samuel is dead. He saw Jonathan for the last time in chapter 23. His wife Uh Michael, she married it, was given to another man, and David's parents have been placed in the care of the king of Moab. And so he's pretty much on his own. Yeah, he has 600 men, but he's leading those men And he has no close confidant. I think David may be thinking, why now? Why does this have to happen now? Why can't I be king now? But here's the point. Unhappy circumstances can make waiting harder. Maybe that's your condition tonight. Maybe you're waiting on the Lord, and while you're waiting, things aren't getting better. It seems like it's getting a little worse. Bad things have happened. But here's another thing that makes it hard to wait. Big responsibilities. Think about this. How many men did David have following him? Six hundred, right? So that meant that he was responsible for six hundred men. These men had wives And so you add to that 600 more perhaps over a thousand people that David was responsible for. Think about this. He was responsible to feed them, watch over them, and care for them Now we know that it's hard enough to feed a family, a large family, but to have over a thousand people you were responsible for? And the wilderness they were in was not a productive, fruitful place It was a desert. So how is David going to take care of all of these people? This had to be a burden to him. And no doubt His men acted as a police force uh against the Philistine attacks to some of those little towns and those little towns, the populace of those places would give him a little bit of an offering for their service, and no doubt that was how David was able to take care of his men from time to time. But this had to be a great challenge for David And uh it was a heavy burden. That's another thing. Sometimes while we're waiting on the Lord, we carry heavy burdens. And it makes waiting difficult. Lord, when are you going to open that door? When are you going to relieve me of this burden that I'm carrying right now? But then here's another reason why waiting might be difficult, and that is because of difficult people. Notice who David runs into in verse 2. Sure you know this story, but let's look at it again in verse two. And there was a man of Maon whose possessions were in Carmel, and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats, and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel. Now the man name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail, and she was a woman of good understanding and of a beautiful countenance, but the man was curlish and evil in his doings. And he was of the house of Caleb. Now again, remember David, I think one of the ways he supports his men is by sending them out uh as an army force to protect these villages and these towns from plunderers and from other armies out there, small bands of raiders And the Philistines we saw in chapter 23 where the Philistines attacked the little town of Keilah, and David and his men came to their rescue. And I think he's kind of acting like a police force. This is the region that's close to his home area of Judah. And so he perhaps knows some of these people. And he's been doing this hoping to get a little bit of remuneration from these people for his service. And in chapter 25, verse 4 David hears that Nabal did shear his sheep. That was sheep shearing time. Now who was Nabal? He was a man who was very wealthy. In fact, the Bible says he had 3,000 sheep and 1,000 goats. That was pretty wealthy. Remember that instead of Job, who was the wealthiest man of the East, he had 7,000 sheep here. This man has 4,000 of the livestock, so he's pretty wealthy. But the Bible also said he's a curlish man. He's stubborn. The Hebrew word here really is heavy, which in modern terms means he was loaded. He was wealthy. But his name means fool, and it kind of fits his personality because he was not an easy person to get along with. Now When David hears it's sheep shearing time, he sends a request. Look in verse 5. And David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name, and thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity. Peace be both to thee, and peace to thine house, and peace be unto all that thou hast. Now I have heard that thou hast shears. Now thy shepherds which were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there aught missing unto them all while they were in Carmel. Ask thy young men, and they will show thee. Wherefore, let the young men find favor in thine eyes, for we will come in a good day. And give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thine hand and unto thy servants and to thy son David So David sends a request to Nabal. Again, remember what's going on here. His men were a protective force to Nabal's sheep, and I'm sure to others But when it came sheep shearing time, he suffered no loss. Normally a shepherd with a flock this big would suffer some kind of loss. Someone would come and steal some sheep. Wild animals sometimes would uh cut into his profits But David, because of his men, made a greater profit for this man because they were a protective force. Now David, at Sheep's hearing time, is saying, can you just give us a little bit for the service that we did? Now, this might be a little bit hard for us to understand in this culture, but that was normal in that culture. That was something that was expected, especially around sheep shearing time, because that was a time of great rejoicing of great giving because when a man was shearing his sheep, he was bringing in his prophets, and he would normally share that with neighbors, especially if there were some who helped him by guarding and protecting his sheep and so what David is asking here is not out of the ordinary. Now David wasn't asking for a lot. He was just asking for a little tip for his men. Remember, he's trying to take care of them. And a man with 3,000 sheep and a thousand goats could spare just a few animals for David, couldn't he? He's not asking for much. It's just common courtesy. But what happens? Nabal refuses to listen. He will not Give David anything. I mean this is an Old Testament scrooge here. He just refuses to share anything. And he goes against custom He goes against what is normal, what is courteous. He's a very difficult person. Let me ask you a question and don't raise your hand. Have you had to work around difficult people in your life? And confront difficult people. Stop shaking your head so so hard here tonight. We all have. It's just the world in which we live. You're just gonna come across people who are not easy to get along with, easy to work with. And perhaps perhaps excuse me that makes waiting on the Lord Harder, Lord, when are you gonna get me out of this difficult situation with this person here He had to endure difficult people. But then on top of that, hurtful insults, not only did Nabal not give him what was due to him, but he rails on him. Look what he says down in verse number 10. And Nabal answered David's servants and said, Who is David? Who is the son of Jesse? There have been many servants nowadays that break away every man from his master. Here he's accusing David of being a rebel and a renegade and disloyal to Saul. And also when he says son of Jesse here, he may be making an implication about his Moabite heritage. Now Nabal is a descendant of Caleb that was also the tribe of Judah, just like David was of the tribe of Judah. And so uh really he's a distant relative, you might say. You would expect perhaps a distant relative to be good. But here instead of being good to David, he insults him. He knows he's the son of Jesse, and there may be a little implication in this that Jesse was a descendant of a Moabite woman by the name of Ruth. And so there's a sense in which he may be putting him down with those words. He's kind of belittling him. He's putting him down. Look at verse eleven. Shall I shall then I take my bread and my water and my flesh, which I have killed for my shears, and give it unto men whom I know not whence they be? So David's young men turned their way and went again and came and told him all those sayings. I mean he just returns insult. What does he do here basically? For the good that David has done to him, he returns to him evil. Bad in return. Hurtful insults. Again, let me ask you: have you ever been insulted or done wrong by someone that you've done good to? That you've tried to help? And so David has to deal with this. But then another thing that makes waiting perhaps difficult is angry impatience. Finally, David loses it. He kind of snaps here. Look at verse number 13. And David said to his men, gird ye on every man his sword. He said, Guys, get your sword on. Now, this is David saying, enough is enough. It's on now. You're going to return evil for my good. I think that there's a sense in which he he just i it's it's enough. He's been running. He's been hiding. Saul has been hunting him. He has the burden of taking care of all of these 600 men. He's been a good neighbor to all those around. He's not like these other bands and armies that are around that are that intimidate people and take their possessions. No, he protects them. He watches over them like a king already And he's only asking for a little bit in return. And what does this man do? He insults him. And David said, this is enough. He blows his stack Let me ask you a question. You ever get to the point in your life where you say, enough? Enough is enough? You kind of come to the end of your rope and you're ready just to snap and get angry? Well that's exactly what David does here. He gets angry now. And now he's ready to go and he's ready to kill all the men. That are in Nabal's house, and a lot of them really didn't do anything wrong. It's really just Nabal. This is kind of classic overkill for David. He says, girdle your sword And so 400 of his men go with him. They're going to Nabal's house to take care of business. 200 stay by the stuff, the Bible says, to watch over his things here. And so David kind of flies off the handle. He just loses it. He's just impatient. Now, he probably, I'm sure, in his own mind, felt justified. But what he's about to do is wrong. It may be that you're here tonight and you say, man, I'm kind of at the end. I've had all these things. And then something happened is the straw that breaks the camel's back And you lose it, you get angry, you're ready to just, you know, go out and take care of things. You're ready to take matters into your own hand now. And and what you're about to do is very damaging. Could hurt you But you feel you reason kind of like David. You know, I'm justified in my actions. I've had enough. I've been trying to do the right thing. I've waited long enough. Now I'm going to take care of matters That's what David was about to do. And again, if that's your condition tonight, it's hard to wait on the Lord. But you know what? It's worth it if you do. It'll be worth it in the end. Don't take matters into your own hands. We can't control what people do to us We can only control our actions in return when people do us wrong, as we already saw last week. What David was about to do was a big mistake. Now these are just a few things that make waiting hard There's others. Unhappy circumstances, big responsibilities, difficult people, hurtful insults, our own impatience. But there's more, you can add more to that list. You fill in the blank. What is it that is difficult for you in waiting on the Lord? What is the thing that makes it hard for you? Now secondly, let me talk about this then. And the in the minutes we have left. The reasons we must wait. Even though it's hard, we have to wait on the Lord. Now why? Well, let me give you some reasons that I see here in this story. Here's the first one. Because God is working on our behalf even though we don't see it. He's working on our behalf, even though we don't see it. Look in verse number 14 of chapter 25 But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master. And he railed on them But the men were very good unto us, and we were we were not hurt, neither missed we anything, for as long as we were conversant with them We were uh when we were in the fields, they were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them, keeping the sheep. Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do, for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household, for he is such a son of Belial So here's one servant who happened to be there who heard what Nabal said to David's servants And what does he do? He goes to David's wife. Obviously, he knows that she's a wise, reasonable woman. And he reports to her, look, here's what happened. And by the way, David's men, they were a wall protection for us. They did us good. And all he was asking was for the customary tribute. A little bit, and here's what your husband said, and this is what he did. And you know your husband, he's a son of Balao. That is a a term that means, you know, you just uh he he's he's a wicked man, and you can't talk to him So what was happening here? God was using this servant already to work on David's behalf. He tells Abigail, Abigail knows that she has to do something, and so she begins to get preparation to give David what is due to him. And so here's the point. David doesn't see this, he doesn't know it, but God is already working in the background. to make this thing right. That's the hand of God working. How does that apply to you tonight? You don't know what God's doing. While you're waiting on the Lord. But I'll tell you this, the Bible makes it very clear. He's working on your behalf. He's working all things together for your good. He's doing things that you don't know about. He's preparing things in the background that you could not possibly know. He's putting together to pieces in order to make it work for you. There's a great verse in Isaiah that says, Therefore doth the Lord wait that he might be gracious unto you. You say, why is God waiting so long to do this? Listen, he has his own timetable, and he wants to be gracious unto you. When you finally are done waiting, you're going to understand better why But he was working in the background all of the time to bring it about. That's how Providence works. Vance Habner said this: the unseen hand may be obscure at times by the falls of circumstance. But just because we can't see the sun on a cloudy day doesn't mean that it isn't there. His hand is working. But here's the second reason: because we must submit to God's divine intervention. We must submit to God's divine intervention. Not only is God doing things we can't see, but we have to submit to his intervention. And we see this in verses 18 down to verse 27. You know, often when we decide to take matters into our own hands and begin to push ahead, you know what God does often in grace and mercy to us? He gives us a divine stop sign and says, stop. Stop. Don't go any farther. Has he ever done that for you? You decide, man, I'm just going to go ahead and run ahead and do this. And providentially the Lord puts a stop sign there That's a divine intervention. It might be a person that God brings into our life that says, what are you doing? Don't do that. And if you disobey God's divine stop sign that he puts in front of you, then you're going to be in trouble. This is what happens here with David. The divine intervention came in the form, as we already found out. In a uh in the form of a woman. We already met her. Her name is Abigail, which means her father's joy. She was a beautiful woman, but she was very wise. and godly. And she appraises the situation. Look at verse 18. Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves and two bottles of wine and so on. It made all the things that she takes to David are listed there in verse 18. Look at verse 19. And she said unto her servants, Go on before me. Behold, I come after you. But she told not her husband Nabal. Why does she tell him? Why does he Why does she do that? Why does she work behind the scenes? Well, she's trying to really protect her husband here. She doesn't want him to die. She's literally saving his life. But because she no one can talk to him. We already saw that in verse 17. You can't talk to this man, he's unreasonable. So she doesn't say anything. She appraises the situation. She acts in wisdom And she is a really a a helpbeat here, a great helper. Let me just say this one word of application. Fellows, you ought to listen to your wife. Alright, there I said it. Ladies, you say amen to that? Amen. Okay. Fellas you have to live sometimes most of the time Our wives have insight that we don't have, or they might see things that we don't see, and they have great wisdom, and so it's good to listen. And here's Abigail, and she's acting in wisdom. And notice her appeal. Look down in verse number 23. Now she meets up with David and David says, you know, I was going to go and I was going to kill all those guys. Look at verse 23. And when Abigail saw David, she hastened and she lighted off the ass and fell down before. before David on her face and bowed herself to the ground and fell at his feet and said, Upon me, my Lord, upon me, let this iniquity be And let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine audience. And hear the words of thy handmaid. So she comes, notice she refers to herself as David's handmaid, six times She calls him her herself handmaid. Fourteen times she says, my Lord. So she's very humble when she comes before him. She bows before him. She's open. She's honest. She admits that David and his men had suffered wrong. In verse 25, she admits that her husband is wrong. Let not my Lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, even Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. His name means fool when he's acting like a fool. That's what he is. And folly is with him, but I, thy handmaid, saw not the young men of my Lord whom thou didst send. And so she tells She admits that her husband is doing wrong. In verse 26, she tells David that God sent her to stop him from doing this. And so she helps David see that the Lord doesn't want her him to do this. Now David, he sees the hand of God in all this. In fact, if you go down to verse 32 and verse 35, David even says that. Look at verse 32. And David said to Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meet me. And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou which has kept me this day from coming to shed blood and from avenging myself with my own hand. For in very deed, as the Lord God of Israel liveth And he goes on to say, I would have done this, but God kept me and God used you. So David sees God's hand and all of this. And he humbles himself and he accepts this as a divine intervention. It is God saying, David, stop what you are about to do. There are times when God in his mercy will say to us, through someone else, through some circumstance, stop what you're about to do. This decision that you're about to make, don't do it. This is wait on me. Let me take care of this. And again, I say this is because this is God is gracious in doing this. He's merciful because God could let us just go on and to our own hurt. And miss out on the blessing of God. But here God is being gracious to David by sending her this wise woman to say stop. And again I say to you, you better not go through the divine stop signs that God puts in your life because if you do, you will pay the consequence for it in your life. We've have to wait on the Lord. Again, has that ever happened to you? Many years ago in my life I thought I made a bad decision and I waited on the Lord to kind of take care of it and I prayed and I put it in the Lord's hands and I Waited for a while and when nothing really happened, I said, Well, I'm just going to do this. And I began a certain course of action. And God put a person in my life at that moment in time that said, Don't do this Stop. And you know what? I saw that as being providential. And I I listened to the counsel that I received from this godly person And now years later I look back and you know what I say now? Thank God I listened. Thank God I stopped in my tracks. Thank God I waited on the Lord instead of taking matters into my own hands. And so why should we wait? Because God is working behind the scenes, even though we can't see it, because we have to submit to God's divine intervention. Again, there's a contrast here between David and Saul. Whenever Saul, if you read 1 Samuel, whenever people told Saul to wait, you know what Saul did? He ignored them. And he went on and did what he wanted anyway. You look at that, you'll see that in here. But when God puts people in David's life and tells them to wait, you know what David does? He waits He sees it from the that's a contrast. He was willing to humble himself and listen. But here's the third reason. Because taking matters in your own hands shows a lack of faith in God's promises. When you refuse to wait on the Lord, you're just saying that you don't believe God's promises. And you know what Abigail does? We don't have time to look at it all because our time is quickly going. But she just simply reminds him of what God told him. She simply reminds him about God's promises and she says, look, you're going to be a king, and God's going to thrust out, he's going to hurl out all your enemies like a stone comes out of a sling. What does that remind you of? David's stone coming out of the sling to kill Goliath? She said, just like a stone comes out of this land, God's going to hurl all of your enemies away from you. She's at verse 29. And that you're going to be ruler one day, you're going to be king, just like God promised you. Don't act foolishly in between. Don't let Nabal cause you to lose it and act foolish like he does. And so she basically reminds him about the promises of God. Stop and think of what you're doing. She says, put the matter in God's hands. Well, let me give you the last reason and we're done. Why should we wait even though it's difficult? Well, because God's working. And we don't see it, but he's working in the background because we have to submit to his divine intervention. in our life because taking matters into our own hands shows that we lack faith in God's promises. But here's the last thing. Because in the end we're going to be glad we waited We'll be glad. Say where do we get that? Verse 32 down to verse 41. You know what happens? David listens. Look at verse number 36. And Abigail came to Nabal. She goes home now. And behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal's heart was merry with him, for he was very drunken, wherefore she told him nothing more less or more until the morning. But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal And his wife had told him these things that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone. So what happens? He becomes like a stone. This is a common Aramaic idiom meaning he had a heart attack, or he had a stroke, he became paralyzed. And look at verse 38 because it makes it very clear. And it came to pass about 10 days after that who smote him? The Lord smote Nabal that he died. God takes him. He takes this man's life. And what does David do? Well, he had just met Abigail and he liked her. So what does he do in verse 39? He sends men to her and says, you know, the men say our master David, he wants to marry you. And this is a good move, you know why? Because by when when Nabal died, who got all of Nabal's stuff? Abigail. And when David marries Abigail, who now gets all the Maybal stuff? David does. So now everything is his. He owns it all. The Lord smote him, took his life, and in essence David moves in, marries Abigail, and now he owns it all. It's all his. And then in verse 38, verse 39 rather, he says, man, I'm glad. Again, I'm paraphrasing that I waited on the Lord. God worked it all out in the end. And by waiting on the Lord, David, by responding to the Lord's words, David again shows himself to be the man who's after God's own heart. Although he's not perfect. He doesn't act perfectly here. I mean, he lost it. Anger for a while was controlling him, but he listened to the godly counsel and voices around him. And he humbled himself and he ultimately said, I'm going to wait. And God took care of it. And in the end, he was glad he waited. So again, I say, you may be waiting on the Lord, and you may be getting impatient, and anger might get the best of you, but dear friend, if you continue to put put the matter in the Lord's hands, And wait and trust. You say, man, it's been so long. Yeah. But you're going to be glad in the end that you waited on the Lord. So again, waiting on the Lord is not easy. But it's worth it. It's worth it to wait on Lord. God. By the way, let me give you one final note and we're done. Abigail here, she acts very Christ-like. You say how? When she comes to David, I just want you to show you two things. She says in verse 20, she humbles herself. She comes to him very humbly. Does that remind us of Jesus? Listen, he came to this world and he humbled himself. before us. And notice what she said in verse 24. Just look at this in closing. And and she fell at his feet and said, Upon me, my Lord, upon me, let this iniquity be. What is she saying? Lord, put all of my husband's sins that he committed, put them on me. Put them on me. Isn't that what Jesus did for us? When he he came humbly to this earth and he said to the father, put all of Jerry's sins on me. Put all of their sins on me. I will bear their iniquity. This is the gospel according to Abigail here. She shows us a preview of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what he did for us. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So Lord, we thank you for this narrative and for what it teaches us. Perhaps there are some people here tonight that just need to wait on you, Lord. It's very difficult at times. So folks here tonight that may be in an unhappy circumstance, it makes them hard for them to wait on you. Or they may be bearing a burden or dealing with difficult people around them. Lord, I just pray that you'll give them the grace and the faith to continue to wait upon you, to put whatever matter that they're going through in their life into your hands To trust you, to know, Lord, that you're working behind the scenes in ways that we could never fathom or know. And you're working things about for our good. Give them the grace and the faith, Lord, to wait upon you. With heads bowed and eyes closed, how maybe say that's my prayer tonight. I want to learn just to wait on God. To wait on his head. hand. Father, bless these your servants. Give them the grace that they need, Lord, and the faith to just look to you. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.