Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open up to the book of Jeremiah, the Old Testament prophet of Jeremiah? I know we've been preaching through First Thessalonians and we'll definitely come back to that, but during the Christmas season I've been looking at some Old Testament prophecies. that uh announce the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ into this world. And this morning, Jeremiah chapter 30, and I want to read the first three verses of that chapter with you this morning. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word today? Jeremiah chapter thirty and verse number one. The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying, Thus speaketh the Lord, God of Israel, saying, Write thee all the words that I have spoken unto thee in a book. For lo, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will bring again the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, saith the Lord, and I will cause them to return to the land that I gave unto their fathers, and they shall possess it. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our hearts today. May our we be open and receptive to receive his truth. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for the joy of being able to worship you here. And Lord, in this time of the season, we remember the wonderful incarnation, the coming of our Savior into this world. And Father, I pray that as we look into the pages of Scripture, that we would indeed see another facet of the beauty of Jesus Christ. And it will draw us into wonder, love, and praise all the more for our Savior. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Someone once described the Old Testament as a series of birth announcements announcing the coming of the Messiah and Savior. That's certainly one way to look at it. In this series that I'm calling Countdown to Christmas, we are looking at several birth announcements. Already we looked in Genesis 3. 15 at the first promise of Christmas. We looked at Daniel's prophecy of the coming Messiah. And now um I want to look at uh Jeremiah, his birth announcement, so to speak. It's surprising to me that Uh Jeremiah doesn't get a lot of attention when it comes to uh messianic prophecies. Around this time of year, Isaiah gets a lot of attention, and rightfully so. He has the great prophecy about the virgin birth And also Isaiah 9, 6, for unto us a child is born. And even the minor prophet Micah gets a lot of attention with that beautiful prophecy about Bethlehem. where he says, uh to you shall come forth unto me one who is ruler of Israel. But I never really hear sermons about Jeremiah during the Christmas season. And that's unfortunate because again some of the greatest messianic prophecies of the Old Testament from come from Jeremiah. Now most of the Messianic prophecies come From three chapters of Jeremiah, chapter 30 to verse to chapter 33. This section of the book is typically called the Book of Consolation or the Book of Comfort. And the whole section is designed to build faith in God and uh and the hope in God's coming messianic king. Uh one of my favorite songs that we sing around this time of year is um I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day. Do you know the story behind that? It was written on Christmas Day, 1863, by one of our great poets, American poets and Christian, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. He wrote the words, I heard the bells on Christmas Day. their old familiar carols play and wild and sweet the words repeat of peace on earth, goodwill towards men. But most people don't realize that when he wrote that He was going through a time of deep depression and darkness. His dear wife, Fanny, died in a horrible accident. And uh After that, he wrote in his journal how inexpressibly sad are all the holidays. He wrote that, you know, a Merry Christmas, say the children, but that is no more for me. And then add to that, he heard about his oldest son, Charles, who was wounded, uh, uh permanently wounded during the Civil War. And another tragedy was the Civil War itself. The country was still in the middle of those bloody days of the war. Thousands of young men were dying every day. And so on Christmas of 1863, Longfellow was in despair and he wrote the words uh that reflect that he wrote and in despair I bowed my head there is no peace on earth I said For hate is strong and mocks the song of peace on earth, goodwill to men. And while he deliberated on what he was going to write next, he heard in the distance the sound of church bells And the sound reminded him of the hope that he had in Jesus Christ, and that God's word is true, and that God never fails. And suddenly his demeanor changed from despair to joy. And then he finished the poem with these words, Then pealed the bells more loud and deep. God is not dead, nor doth he sleep The wrong shall fail, the right prevail, with peace on earth, goodwill to men. That story illustrates the emotions in Jeremiah when he wrote this prophecy. Because everything in the book of Jeremiah up until this point has really been bad news from chapter one to chapter twenty-nine. Jeremiah has been pretty dark and negative. He speaks of a destroyed city. He speaks of death. He speaks of judgment, of exile. of a diminished population. He speaks of sickness. He speaks of war. So far everything that Jeremiah wrote has been pretty dark But in the midst of all the darkness, because of God's judgment on idolatrous Israel, Jeremiah gives a prophetic message of hope. One night, Jeremiah lays down to go to sleep. And while he is asleep, God speaks to him through a dream. God sometimes would speak to his prophets through dreams. He did that to Joseph, he did that with Daniel, he did that with Zachariah, and so on. And by the time Jeremiah wakes up from this dream that he has, where God gives him a vision, there's no more despair. There's no more darkness, there's joy, there's hope. Look in chapter Jeremiah chapter thirty-one, verse twenty-six, it says this and at this I awoke and looked, and my sleep was pleasant to me. After he woke up He was filled with joy. Now, what did Jeremiah see in this dream? In this dream, God allows Jeremiah to look through the quarters of time and to see the coming of the Messiah. And really the whole message that God gave Jeremiah in that dream can be summarized in Jeremiah twenty-nine eleven, where God says, I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare, not for evil, to give you future and to give you hope. Now, a lot of times we, when we read that verse or we hear that verse, it's quoted a lot of time at high school graduations. But the truth of the matter is that whole promise is directly linked to The coming of the Messiah and Christmas. And the message from God was I'm going to turn things around And the message in Jeremiah's Dream, really, it's in chapter 30 to 32. We're just going to take a summary look at it. We can't look at all of this. But what God gives him is a series of I wills. I will. It must have amazed Jeremiah to hear what God was going to do, God's I wills. I will gather my people. I will bring again the the people to this place. I will cause them to dwell in safety. I will be their God and they will be my people. I will give them one heart. I will make an everlasting covenant with them. I will rejoice over them. I will give them all the good things that I promised to do. And in these I wills, God was promising to Israel a return from the Babylonian captivity. But it went far beyond that. You see, God is comparing the Babylonian captivity to the captivity that all men are in, and what is that? That's the captivity of sin. We're all in bondage to sin. And in these promises, God is not only promising deliverance for Israel, but He's promising deliverance for all people. And I want you to see the greatest of the I wills. That's in chapter 31, down in verse number 33, if you'll just look at that with me here. Where the Lord says, And this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. Those days saith the Lord, I will put my law in their inward parts, and write in their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people Verse 34, and they shall teach no more every man his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me from the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity and I will remember their sin no more. I want to tell you something, beloved. There is no greater blessing than to say, I know the Lord There's no greater blessing than to know that all of your sins have been forgiven, that God has written His law on your heart. And now there is in your heart a desire to obey the Lord and to walk with Him. When you're truly saved, that will be your desire. You'll have a desire to walk in obedience. You'll have a desire to walk in righteousness. And so God says, Jeremiah, all these things that I show you, I want you to write them down in a book. Go back to the verse that we read, chapter 30, verse 1. The word came to Jeremiah. Saying, verse 2, thus speaketh the Lord, God of Israel, saying, Write thee all the words that I have spoken unto thee in a book. God says, Jeremiah, write all this down. I want there to be a permanent record To the nation of Israel, and also to all people, so they will know what I have promised. That's why we have the Word of God, beloved, because God gives us His promises, so we can go back and look at what God said. All of God's promises are here. But another basis of God's promise is the Messiah himself, the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. The Apostle Paul wrote, For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, and we proclaim unto you He says is not yes and no, but in him, always yes, for all the promises of God find their yes in him. In Christ, all of God's promises are fulfilled. Now with all that in mind, I want you to see three elements of this dream that Jeremiah had about the coming Messiah. Here's the first one if you're taking notes, write down the need for the Messiah. There is a need for a Messiah. Look in verse 15 of chapter 30. Again, we're not going to go typically verse by verse through it. We're going to kind of look at it in a summary fashion and we're going to look at individual verses. Look at verse 15. Why criest thou for thine affliction? Thy sorrow is incurable for the multitude of thine iniquity, because thy sins were increased. I have done these things unto thee. Here God is speaking about the captivity of Israel and Judah. The people were carried away into captivity as a punishment from God because of their sin. And what we see is how the people suffered because of this captivity. We see hints of it throughout this whole passage. Captivity meant slavery. Jeremiah described it as a yoke being hung around the people's neck They were in bondage to the Babylonians. They were enslaved. Captivity meant misery. If you go back to chapter 30, verse number 4, we kind of see this where it says that um actually verse five for thus saith the lord we have heard a voice of trembling and of fear and not of peace These words reflect the fact that the scenes of battle were fresh in Jeremiah's mind. He could still hear the desperate cries of the vanquished when he wrote these words. He could see s warriors clutching their stomachs in agony, their faces pale ashen. uh holding their their their midsection like a woman in travail, it says. Look at verse six. Ask ye now and see whether a man doth travail with child does a man Give birth? Of course not. Wherefore do I see every man with his hand on his loins as a woman and in travail, and all faces are turned into paleness And because of all the misery, he's describing the uh what the warriors are looking like. They've been absolutely decimated by the enemy. Captivity meant um misery, but also it meant fear. They were dismayed. They were afraid. And also it meant rejection. Look at verse number 14. Notice what it says. All thy lovers have forsaken thee. They seek thee not For I have wounded thee with the wound of an enemy, and with the chastisement of a cruel one, for the multitude of thine iniquity because thy sins are increased When God through the prophet says, All your lovers have forsaken you, what he's saying is this, you know, when Israel and Judah got into trouble because of their sin, rather than trusting in the Lord, you know what they did? They made alliances with all the nations around them They invited Edom and Moab and Ammon and Tyre and Sidon to make treaties of war, hoping that would alleviate Their um their uh the enemy, the the the fight that they had against the Babylonians, their trust was misplaced because now they've all forsaken them and they're all alone. And uh no one would care what happened to them. So Jeremiah is describing their their their need. They the captivity meant slavery. Captivity meant misery, it meant fear, it meant rejection. They were all experiencing these things. And God said, the reason you are experiencing these things is because of sin. One reason, sin, your iniquities are great. They had sinned against God, and this was God's punishment. Sometimes the most severe punishment that God can give a sinning person is to allow those sins to run their course. It may be, I don't know. It may be that I'm speaking to some people in here today and you have felt deeply the consequences of your own sins. You felt misery and anxiety and fear, and you felt forsaken. That's what sin does in the life of a person. But God's actions were just. Look in verse 14 again, where he says that this was God's chastisement. He says, because thy sins were increased. God's actions were just. He says it's because of your sins. All this misery has come upon you, Israel. Let me tell you something. Bondage to sin is the greatest of all captivities. And friend, if you're in bondage to sin here today, God wants to deliver you. Sin will not be satisfied until it achieves total domination. If you're playing with sin today, just realize that Sin wants total domination. It seizes the mind to think sinful thoughts. It grabs the body to perform wicked deeds. It poisons the imagination to crave unholy fantasies. It bends the will to its own design. In the end it'll steal your heart so that you'll end up loving. what God hates and hating what God loves, what is good. How captive were God's people? God says your guilt is great. Your your sin is flagrant And God was reminding the people that they were very great sinners. Look at verse number 15 of chapter 30. Why criest thou for thine affliction? Thy sorrow is incurable. For the multitude of thine iniquity, because thy sins were increased, I have done these things unto thee. Instead of being filled with self pity, they should have been filled with conviction, God says, with self accusation. The reason they were so miserable, God says, was because they were flagrant sinners. Friend, do you believe the same thing about you About me, that we are sinners. Because I want to tell you something, dear friend, until you get to the place in your life where you realize what a great sinner you are before a holy God, you'll never experience the grace of God in your life. You'll never know what it is to be forgiven and to experience God's goodness and grace until you come to the point where you see how unworthy and how sinful that you are, that I am Before a merciful God. God uses the Babylonian exile As an illustration of what sin does to all of us. Maybe that there are people here. You're not from Israel and you weren't in a Babylonian captivity, but you are in captivity just the same. Captivity to sin. Just as Nebuchadnezzar brought the disobedient people into captivity, even so an evil king named Satan brings sinful people into his captivity. Sin is ruining your life. It's making you miserable. And so that's the need for the Messiah. God says to the people, you need a deliverer. You need a messiah. But here's number two. Not only the need for the Messiah, but see this. Number two, the nature of the Messiah. They need someone to ransom them from their captivity. And this is exactly what Jeremiah is promising. A Messiah would come and deliver his people. He would come and ransom his people from captivity and exile. Now, notice it's cut it notice Jeremiah uses the phrase, for the days come We saw this in verse 3. Look again, for lo, the days come, saith the Lord. He's speaking in the future. A Messiah is going to come. This is one of the expressions that we see often in Jeremiah when he gives a messianic prophecy. The days are coming. It's coming. Notice what will this Messiah be like? Look in verse 9 of chapter 30. I think verse 9 is one of the great messianic prophecies in all of the Bible. Look at verse 9. But they shall serve the Lord their God. And David their king, whom I will raise up unto them. Now First of all, what will he be like? Well, first of all, he will be the son of David. Jeremiah is making here a promise about the house of David. Notice again verse 9, where it says that they will serve the Lord their God and David their king whom I will raise up. Now Who is this David their king? It's very obvious that he's not referring to the literal King David, who was the son of Jesse. You see, how do we know that? Well, when Jeremiah wrote this, it was 598 B. C. , the real King David, son of Jesse, had been dead for hundreds of years So this couldn't be David, the literal David, that Jeremiah was talking about. What king is he talking about? This prophecy was not fulfilled at the end of the exile. Under the leadership of Nehemiah, they rebuilt Jerusalem, but no king was put back on the throne. So what king is he talking about? Who is this David that he's referring to? Well, of course, he's referring to the promise that God made to David that one of his descendants would come. And he would sit upon the throne and he would be the king. And that's why, beloved, in the New Testament, you have Matthew and Luke. with their genealogies, being very specific about who Jesus is, showing that Jesus is the only possible fulfillment of this. That if you look at the genealogy that Matthew has, Jesus is the rightful son of David. Only he could be in that position. Matthew traces Jesus from the legal line. Legally he was in the Davidic line. And Luke traces Jesus from the bloodline through Mary. Which shows that in both ways, Jesus was the legitimate son of David, the one who would be king. But also Look again in verse 9, because I think what he's alluding to here is not only will he be the son of David, but he will be the son of God. Look again carefully at verse 9 where it says, But they shall serve the Lord their God and David their king whom I will raise up. Now Jeremiah's prophecy indicates That the coming king would be God Himself. You say, how do you see that? Well, again, um notice that when the Savior of this Messiah comes The people will serve their Lord. Notice that the Lord is in all caps. That's the divine name. That's Yahweh. And also remember, this is Hebrew poetry. You know, Jeremiah was not just a prophet, he was a bit of a poet. When he wrote his prophecies, many of them were in Hebrew poetic form. And in English, when we write poetry, we try to rhyme words, we try to rhyme sounds, but in Hebrew poetry, they rhymed thoughts. This is called Hebrew parallelism. And in Hebrew poetry, the first line is stated, and then the second line will either complete that thought or it will interpret The what what's the line in the first uh the excuse me the thought in the first line and so that's what's happening here. You have these two lines in Hebrew poetry. The second line completes the first line. What is the first line? Again, verse 9. They shall serve the Lord their God They will sh serve Yahweh their God. What is the second line which interprets the first line? And David their king. whom I will raise up unto them. Their God is parallel to David the king. And so to serve Yahweh Is equal to serving David the king. Do you see here he's hinting at the fact that this son of David will also be Yahweh? He will be God in the flesh. That's an amazing prophecy. So we see the need for the Messiah. We see the nature of the Messiah. But I want you to see the third thought here. In Jeremiah's dream, he sees the nearness of the Messiah. Look at verse number 11 of chapter 30, where it says, For I am with thee, saith the Lord, to save thee. The Lord is with thee, he says, I'm with you. I'm going to deliver you. You know what that verse reminds me of? That verse reminds me of another messianic promise Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign, behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name what, Emmanuel. And let of course later on Matthew will quote that verse and explain it further. Matthew 1 23, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, shall bring forth a son, they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. That's the message of Christmas. I am with you, and I will save you. That's what Christmas is all about. Christmas is all about God sending his Messiah and His Savior into the world to a people who are in captivity and bondage to sin. And God's answer to the world, the only hope that this world has is God's Messiah, Jesus Christ. Salvation comes only through him, only through Jesus Now, I want you to also see in this prophecy, salvation is pictured in several ways. A broken yoke. Notice verse number 8. Notice what it says in verse 8. For lo it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord of hosts, I will break his yoke from off thy neck, and burst thy bonds, and strangers shall no more serve themselves of him. God says, I'm going to break this note, this yoke that is on your neck. I'm going to break it off. You know what this reminds me of? In Jeremiah chapter 27, God told Jeremiah to do something really unique. Sometimes God would ask his prophets to act out a message. And he said, Jeremiah, I want you to take a big yoke. I want you to put it around your neck. And I want you to walk through the streets of Jerusalem. Why? Because this was a prophecy about what was going to happen because of the sins of the people. God says, I'm going to put you into bondage because of your sin Because you disobeyed me. And Jeremiah had to walk all around the streets with a yoke on his neck, which pointed forward to God's punishment. of the Babylonian captivity. But here God says, in salvation, when I save you, when I deliver you, I'm going to break that yoke off of your neck. Again, that's what sin does. Sin brings you into bondage. It's like a yoke around your neck. There may be some people here this morning, and you feel that You've got a sin in your life. It's like you're in bondage. It puts you in misery. You feel like you're constantly carrying this heavy yoke. You know what salvation does? It breaks that yoke Breaks the yoke of bondage off. Remember what Jesus said? He said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and heavy laden, I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. Salvation is breaking the iron yoke of sin in our life and Jesus putting his yoke upon us. And We find rest in the Lord Jesus Christ. But also it's it's like healing a wound that is incurable. Look at verse number 12. For thus says the Lord, thy bruise is incurable, thy wound is grievous, there is none to please plead thy cause, that thou mayest be bound up, thou hast no healing medicines Jeremiah said the people of Judah they would suffer from this incurable wound. There's no cure for this this disease. And of course, what is disease again? God calls it sin. There's no answer to sin. It's a mortal wound. There's no cure for it, God says. But then, notice verse 17. For I will restore health unto thee. I will heal thee of thy wounds, saith the Lord. Now you know, so Jeremiah here in chapter 30 makes two statements that seem irreconcilable. You know, we have liberal scholars that criticize this. They say, oh, here, God says one thing. He says the wound is incurable. There's no medicine for it. And then he says, I will heal you, I will cure you of this wound. Scholars say that's a blatant contradiction. And we're tempted to think, you know, you know, how can this be? But then we remember the words of Jesus who said, they that are well don't need a physician. He was the great physician that came to heal the sick. With man, this is impossible. With God, all things are possible. There's only one medicine, there's only one cure for the mortal wound of sin, and that comes through Jesus Christ. He's able to Heal the wound of sin, a wound that man can never heal. But then there's a third picture here. Salvation is breaking a yoke Salvation is healing and incurable wound. Salvation is the calm after the storm. Look at verse 23 and verse number 24. Behold, the whirlwind of the Lord goeth forth with fury. A continuing whirlwind it shall fall with pain upon the head of the wicked. Earlier in the book of Jeremiah, he used the imagery of a storm to describe the invasion of Babylon. But when through God, when you come to Jesus Christ, the storm is over. God promised that he would rebuild what has been destroyed Look at verse number twenty-one. It's a beautiful promise in verse twenty-one. And their nobles shall be of themselves, and and their governor shall proceed from the midst of them, and I will cause him to draw near And he shall approach unto me. And so this is the language really of a high priest who is allowed to draw near to God And in this promise, God is saying, look, those who have been storm-tossed, those who have been sin-sick, those who have been carrying the yoke of sin, God says, I will break the yoke, I will heal the wound. The storm is now over, and I will allow you to draw near unto me. And again, in the Old Testament, only the high priest could draw near. But here we get a glimpse of what salvation is like. Jesus Christ will die on the cross. The Messiah will pay the sin debt. Because of the blood of Jesus Christ, sinners will be allowed to draw near to God And salvation. That's what it's like. The storm is now over. Salvation is the broken yoke. It is the incurable wound being healed. It is the storm being over. It is total restoration. Complete restoration. That's what the coming of Jesus Christ into this world means. The Messiah will restore us completely. Well, the exiles, that's the promise that they had. And they waited for the Messiah to come. They longed for the Messiah to come. And you know what? God's Messiah did come. In Jesus Christ. He was Emmanuel. He was God with us. Let me just say this before we close. Just as Israel was waiting for their the first advent of Messiah, even so we wait for the second advent. You know, Christmas should remind us that just as surely as Jesus came the first time, Jesus will come again the second time. He's coming for his people And so there's the need for the Messiah. We're all in captivity to sin. We need deliverance. There's the nature of the Messiah. He will be the son of David, he will be the son of God. There's the nearness of the Messiah. Because of the Messiah, the yoke of sin will be broken, the incurable wound will be healed, the storm will be over, and therefore we can now draw near to him. That's what God wants for all of us. And Jeremiah said in Jeremiah chapter 31 verse 26, and at this I awoke And looked, and my sleep was pleasant to me. You talk about sweet dreams. God allowed Jeremiah to see The coming of the Messiah. That's why I call this Jeremiah's Christmas dream. And all of what Jeremiah says is reflected in the hymn that I love to hear sung around this time of year. O come, O come, Emmanuel. And I love the one line of the song that I think reflects everything that Jeremiah says here. O come, thou days freeing, come and cheer our spirits. by thine advent here, disperse the gloomy clouds of night, and death's dark shadows put to flight. Rejoice, Emmanuel shall come to thee And if you're here today and you don't know the saving power of God's forgiveness in your life, may I just tell you the Messiah has come and he wants to break the yoke? Of sin in your life. He wants to heal that incurable wound. He wants to draw near to you. Is that your desire today? Let's bow for prayer together. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. If you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. I would invite you right now. The Bible says now is the accepted time. The Messiah has come. He came to deliver you from sin, your sin. But friend, you have to first of all see yourself as a sinner. It's like Jesus said, look, uh those that are not sick, you don't need a physician. If you don't see yourself as sin sick, then you don't need a savior, you don't need a messiah. But may I say that's a deluded perception because the Bible says all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We're all sin sick. But friend, until first you see yourself as in bondage, in captivity to an evil king called Satan. And sin is like a heavy yoke around your neck. Until you see yourself as that way, until you're ready to admit that you're a sinner, you'll never know the grace of God. The Messiah didn't come for righteous people. He came for broken sinners, those who have an incurable wound, to heal that wound. And if you're here today and you'll say, that's me, My wound is incurable. I've tried every other thing to deal with this. My conscience is loaded with guilt because of my sin. There's no remedy. With man, this is not possible. With God, all things are possible. And Jesus wants to forgive you. He wants to save you. He wants to cleanse you from all of your sin. And give you eternal life and make it his child so that you can draw near and you can say, Emmanuel, God is with us. Would you just reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, save me. I'm a sinner, save me. So that's your prayer today. I just want to pray for you. I don't want to embarrass you. Would you raise your hand and say, yes, that's me. I'm reaching out to Christ today. as my savior, as my Lord. Friend, make sure that you're trusting in Christ in Christ alone. Is that anyone here? Father, thank you for your word and thank you for how we see in the Old Testament beautiful glimpses of the coming Messiah. We see announcements. That you gave to prophets in the midst of dire circumstances of the coming Messiah so that they might have hope. Emmanuel is our only hope. And I pray, Lord, that no one leaves here today without knowing with absolute certainty that Jesus Christ, the Messiah, is their Savior and Lord. Thank you for this beautiful promise. Thank you that it was fulfilled. And thank you, Lord, that our hope now is in the second coming of Christ. Lord, you've delivered us from the punishment of sin. And we know one day you'll deliver us from the presence of sin when you come again. We pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.