Chapter of the book of Matthew. The seventeenth chapter of the book of Matthew. And I just want to give you a story tonight that I think is uh a wonderful story in the Gospel of Matthew about our Lord Jesus Christ. I heard about a man who was on vacation. He was strolling along his outside of his hotel there in Acapulco. And uh he was enjoying the sunny weather there in Mexico. Suddenly he was attracted by the screams of a woman And she was kneeling in front of her child, and the man c knew enough Spanish to know that the child had swallowed something and the child began to uh to look pretty bad And so he seized the child and uh he held him up and he did a few things and finally he turned the child upside down, and out of the child's mouth came an American quarter. And the woman said, thank you, sir, thank you so much. You seem to know just exactly what to do to get that coin out of him. Are you a doctor? He said, no, ma'am, I work for the United States Internal Revenue Service. They know how to get their coins. Well, I want to talk tonight about worship and taxes. Worship and taxes. And uh someone might think, well now what does worship have to do with taxes? These kind of seem like opposite ends of the spectrum. And worship we pay tribute to God and taxes we pay tribute to government. Worship is voluntary, taxes are necessary. When it comes to worship, we sing. When it comes to taxes, we sob. With uh worship we give gratefully, with taxes we give grudgingly. Someone said uh capital punishment is Congress coming up with a new tax for us So how do these two things uh work together? Actually, these two things kind of converge together. They come together in the person of Jesus Christ. In this story that we're going to look at here in the book of Matthew, this story is found only in the book of Matthew. It's interesting to me that Matthew is uh gives this story, who is a tax collector himself. This story obviously interested him And this is found in verses 22 on down to verse 27. We'll look at these verses in just a minute. And what we're going to find is Peter is confronted by some men who were sent by the priests from Jerusalem. They wanted to know if Jesus was going to pay his temple tax. And so Jesus will use this occasion to teach some very important lessons about himself to Peter and to the disciples, and also by way of extension to us. And in doing so, he seeks to comfort them, he seeks to strengthen their faith and our faith as well. Look at verse number 22. And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of Man shall be betrayed into the hands of men, and they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised again. And they were exceeding sorry. And when they were come to Capernaum, they that received tribute money came to Peter and said, Doth not your master Pay tribute? And he said, Yes. And when he was coming to the house, Jesus prevented him, saying, What what thinkest thou, Simon? Of whom do the kings of the earth take custom or tribute? Of their own children or of strangers? And Peter said unto him, Of strangers. And Jesus said unto him, Then are the children free, notwithstanding lest we should be we should offend. Go thou to the sea and cast a hook, and take up the fish, the first come that cometh up, and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money. Take that take and give it unto them for me and for thee. Incredible story here. Now let me just give you a little background into what's going on here in Matthew 17. This is the instructional period of Jesus' ministry. He is preparing his disciples for what is going to come, and what is going to come is that Jesus is going to go to Jerusalem. He's going to die for sin. In fact, 30 days From this time, Jesus will be crucified. The first fifteen chapters of Matthew are devoted to three years of Jesus' ministry, and the last ten chapters are devoted to four weeks of his life. And so it's the time leading up to the cross. And so the Gospel of Matthew you might say is somewhat lopsided The real focus of it is on the passion of Christ. And this is deliberately so. This is what matters. This is what Jesus came to do. This is utmost importance. That is the cross. The death, the burial, and the resurrection of Christ. And this is what Matthew wants to emphasize here. But he's also talking about some events that took place on the road to Jerusalem, leading up to his passion. And notice that this is a private meaning in verse 22 and verse 23. They're passing through Galilee. They're on the way to Judea and Jerusalem. By the way, during the period from Matthew 13 to 17, they are traveling, they are journeying. They cross the lake to Decapolis. And uh they returned, they traveled northward to Tyre and Sidon, then east to Gentile territory along the Sea of Galilee. And then they traveled twenty miles north of Galilee into the region of Caesarea Philippi. And that's what we see there in Matthew 16. That's where Peter made his great confession. And now they're headed back. to Galilee, into Capernaum, the hometown of Peter, and where Jesus made his residence, and they're on their way on their way to Jerusalem And Jesus, while there has a private meeting with the disciples, and he reminds them that he's going to the cross. This is the third time in a very short time. that Jesus has reminded them about that. In Matthew 1621, he tells them that, look in 1621, from that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how he must go unto Jerusalem and suffer many things. of the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised again. He touches on it again in chapter 17, verse 12, and then here. But the the thing to see is the term must. It speaks of divine necessity. He will be delivered into That's passive. God the Father will hand over Jesus into the hands of men. And of course, the disciples still didn't fully comprehend everything that was going to happen. Look in verse number 23, and they and they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised again. And notice the response of the disciples, and they were exceedingly exceeding sorry. The word here for exceeding sorry, this is a deep, deep sorrow. Very, very deep, such as one would mourn over a loved one. They understood that he was going to die, but they still didn't understand why. In fact, in Mark 9. 32, it says the disciples didn't understand that statement. They fully they still couldn't fully wrap their minds around why this all had to happen. Now, right after that, right on the heels of this, Verse 24, there's the tribute question. And when they were come to Capernaum, they that received tribute money came to Peter and said, Doth not your master pay tribute? Now they were come to Capernaum. Again, this is where Jesus had his headquarters. This was called Christ's own city in Matthew 9. 1. They were passing through, and while they were there, there were some men that came down from Jerusalem, sent by the priest, no doubt. And they asked about the tribute money. Now, just keep this in mind, they were not tax collectors for the Roman government. All right? So get that thought out of your mind. This was a temple tax. The word tribute here literally means two drachmas. It was also called a half shekel tax. And this was to be paid every year by every Jewish male who was over the age of twenty. They had to pay this every year. There was a scriptural basis for this. And by the way, you say why? This was for the upkeep of the temple. This was to take care of the house of the Lord. There's a scriptural basis for it if you want to look at it sometime. Exodus 30 talks about every Israelite over 20, male over 20, had to pay the half shekel tax. And so this started really for the tabernacle. It continued as the temple was built. When they went into the captivity and the temple was destroyed, obviously that stopped. But It was reinstituted again under Nehemiah, and it continued on into the time of Jesus. In fact, the Mishnah There's a book in the Mishnah called the Tractate Shelechem which says this, on the first day of Adar, they give warning of the shekel dues, that is the half shekel tax. On the fifteenth thereof, they read the book of Esther in walled cities and repair the paths, and then so on. And so when it was getting close to the festivals, when it was getting close to the feast time. Which started with Passover, they would remind everyone, they would send out messengers and remind people that it's time for the temple tax. They normally began collecting these taxes about a month before the Passover. And so they would send someone out to remind people about it, and then they would send messengers out to actually collect the temple tax. And so This had already started. This had already begun because it was time to pay. Obvious by what Jesus did at the end of this story where he said, Told Peter, pay for me and for yourself. So this Let's us know that there are thirty days left now before the crucifixion. They say, what's going on here? Now these men are speaking to Peter perhaps because they can't find Jesus. Jesus is not around at this time But I think this is perhaps a test to see if Jesus is going to be supportive of the temple and all of its service. There are already rumors going around circulating saying that Jesus was disloyal about the things of the temple. And this very well may be a test, yet another test, from the leaders in Jerusalem to try to ensnare Jesus. They were always trying to use something against him. They were always trying to find something that they could use to take away the popularity that Jesus had with the people. And so perhaps this was a test. Is your master going to pay this temple tax? Now let me remind you that Jesus was in no obligation to pay the temple tax. You say, why? Well, because he was the Messiah. He was the Son of God. Priests were exempt from paying this tax, let alone if you're the Messiah. If you work in the temple service, you didn't have to pay it, but everyone else did. And if you were the Messiah, the Son of God, obviously you would be exempt from that But again, these Jewish leaders were looking for something against Jesus, and this provided the ideal situation where they could use this against Christ. Because they send these messengers to ask directly about Jesus. And if Jesus said no, they could use that against them. See, he's disloyal. He doesn't support the things of the temple. How can he be the legitimate Messiah if he's not going to support the temple? And if he says, yes, Well then they have an argument there to say, well, why would the Messiah need to pay the simple fact? If he is who he claims to be the Son of God, he wouldn't need to pay it. So there it proves that he is not who he claimed to be. And so this was a little trap, I think, that they were setting up for him. But they posed the question to Peter. And look at the way they pose it, it kind of assumes a positive answer in verse 24. Doth not your master pay Tribute? Surely Jesus is going to pay the temple tax, won't he? I mean, he's going to do that, right? Now, Peter, he wants to defend Jesus. And perhaps being protective of the reputation of Jesus, he kind of gives a knee-jerk answer, yes. I think Peter was one of those disciples that always spoke first and then thought about it later. We see that that has gotten him into trouble before. Peter didn't really think deeply about the implications of this question, what it all meant. This was a very complex situation here. Spurgeon wrote this. He said Peter was in such a hurry to vindicate his Lord that he compromised him. He might have asked his Lord's mind Or he might have referred to the collect the collectors to Jesus himself, but he was in a hurry and thought himself safe to maintain his master's reputation. I think he's right about that. I think Peter just gave this knee-jerk response. He's so anxious to protect the reputation of Jesus. He understands some of the hostility that's building towards Christ So he gives this knee-jerk response. And in doing so, he kind of created a bit of a dilemma there by answering yes Again, by Jesus agreeing to pay this, he was assuming that he was just like everyone else. Again, let me read to you what Leon Morris had to say. Quote, if Jesus paid the tax He was putting himself in the same positions as others. He would be classifying himself as an outsider and not the sun. And that impression should be avoided. But again, Peter, he was oblivious to all that was going on. He seemed kind of ignorant of this real issue. And so Peter kind of answers wrongly, but Jesus is going to take care of this. Isn't that good? Jesus can take care of any situation. This is not hard for him. And Jesus isn't going to let this whole incident go by without a lesson to Peter and disciples. Actually, what the Pharisees and these others are doing, these leaders, is they're presenting Jesus with a wonderful yet another opportunity to show his disciples and others who he really is. That's all they're doing. This is a great opportunity. And remember, the disciples are still learning. They're still struggling. I mean, they've accepted the prophecy of Jesus that he's going to die, but they are still preoccupied with selfish concerns. And they're questioning a lot of things that's going on around them. It just seems like everything is unraveling. Hostility is building. Jesus is going to die. Everything that we've invested into this kingdom thing, it just seems like it's going to unravel. And so they're concerned. And they're thinking that perhaps they're losing control. Jesus is losing control of this situation. And I think of all the disciples, perhaps Peter was the most sorrowful about the upcoming death of Christ. And so Jesus is going to use this whole thing. To provide encouragement, to strengthen, to teach. So I want you to see how Jesus uses this to affirm his claim, to affirm his credentials, to affirm who he is. And there are five important lessons that Jesus will teach about Himself tonight that we need to again look at and meditate on and draw comfort ourselves. Here's the first one, number one. Jesus the King sees all, or we could say Jesus the King, he knows all. He sees all, and he knows all. Look at verse number 25. And uh so Peter answered and he said, Yes. Does your master pay tribute, verse 24 and verse 25? He said, Yes. And when he was come into the house, Jesus prevented. Now I think Peter gives the answer, and then he begins to wonder if in fact is that what Jesus would do here? And so he's walking towards, notice it's the house. That's the Peter's house. And that's no doubt where Jesus stayed. And as he's walking through the house, he's wondering, did I give the right answer? Did you ever give an answer and then think about it? Is that the right answer? Did I speak the right thing here? And I think his mind is just filled with all this. Is this really what Jesus would do? By the way, this is the first what-would Jesus do scenario in all of Christian history right here. What would Jesus do? Would he in fact pay this temple tax? And no doubt Peter perhaps remembers in the past how that he spoke too soon and put his foot in his mouth and got into trouble. Someone said many things we open by this by the by mistake, but none so much as the mouth. And Peter can relate to that, and he couldn't stop thinking about it So he determines to go and ask Jesus. He's going to go and talk to Jesus directly. So he goes to his house, and while he's coming, Jesus anticipates all of this because in verse number 25 it says Jesus prevented him from Saying. The word prevented. Very interesting word. The Old English word prevented actually means preceded. We see that in 1 Thessalonians 4, right? Those that are asleep. And Jesus will not precede the uh the others, and so the Lord shall not precede them which are asleep, I should say. And so it has the idea of coming before, but actually it's a Greek word here that's used only here And nowhere else it's Pro Thano, which means to come before to anticipate. Again, this is used here and nowhere else in all the New Testament. It's used in classical Greek literature. to mean to arrive at before or to come before. And what this implies again is divine knowledge of the conversation between Peter and the collectors. Now, how did Jesus know about that conversation? Here he was in Peter's house, and yet he knows all about the conversation. And not only that, he knows all about what's going on in Peter's mind. He knows that Peter is mulling this over. You know why he knew that? Because he is God. And he knows the thoughts. This had to startle Peter. He walks into the house. He's ready to ask Jesus about this, and all of a sudden, before Peter can say anything, Jesus beats him to the punch. Peter, let me ask you a question. Look at verse 25. What thinkest thou, Simon? Of whom do the kings of the earth take custom? It's amazing that he beats Peter to the punch, and here he is affirming yet again to Peter that he is God. That he knows all things. And here we get yet another glimpse of his deity. And one of the things I love about the Gospels is that in these stories and in these situations like this It just shows little glimpses of who Jesus is all along. It just shows us his greatness. Several times in the Gospels this happens where we see the omniscience of Christ. We see it in John 1, when Peter brought his friend Nathaniel to see Jesus. And Jesus said, Behold an Israelite in whom there is no guile. And Nathaniel says, Do you know me? And he said, I knew you when you were sitting under the fig tree And what was his response? You are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. This divine omniscience and knowing all things should be a source of comfort to all of us. It really should. You know, someone says, well, no one really knows how I feel. Yes, there is. Jesus does. He knows He knows the pain you feel. He's touched with the feelings of your infirmity. Some of you here, you may have had a tough week. You may have things that are heavy on your heart And, you know, some people will come to you sometimes and they'll say, Well, I know how you feel. The truth of the matter is, nobody really knows how you feel except you The Bible says in Proverbs 14, 10, the heart knows its own bitterness, and no stranger shares its joy. But friend, there is one who does, and that's Jesus Christ. He understands when you're misunderstood. He understands when you're falsely accused. He understands when you're misrepresented. He understands when you have sorrow that you can't verbalize, you can't vocalize. He knows your groanings. He knows your pains. He knows it all And he knows when you come before him to confess your wrong, he knows how deeply grieved you are over that. And by the way, Peter will remember this because you know that Peter will deny the Lord later. And then Jesus, in an attempt to restore him, you know that story in John 21, after they were fishing, Jesus asked them three times, Do you love me? And the third time the Bible says Peter was grieved And what if he say, Lord, you know all things? You know that I love you. I know my actions don't look like it. But you know all things, you know my heart. Perhaps Peter was thinking back to this story here about the omniscience of Jesus. This would mean something to Peter for the rest of his life. This would be a great source of comfort But also a great source of conviction. Beloved, don't think that God doesn't see and hear everything He does. He truly does. So Jesus the King, he knows all, he sees all. But here's the second thing. Jesus the King, he owns all. He owns all. Look again at verse 25. What thinketh thou, Simon? Of whom do the kings of the earth take custom or a tribute of their own children or of strangers. Now Jesus is going to teach a lesson here and he begins with a question. That's what rabbis would do sometime. A common method of teaching is be Getting their students to think with a question. And Jesus uses an analogy. Peter, what do you think about this? When the kings of the earth want to take tribute, or when they want tribute, who do they go to get that tribute? Or when they want to tax someone or they want to finance their kingdom, from whom do they take the money? Do they take it from their own sons? Or do they take it from strangers? Now, ancient kings were autocratic. They had all the power. They can do whatever they wanted. They could tax as much as they wanted. And there were normally two kinds of taxes back at this time. There was the uh the the customs, which was levied on goods, and there was the poll tax levied on individuals. Now what was the tax for? It was to take care of the king It was to take care of his kingdom and all of his family and everyone. So when it came time to charge people tribute or to collect taxes, would the king go to his own children for taxes? No. That answer is obvious. He wouldn't go to his own family. And this analogy, by the way, pictures God as the king. And the temple service as the running of the kingdom, and Jesus is making a comparison here between those who are the sons of the king and those who are not the sons of the king. But notice Peter's answer in verse 26. Peter said unto him, Of strangers. Of strangers. That's right. The king collects taxes from those who are citizens. or inhabitants that are not a part of the family. That is right. And then Jesus says in verse 26, then are the children free. You say, well, what's the point that Jesus is making? Who are the sons that are free and how are they free? Well again, verse 27 kind of gives us a decisive clue. He says, however, take that and give it to them for me and for you. In other words, we are exempt from this. Who is exempt? This is Jesus' point. Jesus' whole point is, look, we're exempt from this, Peter. Me and you were exempt from this tax. Now why is Jesus exempt? Because again, who is he? He's God. He owns the temple. You understand that? It's his already. It's his temple. The king doesn't have to pay taxes for his own kingdom. That would be like if Jesus came here to church on Sunday here at Grace and one of the ushers came up and said, Jesus, are you going to pay a tithe? I I would have said, let's exempt Jesus from giving tithes. Would you be okay with that? Since he's the object of our worship, since he's the one that we're giving to, and when we give, it's really not our money that he wants, it's our heart. And so it doesn't make any sense for Jesus to do that since he owns all, since the temple is already his. Micah 3. 1, behold, I send my messengers, and he will prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple. Whose temple is it? It's his temple. He already owns it. That's why Jesus cleanses the temple twice. And when he cleanses the temple, he said, My house! Shall be called a house of prayer. Whose house? My house shall be called a house of prayer. And you've made it a Dent of These. He already owns it all. It's all his. Does it make sense for him to have to pay a tribute or taxes? The Bible says the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, and they that dwell in it. Job 41, 11, who has first given to me that I should repay him? And just keep this in mind while we're on the subject. When you come and you pay your tithes to church, you realize you're not making God rich. You understand that, right? You understand that he owes it all? It's all already his. You say, why do we do it? It's an act of worship and obedience. But it's a way of saying everything that I am and all that I have, it's because you are the giver. He's not the receiver, he's the giver. Because all of it is his. The Bible says in Haggai, the silver and the gold is mine. That money you have in your pocket you think is yours? It's really his. And if he wanted it, he would take it. He's just entrusting it to you for a while. But everything belongs to him. You can't add anything to God He is the one from which everything comes. Romans 11, who has first given to him, and it should be recompensed unto him again, for of him and through him and to him are all things. to whom be glory forever and ever. Jesus is the destination and the domination of everything that is. Everything that is So the temple is already his. But let me give you something even deeper than that. He is the temple. He is the temple. The temple in Jerusalem is passing away. It's going to be replaced by Jesus himself. You see, Jesus is taking the place of the temple. In the Old Testament, when people wanted to go and meet with God, where would they go? They would go to the temple in Jerusalem. Now you want to get to God, guess what? You go to Jesus. He's the one now. After the cross there's no more old covenant system. All of that is passed away. There'll be no more sacrifices for sin. And by the way, everything that went on in that temple, they were all shadows, they pointed to the reality of Jesus Christ. It all pointed to him He is the new meeting place with God. Jesus said during his earthly ministry, destroy this temple and in three days I'm going to raise it back up. In Matthew 12, 6, he said, there's one greater than the temple right here. Who is he talking about? He's talking about himself. So you are in the presence of God. You are seeing the new temple right here. So when Peter answers that question, he wasn't meaning to bring Jesus down. He was trying to protect his reputation. But I think if Peter had time to think about That question. And to think about his confession that he made back in chapter 16 when Jesus said, Who do you say that I am? Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. If he had time to think about that, he would have answered differently. He probably would have said, why would the Son of God have to pay a temple tax? Why would he have to do that? It's his temple. He is the object of our worship. So Jesus, by giving Peter these questions, he's forcing him to think. And he's demonstrating that he is the object of worship. And by the way, this is the whole point of the passage. It's all about who Jesus is and the worship of Christ. But then notice also the disciples are the sons. Jesus is the king, therefore, and the disciples are the sons of him, and so on. And we can we could talk more about that. But let me let me move on to the next point. Jesus is the king who sees all and knows all. Jesus owns all. But here's the third point. Jesus serves all. He serves all. Look in verse 27. Notwithstanding, lest we should offend them, go thou to the sea and cast an hook. Now notice the first phrase. However, not to give offense to them. We don't want to offend anyone. So here yet again we see Jesus in his great humility and his desire to put others first. So what does he do? Yet again, he sets aside his right. Even though he has no obligation to pay this, he's God. He sets aside that privilege of being God And again, the very idea that he was asked is an insult to him, and yet he's going to humble himself And serve man. Now someone might say, well, now wait a minute, by paying the tax, isn't Jesus going to affirm their argument and say that he's just like everyone else? Isn't that saying that he's not God and he's like everyone else? No. Why? Because the manner in which he pays this tax is through what? An incredible miracle. So that removes the dilemma. I don't I'm not I'm under no obligation to pay this because I'm God and yet I'm going to humble myself, I'm going to do this, and yet he does it in a way that does not uh retract any of his previous claims to deity. In fact, he pays it in a way that upholds all of those claims. That he is God. And he's going to demonstrate that. But again, what we see here at this point is the humility of Christ. This is really his whole ministry. I mean, what did he do? He came to humble himself, to lay aside all of his rights that came with deity, to submit himself to all the laws of man. He is the supreme model of setting aside one's rights and one's privileges. He is the supreme model of being selfless and constantly putting others ahead of himself. What an incredible example. And by the way, this is Paul's whole argument. We studied this when we went through Philippians, right? Philippians chapter two. The church was on the verge of splitting because you had two women in there that were demanding their rights. And they were pulling and pulling for their own way and getting people to get on their side. They were selfish and self-centered. And what did Paul say? Have the mind of Christ. He points to Jesus Christ. Have the mind of Christ. Let this mind be in you, which was in Christ Jesus. who though he w uh was uh excuse me though he was in the form of God did not count, we could say, equality with God as something to be held on to But he humbled himself and became obedient. But then he states his reason. Look at verse number 27 again, lest we should offend them. This is the word scandalizo to To cause a snare, to cause anyone to stumble. He didn't want his actions to cause anyone to stumble. Who would he cause to stumble? Well, first of all, unbelievers. He didn't want to be a stumbling block in the way for anyone That would keep them from repenting and believing in him. He didn't want those collectors to walk away and say, well, he doesn't love the temple. He doesn't worship in the temple. And so he doesn't want to cause anyone offense. And again, beloved, this is a principle that we need to apply to ourselves. You know why we need to be careful as we live in this world not to offend unbelievers? Because they're the very ones we want to win to Christ. They're the ones we want to reach out to. Write down 1 Corinthians 10, 32. Give no offense to Jews or to Greeks or to the Church of God. And then Paul says this, and just as I try to please everyone and everything I do, excuse me, not seeking my own advantage, But that of many, listen, that they may be saved. Paul said, I'm constantly trying to live my life in a way that is not offensive. To those around me, why? Because I want them to come to Christ. I want them to get saved. I don't want to offend unbelievers because of my actions. Because I want them to hear what I'm going to say. But also to believers, this word offense is used in Romans 14. 21 and 1 Corinthians 8 13. And uh it's talking about foods, therefore if food makes my brother stumble, I will never eat meat lest I make my brother stumble. And this is the old argument that's given In 1 Corinthians, it's about eating meat. If anything I do causes my brother to stumble, I'm going to limit my liberty. I'm going to set aside my rights. Why? Out of love for my brother In fact, Paul says, if eating meat causes anyone to stumble, I'll become a vegetarian. That's not hyperbole, friend. He's being literal there. If you're willing to become a vegetarian for your brother, that's love. He said, if anything I do causes someone to stumble, I'm not going to do it. In fact, later on, Jesus here in Matthew in chapter 18 will say, Woe to the one that causes offenses This is a big deal. He doesn't want to offend anyone. And so he wants to serve others. He wants to help others. That's the spirit of Christ. But then let me give you the fourth thing. Jesus the King, He knows all, He sees all, He owns all. He serves all. But here's the fourth thing. Jesus the King, He controls all. He controls all. Now look what he says to Peter. Here's this incredible miracle. He gives them some directions. He says, go to the sea. This would have been the Sea of Galilee. Cast in a hook. Peter normally would fish with a gnat, but here he's told to use a hook. And he says, take up the fish, the first one. The first fish, the first time you catch or you throw the hook in, the first fish, you take it up. It's nice to go fishing knowing you're going to catch something. He knows he's going to catch something. And he says, open its mouth in verse 27, and you're going to find what? A coin. And then you take the coin and you pay the tax for you and for me. That's pretty incredible. Have you thought about this? What is Jesus claiming here? I'm going to arrange all this. I'm going to take care of all this. This is what's going to happen. He was claiming here to be able to control all of the circumstances that would bring this to pass. Think about it. It had to be a certain coin. In fact, the the uh where it says piece of money or money, it's the Greek word stator. This is the coin This would be equivalent to four drachbah. This would be the amount of tax for two people, not one, but two people. So it had to be the right coin, which had the right amount. This wasn't just any coin. But a stater. This is not a denarius. This is not a drachma. This is not a mite. This is not a farthing, but a stater. And by the way, Some facts about this coin. This coin was not much in circulation in Israel. This was kind of a rare coin. It was minted for a time, but then it ceased to be made. So this is a limited edition coin here. Alright? Be like saying, you know, go out in the parking lot tonight and you'll find a two-dollar bill. Probably not going to happen. But I mean this is what Jesus is saying. So think about that. Someone in the providential hand of God had to take this certain coin and cast it into the sea. For some reason. And then it had to be a certain fish. Now the Bible doesn't say what kind of fish. There are commentators I've read who said this has to be a catfish. Because only a catfish would do this. Well we don't know that. But what I did research and find out is there were 22 different species of fish in the Sea of Galilee. Only a very few were big enough to do this. They had a mouth big enough to do this So it had to be a certain kind of fish, and then it had to be a certain place. This fish would have to come along, scoop up the coin, and take it to Capernaum. At a certain time where Peter cast in the hook, I mean they had to converge at the right time, just the right time. Not the second fish, Jesus said, not the third fish, but the first fish. That comes along. And by the way, this fish would have to put the coin in its mouth without swallowing it all the way down. Bite the hook and get hooked and still have the coin in its mouth. That's incredible. Who can do that? Who can control all those circumstances Make all of those things happen. Just exactly like he said. And and when you read this, it's almost like here's a by the way thing. Oh, by the way, Peter, let me tell you how you can take care of this tax. Just go down, put a f hook in the water and you'll get a fish and it'll have a stator and then it'll pay for eat me and you. By the way, not a big deal That is a sovereign God. That is a God who is in control. So I'm amazed when I read some theologians out there to say, well, you know, God, He's sovereign over the big things, just not the little things. Really? This seems to be pretty clear here. That even the most minute details. He controls. Just like big doors swing on small hinges. Big events swing on small details. And we would call this a miracle, and it is, but really it's just God being God. That's all it is. Everything is under his sovereign control. Now, what does this communicate to Peter? I mean he's sorrowing. He's wondering. Everything's falling apart. I mean this whole kingdom thing is not happening the way we thought. Jesus is losing control. He's going to die And what is Jesus communicating to Peter? Peter, I know all, I own all, I see all, I'm in control of all. Nothing is happening by accident here. Everything is exactly according to God's plan. And then let me give you the last thing. Jesus the King, he ransoms all. He ransoms all. Look again in verse 27. It says this. Thou shalt find a piece of money, that take, and give it unto them for me and for thee. Notice that Jesus says, give it for me and for yourself. The original temple tax was paid by every man as a ransom for himself to the Lord. Now Jesus didn't need to be ransomed, nor to pay a ransom for himself. But he did pay the ransom for the sake of others. He pays the ransom. The temple tax really was itself a substitution. Jesus gives his tax so as not to be offense, but he gives the tax also as a symbol that he's going to ransom Peter, and by doing that as a symbol that he's going to ransom everyone. He's going to ransom all. In fact, a person paid this tax as a substitution for them going and working in and on the temple themselves. So the coin itself foreshadows Jesus, who would be a substitute for sinners. He would be the substitute. The ransom for sin was paid for by the substitutionary death of Christ. Write down Matthew twenty-twenty-eight. Even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for So the payment of the tax was a foreshadowing of Jesus paying the ransom for sin. He's going to pay that ransom. Now think about this. Why didn't Jesus say, Peter, just go to Judas, he holds the money, and just pull out whatever we need out of the treasure? at the Treasury. They had a little money box that Judas held. They had some funds in there. He could have said, just go get the funds from Judas and go pay the tax. He didn't do that. You know why? Because that coin would represent the ransom of Christ. And you know what? That ransom is not provided by man. It's provided by God. It is divinely given. It is sovereignly given by God. And man has nothing to do with it. Nothing to do with it. And it speaks of Jesus. Who was the gift of God sent to us to ransom us for our sin? He was divinely given. Man has nothing to do with it. Jesus was God's gift to man. And so later Peter would write, For as much as you know, you were not redeemed with corruptible things, such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. as a lamb without blemish and without spine. And so this is why I worship a taxpayer. I worship Jesus. Who paid it all. I love the song. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain. He washed it white as snow. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So Lord, we do worship you. We thank you for who you are. And we thank you for this just the story here, these few verses, almost parenthetically placed in here, as our Lord is on the way to the cross. Just a little reminder to disciples who are in sorrow, who are befuddled, bewildered about what's going on. This little reminder about who you are. And Lord, we need that as your people. Because Lord, we live in a world that seems as if sometimes things are spiraling out of control. And let this story remind us that Jesus sees all, he knows all, he owns it all. May we be reminded that, Lord Jesus, you serve all, and you're in control of all, and that you ransom all. May we worship you with all our heart. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask tonight, maybe you're here and you've never bowed the knee to Jesus Christ. Maybe it's never really fully dawned on you who he is. Friend, he wasn't just a good teacher. He wasn't just a prophet. He was the Son of God. He was the Savior sent for mankind. And there's only one way to heaven, it's through Christ. He is the one who paid that ransom. He paid your ransom. And I want to ask you tonight, have you ever bowed to him? Have you ever come to him, repented of your sin? And ask him to be your Lord and Savior. And if you haven't done that, then friend, you're missing out on the greatest blessing that there is. The greatest blessing that there is Is knowing Christ. Would you be willing to reach out to Him tonight? Would you be willing to pray from your heart? Just say these words and mean them in your heart. God be merciful to me as sinner. Save me, Lord Jesus. I know that you are the Son of God. I know that you died to pay the ransom for my sin. Come into my heart, save me. And friend, if you'll pray that in me and he will do it. You can be saved tonight. And for those of us who are Christians, maybe you just tonight need this reminder And the difficulty that you're going through to guess what? Jesus hasn't forgotten about you, friend. He hasn't forgotten about you And he is in control. He is. And he loves you dearly. Just know that. Just know that. Father, bless these words to people's hearts. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.