Take your Bibles now, open to the book of 1 John, chapter 1. On Sunday morning, we're going through a series here in this little epistle. It's so very important. And I'm labeling this series authentic Christianity Because really that's what John is talking about. Authentic Christianity. So look at 1 John chapter 1, verse 1, that which was from the beginning. Which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life. Now when I read these first few verses in 1 John, I can't help but think about a person that I uh met when I was a freshman in college. I went to Bible college. And met a me a young man by the name of Ed. I don't know if I ever told you about him. He was saved out of a very wicked lifestyle In fact, he was in a motorcycle gang before he got saved. And when God saved him, there was such a dramatic change in his life. I mean he was just so filled with the reality of Jesus Christ. I mean he was just so filled with zeal and filled with passion. I haven't met too many that had as much passion and zeal as Ed had in his his Christian life. And really he was only saved for a few months before he went to Bible college. God in his providence, for some reason, put Ed and I in the same dorm room. Um and let me tell you what Ed was like. In early in the morning, he was always praying. Early in the morning I would feel my bunk shake. And it was Ed waking me up. And Ed whenever he talked he had a lot of emotion in his voice. He had a lot of passion and zeal. He kind of talked like Hulk Hogan, you know. Um I don't know if you ever remember that guy, that wrestler, you know, always filled with passion and and uh he would shake my bed and he would uh I would wake up and he would say, Brother Jimmy pray with me And I say, it's three in the morning. Please, Brother Jerry, pray with me. So I would get down on my knees and he would start out his prayer like this. He would say, Dear Lord, Brother Jerry wants to say something. So I would pray. Uh I would just it was kind of some kind of weak pathetic prayer, you know, like Lord bless all the missionaries, you know, bless my family. Amen. And then Ed would pray, and I mean he would pray for an hour. Oh God, oh God, and he would begin to pray. I mean, just pray And then he would end his prayer like this, and dear God, Brother Jerry wants to say something else. Pray again, Brother Jerry. He would literally keep me up all hours of the night praying He had so much zeal for the Lord. And you know, Ed, he was a new Christian, he didn't know a whole lot. And uh he, you know, this I know this sounds crazy, but Ed thought that the popular song, the pop song Drop Kick Me Jesus through the goalpost of life, he thought that was one of the hymns of the fame I guess it's because it had Jesus' name in it, you know, and somewhere along the line he picked up on that song and he would incorporate one of the lines of the songs into his prayer life. And I I remember when when he felt backslidden or cold, he would pray, Lord Jesus, I wish you would just dropkick me. And I would say, you know, the Lord is not going to dropkick you. I would try to encourage them along, you know. Oh, you know, I just need something to happen. I feel so cold and so backslidden. And I remember we were walking to class early one morning We were outside. It was a cold uh snowy day. And uh Ed was praying sometimes when we would walk, he would be praying as we walked And I remember him just praying right there, Lord my heart is so cold, I wish you would just dropkick me right now. And when he said that, his feet just slipped out from under him. And he hit the ground And I just looked over him, I said, Edna, are you okay? And he looked up at me and said, He's drop kick me, brother So I said, okay, alright. So I helped him up. We went to the first hour class. The teacher said, anybody have a testimony? Ed's hand shot up. I said, Ed, no, don't don't say this. And uh teacher called on him and he said, We were walking to class today and I prayed that Jesus would dropkick me and he dropkicked me. And everybody in the class just looked at him. And then he said, Brother Jerry was there, he saw it. You know, what was I supposed to say? I mean he was my friend. So I said, Yeah, I saw it, he dropkicked him But the thing about Ed that I want you to understand was that he would walk around campus so filled with zeal and his expression I never forget he would always say Jesus is real Jesus is real. He would see someone, he would say, Jesus is real. Because the Lord had so changed his life And he was so filled with love and joy, and he walked with the Lord as a young believer. And I tell you, when I read these verses here in 1 John verses 1 through 4, I think about Ed Because really the message of these verses here is this. Jesus is real. This is the whole message that John is giving us right here. And really it forces us to ask this one question. Is Jesus real to you? Is Jesus real to you? That's what John is provoking us to think about. He gets right down to business in the very first verse telling us about what authentic Christianity is about. Christianity is not a religion, it is a relationship with Jesus Christ. And so it is knowing Jesus. Christianity is not essentially a system of thought. It is a living and vital relationship with the Son of God. So the question is, is Jesus real to you? Now you might ask yourself, well, how can Jesus be real to me? Well, I want you to see three ways that John gives us That talks about the reality of Jesus Christ to a true believer. And number one, Jesus will be real to you if you embrace the historical reality of Jesus. Look in verse number one again. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled of the word of life. Now God has revealed Himself to us. in the person of Jesus Christ. God became a man, and that man is Jesus the God man. And he is the only way to know God is through Christ. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes unto the Father but by me. John 17, 3. This is eternal life, that they might know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. And so God is emphasizing here the humanity of Jesus. He was God, but he came down as a man. Now why is that important? Because there is a heresy that was going on In John's Day, that basically taught that Jesus Christ was not really a man. It was called a docetism, which from the Greek word dosa, which simply means to appear. And this is what they taught. These were the false teachers, the heretics that were causing some Christians to doubt about their Christian wealth and their Christian life and about who Jesus was. And they would say he didn't he wasn't really a man. He only appeared to be a man. One of the early church fathers, Ignatius, wrote this, it's talking about this heresy. This one blasphemes my Lord by denying that he ever bore a real human body. And in saying that he denies everything about him. And so this heresy threatened to undermine the very foundation of the church And Christian doctrine, because all that we believe is based upon the person of Jesus Christ, the historical person of Jesus Christ. That he was a real person, a real man And so John here in these, really just in the first verse, such a great verse. It has such great theology in it. He verifies the historical reality of Jesus in this first verse. He jumps right in to deep theological waters. How does he verify Jesus? First of all, by his message. Look again in verse 1. That which was from the beginning. Question, what beginning is John referring to here? There's conservative scholars that differ differ on this. Some think he's referring to the beginning of creation. You know, Genesis 1. 1, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Some think he's referring to the beginning of the that he mentioned in the Gospel of John 1-1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. And they hold these two verses up and they find parallels there. But there's another idea here, and I think the beginning that he's referring to here is the beginning of the gospel message. For example, look in chapter 2, verse 7, and notice what it says, Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you. But an old commandment which ye heard from the beginning, just underline that. From the beginning. The message you heard from the beginning. Look in chapter two and look at verse twenty-four. Let that therefore abide in you Which ye have heard from the what? From the beginning. Just underline that. This is what you heard from the beginning. Again, he's emphasizing the gospel message. Look in chapter 3, verse 11. For this is the message that you heard from the beginning. So I believe the beginning that John is talking about is the beginning of the gospel message, the beginning of new life in Christ when a person first begins to learn about the gospel and about faith. It's the beginning of the gospel in your life. You remember the beginning of the gospel in your life? And John is basically saying, listen, don't forget that beginning. He's going back to the very beginning and he's reaffirming what they had heard In the gospel from the very beginning. You know why? Because these believers were being confused by some new doctrine coming along, by some new theology, and when you're confused, you know what you need to do. You need to go back to the foundation Go back to the very beginning. And that's what he's saying here. And that's what John is saying is the old message proclaimed from the earliest days. Of Christ, the message of the gospel. This is the correct message. It's not that new message that you hear out there. And by the way, beloved, be aware of anything new that comes along. Better be careful. John says, go back to the beginning, the message of the gospel. And so his message, he verifies the historical reality of Christ in his message, but also in his teaching. Look again in verse 1. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard. That word heard, a kuo where we get the word acoustics, John heard Jesus speak. John and all the apostles heard the words of Jesus. Even the enemies of Christ said that no one ever spake like he spake. He spake with authority. He spoke the word of God. Wouldn't it be wonderful to hear Jesus? One of these days we will when we get to heaven. We will hear Jesus speak. But so in his teaching, the historical reality of Christ is verified in his message, in his teaching, in his life and miracles. Look again in verse 1. which we have seen with our eyes. John saw Jesus. And the this phrase shows that John's not talking about some mystical vision of Christ, but of actually watching Jesus as he lived before them. John saw Jesus turn the water into wine. John saw Jesus feed the 5,000. John saw Jesus walk on water. He saw him heal the multitudes and raise the dead. There are 35 miracles recorded in the Gospels, but that's just the tip of the iceberg. Jesus did thousands of miracles. In fact, John said that if they wrote out in detail everything that Jesus did, John said, I suppose that not even the world could contain the books. of everything that Jesus did. And so John is referring to his sinless life, his powerful miracles, the historical reality of Christ is verified in his message, in his teaching, in his life and miracles, but also in his glory. Look again in verse 1, which we have looked upon. That which is from the beginning, which we've heard, which we've seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon. Now someone says that seems repetitious there. This is not a repetition of what we have seen with our eyes. The verb takes it a step further. To look upon means careful examination. It means to look at something with understanding. They understood who Jesus was when they looked upon him. In fact the word here is where we get our word theater from, to look the gaze. at something, to examine something with understanding. That's the idea here. And by the way, this word was used by John in his Gospels when it when he talks about them gazing upon the glory of Christ. I think that's what he's referring to here. He's referring to that Mount of Transfiguration experience when they saw all the glory inside of Jesus come outward, they saw his glory. His historical reality is verified by his message, his teaching, his life and miracles, his glory, but also his bodily resurrection. Look again in verse 1, the last phrase. And our hands have handled. John said we touched him. We handled him. He wasn't just an apparition. He didn't just appear to be a man. He was a man. Our hands handled him. And this is the same word that is used in Luke 24, 39 of the risen Christ, where Jesus said, look, handle me, touch me, see that I'm not a spirit They were able to be with Jesus during all those years of ministry. They heard him, they saw him, they studied him, they handled him, they touched him. John is saying he was real. He was a real man, a real person, but he was God in the flesh And by the way, all the verbs used here are perfect tense verbs. You say, what does that mean? Let me just tell you what it means. A perfect tense in the Greek means something that happened in the past, but it has continuing results today. For example, are there events in our nation's history that happened at one moment and we're still feeling the impact of that event? For example, 9-11 9-11 happened at one moment in time, are we still feeling the effects of 9-11? Sure we are. That's the idea of the verb that's used here. John is saying Jesus was a real man. He was God in the flesh. We saw his glory. We saw his miracles. And what he did and how he lived, we're still feeling the impact of that today. Jesus didn't just enter into history. Jesus changed the course of history. He was a real person. And John said, you have to embrace this. You have to embrace the historical reality of Jesus. You know why I say this? Because there are still people out there attacking this idea. And I want to tell you something, friend, Jesus will never be real to you until number one, you embrace the historical reality of Jesus. But here's the second thing. Jesus will become real to you when you experience the spiritual reality of Jesus. Look at verse number two. For the life was manifested. And we have seen it, and bear witness, and show unto you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifest unto us. Now I want you to notice where John in verse 2 uses the word manifest two times, and it simply means to reveal. John said, we have seen it, we bear witness, and this life, this person, Jesus, was made manifest unto us. And so what he's saying is you have to have a proper understanding of who Jesus is historically, but you have to go beyond that, and you have to have your eyes open spiritually to know who Jesus is That's the two parts of the knowledge. John is giving us firsthand testimony of who Jesus is and what he did, but beyond that, it goes a step further. There are many people that have a head knowledge about Jesus They know all the facts about his life. They can tell you all about it. But that it doesn't go any farther than that. They have just knowledge. But their spiritual eyes have not been opened to see the beauty of Christ. To see that he wasn't just a person in history, although he was, he was real in history. But friend, he is more than just a historical figure. He is the Savior. And unless your spiritual eyes are opened about who Jesus is, you're not going to really know him. And that's what the word manifest here means. You have to have a spiritual illumination. You have to have a revelation. God has to show Jesus to you. I'll give you illustration. Remember in John 6, Jesus had just fed the 5,000? And then the Bible says he got into a boat, he went to the other side of the lake. The people woke up the next morning, and you know what? They were hungry for breakfast. They were looking for Jesus. And they saw him and they followed him around the other side of the lake. And they were waiting there when Jesus got there. They wanted more bread. And you know what Jesus said to them? I am the bread of life, which came down from heaven. And you know what the Bible says they did after that? They murmured. Because Jesus said he was the bread of life. They murmured. Why? Because Jesus was claiming to be God and they murmured. And you know what the Bible says? They just walked away. They walked away. Why? Because they didn't recognize him spiritually. They didn't see him for who he was. And then Jesus said this in John 6. 45. It is written in the prophets. And they shall all be taught of God. This is right after they're walking away. When I read this verse, I picture them crowds walking away after Jesus said, I'm the bread of life. And he says, It is written in the prophets, and they shall all be taught of God. Every man therefore that hath heard and hath learned of the Father cometh to me. You know what Jesus was saying there? Unless God the Father opens their eyes. They're not going to learn who I am. They're not going to know who I really am. God has to do that work of illumination in the heart and in the life of any person. Before they'll know that Jesus is real. You know why? Because the Bible says Satan, the God of this world, has blinded the minds Of them that believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel should shine unto them. And so Jesus will become real to you when you embrace the historical reality of Jesus, when you experience the spiritual reality of who Jesus is. But then here's the last thing. When you enjoy the personal. Reality. Look in verse number three. That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you That ye also might have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And these things write we unto you that your joy may be full. John here gets to the bottom line. He's telling why he's writing. I'm writing these things, says John. I'm declaring unto you what we have heard, what we saw. We're now declaring to you so that you can have this understanding of who Jesus is and you might be filled with joy. True joy comes by knowing Jesus. And so what he's saying is Jesus must be proclaimed We're giving you the facts of who he is. Again, verse two he says, Bear witness. We're bearing witness. That's a legal term used in courtrooms in John today. He says, I'm telling you The truth based on the authority of experience. I am declaring to you in verse 3, I'm reporting to you who Jesus is. That's, by the way, that is our responsibility, as you know as Christians, we are to declare Jesus to others. And by the way, we declare him not as an advocate. An advocate is like a lawyer who's just giving facts, but that advocate is never bore witness. We're not advocates, we're witnesses. We've experienced Christ in our life. We're giving the facts of what we have experienced and witnessed. Every Christian is to declare him. That's what John is doing. And then he says, I write unto you. Look at verse four. These things have we written unto you. How do we know about Jesus today? We know about him in the Word of God. This book is all about Jesus. This is the inspired word. John wrote down inspired words. And he said, I'm giving you firsthand testimony about who Jesus is. And by the way, that's why Satan attacks the Bible, tries to make you think it's unreliable. Because, friend, if he can get you to believe that, then you'll question who Jesus is. This is a reliable testimony right here. The Bible calls it a more sure word of prophecy. Did you know there are some people out there they're trying to find out who Jesus is, but they're trying to find out who Jesus is without the Bible. A few years ago there was a ABC News documentary called The Search for the Historical Jesus. And it was this idea, we're going to try to find out who Jesus is, but we're not going to use the Bible. We're going to go outside the Bible. To try to find out who Jesus is. That is a useless search, friend. Because although there are extra biblical sources about the historical Christ, this is the book that bears witness of him. That whole search is a slap in the face to the Bible. John says, I'm writing these things to you. I'm declaring them to you. Why That you might have fellowship. You see, salvation is a call to fellowship with Jesus Christ. And so that your joy might be full. Do you know the way to real satisfaction, the way to real joy, is through knowing Jesus personally? Did you know that your heart was created to have fellowship with God? And people today they're out there, they're trying to fill their heart with all the things of the world, and they're never satisfied. Because your heart wasn't created to be filled with these temporal things of the world. You were created to enjoy fellowship with God, and until that happens, you will never be satisfied, and you'll never have real true joy. Until you come to know Jesus Christ. And that's what John is saying. These things write we unto that your joy might be full. Full joy. Lasting joy in your heart. That's what he wants. And this is what John is telling us. And so this passage of Scripture forces us to examine ourselves. And I want you to ask yourself right now, is Jesus real to you? Is he real to you? Is your life dominated by Jesus? Look at the response of people in Scripture. They were amazed at him. They adored him. They fell at his feet. And we need to examine our own life. Is Jesus back to us? Do we adore him? Is your knowledge of Jesus the greatest thing that has ever happened to you? That was true of John. That's what John is saying right here. My knowledge of Jesus and who he is, this is the greatest thing that's ever happened to me. Can you say that of you? The greatest knowledge that I've ever received is the knowledge of who Jesus is. Is he the biggest factor in your life? Is Jesus the biggest factor? You know, we've had a lot of good things happen to us in our lives. Family upbringing, relationships, people we've met, associations. But what has been the biggest influence in your life? Can you honestly say here today that Jesus is the biggest influence in my life? Are you more proud of your association with him than anything else? You know, a lot of times we take pride in some of the associations we have, maybe with big name people and so on. But is your association with Jesus The thing that you're most proud of. That I am a Christian. I know Jesus. He's the biggest thing in my life. Is the greatest rejoicing in your life based on what He has done for you. Is that your greatest source of rejoicing? This is what John is saying here. My real joy in life comes from knowing Jesus. Oh, we have other joyful things that happen. There are other happy things that happen in our life. But the greatest joy in our life should be from our knowing Jesus Christ. Can you say that of you? You see, that's what, getting back with my friend Ed, you know, a lot of times on campus, people, some of the other students would make fun of them. They didn't really understand them. But you know what he was exhibiting? A joy, a true joy that comes from knowing Jesus Christ, from knowing that he had been saved, delivered, forgiven from all of his sin. That he had eternal life in heaven. And he made that known to other people around. By the way, when you you're when the joy of your life is Jesus and other people see that joy of knowing Jesus in your life, that's when God is glorified. That's when he's really glorified in your life. Because Jesus is real to you. And so again, I asked you the question this morning, the question that John forces us to ask ourselves today, is Jesus Christ real to you? Have you been to the cross? Have you been forgiven of your sin? Do you know him? Let's bow for prayer together today. So Lord, we thank you for these wonderful verses and the reality of Jesus Christ in our life. And Lord, I pray that everyone here today can say with great assurance, Jesus is real to me. My mind is at rest. I know that my sins have been forgiven. May they be able to say this morning that Jesus is the most important factor in my life. He's the greatest influence of my life. He's the greatest source of joy in my life. The greatest source of my satisfaction is Jesus. And with heads found and eyes closed, I want to I want you to examine your heart. Are you certain of your salvation today? This is what 1 John calls upon us to do, to examine our heart, to make sure that what we have is authentic Christianity. And it starts with knowing Jesus. So I'm asking you, do you know that for sure? If there's any doubt in your mind, would you be willing right there where you are to pray? Reach out to Him in faith. And just say, Lord Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner and I know that I deserve eternal punishment. Because you're a holy God and you punish sin. But I realize that, Jesus, you took my punishment upon yourself on the cross. And salvation is a gift. And so I come to you today, Lord Jesus. I ask you to forgive me, cleanse me, come into my heart, save me, and give me that assurance of knowing that my sins are forgiven. And bring me into sweet fellowship with you, Lord Jesus. Would that be your prayer this morning? Anyone here say that's my prayer today? I want to know Jesus. I want to come in fellowship with him today through salvation. Would you lift your hand so I can pray for you? Anyone here today? Anyone? I'm looking around. I won't embarrass you, friend. I just want to pray for you. Anyone here today Alright. Father, thank you then again for your words. Bless these words to every hearing heart. Those of us who are Christians who know you, Lord, may we never allow anything To cloud our fellowship or the joy that we have with our Savior. Bless these words to our heart, we pray, in Jesus' matchless, wonderful name. Amen.