Now, open to Mark chapter 2, and we're going to deal with, Lord willing, verses 13 through the rest of the chapter. I know that's a long narrative. But I think we can get this done if you listen fast enough. Mark chapter two And look at verse 13. I'll just read verse 13 and 14. And he went forth again by the seaside, and all the multitude resorted unto him, and he taught them. And as he passed by, he saw Levi, the son of Alphaus, sitting at the receipt of custom, and he said unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. A story is told of a prodigal son who ruined the family name by doing all kinds of crimes and sins and wickedness. Uh he lived an unmoral life. He abused drugs, and he was estranged from his family. And one day, as the scripture says of the prodigal son, he kind of came to himself and he was filled with remorse and repentance. And he wrote his parents a letter telling them that he would be on a train which ran behind their house and On the edge of town there, behind the house, there was an oak tree, the train would pass by and he said in the letter that if there's a yellow ribbon there tied, a yellow bow on the oak tree, he would know that it was a sign from his parents that they wanted him back. But if when he went by on the train there was nothing there, he would take that as a sign that he was not welcome back home And when he got on that train and he rode and he came to that edge of town clearing, the place that he was talking about, and as the train rounded the bend and he saw that oak tree, he was kind of anxious to see if there was one yellow ribbon on that tree, and what he found was the whole tree was decorated with yellow bows. That was a sign from the parents to come home. I love that story because to me it's such a beautiful illustration of the love of God Thank God that we have a God who loves and receives sinners. He loves sinners. And really this is modeled in the life of our Lord Jesus. And this is what the passage really is all about here in Mark. Jesus is going to emphasize that his purpose in coming is to receive sinners, is to give forgiveness. The title of the sermon is Jesus, what a friend of sinners, and truly he is. Now In this passage here today, Jesus is going to be criticized. He's going to be criticized because of his treatment of sinners or his association with sinners. He's going to be criticized by the Pharisees. One of the strangest and saddest features of Jesus' life was the religious opposition that he encountered all throughout his ministry. And if you read through the book of Mark, what you're going to find is that hostility begins to mount even more and more against the Lord Jesus for uh so it leads up finally to the cross where he will die. But here, what we're going to see is that at first there's the Pharisees, when they are hostile against Jesus, they're kind of silent about it. They talk to themselves, but now they're going to get a little bit more vocal. They're going to come and they're going to ask First of all, Jesus disciples. Why is Jesus doing what he does? And really the whole passage here is really centered around three questions that are given to Jesus or about Jesus by the Pharisees, and Jesus is going to answer those three questions. And in answering those three questions, what he's going to do is he's going to give us three pictures or three analogies, we could say, of the type of ministry that he wanted to have uh among people. And so I want you to see in these things three ways in which Jesus truly is a friend of sinner. We could call these three pictures of Jesus' ministry as the servant. You remember that Mark presents Jesus as the servant. Notice the first picture, I call this the physician. And this tells us that he came to heal us. Now remember, Jesus is walking by the Sea of Galilee, we saw in verse 13. The Bible says multitudes are following him, and he's teaching them. You remember that Jesus kind of taught while he walked. Uh he was he would walk, he would teach, people would listen And this is the part what I want to call Jesus' invitation, because in verse 14, as he passes by, he saw the Bible says Levi. Now who is Levi? This is just another name for Matthew. You remember that Sometimes in the New Testament there were men had several names. You know, Peter was also Simon, and Thomas was also Didymus. And here we find that the name Levi, this is a reference to Matthew And he's the one, the Matthew who wrote the gospel of Matthew. And the Bible says that in verse number uh fourteen he is sitting at the receipt of custom. Now what is that? That simply is he's sitting, we could call this a toll booth. That was situated near the sea to collect taxes. This is what Rome was doing. They were collecting taxes on fish or of duties on goods. This was Herod Antiphist domain. If you were here with us last week, I talked a little bit about the publicans. They were the tax collectors. They worked for Rome. And Rome collected taxes on land. They collected taxes on per personal property. They collected import and export taxes and also taxes on houses. Now tax collectors were Jews that basically worked for the Roman Empire. And the Jews considered them traitors. They were despicable. They were vile in the eyes of all the Jewish people. And what the reason for that is what they would do is that Rome would collect a flat rate, and these tax collectors would pay that flat rate to Rome. But whatever they collected above that flat rate, they could keep for themselves. So what they would do is they would go out and they would charge people high taxes, and then they would pocket the money And it was kind of like a little racket there. Some tax collectors really made a lot of money. In Luke chapter two, chapter three, I should say, verses twelve and thirteen Some tax collectors came to John the Baptist and they posed a question to them. They said, How can we prove that we have true repentance? And John simply said, Just collect what you're supposed to collect and nothing more Because that was what was going on. According to Alfred Eldersheim, a tax collector was barred from the synagogue. He was forbidden to have any religious or social contact with fellow Jews. He was ranked among the unclean animals He was considered lower than swine by the Jews. And the Talmud said this you can lie and deceive a tax collector anytime you want. Now beloved, that's not scripture, that's the Talmud, all right? So you can't lie to your tax collector, okay? But that's how the Jews regarded them. No self-respecting Jew would associate with a tax collector. And the fact that Matthew, whose name here is Levi, which means he's associated with the tribe of Levi That tribe that was dedicated to represent all the other tribes with matters regarding the law, the fact that he was a tax collector basically made him even more reprehensible in the sight of all the Jewish people that knew him. And yet when Jesus passed by, the Bible says in verse number 14, what did he say? He said he saw him, that word saw there is to gaze, he looked upon Matthew, he saw him, and then he said, Follow me. Now this must have been amazing to all the crowds that were following Jesus, of all the people in Capernaum, for Jesus to say, follow me I mean, here is the most despicable man in perhaps the village because he was a tax collector, and here's Jesus calling him to be one of his disciples. That must have been an amazing thing to all the people that were watching. But Jesus was sending a message. He receives sinners. He loves sinners. This would be the hallmark of his message. Now Matthew basically when he hears this, the Bible says he just immediately follows Jesus. Just immediately. He doesn't hesitate. He follows him. He puts everything down And you can imagine he's walking away from a lucrative business to follow Jesus. But he leaves it all behind. By the way, that's the trademark of someone who follows Christ. They can't get out of their own life fast enough. They leave it all behind. And what does Levi do? Look at verse number 15. It came to pass that as Jesus sat at meat with his house, many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesus and his disciples. For there were many, and they followed him. That is, what he does here now is again there's not much detail given. He follows Jesus, he leaves it all. This was a decisive act. But what he does is he throws a big banquet For all of his friends. What is he doing? This is his celebration. You know why? Because he's leaving all that behind. He's saying to all of his friends, I serve a new king now. I don't serve Caesar. I don't serve Rome. I serve Jesus now. And I want you to know who he is. And so he invites all of his friends to come to this celebration. J. C. Rowell said this: no true Christian ever goes to heaven alone. You'll bring others with you. And this is what Matthew's trying to do. He has this dinner, and Luke calls it a big banquet. He calls it a great feast. And he's showing that his conversion is real. He turned basically from his sin. He's following Jesus now. And he wants all of his friends to know it. And he wants to introduce all of his friends to Jesus. And this is a great way to do it, because the main attraction or the main guest at this feast is Jesus Himself. Jesus is there. And he introduces all of his friends to Jesus. Now, while he's there, they are having a wonderful time together. But look at verse 16. And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him, that is Jesus with publicans and sinners, they said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners? Here's the first question that is posed to Jesus. And they don't even come to ask Jesus. They kind of take the cowardly way and they ask his disciples, how could Jesus Be with these sinners or associate with these sinners. Now the word for sinner here is used really two ways. It's Amharis, these are the people of the land, the people that pretty much don't follow the law, or it can be a word that's used to talk about people who are out and out, grievous sinners, the criminals, the the uh disreputable, the low of society And I think Matthew uses this word here. How could Jesus be among these people? How can he do that? That's the question. And I like the fact that not only was Jesus at this banquet, but guess who else is there in verse 15? It says, and his disciples. Jesus is teaching his disciples the same thing: that you must love sinners. You must love people. And so, you know what I think sometimes the problem with Christians is today? The problem is that we're only around other Christians. God leaves us in this world that we might be an influence on the world. Now, hear me very carefully. We're not to be a part of the world. We're not to live like the world. We're to be different. But God doesn't want us to live a life of isolation. We have to be out and about among the people of this world. Why? So that we can share Christ with them. And this is what Matthew's doing. R. Kent Hughes wrote this. He said, We arrange our lives so that we are with non-believers as little as possible. We attend Bible studies that are 100% Christian, a Sunday school that is a hundred percent Christian prayer meetings that are 100% Christian. We play tennis with Christians and eat dinner with Christians. We have Christian doctors, Christian dentists, Christian plumbers, Christian veterinarians, and even our dogs are Christian He said the result is that we pass by hundreds without ever noticing them or influencing them for Christ. And I think that's true. God put us here to be an influence. This is what Matthew's trying to do. This is what Levi's trying to do. So we see The Pharisees' condemnation, they're saying, how could Jesus be with these people? You see, the Pharisees, they were the separated ones. They thought themselves righteous. They thought that their justification came through separation from the world. So they couldn't possibly imagine how Jesus could be with these people. But these are the very people that Jesus came to reach. These are the ones that he loves. He loves the down and outer. He loves others that other he loves people that others do not love. I remember one time I was pastoring a church down south and we came out on a visitation night and uh we were giving out visits and certain places to go and one person spoke up in the time and he said, We don't want to go to those neighborhoods. We don't want to reach those people. And my response was those are the very people that we want to reach. Those are the very places we want to go. Everyone is welcome because Jesus is the Lord and because He loves everyone. And so notice the Lord's response, notice his explanation. Look at verse 17. And when Jesus heard it, He said unto them, They that are whole have no need of the physician, but they that are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. So when Jesus overhears their questioning, he gives them an analogy. And he basically says, they that are whole don't need a physician. If you're not sick, you don't need to go to the doctor. How many of you heard of someone say, as soon as I get well, I'm going to go to the physician? You don't need a physician if you're well. And Jesus is sending a clear message here. If you Pharisees are as spiritually and morally perfect as you claim, then you don't need me. I didn't come for you. I came for those who were sick. And of course, here the analogy, Jesus is talking about those who are sick with sin. Jesus came to heal those who are sin sick. That's the point. And so sin can be compared to a sickness, and forgiveness can be compared to having your health restored. And spiritually sin-sick people need to be made whole through the forgiveness of Jesus. He's the great physician. He comes to us in our need. He makes a perfect diagnosis. He provides the final and complete cure, and he pays the bill. What a great position we have in Jesus. But there are three kinds of patients whom Jesus cannot heal of their sickness. Those who do not know about him, those who refuse to trust him. And those who will not admit that they need him. And that was the condition of the Pharisees. And so he's the physician. He came to heal us. But I want you to see number two, he's the bridegroom, he came to bring us joy. Look in verse eighteen. And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to fast, they said. And they came and said unto him, Why do the f disciples of John and the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not Now the first question they asked him had to do with the kind of company Jesus was keeping, but the second question they asked was, why was Jesus having such a good time? At this feast, they saw Jesus happy, they saw him joyful, they saw him having a great time with these people, and it made them angry. His conduct to them seemed inappropriate. And so they said, you know what? The disciples of John, they fast. And so do our disciples. How come you don't fast? How come your disciples don't fast? That was a question. And by the way, the John did fast, and so did other disciples. They did fast. This is the accusation they're making, but The application that Jesus gives, notice what he says in verse 19. He says, And Jesus said on them, Can the children of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. Now again in answering the question, Jesus gives another analogy. He gives the analogy of a wedding. And he says it's not appropriate To go to a wedding celebration and fast. That ever happened to you? Go to a wedding reception and say, Why aren't you eating? Oh, I'm on a fast right now. Well, that's not the proper time to fast. Now, today our weddings, the ceremony will last about 30 minutes. The reception will probably last a few hours. But that's not the way it was back in this day. A wedding feast, you know how long it lasted? Seven days. And they had lavish food and drink. It was a time of great celebration. In fact, it is written, one uh scholar I read said that, according to the Jews, this was perhaps the greatest time of joy in a man's life, was at a wedding feast And to go to a wedding feast fasting, that was ridiculous and it was rude. That was the wrong time to do it. And Jesus is saying there's a proper time for everything. There's a time to fast and a time to have joy. And the analogy that he's using here is: look, when the bridegroom's here, you don't fast. And who's the bridegroom here? It's Jesus. Jesus is comparing his coming and the whole salvation that he's providing like a wedding celebration. And it was a time of great joy. While the bridegroom Jesus was there, you're to rejoice. You're to have a wonderful time. Jesus said, by the way, there will come a time for fasting when the bridegroom is removed, when he's finally gone. You know, right now I have the privilege of having all of my children home. My daughter uh from London is here and and all my children are together. Recently I had a birthday and uh the greatest present I had was to have all four of my children under my roof That was a wonderful blessing. I enjoyed that. I know that's not going to be forever. I know that's not going to last. But as long as they're around, I'm going to rejoice. I'm going to enjoy it And that's what Jesus is essentially saying here. Look, the bridegroom is here. And all salvation is compared to a wedding. Just like a couple make a commitment to each other at a wedding A public commitment, even so, you make a public commitment to Jesus when you get saved. It's like a spiritual wedding And you take his name upon you, and all what is Jesus belongs to you, your heirs with the Lord Jesus Christ. He protects you and watches over you, and one day he's going to give you a home in heaven. To be saved is like being married spiritually to the Lord Jesus. He's the bridegroom. We the church are the bride, and now is a time of rejoicing. And here's Jesus' point That when he came, he came to give real joy. That's what salvation does. He gives you a true joy, not a passing joy, like the pleasures of sin. It's only for a time, but after it there comes judgment. But when Jesus gives joy, it's a joy that is a true joy. And that's what he's saying, I've come to give joy. There's going to come a time when the bridegroom will be taken away, he says Look down in verse number twenty. But the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken away, and that word there conveys the idea of a sudden removal And there Jesus is referring to his crucifixion and death, his departure from this planet. And Jesus says at that time, then that will be the time for fasting, but that's not the time now Jesus came to bring gladness and joy. And the people weren't having that thanks to the bondage of legalism that was posed upon them by the Pharisees of this day. And so he could continue further on. He not only gives us an application, but notice the analogy. Look at verse 21. No man also soweth a piece of new cloth on an old garment, else the new piece that built up Taketh away from the old, and the rent is made worse. And no man putteth new wine into old bottles, else the new wine doth burst the bottles. And the wine is spilled, and the bottles will be marred, and the new wine must be put into the new bottles. And so he gives two quick illustrations to further emphasize his ministry He came to save sinners, not call the righteous. He came to bring gladness, not sadness. He came to introduce something new, not patch up the old. That's the idea here. And the first illustration is of an old garment. If you put a new patch on an old garment, you know what's going to happen? All you ladies know this better than anybody If you take a new piece of cloth, sew it on an old garment, this cloth that has not yet shrunk because it's been washed, you sew it on that old garment and it shrinks, you know what? The rip is going to be made even worse Putting a new patch on an old garment doesn't work. And he goes gives another illustration. Putting new wine in the old wineskins. Now what did he mean by that? Well, wineskins were normally goat skins that were kind of tied together. If you had wine, you would pour it into the goat skin. And when the the process of fermentation took place in that uh bottle, the wineskin would expand till its limit. It was no problem because there was flexibility in that skin. So an old wineskin was completely uh it was completely expanded to its limit. So if you put new wine into that old wineskin and that new wine begins to ferment and the gases are released. And it tries to expand, that old wineskin is gonna burst and you lose the wine and you lose the wineskin. You can't put new wine in the old bottles is what Jesus was saying. And so what's the overall message? Jesus again is emphasizing, I'm not here to put something new into an old system. The old system of the Pharisees, the old covenant, that was being done away. Jesus had fulfilled all of the shadows and the types and the ceremonies in the Old Testament. He was there, he was fulfilling them. That was being done away with. Jesus wasn't coming to patch an old system. He was coming to do something brand new. How does that apply to you? You know what Jesus does in your life? He doesn't patch up your old life. He gives you a brand new life. He does something new in you. And he continues to do new things in your life. I remember when I first came to Grace as a teenager in our old building. We had a big banner that was put on the church, one of the beams in the church, and Pastor Johnson had put this up because the Lord had showed him this verse. But I I still remember this because it was the first thing I saw when I walked into church as a teenager. I looked up onto that beam and there was a verse that said, Behold, I will do a new thing. And that was kind of riveted into my heart even as a teenager because little did I know that in my life at that time God did want to do a new thing in me. And he did do a new thing. But that's what salvation does It doesn't reform you. He's not patching you up. He's transforming you. He's doing something incredibly new in your life. That's what Jesus does. He is the physician. He will bring you true true healing. He comes to heal us. He is the bridegroom. He came to bring us true joy. To do something new in our life. But let me give you the third thing quickly, the last thing. We also see that he's the Lord of the Sabbath. He came to give us rest. Look at verse 23. And it came to pass that when he went through the cornfields on the Sabbath day, and his disciples began as they went to pluck the ears of corn. And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the Sabbath day that which is not lawful? Now this was sometimes later. Jesus and his disciples were walking through the cornfields. If you look later, Romans chapter 3, they were obviously heading to the synagogue. This is on the Sabbath day. And when the Pharisees saw them walk through the cornfields and pluck ears of corn, Obviously they were eating these ears or perhaps saving them for a time when they would need it. When they saw that, they saw that as a violation of the Sabbath. Now, by the way, if you notice in the New Testament, Jesus basically ignores their traditions about the Sabbath completely that were made by the Pharisees. And you might wonder why. Well it was because he didn't want them to think that you're saved by observing the Sabbath. You can't get righteous by doing that. But also they violated the original intention of the Sabbath with all their laws. The Sabbath originally was meant to convey rest. You remember when God created on the seventh day he what he rested God didn't rest because he was tired. It was a rest of delight. God took delight in his creation. And there was no commandment made to man originally on the Sabbath because all of creation was in rest. Everyone was enjoying the Sabbath rest. What violated that sin? Sin came into the world. And next time we see the Sabbath used, is in Exodus where God told the Israelites to observe the Sabbath. Why? Because God wanted to remind them of everything they lost through sin in the Garden of Eden. You don't leave your home on the Sabbath because you didn't need to leave your home when you were in the Garden of Eden. You don't bear burdens on the Sabbath because in the Garden of Eden you never bore burdens. You didn't need to make a fire because the temperature was always right. You didn't need to cook anything because food was hanging all around. All those laws taught them this to see what they lost, but also it taught them to look at the c what the vi the laws that they had violated, their own sin. It was a time of contemplating the holiness of God. And their own sin. But also, it was a time to look forward when God was going to restore the rest of the Sabbath. And how would that come? It would come through his Messiah, Jesus Christ. Who would give back to man everything he lost under sin. And that rest that man enjoyed in Eden would be given back to man through the Lord Jesus. Now you know the Jews didn't really understand that And so you know what they did? They added all these laws about the Sabbath, and it made it such a burden. For example, they had thirty-nine ways you could breach the Sabbath, and they divided each one of those into thirty-nine ways And so you multiply 39 by 39, and you know you you come to 1,521 ways that one could break the Sabbath on any day. For example, you couldn't tie a knot on the Sabbath. You could not carry a pen on the Sabbath. You couldn't even swat away a flea on the Sabbath. If a flea wanted to bite you on the Sabbath, he had free reign. You couldn't swat them away. That was working. A woman was not permitted to look in a mirror on the Sabbath. Why? Because the idea was that she might see a gray hair and be tempted to pull it out, and that would be reaping on the Sabbath. I'm not making that up. That's what they did. And so Jesus, he saw all this nonsense and he totally ignored it. He ignored it because they didn't understand the real reason for the Sabbath. And Jesus gave one Old Testament illustration. Don't you remember David? When he went he and his men went into the tabernacle and they ate the showbread and the priest allowed that and he was teaching them a principle meeting human needs is more important than ceremony or religious traditions, and then he dropped a real bombshell. Look in verse thirte 28. Therefore, the Son of Man is Lord also of the Sabbath. You know what he was saying there? The Sabbath is mine. Here he's making a great claim to be God. But look at verse 27. The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. It was intended to be a gift, not a burden. And I'm Lord of the Sabbath. I can do whatever I want on the Sabbath. I made it. What an incredible claim. But here's the point: He is the Lord of the Sabbath. You know why? Because through Jesus Christ we have real rest. Rest from our sin. Rest from the burden of sin. And we enjoy that rest now by being in Jesus. But one day we're going to have that ultimate rest restored when he comes back and he sets up his reign on earth and we enter into all the blessings of Christ. That rest is now restored in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so here's the point. He's the Lord of the Sabbath. He came to give us rest. Rest. And so, friend, as we're out of time, let me just wrap up this sermon by asking you this question. Have you experienced the touch of the physician Jesus? Have you allowed him to heal your sin sick soul? All it takes is one touch from Christ if you'll come to him by faith. Have you allowed him to bring to your heart true joy? Because he will do that. He'll do something new in your life. He doesn't want to patch up your old life. He wants to give you new life and have you experience the rest that Jesus provides. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we thank you for our Savior, who is a friend of sinners, who loves us. And has given us these blessings and so many more. And I pray that, Lord, everyone under the sound of my voice will know and experience the healing of Christ, the physician, the true joy that he brings to us by our relationship with him, our bridegroom. That we will experience the rest that you have for us. A total peace and rest in Christ. And friends with heads bowed and eyes closed, can I ask you, can you say that? Have you experienced that? And if not, I want to invite you this very moment to know the Lord Jesus. And would you be willing to turn to him and say, you know what? I need healing for my soul. I need his touch. I need true joy. And that rest that He promised. Friend, you can have that right now, right where you are, if you'll just reach out to him in faith and say, Lord Jesus, save me. Lord Jesus, heal my sin, sick soul. And give me this rest. Is that your prayer? Would you just say, that's me? Would you pray for me, Pastor? That's me. I need this healing from Christ in my soul. I need his rest. In my own life. Anyone here to say, that's me, that's what I need. Can I pray for you? Maybe you're already a child of God and you just You need the physician to touch you and your soul for some great need that you might have. He's sufficient for that, friend, as you know. So Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Use them, Lord, to stir us, draw us unto yourself. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen