Would you take God's word tonight, please? Open to the book of Philippians, chapter number one, and we're going to look tonight from verses twelve down to verse nineteen. Philippians chapter John Bunyan's preaching was so popular and powerful and so unacceptable to the leaders of the seventeenth century church of of England that he was jailed in order for them to silence him. And yet he refused to be silent. He preached in his jail and people would come to hear him preaching out of his jail cell. So he had not only a large audience of prisoners, but hundreds of people there in Bedford, England would come just to listen to this man of God. as he preached out of his prison cell. Well, what they thought they would do to stop that is they would they pushed him kind of into an inner cell where uh the people couldn't hear him and they kind of shut him off But being there in that uh that place is when John Blendon really spoke the loudest because it was while he was in that prison cell that he began to write a book that has been one of the most sold Christian books um in the history of Christianity other than the Bible And that is the book, Pilgrim's Progress. This has ministered the gospel to tens of millions of people throughout the world. And it's been read for many centuries So it was in that confinement that his ministry actually became a worldwide ministry. And all John Bunyan spent twelve years in prison. And he would later refer to his imprisonment as a hill upon which he could see great things. Now the Apostle Paul could say the same thing. God put him in a room in prison, and yet while Paul was in that prison, Paul had joy And the reason for his joy was because he could see the great things that God was doing because of his confinement there in that prison. And the major thing that God was doing was he was advancing the gospel. Now you would think that uh God putting his greatest preacher in prison would not be a good way to advance the gospel. And the Philippian church really didn't think that way as well. They didn't think Paul's imprisonment was a good thing. And so the church at Philippi was uh no doubt worried about Paul. If they had received news that he was taken to uh Rome as a prisoner, and uh And they were wondering, you know, how that got to be. Now, if you have studied the book of Acts, it tells us how Paul got to be in this room in prison. In Acts chapter twenty one to chapter twenty-eight, it kind of explains all of what happened to Paul and how he ended up in Rome. So let me just give it to you quickly. It began with his journey to Jerusalem after his third missionary journey. And uh to affirm that he was still living in obedience to the law, he went to the temple to participate in a ceremony. And it was there while he was in the temple that he was accused of violating the law. He was accused of bringing a a gentile in past the barrier. where Gentiles were not supposed to come. And uh this caused a lot of uh angry people to riot and uh they might have killed Paul had he not been rescued by Roman soldiers, and these Roman soldiers kept Paul in custody just to protect him from the people that wanted to kill him. And as time went on, there was a contention between the Jews and the Romans about Paul and what to do with them. And during that time Paul had a hearing before Festus and Felix. And he had an audience with King Agrippa, but it really brought no resolution to the case, and so Paul um languished for two years in the prison at Caesarea by the sea. Right there, not far from Jerusalem. And eventually Paul appeared appealed to Caesar. And because of that, he was sent to Rome. And so on his arrival in Rome, he spent another two years in a Roman prison. This is according to Acts 28, verse number 30. And during that time he wrote what we call his prison epistles. That would be Ephesians, that would be Philippians, that would be Colossians, and the personal letter of Philemon. These were his prison epistles. And so the Roman Emperor at that time was Nero. So when Paul wrote to the Philippians, he was waiting to appear before Nero to present his case, and uh to and Nero, I'm sure, wanted to know whether or not This new sect of Christianity was a threat to the Roman Empire. And so months passed while he was waiting word on his trial, and then after the trial whether he would be released or whether he would be executed. And so sometime during Paul's imprisonment, word got back to the Philippians that uh of Paul's circumstances that Paul was in this room in prison. And so what they did was they sent Epaphroditus From Philippi to Rome, a long journey, and they sent them with a gift, because I think I've told you before that Roman prisoners were not taken care of by the government. You were dependent upon the hospitality of those on the outside. to take care of you. So they send this big gift to Paul through this man, Epaphroditus, because they were very worried about him. And through Epaphroditus, Paul began to learn some things that was going on in the church of Philippi. For example, he learned through Epaphroditus that they were very concerned about Paul. And they were wondering why he was there in that prison. And so what they were wondering why would God do this? Why would God put the Apostle Paul? Think about this. For four years Paul was in Uh not only he was two years in Caesarea, two years in Rome. That's a long time for this great missionary, this great servant of God to be confined. Why would God do that? And secondly, they were concerned about Nero was not a very reasonable person, if you know anything about Nero, he was a He was a madman. He was a tyrant. And uh he was evil. He was arbitrary. So they're thinking Paul could die. And so they were very concerned, and they were struggling with these things, and they're asking themselves the question, why would God do this? Why would God put Paul in this circumstance? So in response to this, Paul, in order to alleviate their fears and remove their worries, writes this letter of Philippians. Not only was it a thank you letter for the gift, But also he wants to alleviate their fears and all of their concerns. And he and we have some hints in Philippians that they were concerned. Look in chapter four, look at verse number six, where Paul says, Be careful for nothing. That is, worry about nothing. But in everything by prayer and suffocation with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. Look, stop being anxious about all of this But just take it to God in prayer. Let your request be made known unto God. And then down in verse number eight he says, You know, don't dwell on these negative thoughts, but whatsoever things are honest and whatsoever things are just and things are pure, lovely, and so on. Think on these things. But what Paul also does to the Philippians is he gives them some perspective And what he's teaching them is that you need to learn to look at circumstances from God's perspective. You need to see it from God's vantage point. And remember, that is really the secret of joy. It is the result of seeing things from God's perspective. Everything that takes place in our life, we need to learn to see it from God's perspective. So we can give this a definition of joy. Joy is the subtle assurance that God is in control of all the details of my life. It's the quiet confidence that ultimately everything is going to be alright. And a determined choice to praise God in every situation. And Paul basically tells the Philippians that you need to change your perspective. You need to see that God is in control of all these things that are taking place in my life, and everything is going to be alright And Paul chooses to praise God. As we saw before, the book of Philippians is a book of joy. And you can just see the joy of the Lord in Paul as he writes this letter. Now this is a lesson for all of us. We have to, whatever circumstances you might be in right now, you need to see it as God's work and you need to see God's hand in it. You have to see God in your circumstances And he has a purpose and a reason. From man's perspective, your circumstance might not look all that good, but God's ways are not man's ways. God has a different way. Remember that story in the Old Testament in Jeremiah 24? Jeremiah has a vision of two baskets of figs, and God says, Jeremiah, what do you see? And Jeremiah says, Lord, I see two baskets of figs, one very good and one very bad. They're rotten. And uh God says, yes, the good figs are represent the people who are being carried away into Babylon, into exile. And the bad figs are the people that are left behind. Now, everyone in Jerusalem that were not being carried away into exile, they were thinking, wow, we must be blessed of God. We must have God's favor. We get to stay behind. And all the people being carried off into exile were thinking, man, we must be under God's severe punishment. We must have done something to really anger the Lord. But basically, God said to Jeremiah, it's exactly the opposite. God said, the good figs represent the people who were carried away into Babylon, into captivity, for they are good. God said, these are people that I want to bless, that I want to really work in their life. And the bad figs are the people that were left behind. They're still under judgment. And so man's point of view, man's perspective was not God's way. God's way is not man's way. And so we can see that same thing with here. In this letter, the Philippians were looking at Paul and they said, Man, Paul must have done something that uh To bring God's punishment, God must be correcting him, or something really bad is going to happen. Here, Paul being in this, lingering in this room in prison for all this time Why is all this? And they were very concerned. And Paul is basically saying, you know, God has not put me on the shelf. In fact, what's happening here is that while I've been in prison, the gospel is actually advanced in a greater way Than if I were not in this prison. This imprisonment didn't hinder the gospel. In fact, it advanced it. Yeah, Paul was imprisoned, but you know what? He was not discouraged. He was filled with joy. He wasn't down in the mouth. He wasn't thinking, you know, God must be angry at me. No, Paul was thanking God. Because he was seeing what God was doing through his imprisonment. And what I want you to see are four things that Paul saw. That caused him to have great joy, even though he was in a difficult circumstance, because he could see what God was doing with it. Here's the first thing. Paul's confinement was producing conversions It was producing conversions. Look at verse number twelve. But I would have you to understand, brethren, that the things which happen unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. I love that expression. I I would that you understand. This translated a common Greek expression found in ancient letters. We we we use a similar expression today. We would say something like, Now listen to me. Now look here. You ever say that to your kids I want you to listen to me. I want you to understand this. And Paul, in a way, is saying that very same thing here. I want you to get this. Listen very careful to what I'm about to say. He says again in verse 12 that the things which have happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. Rather actually means uh really or actually Again, the Philippian believers thought Paul's present circumstances was hindering the gospel, and Paul saying, no, actually, it's furthering the gospel. It's advancing the gospel. It's the exact opposite. The word furtherance here is procopee. This is a military term used by engineers who would prepare a road for an advancing army by removing obstructions such as trees and rocks. It was used of a pioneer explorer who blazes a trail through the wilderness. And that's how Paul is viewing his imprisonment. Paul says, look, my imprisonment has caused the gospel to blaze a trail. And places where it would never go before. There's been a pioneer advance of the gospel of Jesus Christ. All the previous barriers that were up That hindered me from being able to share the gospel, all those are being removed right now. Again, this is Paul's whole concern, the gospel and the advancement of the gospel. In fact, the word gospel will be used nine times in this short letter. And uh Paul emphasizes the proclamation of the gospel. We see it in verse 14, speak the word, verse 15 and 16, preach Christ, verse 18, Christ is preached Paul's passion, his whole life, is about the advancement of the gospel. And that should be our primary concern as believers, too, amen. That we advance the gospel in whatever circumstance that God has put us. So are you willing to say to God, Lord, God, use my life to advance the gospel however you choose? So that notice verse 13. So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places. Paul is saying that my bonds or chains are giving me contact with the lost. Who's benefiting from Paul being in prison? Well, first of all, there's the Praetorian guards. Notice the word palace there. It's the Greek word Praetorian, and it refers to Caesar's elite guards. These were Caesar's so soldiers, and they were, you could say, maybe the Secret Service of that day. They were his special elite soldiers. And uh they were composed of soldiers who were hand-picked. They were chosen for this because of their excellence And these were men who were strategically placed throughout the city of Rome to keep peace, but their main priority was to protect the emperor. And they served for twelve years, which gave them at the end of twelve years the highest honors and privileges, including a very generous severance package. So they were very influential in Rome. In fact, when they retired from being part of the elite group of guards, they could go on to uh to choose other political adventures. They were influential people in the city of Rome. So while Paul was in Rome, uh he was uh being chained to one of these Praetorian guards. Now he was allowed to live in a private quarters But he had to have a guard chained to him at all times. At all times. And Ephesians 6, verse 20, again one of Paul's presence epistles that he wrote in this circumstance, he refers to himself as an ambassador in chains. Paul said, I am the ambassador in of Christ in these chains. And that's how he looked at himself. The word for chains there is how Lucy These referred to handcuffs that had a chain of 18 inches long. One was attached to the prisoner's wrist, and the other was attached to the wrist of the Praetorian Guard And so Paul uh would have this a guard chained to him twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. And these guards had shifts. Um every six hours a new guard was chained to Paul. So think about that. This meant that Paul had four different guards chained to him every twenty-four hours. Uh, you know, I can imagine these guys talking in their barracks. Do you have uh guard duty with that guy, Paul? Yeah, he he really is unique, isn't he? Oh yeah. That guy's something else. Can you imagine what they witnessed? Here they were chained to a man who was probably praying all the time. You know these guys heard the gospel, right? Not just one time, but several times. They saw Paul as he prayed for people. They probably saw the tears coming from his eyes. They heard him dictate letters to churches, the church at Ephesus, the church at Colossae, the personal letter to Philemon. Most importantly, again, they heard the gospel from Paul's lips. And it wasn't long until some of these Praetorian soldiers were converting to Christ They were becoming believers. And now here these elite soldiers were confessing Christ, and they would no doubt take the gospel back to their various realms of influence, whether it would be in the in the uh upper echelons of the Roman government or to their home or to other leaders there in Rome. And so that's what Paul meant when he said the gospel is making a pioneer advance. Because I'm here in these chains. This is something that could never happen unless Paul was in that Roman prison. He couldn't have done that as a free man. The Romans thought they were binding Paul. Instead, they were releasing Paul. They had freed him to do great ministry. And Paul would later write of his imprisonment in 2 Timothy 2 9: I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even unto bonds, but the word of God is not bound. I might be hearing this chains, but God's word is not bound. God's word is spreading. And so Paul didn't complain about his chains. Instead, he consecrated his chains to the Lord, knowing that God was using his imprisonment in a great, great way because the gospel was spreading. Not only to the Praetorian Guards, but there's another group that was being impacted. That is the Romans officials. This was uh Uh uh again the result of Paul being in prison, high government officials were being influenced by Paul. You say, well, why? Well, because Paul was in Rome because he had to appear in before Caesar in a court trial. This was an official Roman court case, and it was a very important one. And Paul had to defend the gospel. Notice in verse number seven, if you go back to chapter one, verse seven, he uses the word defense, even as it is mean for me to think of this of you all. Because I have you both in my heart and as much as in my bonds, and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, the word defense, apologia, meaning to defend something officially, but it's a legal term. Paul was gonna appear in this legal court trial and uh Paul was hoping that after this meeting that that uh Roman officials, Caesar himself would confirm that the gospel message is a harmless message. He was hoping that the gospel would be approved by Rome. But in order to prepare for this case, the Roman officials had to learn about what this gospel was. They had to figure out what the message was. Okay, so Paul, can you explain to us? What your message is. Can you tell us why you are so passionate about this thing you call the gospel? And I can imagine Paul saying, I would be glad to. How much time do you have? And Paul would lay out the gospel, and these government officials would have to listen to what Paul would say. They had to prepare themselves for the case. And no doubt the seed of the gospel was being planted in the hearts of some of these Roman officials, and some of them were converting to Christ. I mean, it was an amazing thing that was happening. You know, God might confine you to a place, and you may think in your mind, man, there's not much I can do here. Oh, think again. If God's put you somewhere, it's because He's He's put you strategically in that place so that you can make a difference in somebody's life with the gospel. With the gospel. So what has God confined you to? Some people feel chained to a job But again, God can use you there to advance the gospel, just like I was talking about this morning. And her first book, Corey Tinboom, told of her experience in Raven's book Prison. During World War II. As she reflected on her own pain and suffering, she came to understand that one of God's purposes for having her there at that prison was for the benefit of others. And so she wrote this, quote, God brought me here for a special task, a specific task. I was here to lead the sorrowing and the despairing to the Savior. I was to see how God comforted them. I was to point the way to heaven to people among whom were many that would soon be dying. And God used her indeed to point to Christ for many who were dying and many who were able to call upon Christ. So Paul's confinement, Paul looked at it and said, Look, my confinement is producing conversions. But here's the second thing. Paul's confinement was provoking courage. Look at verse 14. And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Paul's chains not only gave Paul contact with the lost, but it also gave courage to those who were saved. Not only was it winning converts on the outside, it was strengthening believers who were on the inside of the church. Paul's change were making many of those who were previously maybe a little shy, a little timid about sharing the gospel. It was making them much more bold. To share the Word of God. Brethren in the Lord refers to Christians there in Rome. He says that it was making them bold In verse uh number fourteen, and many of the brethren of the Lord waxing confident by my bonds are much more bold. Uh Ptolomea, which is to defy danger, to have courage, to overcome fear. Bold to what? Bold to speak the word without fear. And speak here doesn't mean preach. It's the word laleo, which is to speak every day. This is like an everyday conversation. This means that what was happening is as a result of Paul being in prison, many of the Roman Christians were out there, and everyday conversation, they were talking more about Christ than the gospel. They were speaking in whatever context they were in, on their daily uh routine of duties, in the marketplace, uh wherever they were, at home, when they were with friends. Wherever in the Roman Colosseum, wherever they were speaking in normal conversation, they were speaking about the gospel when they were speaking about Christ. Before they were they had a lack of boldness, but now because of Paul and because they were seeing what Paul was going through, it was giving them greater courage. You know, Paul's imprisonment was showing that, you know what? God can use the gospel. from us. God needs us to share the gospel. Now, and so I think that that Paul is the talk of the town. Paul was under house arrest in Rome, which means that people could come and see him freely. And when Christians heard that Paul was there in Rome, many no doubt went there to see him. Again, he had the ability to have people come and see him. And so they would come and talk to Paul. You say, how do you know that? Well, Acts 28 tells us that many Jewish people visited Paul, and some believed. This is Acts 28, verses 23, and verse number 24. So for these two years of his confinement, Paul was welcoming all who came to him, and the Bible says in Acts, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching concerning uh the Lord Jesus Christ with all openness unhindered. Can you imagine that? So here are all these people now coming to Paul. And Paul was just speaking unhindered with boldness the gospel, telling them about Christ. And he was having a profound impact on people and many of the Christians there in Romans said, you know what, we can do that. We can st we can do it like what Paul's doing. We can speak the word of God. Verse 14 says, Many, many of the brethren in the Lord. So this is a lot of brethren that were there in Rome. We're getting courage now. To speak about Christ. F. B. Meyer comments on what the situation must have been like as Paul was there. This is such a good word. Listen to what F. B. Meyer wrote He says at times the hired room would be thronged with people, to whom the Apostle Paul spoke words of life. And after they withdrew, the sentry would sit beside him. filled with many questions as to the meaning of the words which this strange prisoner spoke. And at other times, when all had gone, and especially at night, soldier and apostle would be left to talk. And in those dark, lonely hours, the apostle would tell the store the soldier, he would tell soldier after soldier the story of his own proud career in early life, of his opposition to Christ. of his ultimate conversion and would make it clear that he was there as a prisoner, not for any crime, not because he had raised ribellion or revolt. But because he believed that he whom the Roman soldiers had crucified under Pilate was the Son of God, the Savior of men. As these tidings spread and the soldiers talked them over with one another, the whole guard would become influenced in sympathy with the meek and gentle apostle who always showed himself so kindly to the men as they shared, however involuntarily. his imprisonment. It's beautiful the way he phrases that. But notice verse number 20. According to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now Also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. Someone says, how do you know Paul was showing courage and boldness? Well, because of that verse right there. Paul knew that when he had to stand before Caesar, he knew that Caesar had the authority to take his life. And what was his prayer? He wanted to show courage. He wanted to show boldness. He didn't want to in any way bring shame to the name of Christ. And so uh he was he was anticipating standing before this powerful man And he said, you know, that in nothing I shall be ashamed. I want to speak clearly and boldly for my Lord. And the believers there were thinking, you know, if Paul could have that much boldness before this tyrant, why can't we just share with our friends? So Paul's imprisonment was provoking courage. But also here's the third thing. Paul's imprisonment was proclaiming Christ. In other words, Paul's imprisonment was causing preachers to boldly stand up and preach Christ. Look in verse number 15. Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, and some also of goodwill. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds. But the other of love showing that I'm set for the defense of the gospel. Now there were different groups of men who were emboldened to preach Christ as a result of his imprisonment, Paul's imprisonment. First there were Paul's critics. Some of those who were preaching Christ on one hand were criticizing Paul on the other. They were Paul's detractors. It's hard to imagine believers criticizing the Apostle Paul, isn't it? The word some in verse 15 refers to the brethren in verse 14. These were not false teachers criticizing Paul here. These were true believers. These were preachers of the gospel. And they were preaching Christ. However, they were doing it out of unworthy motives. Paul says they preach out of envy. The word here is the Greek word for jealousy. They were jealous of Paul. They were jealous of his giftedness. They were jealous of the people's love for him. They were jealous of his fame. Paul was known all over the the the s the the Christian world at that time, which wasn't really big, but by the Christians back there, they knew him and And they loved him. He had many people praying for him. He had seen the resurrected Christ. And so some preachers were jealous of how God was using Paul. Some were so jealous of Paul that they preached Christ, hoping that it would cause the Roman government to be angry at Paul. They were actually hoping that Their preaching Christ would actually make things more difficult for Paul that was in that prison. Can you imagine that? They were hoping to add affliction to his chains. That's kind of hard to imagine. But then you have to understand the ego of preachers in order really to understand that. And uh I'm I'm preaching to myself too, all of you listening on live stream. And so uh they're preaching Christ on one hand But they're also hoping that what they're doing is is going to add affliction to Paul's chains, and they're doing it out of jealousy. But also he mentions the word strife. And this is heirs. This refers to contention, conflict, rivalry. Their jealousy pitted them against him, and conflict resulted. We see this kind of contention in the church and movements all over. We see this happening all the time. A while back I was uh I preached in a church of a very well-known, nationally known pastor, and he spoke to me in his office for a long time. And he was telling me, I was, you know, thinking, wow, you know, God's blessing your ministry, man, things are great. And uh he just kind of said, Well, you know, I'm really being criticized and hammered by people all over. I'm like, really? I said, who? He said, other preachers. Other preachers all over. I mean, I'm getting written up. I'm being criticized. They're all just really contentious. And uh this is the same thing what's happening with Paul here. They were just contentious. Paul uses the word contention here meaning selfish ambition He said some preach Christ out of envy and strife, some of goodwill. The one preached Christ out of contention. Again, that means selfish ambition. This is a political term. It means to canvas for an office to get people to support you There were people out there trying to rally support for themselves. It was more about them. And so they're preaching, again, they're preaching Christ out of this unworthy motive. of selfish gain of trying to attract followers for their own sake. And so while they're Preaching Christ on one hand, they're taking pot shots at Paul on the other. They're saying, oh, you know, God's chastising Paul. That's why he's there. I mean, Paul's there. I mean, he's there because of his own foolishness. I mean, you know, he he's the one who appeared who appealed to Rome. I mean he probably would have been out let out of prison had he not done that it when he was in Caesarea, but here he is in Rome. And some were saying, oh, he lacks God's power. You know, if he was in prison, you know, had the power of God, he could get out of that prison. You know. That's they even had probably back then, I I can't prove this, they probably had an ancient name and claimant movement going on. All Paul had to do was just name and claim it. He could get out of that prison. I mean, what's the matter with him? Some say he was being replaced. Oh, you know, it's his ministry's over. I mean, you know, look at him. I mean, he's he's really worn out. I mean, have you seen him? He's got all kind of scars. He's not very attractive. And, you know, uh, it's time for him, you know, God's just kind of putting him on the shelf. He's done with him. He needs others like us, like me, to replace Paul. And so here are all these criticisms going on about Paul. And uh don't think that this didn't hurt Paul. I think it did at first because Paul wrote to Timothy and he said this at my first defense, that is, the first trial at Rome, no one supported me. But all deserted me. Here's Paul, and he's in Rome, and in his first defense there at Rome, Paul says, Timothy, no one supported me. Paul didn't have any preachers or Christians there rallying around him at his trial to support him. He was pretty much by himself. He said, but all deserted me. He wrote to Timothy, and he said, All who are in Asia turned away from me. When Paul wrote to the Philippians, he was so bereft of friends that he said of Timothy, I have no one else. Like Timothy, no one of kindred spirit like Timothy. I mean, he's really the only friend I have here in ministry. And so there was Paul's critics. Who were preaching Christ, but then also there were Paul's comrades. There were also people that were inspired by Paul. Again, they were preaching Christ out of better motives. Look at verse number 15, again, where it says Some indeed preach price even of envy and sh and strife, some of goodwill. Goodwill here is the word that just means pleasure. They were sympathetic towards Paul. They were grateful for his ministry. And they were just thankful for Paul. And they were preaching Christ out of pleasure, out of thankfulness. Out of love in verse 17, but the other of love, knowing I'm set for the defense of the gospel, some preach Christ out of the highest motive, which is love. They love Paul, they love the gospel, they love Christ. Paul's critics loved themselves. Paul's comrades loved others and they loved Christ. But then understanding Uh look in verse 17. But the other love, knowing that I'm set for the defense of the gospel, um in other words, they Paul's supporters knew that he was appointed for the defense of the gospel, verse 17. They understood the strategic nature of Paul's ministry. They knew that he was there in prison. He was appointed to be there. It was all of the Lord. They understood that. They got that He was appointed set for the defense of the gospel. And so they understood that But what was Paul's conclusion to all this? What was Paul's conclusion to his critics that were hammering him on one hand and preaching Christ on the other hand? What was his conclusion? Look at verse 18. What then? Translation, so what? Paul, they're criticizing you. You know what they're saying about you? They're saying, you know, you're you bel you belong here. You're here because of your own mistakes. You're here because God's putting you on the shelf. You're being judged by the Lord. You know, your your time is over. Paul, what do you think about all that? You know, Paul could have got out his pen and said, Well, I'll fire right back at him. He didn't do that, did he? He said, so what? So what? Doesn't make any difference to me. So what Verse 18. Notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice. Even though they're preaching Christ of unworthy motives, at least they're preaching Christ. And that's what I rejoice in. I rejoice that God can use even them, even though their motives may not be worthy, even though they may not have the best intentions. The fact that Christ is being preached causes me to rejoice. Because Paul knew the power of the gospel. And you know what? God can make straight licks with crooked sticks. He can use people that have less than worthy motives of preaching the gospel. He can still use them to Preach Christ. And so it didn't matter to Paul that they were criticizing him. It only mattered that Christ was being uplifted. Uh and that's what really again was his passion that the gospel was being advanced. That's what thrilled his heart. So Paul's confinement was producing conversions, it was provoking courage. It was proclaiming Christ, but here's the last thing. It was perfecting character. Look at verse 19. For I know that this shall turn to my salvation. through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. Paul is saying, look, my present circumstances, it's good for me. It's good. It's been good for me to be in this prison for four years. All this was happening. And it will result in my salvation. In my salvation. You say, well, what did Paul mean by that? What do you mean by my salvation? Well, there are several views on this. Some say, well, he was referring here to his personal safety, and some interpret this to mean his deliverance. I don't think that this means this because later on in verse number 21, he'll say, you know, it really doesn't make any difference to me for because for me to live as Christ to die is gain. I mean really, whatever the Lord wants is fine. In fact, it's better that I go and be with Christ. I mean if you're asking me my choices here. My choice would be I'd rather go and be with Christ. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. So I don't think he was referring to his personal safety. I think he was totally secure in the fact that God was going to do with him what God chose to do. And he was comfortable with whatever the Lord was going to do with him. Some people say, well, salvation. This doesn't mean eternal salvation as an eternal security. Paul was already sure about that. Paul wasn't saying, here I think I'm earning my eternal security by being in this prison. You know, he wasn't say any of that. I think that he was referring here more to his sanctification, to him being made more like Christ. To him becoming a better person, being more molded into the image of Christ. And Paul says, you know, his imprisonment is really, there's two things that are really bringing all this about. First of all, it's bringing about the prayers of the church in verse 19: for this I know, or for this, for I know that this shall turn my salvation. Through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit. Turn to my salvation. And so I think Paul understood that the prayers of God's people were very powerful. And it was the prayers of God's people that were working in Paul mightily, and God's grace was working in Paul, and the hardship that he would no doubt having at different at different times. God was using all of that and the prayers of God's people to do a deeper work of sanctification in Paul's own life. And also he mentions the supply of the Spirit. Verse 19, the supply of the Spirit. The word supply here is where we get our English word chorus. Those of you that are in the choir, We get our word chorus from this and you say why? Well whenever a Greek city was going to put on a special uh theater or festival, um They had have somebody pay for all that. Someone had to pay for the drama, had to pay for the event. And this person would come along and they would give lavishly this gift, so it would take care of all the necessary things uh in order for this drama or this theater to take place in a Greek city, and that person was called a Koragos. They just took care of all everything And here's again where we get our word chorus. And because they're supplying all that's needed. And here Paul is saying, you know, the Spirit is supplying me with All of this, the supply of the Spirit. He's given me everything that I need. And it's making me a better person. So much so that later on Paul could say, you know, I've learned to be content with whatever state I'm in. You know, even when I'm not I don't have a lot, whether I'm a base or I bound, I have a lot, it doesn't matter. The Holy Spirit is teaching me, He's teaching me to depend on Him, and the supply of the Spirit is giving me everything that I need. So all this is working more in my salvation, in my whole sanctification. And that may be true of you as well. I know it's true of you as well. Because what's the one thing that God's doing in every person who names the name of Christ? He is working in your salvation to make you more like Christ. That's what he does. He conforms us to the image of Christ. And so, whatever your circumstances are, you need to learn to look at them from God's perspective. What is it doing? How is God using it? Think about that. Is it producing conversions? Are people learning more about Christ through this? Is it provoking courage? Is it encouraging and helping others in the Christian faith? Giving them strength, giving them courage, giving them boldness? Is it causing Christ to be preached more? Is it perfecting character? Is it sanctifying? Is it doing a sanctifying work in your life? Is it doing a sanctifying work in the lives of others? That's how to have joy in every circumstance. It's learning to see God in all of it and know that God has a purpose. God hasn't abandoned you. He hasn't forsaken you. No. He is using this circumstance to accomplish his purposes. And you know what? The fact that God would actually use a sinful vessel like me to further his purposes, that should be a cause for joy. That God would use me for the advance of the gospel. So let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you for this beautiful passage of Scripture and how it encourages so many hearts. And maybe, Lord, there's some here tonight that are Going through difficult circumstances. They're chained to something, someone, some problem. Some difficulty or affliction and it's something that they have been dealing with for uh not just uh one year or two or m maybe more. Like Paul was in that prison for four years, chained to those soldiers. I pray, Father, that you'll help whoever is going through these difficulties to see things from your perspective. That they'll find the same joy that the Apostle Paul writes about here, that they'll see your providence, your work, your hand, and it would turn their discouragement to joy. So they can have joy in every circumstance, knowing God that you love them, you care for them, and you're doing things that hard for us even at times to really comprehend the depth of the work that you're doing in every heart and love. And Lord, you're using circumstances in our lives to do it. So, Father, may we learn to trust you like the Apostle Paul. May we learn to say these things have happened for the furtherance of the gospel. I see what God's doing, and boy, it brings me joy. My heart. Father, help us to indeed be your ambassadors in our chains and to speak boldly the gospel. And to preach Christ wherever you give us the opportunity, and we pray in Jesus' name