Good to see you here tonight. I want you to take your Bibles now. I want you to open to the book of Matthew, chapter 7. Open to the book of Matthew, chapter 7, uh, tonight. And I want to deal tonight with verses seven down to verse number twelve. These are very well known verses. Matthew seven. And look at verse number seven. Ask and it shall be given you. Seek and shall And ye shall find Knock and it shall be open unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be open. Or what man is there of you whom if his son ask bread will he give If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father Father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him. Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you Do ye even so to them, for this is the law and the prophets. Now, we all need encouragement from time to time. Wouldn't you agree with that? I read about an uh an ex-paratrooper. He was asked how many times he jumped out of a plane and he said none. He said, but I was pushed out fifty times. Sometimes we just need to be pushed. A minister was discouraged on a Monday morning and uh he woke up and he heard the birds outside singing and from where he s opened it up and you could hear the birds a little clearer and she listened and she said, they're not saying give it up, they're saying keep it up. Keep it up. And so we don't want you to give it up. We want you to keep it up And really, that's what these verses are telling us right here. This whole passage from verse 7 down to verse 12 from our Lord Jesus is meant to minister to us. It's meant to encourage us Now, let me just tell you about these verses. They I think have suffered some erroneous interpretations. There's what I call the blank check view. And uh if you read these verses, it seems like on the surface that uh the verse Uh is a blank check from God that we can get anything we want from Him. It's kind of a carte blanche, you know, for any of our material desires. You know, it's that kind of kind of name it and claim it uh philosophy where if you name it and claim it and you know you go to God with it and you treat God kind of like a celestial slot machine and if you pull the handle down enough times in prayer you'll get what you want. And so people read this verse and they think that if I just ask and keep asking and seek and knock, that I will get what God will grant me whatever material possession that I long for, whatever I want. So it's kind of like rubbing a lamp and the genie comes out type theology there And then there's another, I think, erroneous way of looking at these verses, and that is it's kind of related to what I just said, and that is, you know, we're bending God's will to fit my will. just keep seeking and asking and knocking, you know, God who is somewhat reluctant to give me what I want, then he will finally after me coming to him so So many times uh be worn out through my persistence and and then give me uh what I asked for. One man wrote this, this is Daniel Doriani and his c uh commentary. He said this is This beggar's wisdom suggests that our petitions can wear God out so that He finally grants us whatever we want, even if we w He was initially disinclined to do so. Some see this then uh as if they can bend God's will to fit our will, and so to them prayer is kind of a manipulation of God, just like a a child sometimes can manipulate Manipulate their parent by going to them constantly. And I think this is entirely wrong. These two things are entirely the wrong way to look at these verses. This is a certain thing that is in view here. There's a specific thing that Jesus Now let me ask you a question. What is the context then of Matthew 7? This is really uh the summation or the conclusion Of the Sermon on the Mount. You have to look at it that way. Jesus is coming to the end of the of the Sermon on the Mount. And what's the main theme of the Sermon on the Mount? It is the stand Standard for kingdom living. It is the practical righteousness that will characterize those who are truly children of God. That's the whole theme of the sermon. Jesus has And so Jesus lays down the standards. He gives standards related to self- He gives standards related to morality, uh to religion, to money, to possessions. And like one man says, Jesus bombards his disciples with un Compromising demands. And he goes on to say that the self-aware reader knows he cannot fulfill all of them. So Jesus is setting the standard of right Righteousness that is to characterize those who are true citizens of the kingdom. And if you just go through the Sermon on the Mount, you we we kind of see this kind of in a summary way. Matthew 5 4. We come into the kingdom mourning over sin. We humble ourselves. We hunger and thirst for righteousness. We're passionate about purity. And then we as we uh repent of our sin, we are to be the soul and the light to the rest of the world. And then Jesus says, look at chapter five, look at verse twenty, just to kind of give you I I think which is a key verse. For I say unto you that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven Your righteousness is to go higher than that of the Pharisees. Now we know that their righteousness was all outward, it was all ritual, it was uh all Outward conformity to a religious standard, Jesus called them whited sepulchres that inside they were filled with dead man's bones. The righteousness that comes from God is where God Starts on the inside. But nevertheless, Jesus says your righteousness has to be more than theirs. In verse 21, you're not to be angry. It's equal to murder, angry without a cause. You're to be quick to be reconciled with your brother who has aught against you in verse 23. You're never to look lustfully upon another woman. That's equal to adultery. You're to deal thoroughly with your sins. Jesus said all in Matthew five twenty seven to thirty. You're to keep your word and be truthful, perform what you owe or what oath you made. Wounded you, you're to love your enemies, you're you are to let your giving be done in secret, and on we could go. These are all the standards that Jesus lays down And so this is really the context of this. And uh so you getting that? These verses are not a blank check where God will give us any material or temporal thing that we Desire. It's not a name it and claim it type thing. He's talking about righteousness. And then when you get to chapter 7, it narrows it even more. He's giving really characteristics of human relationships. We're not to be hypercritical. Chapter 7, verses 1 and 2. We're to be careful to correct ourselves before we go out Trying to to correct others. You should be careful about the beam in your own eye, for you worry about the splinter that's in your brother's eye. So really Jesus is speaking here about loving others And so you kind of, right after that, you come to verse 7, where Jesus says, ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. So this is the summation of all that. Here he gives all of these standards of practical godliness that we are to be Living, it should characterize us, and right on the heels of that, what does Jesus then say? Ask and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall Knock, and it shall be open unto you. Now, have you ever noticed how that God will put you to a test of the very truth that you I know that happens to me. If I study something, and uh and by the way, before I preach it to you, I gotta make sure it's straight I get straightened out First, right? I get straightened out in the study and I make sure I repent and I'm living up to to what I'm gonna preach and then I preach it to you and then you know you You all are so very kind to say, Oh what a good sermon. And then right that week, you know what God does? God says, Okay, big shot, let's see if you can live it. Let's put you through a little test here. Oh you preach A really good sermon on Sunday. Let's just see if you can practice this. And then something will happen that will test me in the very area that I have preached And you all don't look so holy because you know it happens to you too. God will test you in that very area. For example, last Sunday morning I preached about, you know, don't complain. Actually the Apostle Paul is talking about that I bet you had more opportunity this week to complain than ever. Because God you know what you know why? God tests us on some of the things that uh we hear You know, when I in my younger days I was a football coach uh at a school and uh I would teach the team the game plan for the the the game that was coming up and then we would go out and w and and And kind of walk through the scenario of those of the game plan, we would kind of try to put it to practice before the game happened. And what I'm saying is that the game plan for practical righteousness is Found in the Sermon on the Mount, and God will test us to see if we're living up to those standards of righteousness. And you say, why does God do this? That let me tell you why, because he will show us that we're weak. And we can't do this in and of ourselves. God will test us to reveal to us something that He already knows. And what is that? That in and of ourselves, we are unable to live out This practical righteousness. We are feeble. We are sinful. We lack the ability. We are weak creatures. And once we come to this Realization we could do one or two things. We can give up, we can quit, or we can cast ourselves on the Lord for His help. We can come to And for those who want to manifest the godliness and the righteousness of the kingdom, who long for a holy life to be salt and light, Jesus Jesus gives you these verses: Ask and it shall be given to you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you. This is the great treasure that kingdom citizens are seeking after. We want to live out this practical righteousness in our life, but we can't do it So this is really the summation of what Jesus is saying. And and really again He's trying to encourage us. Now let me just First of all, if you're taking notes, just write down a great promise. We see here, first of all, a great promise Promise. Again, verse seven Ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. For everyone that asketh, receiveth To him that seeketh findeth, to him that knocketh, it shall be open. Now, did you notice how many times the word it is used there in that ask and And it shall be given unto you. What's the it there? Seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. And then in verse 8, it says, To him that knocketh, it shall be open And so what is the it that Jesus is talking about there? And again, I propose to you that the it that he's talking about here is the power to live out the righteousness Righteousness that as kingdom citizens we ought to have. Let me give you a parallel passage. Hold your place in Matthew. Look in Luke chapter 11. Look in Luke chapter 11. Chapter 11, and look down at verse number 9. Again, this is a parallel passage of Scripture, and I want you to see this. And I say unto you, ask, this is Luke chapter 11, verse number 9 And I say unto you, ask and it shall be given you, seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be open unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, the him that seeketh findeth to him that knocketh it shall be open. Exact same thing That was said in Matthew. And then, but drop down to verse 13. If then being evil, excuse me, if ye then being evil know How to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the what? Holy Spirit to them that ask him. And so Luke adds the Holy Spirit Because again, the same thing is in view here. You see, it is only through the power of the Holy Spirit of God in us that we can manifest and live after The practical righteousness that God expects of us. And so this is the great need of the church. We, through the power of the Spirit, we live out this righteousness through his power. Now, as as as uh justified saints, God God has declared us righteous in Christ, but that's positionally, practically, we have to live it out, and we can't do that ourselves. We have to have the help of God We have to have his power in our life. I think this is the great need of the church that we be dependent upon the Holy Spirit of God And if we're not, we're going to fail miserably. This is the need of every individual Christian. And so I want to ask you tonight: are you dependent upon the Holy Spirit of God to help you live out that That practical righteousness that our King demands of us as citizens of the kingdom. And the Americans said, Let me show you the greatest untapped resource, the greatest unused power in the world. And he took them down to the foot of Niagara Falls and he showed them those great whirlpools there generated by And the Englishman said, I beg to differ. He said, The greatest unused power in the world And we need to tap into that. And so, friend, uh the question is, are we doing that? Now we have To learn that if we're going to live out this righteousness that God wants of us. And by the way, I think this is the exact thing that Paul is teaching us in Romans chapter 7. This is the struggle that Paul has in Romans 7. He's struggling to live the righteousness that God wants, but he's being pulled down by the flesh. And he finally has to learn That it's through the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus that makes us free from the law of sin and death. In fact, again, hold your place here. I want you to go to Romans chapter seven real quick. I want you to look at this because again I think this is parallel to what we're talking about in Matthew chapter seven. Now in in Romans 7 there's been a lot of theological discussion And part of the question is uh who is the man that's being spoken of here in Romans seven? having this intense conflict and struggle over sin. As you read the passage, you kind of get the distinct impression that uh this person has lost this battle with indwelling sin He's not living out that practical righteousness. He's defeated by sin. And you get to verse 24. He kind of cries out in despair in verse 24, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the the body of this death. And so they there's there's different views about uh who this man is, and of course there are some that say, well this is the apostle But then the bit the next question is well, is this the Apostle Paul as an unbeliever? Is that is he describing his battle with sin as an unbeliever Or is he describing his battle with sin as a believer? Now, so there are several views on this, and one view says that this is Paul while he was an unregen This is seems to have been the dominant view of the early church. In fact, Augustine took this view, but he it later admitted that it could be a believer. And why would someone say that this is Paul as an unbeliever? believer. Well, because of some of the things that so Paul says. He makes some claims in here, some would argue. That can't be true of a real believer, right? What what are they? Verse 14, he Claims to be a slave to sin. Verse 14, for we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal sold under sin. And someone would say, How could a a Christian claim to Say that. And then in verse 18, he says, There's nothing good in me. Can a believer really say that? Because God is inside of us. And then in verse 24, he asks the question: who shall deliver And so there are some that argue that this has to be Paul as an unbeliever. That's the correct view. And let me tell you why. Because in verses fourteen to twenty-four, uh, he's talking, he's using present tense verbs. He's talking about being a Christian as he as it was at that moment. And if you want to know Paul's mindset of how he felt before he was saved, then read Philippians chapter Chapter 3. You know what you're going to find in Philippians chapter 3? That Paul wasn't struggling over sin. In fact, Paul was very proud of his righteousness. You know what he said in Philippians chapter 3? He said, concerning the righteousness Of the law, blameless. He didn't know that he had a problem with sin. He thought that he was blameless with respect to the righteousness of the law. You see, an unbelievable Believer is not discouraged by their inability to keep the righteousness of the law because normally an unbeliever is self-deceived about their spiritual condition. Say, what sin? I'm blameless. I'm doing really well. And Paul, before he was saved, he was very self-confident. He was very self-righteous. He didn't even know he needed to be Saved. But here, as you read in Romans chapter 7, you get a totally different mindset. You have Paul who is struggling to live out the righteousness that God demands And and what you see her really just laments. In verse 14, he says, I'm carnal, which means I'm unspiritual. In verse 15, he says, I I do not understand what I do. I want to do the right thing, but I I don't understand that I'm not doing the right thing. Look at verse four fifteen. For that which I do I allow not, for what I Would, that do I not, but what I hate, that do I. If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that it is good. Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin That dwelleth in me, for I know that in me that is in my flesh, he's talking about the old sin nature, that sin principle, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is Good I find not. And so Paul this is not talking about him as a lost man. This is a Christian man who is struggling over this inward sin is in his heart. He wants to have victory over it. And he has a desire. He has the will. He's pursuing God. He said I delight in the law of God. A lost person never says that. An unbeliever never says, I delight in the law of God. But here, Paul says that. I delight in God's law. I'm pursuing God. I'm hating sin. The things that I do I don't want to do. Those are the things that I hate. He hates sin. He delights in God. And yet the power is The ability to overcome that sin principle or that sin nature escapes him. And so he's struggling. And so we see him He is lamenting, and we see his desire uh that he wants to live a righteous life. We see Paul's desire to affirm the verse fourteen. He said the law is spiritually He said, there's nothing wrong with the law. It's not the law's fault, but I am unspiritual. And then we see it turns into Paul's determination in verse 18. He says, For I know that in me that there dwells no good thing, for to will is present with me. I want to live a righteous, practically righteous life. Let me ask you a question Is that your desire tonight? Do you want to live out the practical righteousness of the kingdom? That's a sign of a true child of God. Paul said I w I want to live this out. But then we see Paul's discovery. Look at verse 21. I find in a law that when I would do good, evil is present within me. Now when he says law here, he's talking Now listen to me very carefully. What he's saying is this is what I've discovered. In this war that I've had against sin, in this sin nature that dwells in me, I find a principle That whenever I determine and desire to do right and to do good, there's this principle that evil and sin is in me. In other words, it kind of rises Up. Paul said, I've discovered this. There's this battle. Because in verse 22, he says, I delight in the law of God after the inward man. Verse 23, but I see another law or principle in Paul said that I see in this law this the This we could call it the law of sin and death, this principle, and it wars against me. Has that been your experience? It certainly has been mine. When I determine and desire, I'm going to do Right before God, you know what happens? There's just something that seems to rise up inside me and tries to pull me down and say, Oh no, you're not. Not without a battle. That's that inward sin principle, that's indwelling sin. And Paul says, I just note this. This is a law, this is a principle. It's generally true that when I would do good, sin is present within me, and it's warring against me, and it's bringing me into captivity to the law of sin in my memory That is, that sin principle is working within my body and my members, and it's pulling me down. And that's why in verse 24 we see Paul's uh despair, desperation, we could say, he cries out Now, you know, there are some people that believe that when Paul cries out like this and he's talking about Oh wretched man that I am, that he may be making a a veiled reference to a Roman custom to where a murderer, one of the his his Punishment uh one of the things they would do to a murderer was they would take the body of his victim and they would tie that body to the murderer. the foot face to face and he would have to carry that d decaying corpse around all the time. And it's almost like Paul is saying, you know, as a Christian, we have This body of death in us, and it's called the sin nature, and we're carrying it around with us all the time, and it's constantly oozing corruption in our life. We want to do the right thing. But it just seems like we can't do the right thing. You say, well, what's the answer to it? Well the answer is down in chapter eight, look in verse two. For the law of the spirit of life and Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death. That's what frees us. That's what Helps us to live over and above sin, this sin principle. It's the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus. It is the power of the Holy Spirit Working in us, giving us the strength to live above the law of sin and death. Now, let me illustrate it to you like this Let's just say I decide that I I went I go to the rim of the Grand Canyon. Any anybody ever been to the Grand Canyon? You see how big that chasm is. Let's just say I decide to go to the rim of the Grand Canyon and I decide that I'm gonna jump over the Grand Canyon. Okay, why are you all laughing? Let's just say I'm gonna do this and the law I'm gonna I'm gonna do it with that law. I'm gonna use my strength and my ability, the law of self-effort. It's going to get me over that canyon, that huge chasm. And so I back up about a hundred yards and I start to run and I get winded before I get to the edge. But I get to the edge and I jump with all of my strength and I'm there in the air and I'm doing Pretty good. I've gone two to three inches, four inches. And what law, let me ask you a question, what law takes over at that point? It's the law of gravity The law of gravity then begins to pull me down because the law of gravity is stronger than the law of self-effort. And if I use self-effort to overcome the law of gravity, guess what? I'm gonna be defeated every time. I'll never be able to span that g uh that chasm of the the Grand Canyon. And friend you may as well try Try to jump over the Grand Canyon as to live above sin in your own strength. Because the law of sin and death, if you try your own strength alone The law of sin and death will pull you down every time. You'll never make it. Or let's just say I want to do a different strategy now. I'm not going to be able to do it through the law of self-effort Let's just say this time I go and I get into a small plane, an airplane. I go over there, I knock on the door, there's a pilot in there, I say Sir, would you mind taking me to the other side of the Grand Canyon? He says, Sure, get in. I get in. I strap on the seatbelt. And then he takes off and he begins to fly. And guess what? He overcomes And what is that law? That's the law of aerodynamics. Because the law of aerodynamics is able to overcome the law of gravity And so I'm in that plane now. And now I'm living over that law of gravity. And I'm able to land on the other side. Why? Because now I have submitted myself To a higher law than the law of gravity. You see, it's the same as true in the spiritual life. If you try the law of self-effort, if you try the the Let's say the works of the law and self-effort, and you try that, you're gonna fail. And that's what Paul finds out here in Romans 7, that when he tries in his own strength with to obey the law However, if he submits himself to the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus, you know what happens? He is Able to overcome the law of sin and death. And you know what? It's really not him. It's the power of the Holy Spirit that carries him over this law of sin and death. And is the same as True for a believer. You say, I can't live above sin. I can't live out this practical righteous right in your own strength. You can't do it. What you have to do is you have to get into the Spirit. You have to Knock on the door, you have to open the door, you have to get in, and you have to trust in the Holy Spirit to ru to carry you above the law of sin that is in you. Now I'm in that plane. I'm going over the Grand Canyon. What happens if I get out of that plane in the middle I say to the pile? You know what? Thank you so much. I'm going to take it from here I decide I can jump out from there. What's going to happen? The law of gravity is going to take over again. As long as I'm yielded and I'm in the Spirit and I've submitted to the Law, the spirit of life in Christ Jesus. I'm able to live above the law of sin, but when I stop that and I try in my own strength again, then the law of gravity takes place. So we have to get into the spirit, so to speak. Remember the other uh Sunday morning I was preaching on sanctification where we do our part and God does his part, our part is to walk in the Spirit. And God's part is when we walk in the Spirit, He carries us above the law of sin and death. You know what we try to do? We get up in the morning and we say Say, you know what, I'm not going to yield to the sins of the flesh. And our whole mindset is trying to resist the flesh. And that's the wrong approach. Don't worry about trying to resist the flesh. You just Walk in the Spirit. And you know what the result will be? If you walk in the Spirit, you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. You just get into the mind of where you're submitting to the Spirit Of God, you're asking the Holy Spirit, you're saying, Holy Spirit, I can't do this. I can't live a righteous life. I can't live out the practical righteousness of the kingdom myself I need your power. I need your help. And you walk in the Spirit. You consciously claim the help of the Holy Spirit. You ask him for that help. And when you do, you know what? Look go back to Matthew chapter seven now because again I think this is a a parallel here. Matthew chapter seven ask and it shall Shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. For everyone that asks, receives him that seeks, finding him that knocketh, it shall be opened And so what is the secret of doing it? We have to pray and ask. That's it. Pray and ask. I can't do this on my own. So we pray We pray continually. The verbs here in this verse are all present tense, they're commands. We are continually to pray. I ask, I get up, I ask, I seek, I knock I say, oh Lord Jesus, give me the power of the Holy Spirit so that I can live out the practical righteousness of the kingdom in my life. And it's active, that is, we're the ones that have to do this. We are to pray continually. We pray climactically. Well as I look at these verbs you know what I see? There's kind of a uh a climax that's taking place here. I begin by asking Asking and then I continue by seeking and while I'm seeking you know what I'm doing? I'm examining myself with the Word of God. I'm making sure my motives are pure are pure. The Bible says I'm not to ask that I'm to make sure that there's no sin in my life because sin will keep God from answering my prayer The Bible said, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. And so as I'm asking and seeking, I'm examining my own heart, and I'm making sure that I'm where I am I'm supposed to be, and then I continue by knocking, which is more of an intensity. You're pounding at the door as it were. You see, Spurgeon wrote This. He said, faith asks, hope seeks, and love knocks. Let your prayer be adapted to the case. Let it increase in intensity. Let it advance in the largeness of its object. To receive a gift is simple. To find a treasure is more enriching. To enter into a palace is better So I pray continually. I pray climactically. I'm increasing it my intensity as I'm seeking this, and I pray confidently Confidently. Where does my confidence come from? Look in verse 8. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh, it shall be open. Isn't that a wonderful promise right there? You know what? If you want to live a practically righteous life, you can do it. Because Jesus gave us a promise here. He said, if you ask and you seek and you knock, I will give you the power to overcome sin in your life. I think this is one of the greatest verses in the Bible with respect to sanctification and learning to overcome sin. This is so comforting. You know, sometimes I read of great Christians in the past who by the the power of God were able to do great things for God and great things for the kingdom because God the Holy Spirit Spirit empowered them in such a beautiful way. And you know what? I'm tempted to think that there was something peculiar or different about them that I don't have. There was something unique about them and you know what that's not true they were people just like you and me they were normal people they had the same weaknesses the same sinful But perhaps they did something that we don't do. They asked the Lord. They sought God. They knocked on the door. And here God says, everything Everyone that asks, everyone that seeks, everyone that knocks. There's no other qualification there. That's why I say we can live this way If we ask the Lord and we depend upon the power of the Holy Spirit. So that's number one. That's a great promise from God. But number two, I want you to write down, and I only have a few minutes minutes left and I'll have to these next two points will go quickly. But notice a gracious pattern. A gracious pattern. Look in verse 9. What man is there of you whom if his son asked Bread Will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more Shall your father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him. Verses is the gracious nature of God. Here Jesus is talking about the loving nature of our Heavenly Father. And he gives several illustrations. just to help us. These are really, he's asking rhetorical questions here. And really these are deliberately absurd. And Jesus says, what man of you is there among you if your son asked Bread, will he give him a stone? Think about that. Your children ever come to you and say, You know, I'm hungry, can I have some bread? And you say, Here's this rock, why don't you gnaw on it for a little while That's absurd. We would never do that. But you know, when Jesus is talking about the bread here, you know, if you walk along the shores of the Sea of Galilee You know what you're gonna find? You're gonna find little stones, and you know, they actually look like little loaves of bread. The color and the shape, they actually look like a loaf of bread. If you take it out of that context and you put it in some other context, it looks like a loaf of bread until you of course you go over and you handle it. And so I think that that's what Jesus is referring to. There are stones that must might look like bread. Or he said, uh, and also, or if he if he asks a fish, will he give him a serpent? There were certain fish more like eels caught in the Sea of Galilee that looked like Snakes. And Luke adds Luke adds in Luke 11 12 where if he asks an egg, will he give him a scorpion? You know when a scorpion rolls up into a little ball, it looks exactly like And so you really to put it in our time, you know, if your children come to you and they're hungry in the morning before they leave, you give them a a bag of fruit and when they open up the bag and they bite into the fruit, they find out it's wax fruit, it's not real. That's kind of the idea here. And again the question is what parents would be so cruel To do that to their children. I mean, again, the thought of it is laughable. And Jesus means for it to be. We don't do that to our children. And yet, do you think Do you think you're a better parent than God the Father? The Bible says: if we, who are sinful and evil, know how to give good gifts to our children, do you think God doesn't know how to give good gifts to us? And by the way, all these things are necessities that Jesus describes. Children need bread, they need nourishment. And these are needs that we have in our life. We need the nourishment of God. We need the power of the Holy Spirit in our life. So do you think that if we ask God for this power, that He's going to withhold it from us? No, he will not. He will not. And uh again in verse eleven, uh he concludes if ye then being evil know how to give good gifts, how much Much more Father which is in heaven. And so we see here a gracious pattern, but let me let me give you the third thing real quickly and we'll be done. We see a great promise, ask, seek, knock. We see a gracious pattern. We see the great nature of God, the gracious nature of the Father. But thirdly This is another encouragement to live out the righteousness of the kingdom in our lives. Now, some might be here thinking, you know what, I can't remember all those things that Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount. All those lists of standards and things. Am I supposed to remember all of that? Well, really all you have to do is remember one principle. Look at verse 12 Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them, for this is what the law and the prophets. You don't have to memorize every word of the Sermon on the Mount if you want to live out the righteousness of the kingdom. Just go by this one principle. Of course, we know this principle. It's the principle of the golden rule. You simply do unto others as you would have them do unto you. And really, it's the same principle. If you love others The way you love yourself. You love your neighbor as you love yourself. You treat others the way you would want to be treated. And what did Jesus say in verse 12? For this is the law And the prophets. And when Jesus mentioned the law and the prophets there together, what is he referring to? He's referring to the whole Old Testament. All of the law and the prophets. All of that is fulfilled In this one basic principle right here. This is the basic guideline that you're to go by right here, because if you go by this guideline, you will be loving The way God demands us to love. If you love others, then you're fulfilling that righteousness that is in the law. And that's the guiding principle. But again We're encouraged to see hear these words from Jesus. That we have the power by the power by the Holy Spirit given unto us To live this practical godliness and righteousness in our life. And this is so important because every once in a while I'll talk to Christians and you kinda get the idea like they've given Given up on trying to overcome some perhaps sinful habit or something that's bringing them down. And it's almost like, you know, I I'm just I don't have this ability You don't have it, but God will give it to you. He will grant it to you. The question is: do you want to live a godly life? Do you want to live above sin? Ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find not, and it shall be opened unto you. This is the great treasure that we are to be seeking. The treasure of practical righteousness in our life. And uh let me just close. I I was reading, you know, some of you know I love archaeology, and I was reading the story about Howard Carter. He was a British archaeologist Archaeologists. He was digging in an area called the Valley of the Kings, and other archaeologists said, you know, there's no use digging there. All the treasure is gone from that area. But he believed in the heart there was still treasure there. to to be found. And year after year he put resources into digging and digging. And one day uh he found a chamber and He he peered into the chamber, his assistant that was behind him said, What do you see? Can you see anything? And as Carter's eyes adjusted, finally he was able to see what was in in that chamber and he couldn't answer his friend because he had difficulty speaking. Because when he looked inside that chamber, what he found was incredible treasure statues And chariots and carved cobras and vases and daggers and jewels and a throne and a golden carved coffin of the teenage king King that we now know as King Tut. And it was one of the greatest discoveries in archaeology. But it was Carter's perseverance that led him to find that Treasure. But now let me just say, dear friend, that treasure is nothing compared to the treasure of practical righteousness in our life that is our If we just keep on asking and keep on seeking and keep on knocking, God will honor that. He will grant us the power of the Spirit to live the way he wants us to live. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so Father, I pray that we would take these words to heart. Lord, we need to hear this truth. We need it. Every once in a while, Lord, in this war that we fight against indwelling sin, we we get discouraged And we cry out like the Apostle Paul, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me. But Lord, may we also say like the Apostle Paul. That the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death. Lord, may we seek this This righteousness, may we seek this power that you've given us with the Holy Spirit to live out the righteousness, Lord, that you expect of us. We know it comes from your Holy Spirit So may we seek it. May we seek the power of the Spirit in our life. May we ask and seek and knock. And how many here tonight in closing would say, that's my prayer tonight? By God's grace, I want to ask. I want to seek. I want to keep knocking. Father, bless these hands and these hearts that this Desire to live out the practical righteousness, Lord, that you want us to have. And in this way, Lord, we become lights in a dark world. Then the world can see the light of Christ Shining in us and Lord you'll be glorified. Let this be so in our life, Lord we