Good to see you here tonight. Would you take your Bibles, please? And I want you to open to the Old Testament Book of Proverbs, Proverbs chapter 4, and be finding verse number 23. And I want to continue with a series that we've been doing called Echoes from Puritan Pulpits. And this is just kind of a unique series, I guess you could say, because it's really just me kind of uh talking about spiritual truths that I've learned from reading Puritan writers. I have about uh probably fifty or so Puritan books that I have read through the years and I've benefited from them uh spiritually. And uh it just seems like every Puritan has one dominant um sermon or book that he wrote that had such an impact. And I'm kind of pulling some of those out and just introducing them to you. A lot of printed Puritan works written back in the uh in the seventeenth century or earlier um have been reprinted and you can get those, you can order those if you care to read. I know if if you ever read Puritan works, you know that they're kinda they're not easy to read. You have to kinda take your time. Um that's very concentrated, you know, so you have to mix it with water, you know, and uh kind of take your time and go through and maybe read it through again. But but going through it is very beneficial. because there are spiritual riches that are th in the in these books that a a s a depth about them that you really don't see honestly today in writers today. I I mean you go to average Christian bookstore today and there there's a lot of superficial stuff out there. So you have to really be careful. Just because it's a Christian bookstore don't mean that everything that you buy in there is going to be good for you spiritually. So you have to use some discernment about that. But I want to speak tonight on keeping the heart from the writer John Flavel. There are few men in church history that emphasize the importance of keeping the heart, like John Flavel, who was a Puritan who uh was a pastor in Dartmouth, England. He lived between 1627 and 1691. And during that time in his life he went through what a lot of other preachers in that day went through, which is a lot of suffering and persecution and hardship and loss John Clavel uh buried uh three wives, um who he lost in death and he buried children. He was driven from the pulpit by the government that basically said if you don't conform to the way we want you to worship then you you don't you're not licensed. And so he was on the run. He often preached secretly in barns and w in woods and private homes. Yet through all of this, Flavor was able to maintain a spiritually tender heart before the Lord And uh again, not because his circumstances were easy, but because his heart was guarded. And out of that suffering, he wrote this book called Keeping the Heart. The subtitle is The Great Duty of the Christian Life. This is an important book. Charles Ferguson that if there was one book he would like to put in the hands of every believer, it would be this book. John Flavel said that the greatest battlefield that the Christian faces is the heart. It's not the world, it's not the church, and it's not circumstances. The greatest battlefield is your own heart. He said this, quote, excuse me. The greatest difficulty in conversion is to win the heart to God. And the greatest difficulty after conversion is to keep the heart with God. And that's very true. It's something that we have to constantly do. If you live long in a Christian life, you're going to be wounded by someone else. You're going to be hurt. You're going to be attacked by Satan. If you try to live for God, Satan is going to come after you. If you're in this world, you're going to be bombarded with temptation, all kind of evil influences that are all around us And so it is a constant uh guarding that we have to have over our heart. I read this book several years ago and uh it was a benefit. I it's it's one of these books where I really just need to read it once a year probably. Because it has so much value to it. Now Flable takes his text from Proverbs 4 to 30, or excuse me, 23, keep the heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. And really the the main idea of all of this is the state of your heart determines the direction of your life. The state of your heart will determine the direction of your life. So I want us to look at the uh what some of the things what Flavle says. I want to kind of study the verse a little bit and then interject some of what Flavel had to say about this, some of the the ideas that I learned from him. But I want you to see five aspects of keeping the heart. Here's number one, the mandate As we look at the verse and we digest this verse together, first of all, think about the mandate, keep thy heart. And look at the word keep here. It means to guard to watch, to protect. This is an imperative. It's not a suggestion. It's a command. Um John Flayble says, you know, he doesn't really say guard your words, although that's important, or guard your doctrine. Again, that's important, but he goes right to the root of the matter. Because the root of all of that is guarding your heart When you guard your heart, you won't have to worry about your words or your doctrine. Because everything flows out of that. So guard your heart. This is a universal command. Flavor said this, heartwis is hard work, but it is the most necessary work. Now he he calls it, he says it's this. He defines guarding the heart as the constant care and diligence of the soul to preserve it, that is your heart, from sin, and maintain sweet communion with God. And so, in other words, it's to guard your heart from all corruption, to watch over its affections, to examine the motives of your heart To keep your heart tender before the Lord, to resist anything that would draw it away from God. And of course, the Bible, when the Bible defines the heart, it's talking about really the control center of the soul The Bible tells us that the heart describes the seat of understanding. It's the seat of our desire. It is the center of our worship. Should come from the heart. It is our our conscience is basically from the heart. That's why Solomon says, from the heart come all the issues of life. And we have to constantly guard it because at one moment we let down the guard is the moment and we can fail before God. David was the man after God's own heart, right? But at one unguarded moment, he fell into sin. He had a worshipful heart towards God. But you know the story of how David committed the sin of adultery with Bathsheba. And really his fall didn't begin on the rooftop with Bathsheba. It began earlier when he allowed his heart to grow idle. He stayed back when everyone else was going to war. He had too much idle time, and he didn't guard his heart. He tarried still at Jerusalem. A neglected heart produced a ruined testimony for David. And Flavel says this, what the heart is, the man is. The heart is the treasury of the thoughts, the spring of words, and the guide of actions. And again, everything flows from it. Everything comes from it. Jesus said this. He said, A good man, out of the good treasure of the heart, bringeth forth good things. Everything flows from it. If the heart is pure, the life will be holy. If the heart is corrupt, the life will be sinful. Again, Flavel said this, Satan is most pleased when he wins the heart, for he knows if he wins the heart, he wins all. And so it's very important. That's the mandate. But that write down number two, the manner. The manner. With all diligence. Keep thy heart with all diligence. And this whole exercise demands all of our diligence. Now the word for diligent here is an interesting word in Hebrew. Again, it also means to guard. Um it's Mishmar, which uh has the idea of watching over um something or someone, like a sentinel at his post. We could actually translate it like this, guard your heart more than anything else you guard. That would really be the sense of how this is really spoken here. In fact, this word is the same word diligence is used in Nehemiah 4 9. You remember when Nehemiah and the people were building the walls? to for Jerusalem and there were enemies out there threatening Nehemiah. And and what does the Bible say in Nehemiah 4 9? Nevertheless we made our prayer unto God and set a watch against them. Set a watch is the exact same Hebrew word is used here for diligence. Set a watch. That's the exact same word. And so it kind of illustrates perfectly what this means here in Proverbs 4. 23. The city of Jerusalem was vulnerable to attack your heart. is vulnerable to attack. The city was the center of life. Your heart is the center of your spiritual life. The city needed constant vigilance, constant watching over. Your heart needs constant vigilance. constant watching over. Nehemiah didn't say, we'll watch it till the enemy's close, or we'll guard when we feel like it. When we think it's necessary, no, it was a constant thing. And that's what the verse is telling us here to do. Constantly guard, watch over your heart. Keep it secure. People send people spend thousands of dollars to secure their home, to secure their valuables, but spend no time trying to secure the thing that is the most valuable And that is your heart before the Lord. And so it is a continual thing. Now, why do we need all diligence? Well, Flaybell gives a few reasons here. First of all, he says because the heart is deceitful. Because your heart is deceitful. You say, I didn't come to church to be told I'm deceitful. Sorry, you're deceitful. It starts right here with my heart. Our hearts. Listen to write down Jeremiah 17, verse 9. The heart is deceitful above all things. And you've heard me say this before, but the the Hebrew now word for deceitful here is the noun Jacob. The heart is Jacob. I find that so interesting. What did Jacob do to his father? He lied. Jacob was a deceiver. And that's what the the idea here is: your heart is a deceiver. Your heart will constantly lie to you. People say, Well, I know my heart Well, no, you don't. Because your heart will deceive you. Uh your heart is constantly telling you lies. I hear advice given to young people sometimes. Follow your heart. Please don't do that. Please don't do that. Follow God's word and examine your heart constantly with the Word of God. Flavil said this, he warns, the heart has a thousand devices and wiles. It will flatter you into security. and cheat you into ruin if it be not diligently watched. He said, the heart will preach smooth things to you. It'll flatter you in the ruin. So the heart is deceitful, but then another reason they gave is the heart is unstable. It's unstable. Scripture constantly testifies about this. Jacob was uh giving prophecies about his sons. He said of his son Reuben, You're unstable as water. Unstable as water. How'd you like your father say that about you? You're as unstable as water. But that's not only true of Reuben, that's true of all of us in our heart, because our heart is unstable. Again, quoting Flavor, he says, the heart of man is not is is a very fickle and inconstant temper, soon hot and soon cold, quickly raised and has quickly fallen, now resolved and undiscouraged And so at one moment your heart can burn with zeal for God, and then at the next moment it can be very, very cold. We see this in Peter, right? Remember Peter? Peter was one of those who had kind of an unstable heart. The only difference between him, him and the other disciples is he was constantly talking, so we were able to see it more out of Peter. Remember at one point in Matthew 16, you know, Peter says, you know, thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And what does Jesus say? Blessed art thou, Simon of Barjona. Then at the next moment he's rebuking Jesus, and Jesus says, Get thee behind me, Satan. One moment Jesus is saying, bless you, Peter, and the next moment he's calling him Satan, you know, because of what Peter was saying. So Peter's heart was very unstable. You remember that uh he told the Lord, you know, all men will deny you, but I'm not going to deny you, Lord Not me. That might be everyone else. I will never be offended. All men will stumble, but not me. And just a little while later, he was cursing and denying the Lord Jesus. Now, Christ earlier had warned him, watch and pray. Remember in the Garden of Gethsemane? When he said, watch and pray. What does watch mean? Guard, guard yourself, guys. This is a very difficult time. You need to watch and pray that you enter not into what? Temptation. And what did Peter do? He went to sleep. He left his heart unguarded, and later on he fell. And so the heart is unstable. But another reason Flavor gives is the heart is a battlefield, as we have said already. From the moment of regeneration, the believer's heart becomes the arena of spiritual warfare. Grace, when it's put into you, does not remove conflict, it introduces it. John Flavel again wrote, The heart of a Christian is the seed of war. There Satan plants his batteries, their lust mutiny, and their grace must maintain continual resistance. And we know this, right? The flesh lusts against the spirit and the spirit against the flesh. There's a constant warfare that goes on in you now because you are a child of God, because God has given you in imputed righteousness and imparted righteousness. But that doesn't mean that the sin that was previously there, that sin nature, is gone. No, it's there. And that's why you have a battle right now. And we we know this is Romans seven, right? We all know that passage where Paul says, you know, the things that I the good that I would do, I uh I don't do those things. The evil that I would not, that I do Yeah, can you relate to that? The good things that I know that I'm supposed to do, I don't do those things. And the evil that I don't want to do, those are the things that I do Paul understood this. Paul was writing as a regenerate man. It always bothers me when someone says, oh, that's before he was saved. No, it wasn't before he was saved. He was never in a battle with his heart This is a regenerate man talking here. He's describing this battle here where he delights in the law of God on one hand, but he also sees another law, or we could say principle warring in his members. That was the law of sin. And so this is kind of military language that he's using here in Romans chapter 7. It's a battlefield, the heart is. And Flaybell explains why this conflict must be expected. He says this, grace entered the heart, not to find it empty. When grace entered into your in entered into your heart It wasn't empty, but to dispossess strong corruptions, when grace came into your heart, what it found was a lot of sin and corruption there. And he says, and these not quietly yield their throne. The sins, the corruptions within will not yield easily, he says. And so that's why there is this constant battle. But another reason he says that we have to guard the heart is because the heart is always being shaped. Your heart is either being conformed to holiness or it's being corrupted by the world. You're being influenced by something. The question is what? It doesn't stay the same. Your heart does not stay the same. Your heart is constantly being shaped. It's constantly being molded. The question is, what are you allowing to mold your heart? Is it being molded by the world? Is it being molded by the flesh, by the devil, by affliction? Is it being molded by prosperity, by companions, or what we love? You have to examine that. So the heart is constantly being changed and molded by something. That's why you have to keep watch over it. Flavel says, so we see the manner, keep thy heart. We see the or excuse me the mandate, keep thy heart. Then we see the manner with all diligence. But write down number three, the motive. The motive for out of it are the issues of life For out of it are the issues of life. Look at the word issues there. This is the Hebrew noun here, which means uh to go out. It's actually used sometimes to spit to speak of springs or sources. So we can literally say it like this. From it are the outgoings of life. Or this word is often used in the Bible for water sources, for springs. It's used, for example, in Psalm 87, verse 7, all my springs are in thee. So when Solomon says, out of it are the issues of life, he's saying that life flows out of the heart. Life is channeled by the heart. Life is directed by the heart. The heart is not merely affected by life. It governs life. It is the source, the spring. of all of your life. So a good way to paraphrase it, we could say it like this guard your heart above all else, because it is the source from which every part of your life flows I would be a good way just to summarize what he's saying here. High in the mountains lived an old man whose sole responsibility was to guard and tend a small spring. And the spring flowed quietly from the rocks and trickled down into the valley below, where it would supply water for the farmers and for the orchards and the villages. Every day the keeper of the spring carefully watched over it. He would remove the leaves and clear the debris and pull algae and branches. He would just ensure that that spring that was way up in the mountain remained pure. But he was very unnoticed, unpraised. His labor really wasn't um recognized by the people far below. And eventually the town council met together and they questioned this guy who was on the payroll that they never saw, and they were wondering why they were paying this guy a salary. who lived so far away, high up in the mountains, to watch water that was all the way far away from them. Why were they paying this guy? They thought it was unnecessary, so they dismissed him. They dismissed them. They saved money. And at first nothing seemed to change. But slowly the leaves gathered, algae thickened. Sediment clogged the spring. The water downstream became cloudy. It became polluted, unusable, crops failed, people grew sick. Livelihood suffered. Only then did they realize the mistake they had made. The problem was not downstream, it was upstream. And the keeper of the spring was keeping that spring pure And because he was able to do that, all of life was able to be good because of that. That's an illustration of what it really this verse is telling us here. The heart is that spring that we have to keep pure because if we keep that spring pure, then all of the rest of our life will be healthy and whole. And that's true for all of us. And so the reason, again, this is so important is because your words flow from the heart. Again, I'm referring here to John Flavu again, where he says, your words flow from the heart That's why we have to keep our heart. Jesus said this in Matthew 15, verse 18, those things which proceed out of the heart, come out of the mouth, excuse me, come forth from the heart. As the old saying goes, whatever's in the well will come up in the bucket, right? The tongue is the thermometer of the heart. Whatever a person's mouth, whatever they speak, reveals their heart. And so we have to understand why that's why it's so important. Your decisions flow from your heart. Whatever decision you make comes from your heart. Paul wrote about a person who defected from the faith. Bible says, Demon hath forsaken me having loved this present world. Demons made a decision to turn from serving Christ alongside Paul to go into the world. And again, that didn't happen. uh suddenly uh he wasn't guarding his heart our decision flow uh decisions flow from the heart your worship flows from the heart jesus says he desires those who worship in spirit and in truth God rejects worship that is not from the heart. Just write down Isaiah 29, 13. This people draw near with their mouth, but their heart is far from me. God doesn't want just outward mouth worship. He wants worship that comes from the heart. And so the heart will determine how our worship is before God, whether it's acceptable to God or not. Your perseverance flows from the heart. But the fact, will you persevere in faith? Again, a believer doesn't fall suddenly. He falls because his heart is neglected Because he's allowed his heart to grow into neglect. Flavor said, first a loose heart, then a lost life. And so that's why it's so important. So we see the mandate, keep the heart, the manner, with all diligence, the motive, for out of it are the issues of life. But then write down here number four the methods. The methods, how to keep the heart. How do you do that? And Flable kind of gives some real practical ways on how we are to keep our heart. And let me just give you a few of what he says here. First of all, he says by frequent and serious self-examination, you have to examine your heart constantly, frequently. He says this he that would keep his heart must often examine it, for what is not known cannot be watched. And by the way, the Bible tells us to do this, right? In the New Testament, examine yourself. Examine your heart to make sure that you're in the faith. And how do we do that? Again, he gives some advice here. First of all, some guidelines. Ruling love, one of the things. What do you desire most? Flavor teaches that the truest ruler of the heart is not what you profess, but what you prize. So what do you prize? Okay? That which the soul most loves, he says, it will most readily serve. And so his argument is basically this: the heart cannot be neutral. Love always has a throne. What sits on the throne governs your whole life. So he warns that many mistake secondary loves for harmless things when in fact they quietly usurp Christ's place. And so he kind of gives us some diagnostic questions. Ready for these. What do you most delight in thinking about? What do you really enjoy thinking about? That reveals the condition of your heart. What do you most fear losing? And then he also asks, what do you most prize when unrestrained? So one is the rule a ruling love, but another area he gives is secret sin. He says this, what is the secret sins you excuse? What sins do you excuse or conceal? And at this point, Flavel is very uncompromising here. He argues that secret sins reveal who the heart obeys when no one else is watching. And that is so true. Secret sins, he says, are the trials of sincerity. He says public sins can be restrained. The reason we don't sin publicly is because of the fear of man. We don't want to be thought bad of. It's restrained by fear. Secret sins, he said, are restrained only by love for God. So whatever on the inside you think about or prize Those secret sins that you do when no one else sees, the only restraint from those things is your heart's love for God. Because no one else will know. You see. So And he warns that believers often try to excuse themselves. He says they rename sins. Oh, this is just a weakness I have. This is just my temperament. Or they excuse saying, oh, you know what, everyone struggles with this. Or they delay repentance and says, you know, I'll take care of this later when things kind of settle down. Those are all excuses, he says. A secret sin is like the worm at the root, which will shortly wither the Ferris profession, he says And then another guideline he uses is spiritual temperature. Is your temperature cold, warm, or fervent? And Flabo believed that spiritual decline usually is gradual. It's not sudden. It's just a gradual thing. He said the decay of grace is often insensible. You don't maybe sense when you're moving away and your heart is growing warm. But he says his spiritual temperature is revealed by delight in prayer or weariness of it. So the question is, do you when when you think about praying, what what do you think is it a weariness to you? Or do you delight to be able to go and spend time with God? Or does it something that's kind of a burden to you? Or a hunger for Scripture or neglect of it? Do you really have a hunger for God's word? Or do you really just again you don't really you neglect it? Not s not really a priority. Tenderness of conscience or is your conscience hardened? He says when duties are performed, when he talks about duties I would use the expression spiritual disciplines like I talked about this morning. When duties are performed without delight and ordinances without appetite, the heart is gone astray. And then he says another factor is motives. Motives. This is another way we examine our heart. Flavor argues that God weighs actions by their inward springs, not outward form. And so he says one person can do something and it be and it would be uh sinful when another person might do the same thing and it'd be honoring to God and it's according to the motive of the heart. It's not just doing the right thing. The question is why do you do what you do? What is the motive behind what you do? And Flavo identifies common false motives, a desire for approval. Are you doing this because you want approval of others, or a fear of man? Or is it self-righteousness? Or is it just a habit you do without the heart? He says, many serve God for wages, few for love. And then here's another one. Another guideline he gives. We said first of all, examine your heart, and it should be done frequently. But next, By mortification of sinful affections. This is how we guard our heart. By mortification of sinful affections. Mortification means put to death. A sinful affection. You need to kill it. That's the idea here. Colossians 3. Write down this Colossians 3:5. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. And so how do we kill sin in our life? By refusing to yield to it? By refusing to allow it to dwell in us? By confessing that sin, forsaking that sin? uh looking to the cross of Christ, we are to kill those sinful desires. When they come back around, we kill it. It's weaker the next time it comes. But it's it's a constant mortification. It's like Joseph in Potiphar's house when he was tempted by Potiphar's wife. He said, How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God, uh that's mortifying the sin. That's killing the sin. When lust is not killed in the heart, it will break out in the life, he says, and so we have to kill it. on the inside. But then another thing he says is by regulating the affections towards God. And what he's talking about here is that the heart is not enough just to hate sin. You have to also love Christ. He says a vacuum in the heart will soon be filled, either by Christ or the world. So it's not enough that the heart be emptied of sin, it has to be filled with Christ. That's the whole point. See, how do I fill my heart with Christ? Get into God's word. Focus on who Jesus is. Remember how He's revealed in Scripture. Read the Gospels. Keep your mind upon Christ and what he did for you. When you see the beauty of Christ in Scripture, that fills your heart and that that gives you that greater affection for Christ So we can't just hate sin and not love Christ. We have to fill the heart with affection for Christ, he says. But another thing he says is by watching the heart in all conditions of life. And what he means by that, whenever seasons come, there are different seasons of life that will make your heart vulnerable at different times. And you have to watch your heart in every one of those seasons. In prosperity You know there's a danger that when prosperity comes your heart can depart from the Lord and you not be as dependent upon the Lord like you should be. So he says, you better guard your heart when prosperity comes. That you don't forget God. Deuteronomy 8:11, beware lest thou forget the Lord. He was talking to the children of Israel when you go into the land of Canaan and you get all these things that you didn't build, houses you didn't build, and you eat from vineyards you didn't plant, you better guard your heart When all this prosperity comes, you better watch it. But also in adversity, he says, affliction stir the heart violently and therefore needs a double guard. In other words, what he's saying is when you're going through a difficult time, it's also very possible for you, if you don't guard your heart, that you can get angry against God about what's going on. So guard your heart from that as well. But also he says in spiritual duties, and I'm running out of time. I wish I had another hour here, but um so I'm gonna go through some of this, edit a little bit, but he says, keep the heart when exposed to temptation. He says that's the greatest time of danger. He wrote this, He that will keep his heart in temptation shall not He that will not keep his heart in temptation shall not keep it at all. So guard what you see, guard what you desire, guard what you dwell upon Keep the heart when the world frowns. In other words, when persecution comes and you're mistreated by the world or you're slandered The heart is tempted to be bitter. Or when you're wounded or hurt by someone else or what something else has done to you, you better guard your heart at that time because it's very easy for you to nurse all those wounds and become embittered And your heart not be sensitive towards the Lord anymore. So he says we have to guard there. But also another principle here, by guarding the avenues of the heart. And uh when he talked when he says avenues of the heart, he's talking about how sin enters by the eyes. He said, Eve saw the fruit. David saw Bathsheba by what we hear. And this is nothing new for us, right? You've got to guard what you Here, you've got to guard what comes in through the eye gate. That's why God gave you these eyelids so you can shut your eyes quick. Alright? Don't dwell on things. Don't see things. Don't watch things that you should not watch. And so he continues on, he says, He that will not rule his senses shall never rule his heart. And then also he says by a constant dependence upon Christ and the Spirit. And so we have to constantly confess that dependence upon the Lord. uh when we're doing all this. So we see the mandate, keep thy heart. We see the manner with all diligence, the motive for out of it are the issue of life of life, the methods he gives us some practical things on how we are to guard our heart but then let me give you the last point here the motto the motto and who is the motto of course that's our lord jesus right And Flaybell ends his book, his whole treatise by talking about this. No one kept his heart with such perfect diligence as Jesus Christ. He says, where every other example eventually falters, Christ stands alone as the faultless keeper of the heart. Jesus is our example in all of this. He says, first of all, he was tempted in the wilderness, yet he kept his heart. Of course, Christ was tempted externally, but he was never ever corrupted internally because our Lord was sinless. And so Flavel says Satan could assault him, but he could not corrupt him. Temptations might be laid before him, but they found nothing within to close with him. Christ's heart never wandered towards unlawful provision. It never wandered toward presumption or worldly glory. when Satan tempted him there. But he also said this, Christ was misunderstood, he was opposed, he was hated, yet he kept his heart. In the midst of all of that, he Flavel returns to Christ's meekness under injury. Christ, you think you think people get maligned today. No one was maligned and criticized. Like Jesus was. No one was hated like Jesus was. He was slandered by people that should have received him. He came unto his own, his own received him not. He was slandered by the religious leaders. He was abandoned by followers. He was accused of blasphemy, accused of madness, when he was absolutely sinless. Yet there was no bitterness. that rose up in Christ. There was no retaliation that came out of Christ. No pride demanded to be vindicated through all the false charges that were laid against him. He says Christ shows that a guarded heart refuses to let injury become inward poison. Label says that Christ in Gethsemane, his heart fully submitted, is another example of how Christ guarded his heart. He said, this is the clearest window into Christ's heartwork. He says, quote, here is the greatest conflict. that ever was in a human soul, yet never did obedience shine more gloriously. And then finally on the cross, his heart fully entrusted. Even in death, Christ's heart was fixed Godward. He said, Father, into thy hands what? I commend my spirit And Flavel sees that as final evidence that Christ's heart never slipped from his father's care. And then he kind of gives this climactic exhortation at the end of the book. He says this: Christ kept his heart for you, now you keep your heart for him. Fair enough? Christ kept his heart for you to be your Savior. Now you keep your heart for Him. He's saying Christ guarded his heart for your redemption. He resisted temptation for your righteousness. He had submitted to the Father's will for your salvation. Christ entrusted his soul. To the Father to secure your soul. Now therefore, you guard your heart. And he says, heart neglect is not a small sin. When you neglect to guard your heart, he says, that's not a small issue. That's not a small sin before God. Because Christ guarded his heart for you, he's saying, now you guard your heart for him. That's the whole motivation here. And Flavor, near the end of his life, I was reading where Flavor was walked along a beach at Dartmouth and he was reflecting on the providences of God in his life. And again, he suffered a lot as a as a man. uh being persecuted. Uh he suffered a lot of grieves, grievous sorrows in his life, the death of family, wives, children. A lot of injury others had done against him, and yet he wrote this. He said, I found the greatest peace when I've kept the greatest watch over my heart. Even through all the things that he's been through, he said, The greatest peace I have in life is when I have kept the greatest watch over my own heart. And then he prayed this, he said, Lord, keep my heart from wandering, and I shall not wonder. So Christian, your greatest work is your heart, is in your heart, because out of it comes everything else. Every other part of your life flows from your heart. A kept heart leads to a holy life. A holy life leads to a joyful soul. A joyful soul glorifies God. So We should take the advice of this man and keep our heart with all diligence. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Just take a moment and just reflect on what you've heard tonight. And just quietly pray there and ask the Lord to help you, to keep your heart with all diligence. To watch over your heart. Ask God to help you to be watchful and humble and faithful until the day when our hearts trouble us no more and we see our Lord face to face. This is a constant work that we must do. So, Father, help us all of us. Lord, we need to guard our heart in this corrupt world in which we live. Our hearts are constantly under assault. And Lord, if left unguarded, our hearts will naturally drift away from you. It'll drift away from your word. It'll get cold and hard. So Lord, help us to be diligent, as we see here in this verse, to keep our heart with all diligence. knowing that from it flow all the issues of our life. And may we do this, Lord, for your honor and your glory, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.