Bibles please and open to the book of Daniel, the Old Testament book of Daniel. Daniel chapter 2 is where we're going to be tonight. And I want to preach tonight on keeping your head when everyone else is losing theirs. Keeping your head in the middle of a crisis. Look in chapter 2 and look at verse number 1. Follow along as I read these verses together. Let's kind of get a little bit of a setting and a context of what's happening in chapter 2. Verse 1. In the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams, wherewith his spirit was troubled, and his sleep break from him. Then the king commanded to call the magicians and the astrologers and the sorcerers and the Chaldeans for to show the king his dreams. And so they came and stood before the king. And the king said unto them, I have dreamed a dream, and my spirit was troubled to know the dream. Then spake the Chaldeans to the king in Syriac, O king, live forever. Tell thy servants to dream, and we will show the interpretation. The king answered and said to the child the angels, The thing is gone from me If ye will not make known unto me the dream with the interpretation thereof, ye shall be cut in pieces and your house shall be made a dumb hill. But if ye show the dream and interpretation thereof, ye shall receive of me gifts and rewards and great honor. Therefore show me the dream and the interpretation thereof. They answered again and said, Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation of it. The king answered and said, I know of certainty. that ye would gain the time, because ye see the thing is gone from me. But if ye will not make known unto me the dream, but there is there is but one decree for you, and ye have prepared lying and corrupt words to speak before me till the time be changed. Therefore tell me the dream, and I shall know that ye can show me the interpretation thereof. And the Chaldeans answered before the king and said, There is not a man upon the earth that can show the king's uh king's matter. Therefore There is no king, lord, nor ruler that asks such things of any magician or astrologer or chaldean. And it is a rare thing that the king requires, and there is none other that can show it before the king, except the gods whose dwelling is not with flesh. And for this cause the king was angry and very furious and commanded to destroy all the wise men of Babylon. And the decree went forth that the wise men should be slain, and they sought Daniel and his fellows to be slain. And we'll stop there. This story of Daniel reminds me of a classic poem that was written by a famous poet by the name of Roger Kipling. And the name of the poem is simply one word if. If. This is perhaps the most famous poem that he ever wrote, and as soon as he wrote it, it gained worldwide attention in 1909. This is what was called a didactic poem in the sense that it was a poem that was designed to give instruction and to teach. And the major theme that the poem is teaching is someone who is able to keep his head in the midst of a crisis. Someone who is able to face a crisis can face it victoriously, wisely, maturely. And let me read you a few lines of the poem. It starts off by saying, if you can keep your head when all about you are losing theirs and blaming it on you, if you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, but make allowance for their doubting too. If you can wait and not be tired by waiting, or being lied about, and don't deal in lies, or being hated and don't give way to hating, and yet don't look too good or talk too wise If you can dream and not make dreams your master, if you can think and not make thoughts your aim, if you can meet with triumph and disaster and treat those two impostors just the same. And then the poem just goes on, I don't want to go through all of it. You can read that on your own time. In fact, that's your homework for tonight, okay? But then it ends after he gives all these different scenarios. And instructions. He ends with these words, if you can do all this, yours is the earth and everything that's in it, and which is more, you'll be a man, my son. Now when I think of this chapter here of in the book of Daniel, I think of that poem because Daniel was such a man. Daniel was a man who knew how to keep his head when everyone else around him We're losing theirs and doing all kind of foolish things. Now, in Daniel chapter two, it opens up with a crisis. Now this is a life or death crisis. And he teaches us how to face a crisis when they come. And notice I say when, because a crisis will come into your life, beloved. It's going to happen. All of us will face a crisis at some point at some time. One day Daniel was minding his own business and there came to his door, there was a knock, and when Daniel opened the door, there was a man who was an executioner who said, I'm come here to execute you to take your life Now I would call that a bit of a crisis, wouldn't you? A man that knocked on your door would come to take your life. But Daniel's calm in the face of all of that Saved his life, not only his life, but the lives of many others that were around him. And he's a grading example to us on how to respond to a crisis. uh when it comes and how to keep your head when everyone else is losing theirs. So I want us to just see tonight eight principles from this story, okay? Is that okay, eight? Can you listen to eight points tonight? Alright, here's the first one if you're taking notes. Write down. Number one, remember God is sovereign over your crisis. Remember God is sovereign over your crisis. Now really when you look in chapter 2, you have to really understand just a little bit of chapter 1 because the events in chapter 1 really set up what happens in chapter 2. You remember in chapter 1, you know the story, and I've preached chapter 1 before you for uh for you before, and your pastor has also preached this chapter to you, so you know the story, but let's just refresh on it. Daniel was taken into captivity He's retrained in Babylon at the University of Babylon. He's told to eat the king's meat. This is part of the way to influence Daniel. The king wants to show him the good life. Now, Daniel, as a man of conviction, could not eat the king's meat. We know that. And the problem with the meat was it didn't meet the requirements of the Mosaic Law Jews were forbidden to eat certain types of meat. And secondly, this meat was sacrificed to Babylonian idols. And to eat that meat would be Like worshiping. In fact, one commentator said, Leon Woods, he said partaking was an act of worshiping pagan deities So for Daniel to do that would be to disregard his God, and Daniel would not do that. In fact, in chapter one verse eight, we know this verse, but Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat. He could not do it. Daniel is a great example to all of us of civil disobedience. Are there times in the life of the Christian when Out of conviction, out of conscience, and obedience to God and His Word, we must practice civil obedience, of course. Absolutely A Christian can never violate God's clear commands nor violate his conscience. It is a matter of obeying God. And of course, your pastor preached about that Sunday morning. that there have been men throughout history that have been martyrs because they refused to capitulate to commands that were unjust and were wrong and would cause them to disobey the word of God. But Daniel is a great example to us of all this because think about Daniel. He lived under a godless government and he was an uncompromising man. And he practiced civil disobedience, yet he did it in a way that brought great respect by his superiors, so much so that they favored him, despite the fact that he practiced Civil disobedience. Friend, that is wisdom. Daniel knew how to stand. He knew when to stand. And as a result, God blessed him. Look in verse number 17. Chapter 1, verse 17. Notice the reward. And as for the four children, God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom, and Daniel had understanding and all visions and dreams. Now this is a gift that God gives to Daniel. And we're going to see how this gift comes into play in chapter 2. Whenever God gives you a gift, you know what else He's going to give you? The opportunity to use that gift. And there's a sense in which God is preparing Daniel in advance for the crisis that comes. And keep this in mind. Whenever you go through a crisis or you're a child of God, just remember that the Lord has prepared you for that, whether you realize it or not. God will prepare you for that crisis. It was God who gave Daniel the gift, but then notice also it was God who gave Nebuchadnezzar the dream. Look in verse number one. And in the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams, wherewith his spirit was troubled, and his sleep break from him. Look at the word trouble there. It means to beat persistently. The noun form of this word has been translated anvil. Or sometimes it's translated foot because this word denotes something that is constantly being beat. And that's the idea here. This dream That he was dreaming, and notice it uses the plural, he dreamed dreams. This I believe it was one dream that he kept dreaming over and over again, and it was beating against him. It was troubling him In fact, the word dream singular is used in verse number three. That's why I think this is one dream that he kept having over and over and over again. Now to us, when we have dreams, it may not be that big a deal. My wife always, when she has a big dream, she wants me to interpret that dream for her. I don't have that ability. I'm not Daniel And sometimes we have dreams just because we sleep hard, right? We've entered the deep level of sleep. And we our mind just goes wild sometimes. But now when the Babylonians dreamed dreams, to them it was a big deal. They believed it was a way that the divine was communicating to them, that the deities were communicating to them. In fact, Babylonians believed that good dreams were sent by a god while nightmares were sent by a demon. They even had a God for good dreams called Mamu. And they would take offerings to this God. Why? When they gave them an offering, they were hoping that this good God would prevent the demons from giving them a nightmare and that he would give them good dreams That's how serious this was in Babylonian understanding. And when a dream was reoccurring, when it was going over and over again, to them it foreshadowed some event. So notice in verse 2. The king commanded to call the magicians and the astrologers and the sorcerers and the Chaldeans were to show the king his dreams. So they came and they stood before the king. Now these wise men were the best that the the Babylonians could offer. They were magicians, which is really just astrologer. Astrologer is someone who talks to the dead. Sorcerers, they practiced witchcraft. The Chaldeans were the wise men, a class of priests and wise men. And of course we know that Babyl Babylon is a place where all of this originated, astrology and studying the stars and heavenly bodies and interpreting dreams and all of that. It all started there So notice the king tells them what was going on. Look in verse 3. And the king said unto them, I had dreamed a dream, and my spirit was troubled to know the dream. And again, this is why I think it was reoccurring. Here it's singular. I'm having this dream, this reoccurring dream, and it's troubling me. Look in verse number four. Then spake the Chaldeans to the king in Syriac. Now what's uh interesting to note here in verse 4 is that in the original it switches from Hebrew to Aramaic. No longer is it is this chapter being written in Hebrew. Now it switches to Aramaic. And that's why we see here where it says they answered the king in Syriac. Aramaic. And this was the international language of the day. What this indicates is that this story is intended to be heard by all the world What's going to happen here is important, and all the world needs to hear this. And so as there's uh in verse number four, this is the language of the royal court. And notice that these men come, and notice what they say in verse 4. They say, Tell thy servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation. Now, another thing to keep in mind about this day is that the Choldeans were experts in interpreting dreams, but they made a science out of it In fact, they had these big dream manuals that they would reference. Baldwin in the commentary writes this about these books. Since these books had to cover every possible eventuality, they became inordinately long Only the expert could find his way through them and even had to know the dream to begin with before he could search for the nearest possible parallel. So through the years they had put together these dream manuals and you had every scenario that you could think of. And so this was down to a science Can you just tell us the dream and we'll go to the dream manual and we'll put together for you from these dictionaries an interpretation for this dream? This is what they did in Babylon. In fact This was such a big part of their life that when the Jews came back from Babylon and the Jewish Talmud, there were certain sections where there were sections of dream interpretation. They no doubt learned that from being in captivity in Babylon. So to interpret this dream was no problem for these guys. Just tell us the dream. We'll give you the interpretation. However, there's a twist to the story. It would not only, I want you to see God's hand in all this, not only did God give Daniel the gift, and not only did God give Nebuchadnezzar the dream, But God is the one that controlled the heart of Nebuchadnezzar not to tell these men what the dream was. Because look down at verse number five. The king answered and said to the Cheldeans, The thing is gone from me Now notice where it says it's gone from me. Again, this is Aramaic here, so it's somewhat ambiguous, but the interpretation of this hinges on a word, Azda, A Z-D-A, the Aramaic word, and it simply means firm. It means something that is decided. We could say it like this. This command is firm. This is what I have firmly decided. That's the idea here. Now there are some commentary commentaries and commentators that think that King Nebuchadnezzar forgot the dream, and so therefore he couldn't tell them the dream because he forgot it And that's why you see here the wording, the thing is gone from me. Some take from that that he forgot the dream. And then there are others that believe that he remembered the dream, but he refused to tell them. That's the view I believe. I believe that he didn't forget the dream. He just didn't want to tell him what it was. You say, why do you believe that? Well there's a f uh again, there's a few reasons in the context that demand this. First of all, again, this is a reoccurring dream if you compare verse 1 to verse number 3. And also the dream troubled the king. The word troubled, the very nuance of the word, suggests that it was something that he remembered. You wouldn't be troubled by a dream that you forgot, right? It's only a dream that you remember. That's going over and over and it's beating on you. And another fact about this is you look at the story, the wise men continued to plead with the king to tell us the dream. Why would they do that if he said, I forgot? You wouldn't keep asking a person, well tell me, I forgot. Okay, well tell me. I said I forgot. You wouldn't keep doing that. They were pleading with the king, tell us the dream, because He didn't forget. He just refused to tell them. Dr. Steve Miller, who wrote the commentary on Daniel and for the New American Commentary series, and who was my advisor under the PhD program, a great Hebrew scholar, and in his commentary he said this, these verses plainly show That the wise men were aware that the king remembered the dream, for they pled with him to reveal it. Why would Nebuchadnezzar refuse to make known the dream? And then he goes on to say, because this man or these are King Nebuchadnezzar were suspicious of these wise men And if they could tell him his dream, then he would know for certain that they could tell the interpretation. Look at verse number nine. But if you will not make known unto me the dream, there is but one decree for you, for you have prepared lying and corrupt words To speak before me till the dream till the time be changed. Therefore tell me the dream and watch this, and I shall know that ye can show me the interpretation thereof. Now, here's the point. God was the one that controlled Nebuchadnezzar, so he wouldn't tell him a dream. This is the twist in the whole story. This is what caused the whole crisis right here And friend, again, I say to you that God is sovereign over all the crisis of our life, over all the circumstances of our life. There are some people that think God is sovereign over big things, but not the details. All of Scripture goes against that. He's sovereign even over the details. And the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord as the rivers of water. He turns it whatever way he wants. So, no boss can block a promotion. No human authority can make a decision unless it's allowable by the will of God. And so, friend, remember that God is sovereign over your crisis or over your circumstance. Here's the second principle I want you to write down. Remember that people often overreact, making matters worse. People often overreact, making matters worse. Look at verse number five again. The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, the thing is gone from me. And if you will not make known unto me the dream with the interpretation thereof, ye shall be cut in pieces and your houses shall be made a dung hill. Now I would say that that's a bit overreacting there. We see here the king overreacts. If you don't tell me this, I'm going to cut you into pieces. That is, I'm going to dismember you. I'm going to hack you in pieces. You'll be pulled apart. And by the way, dismemberment was practiced widely throughout the ancient Orient. And your houses will be turned into a dunghill, and that is into rubble, into a rubbish heap. This was no idle threat from this king who did whatever he wanted to do. This is classic overkill. This is a man who is abusing his authority. He threw a royal fit And then here's the next thing, the wise men they act foolishly. Not only does the king overreact in this situation, but I want you to notice another thing that makes matters worse, and that is these wise men act foolishly. Why? Because they keep reverting back to the same thing. Verse 7. They answer it again and said, Let the king tell his servants a dream, and we'll show the interpretation. They keep asking, Tell us the dream. And all this does is it make matters worse It's making the king angry. Someone said insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result They kept asking the king. And look in verse 8 what he says. The king answered and said, I know of certainty that you would gain the time because ye see the thing is gone from me. That is, the king felt these men were stalling for time because He determined to execute them if they could not. And so in verse nine, he says, If you're not going to make known unto me the dream There is but one decree for you, for you have prepared lying and corrupt words to speak before me, till the time be changed. Therefore tell me the dream. That is, if you can't do this, then I will know that you're just you're fakes And what you're doing is not real. You've been lying all this time. You are the ones who are supposed to know secrets. You're the revealer of secrets. You're the one who is supposed to know what happens in the in the heavenlies. If you can't do this. then I say that you all are frauds. And so the king becomes more angry. Look in verse number 12. For this cause the king was angry and very furious. Now it's one thing to be angry. It's another thing to be angry and very furious. He blows his stack. And so you say, what do we see here? Sometimes the people who should be providing leadership in a crisis only make matters worse. They're not helping the situation at all. The king is overreacting. The wise men are acting foolishly. Friend, we have seen crisis happen in our own country, and we've seen leaders who have failed during this crisis making matters worse instead of making it better. And that's what happens here. This should teach us that we cannot look to man for answers. We must look to God. God is the one who is our helper. Write down Psalm 60 verse eleven. Give us help from trouble, for vain is the help of man. Psalm 146, verse 3, do not trust in princes and mortal men in whom there is no salvation Now let me give you a third principle. Number one, I said remember that God is sovereign over your crisis. Number two, remember that people often overreact. Making matters worse. But number three, remember that God's wisdom or that man's wisdom, remember that man's wisdom is insufficient. Look in verse number 10. They kind of changed their strategy a little bit, these wise men. The Chaldeans answered before the king and said, There is not a man upon the earth that can show the king's matter. Therefore there is no king, lord, nor ruler that asks such things of any magician or astrologer or children. It is a rare thing that the king requires. There is none other that can show it before the king, except the gods whose dwelling is not with You know what's funny here? These guys are really admitting they're the inability of human wisdom. In a re in a crazy way, they're admitting that they're not real. I mean, there's no man that can do this. Now these are the guys again that claim to have all of this power to reveal secrets and to know the divine, the things that went on among the gods. But here he says, no one can do this We don't have the answers. We just don't. No one has ever asked anything like this. And here are the men who were the most intelligent, the most wise that Babylon had to offer You know what one thing God enjoys doing is revealing the futility and weakness of human wisdom. God enjoys doing that. Man thinks he has the answer. Man thinks that he can do things his way, but at the end man has no answers. And man's wisdom offers no answers. Write down 1 Corinthians 3. 19. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness before God. For it is written, He is the one who catches the wise men in their craftiness. Ian Dugod wrote this, the wisdom of the world looks outwardly very impressive with its qualifications and influence in high places in our society, yet at the root the wisdom of the world is always an empty sham. And that's true. These men are really telling on themselves that they don't have the answers. Let me give you number four. I said, number one, remember God is sovereign over your crisis. Number two, remember people often overreact, making things worse. Number three, remember that man's wisdom is insufficient. But here's number four. Write this down. Remember to stay calm and get all the facts. Remember to stay calm and get all the facts. Look in verse 13. And the decree went forth that the wise men should be slain. And they sought Daniel and his fellows to be slain. Now look at verse 14. This is a great verse. Then Daniel answered with counsel and wisdom to Ariok, the captain of the king's guard. I think verse 14 is a purposeful contrast. Everyone else is acting foolishly. Everyone else is overreacting. Everyone else is losing their head. And here comes this man to Daniel's door and says, Guess what? All the wise men are going to be executed. And Daniel doesn't go into uh uh into fear or rage or ask why. He basically keeps his poise. He keeps a peaceful spirit. He was calm and composed. And the Bible says he answers with counsel and with wisdom We could translate that wisdom and discretion. That is, Daniel spoke appropriately. He spoke reasonably. Now keep in mind the uh the Aramaic root for the captain in verse number 15 is a word that actually means to slay So Ariak was probably the captain of the executioners. Now all the other executioners are going around to the other men, but the captain came to Daniel. And I see even in this the sovereign hand of God. This was the right person to come to Daniel because this man had the authority to bring Daniel before King Nebuchadnezzar. And notice what Daniel asked in verse 14. Verse 15, rather. And he answered and said to Ariak the captain the king's captain, Why is the decree so hasty from the king? Now watch this in verse 15. Then Ariok made the thing known to Daniel. You know what Daniel does? He gets all the facts. He gets all the facts about what's going on. And he doesn't overreact. He has all the facts. And so therefore he's able to act correctly So many times in a crisis, people react to half of the truth. They hear half of something, and they go off the handle. They hear half of the truth and then they they they they say things based on what half of what they heard. And that again only makes matters worse. Daniel gets all of the facts, and notice in verse 16 again This man brought Daniel before the king, no doubt as a result of Daniel's request. Look at verse 16. Then Daniel went in, that is, he goes into the king, and he desired of the king that he would give him time And that he would show the king the interpretation. That's very interesting to me. And here again is the sovereign hand of God helping Daniel. What did the wise man want from King Nebuchadnezzar? They wanted time And what did King Nebuchadnezzar not give them? Time. You're just stalling for time. I'm not going to give you time. And what does Daniel ask? Time. What does King Nebuchadnezzar give to Daniel? Time. Now, here's the question: why does King Nebuchadnezzar give it to Daniel, but he won't give it to the others? I'll tell you why. I think it's because First he saw something different about Daniel. There was something different about this young man. I think, again, Daniel's wise actions, even in his and his civil disobedience and the manner in which he did it, it brought favor upon Daniel by these leaders. And the king knew that Daniel was wise. He knew that there was something different about him. And so what Daniel did earlier is still helping him out. He gained great respect And God brought Daniel into favor with these leaders because of that. Daniel maintained his composure and his courage because he knew the Lord. Let me give you the fifth principle. Number one, I said remember God is sovereign over your crisis. Number two, remember that people often overreact. Making matters worse. Number three, remember that God that man's wisdom is insufficient. Number four, remember to stay calm and get all the facts. And here's the fifth principle: remember to pray for wisdom. Look at verse 15, or 17 rather. And and when Daniel finds out all this, verse 17, then Daniel went to his house. and made the thing known to Hananiah, Meshach, and Azariah, and his companions, that they would desire mercies of the God of heaven concerning this secret That Daniel and his fellows should not perish with the rest of the wise men. The first thing that Daniel does is he forms a prayer meeting with his friends. That's good example to follow, folks. He prays together with his friends. He prays that God would give him mercy and that God would give him wisdom. Prayer is important. You know why? Because it demonstrates that we are dependent upon Almighty God. We're totally dependent upon God. Not upon ourselves, but upon God. Daniel could have said to his friends, hey guys, no problem. I got this. You know why? I have a gift. You know what my gift is? Revealing dreams. I got this. But Daniel didn't say that. Daniel's confidence was not in himself, it was in God alone. And his prayer was a proof of that. By the way, having a gift is not enough. It's not enough. You have to be dependent upon God, or all your gifts will fail and do nothing. God's special servants are people of prayer. He did not expect to receive what he needed without prayer. And so he goes to God. He depends on God's mercy. He didn't look to man's wisdom. He didn't look in the dream books He got on his knees and he talked to God. You know, someone said a Christian on their knees sees more and knows more than a philosopher on his tiptoes. And that is so true. And he asks for wisdom, and that's what we should do, friends. When a crisis comes, we need to go to God We need to cast ourselves down upon God and we need to say, God, I'm not depending upon myself. I don't have the wisdom that I need. I know that. I don't know how to go out and come in. That's what Solomon said when he prayed for wisdom following his father David, who was a great man. I don't know how to go out. I don't know how to come in. I don't know how to lead. God, I need your wisdom. And God is always willing to give wisdom liberally to the one who will come to him and who would ask it. And you know what? And this is exactly what God did for Daniel. God revealed what was going to happen. Because look down at verse 19. Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision. Then Daniel blessed the most high. Here God revealed the future plan of the Gentile nations to Daniel. This was the blueprint of the whole future. God revealed it to Daniel. This is how we know that this dream was from God, because we know the rest of chapter 2. Your pastors preached this to you many times. about the image and and all the the empires that go with that. We all know that. That's how we know that this was from God. And here God reveals it to Daniel. Why? Because he prayed for wisdom Let me give you the sixth principle. Number one, I say, remember God is sovereign over all your circumstance. Remember that people people often overreact Making matters worse. Number three, remember that man's wisdom is insufficient. Number four, remember to stay calm and get all the facts. Number five, remember to pray for wisdom. But here's number six. Remember to worship God in the midst of your crisis Remember to worship God in the midst of your crisis. Look down at verse 19 again. Notice the last phrase. Then Daniel blessed. the God of heaven. Look at verse 20. And Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God for ever and ever, for wisdom and might are his in verse 21. And he changes the times and the seasons And he removeth kings, and he setteth up kings, and he giveth wisdom unto the wise, and knowledge to them that know understanding. Here Daniel, he's praising God. Now, if Daniel were like most Christians, he would have gotten up and hopped in his chariot and ran off to the king. But that's not what he does. The crisis wasn't over. I mean, Daniel still could have been put to death. The king, it's very possible he may not have liked what Daniel had to say or he didn't believe him. So what does he do? He stops in the middle of this crisis and he worships and he praises God. And I want to tell you, beloved, when you do that, there's a strength and a grace that comes from God that. There's a power and a strength that comes from that. It takes faith to thank and praise God when you have the sentence of death hanging over you. And that's what happens here with Daniel. And uh he teaches us a lesson about worship. And again, this is one of the most beautiful doxologies in all of the Bible. Notice he says God is the ruler. He in verse 21 he changes the times He removeth kings, he sets up kings. That's one of the major themes in the book of Daniel, the sovereignty of God and the governments of man. God's the one who sets up kings, he removes kings, it's all in his hand. He is the ruler of And he's the revealer in verse 22. He revealeth the deep and secret things. He knoweth what is in the darkness, and the light dwelleth with him. So Daniel realized God is the one who is the revealer, and he praises God with all his heart. Sometimes sometimes Christians lie when they pray. You know what they say? They say, Lord, we'll be careful to give you the praise and the honor. But the question is, are you really careful afterwards to give God the praise and the honor for an answer to prayer? Daniel was. Let me give you the next principle. Here's number seven. Remember not to be distracted by self-seeking opportunities This part of the story kind of makes me laugh. Look at verse 24. Therefore Daniel went unto Ariak, whom the king had ordained, to destroy the wise men of Babylon. He went and said thus unto them, Destroy not the wise men of Babylon. Bring me in before the king, and I will show unto the king the interpretation. Then Ariak brought in Daniel before the king in haste. Now, one thing that stands out to me is that here Daniel, he goes through the proper channels now to seek an audience with the king, and notice his concern for others. That the king destroyed not the wise men. He wasn't just concerned about his own life. He was concerned about the lives of others who were around him. And by the way, this was the group that would later try to destroy Daniel This is the ones that would try to bring him down. And yet here he is caring for them, loving them, going out of his way to be a help to them, and yet they're going to come against Daniel. We think of the words again of Kipling who said, who being hated, but yet don't give way to hating. But notice in verse 25. Notice Ariok. Look at this guy. Then Ariak brought in Daniel before the king in haste and said thus unto the king, I have found a man of the captives of Judah. Really, you're the one who found him I have found a man of the captives of Judah that will make known unto the king the interpretation. What is he doing here? He's using this as an opportunity. He wants to take some credit. He wants to earn some points with the king here. Oh, you know what, King? I've been looking all over, and guess what? I have an answer to your crisis. I have found the man Really? And you know what's interesting to me? The things that the Bible records. You know, the Bible records interesting details. Why is this detail recorded here? for us because I think it shows a real contrast between the character of Daniel and the character of other people around him. Here's a man who wants to take credit. And here's a man who wants to use this for his own political advantage. You know, sometimes the best way to display something noble and something beautiful is to contrast it with something that's not. And I think that's what's happening here. In the middle of a crisis, a person's character will be revealed. Here's Daniel, a man of character and integrity, doing what's right, and all around him are people that are saying and doing foolish things. And yet Daniel stands out. The king overreacts out of fear and insecurity. He's in the insecurity mode. That's the way he's operating. And then the wise men They foolishly act out of self-preservation. They're in the self-preservation mode. And here at Ariok, he tries to get advantage of this whole situation. He's an opportunist. He wants personal gain, and so he acts out of the political opportunist mode. But here's Daniel, and what is he concerned about? He's concerned about saving the lives of others around him And he's concerned about giving God glory for what's going on. He keeps his composure while everyone else around him is losing their head. Daniel is focused on God. Ariok points to himself, Daniel points to God. And here's the last principle. This leads to the last one. And just write this down. That is, remember that every crisis presents unique opportunities to glorify God. Every crisis presents unique opportunities to glorify God. Look in verse 26. The king answered and said to Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, Art thou able to make known unto me the dream which I have seen and the interpretation thereof? Verse 27, Daniel answered in the presence of the king and said, The secret which the king has demanded can not the wise men and the astrologers and the magicians and the soothsayers show unto the king But I love verse 28. Listen to this. But there is a God in heaven. There's a God in heaven that reveals secrets. And makes known to the king Nebuchadnezzar. Daniel then points to himself. First of all, he debunks these other guys too. He says, They can't do it, King. Man's wisdom is insufficient. But I want to tell you there's a God in heaven. And he has the answer. Look at verse 30. He doesn't point to himself. But as for me, this secret is not revealed to me for any wisdom that I have more than anyone else. It's not from me. It's not because I'm anything special. It's because God has done it. God is the one who has done all of this. You read through this, you see how many times the energy just points to God. He just keeps pointing to God. And here Daniel has another opportunity to point to God and give glory to God for what's going on. This was really His whole focus at this point, he wants to give God glory in the midst of this pagan, godless government system that he himself has been recruited into against his own will. It wasn't his desire to be there, but he's there. And he's trying to live an uncompromising life. And he's trying to obey God and yet obey those around him. And yet here's an opportunity to point to God And give God glory in this whole situation. So one question I want to ask you tonight, when a crisis comes, how do you respond to it What is the thing that you do? How do you handle it? I was reading a report in the American Journal of Psychiatry, which I don't read as a habit, just know that. But it said that one predictor of a person's well-being in the future, of knowing that they're going to have a stable, happy future. This is the one indicator, the ability to handle emotional crisis in a mature way. That's it. The ability to handle an emotional crisis. I was reading another interesting fact. Did you know that test pilots have a litmus test for evaluating problems? They're out there and they're flying when something goes wrong. They have a list of things that they remind themselves of. A list of questions that they ask them. And here's the first one. Is this thing still flying? That's the first question. Is this thing still flying? If the answer is yes, then that means there's no immediate danger, no need to overreact. It's still flying. When Apollo 12 took off, the spacecraft was hit by lightning. The entire console, all the alarms, just went off. It began to glow with orange and and red because of all the alarms that was going off There was a temptation on the part of the men who were there to do something when all these alarms are going off. But they remembered their training and they remembered to ask themselves certain questions and they remembered to ask themselves this question, is this thing still flying in the right direction? And the answer was yes. It was still going in the right direction. And then they thought, well then let us handle each problem individually according to our things that we need to remember. And that's how they survived. And that's according to Captain Alan Bean, Apollo astronaut. We remembered to handle things one at a time. You know what? That's a question we need to ask ourselves. We're living in a world where all the alarms are going off. But you know what, friend? This thing is still flying in the right direction. You know why? Because God is the one in control. And you know what? You say, where's it flying to? It's flying to Jesus, friend. That's where it's flying to. Jesus Christ will come and rule and reign in this world. Everything is right on schedule. It may look to us like things are out of control. For us, the buzzers and the lights are all going off, but I want to tell you something, friend, God still has this thing flying in the right direction. But you know what else? We don't need to overreact. Because there's a list of things we need to remember. Remember that God is sovereign over your circumstances. Remember that people often overreact, making matters worse. Remember that man's wisdom is insufficient. Remember to stay calm and get all the facts. Remember to pray for wisdom. Remember to worship God in the midst of your crisis. Remember not to be distracted by self-seeking opportunists. But then number eight, remember that every crisis presents unique opportunities to glorify God. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so Lord, we thank you again for the Word of God. It is so relevant. It is our guide. Thank you, Lord, for this. Thank you for teaching us. We live in a world where there are many things happening, many crisis situations that arise. So, Lord, help us to remember from the example of Daniel. Help us to remember from his life how not to overreact, how not to trust in the wisdom of man, how to stay calm and get all the facts and to pray for wisdom. How Lord to worship you in the midst of our crisis, to never be distracted by opportunists. And Lord, to find the best way to glorify you in whatever crisis or circumstance we find ourselves. Lord, maybe there's some here tonight. That are in a crisis and they need your wisdom. And I pray, Lord, that you'll give them, as you promised in your word, wisdom liberally. In the time of need. How many are here, heads are bowed and eyes are closed, and I don't want to embarrass anyone, but I do want to pray for you. How many will say, that's me, I need the wisdom of God In my life right now. God bless you. And others' hands are up. Father, you see these hands. And you know the need. Lord, help us to draw from this, to hold these things in our heart. And I pray, Lord, for wisdom for each of these with hands raised That you'd grant them what they need and whatever crisis that they're in. And Lord, that you would receive glory and honor through it. And we pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.