Would you take your Bibles tonight? Open to the book of 1 Kings chapter 1. As you know, we are beginning a new series through 1 and 2 Kings, and I want you to look in 1 Kings chapter 1. The title of my sermon tonight is King Me. Who doesn't love a good game of checkers, right? We grew up playing that, didn't we? And every s in every simple game of checkers There's that thrilling moment when one of the ordinary pieces becomes royalty. You know that, right? Having moved and jumped all the way to the far side of the board A checker becomes king. And what do you normally say when that happens? What? King king me, right? Uh and so the uh once the second checker is carefully stacked on top the first checker From then on, the new king has power to move all over the board, right? And many people want their life to become kind of like a game of checkers. They're not content to be ordinary. They want to be in the royal center of attention. And so in a sense, they they want to kind of make it to the other side. uh down here on the on earth to the point to where they can say to someone, King me, they want power, they want money, they want to be the center of attention. They want to kind of build their own kingdom as it were Kingly is what the single man is saying when he gratifies his uh sexual desire instead of making a selfless commitment to love a woman. King me is what any person says whenever their own desires become the main concern, even at the expense of others King me is what a person says who is more concerned about building their own kingdom rather than building the kingdom of God. But here's the problem. The problem with putting our kingdom ahead of God's kingdom is that we never truly find our rightful place in the true kingdom of God. And so this is an important issue. The central issue we face as Christians is the central issue of 1 and 2 Kings, and that is the question: who will be king? Will we accept the kingship of that God has established, the rightful king that God has set up, or will we insist on having our own way? And so that's what we're going to talk about here in this story here in chapter one. This chapter answers the question, who will be the next king after David? And the chapter actually opens on a kind of a sad note, David is bedridden. It won't be long until he's he's dwelling in the house of the Lord like he wrote about in Psalm 23. And again the main question in the minds of many in Israel was, who will fill his shoes? David was a great man. It's hard to follow men who are great. Uh and so this was what was being kind of whispered in the in the court of the king, who's going to be the next king. Now, according to God's plan, David had already um uh been told who was supposed to be the rightful heir. And the rightful heir was supposed to be Solomon. Now he wasn't the oldest son. In fact Solomon was the tenth sun on down if you count in line, chosen uh to be king if you if you would go the way of the uh the ancient Near East But God doesn't always choose the oldest son, and God doesn't do things according to the way men would have them to be done. We know from 1 Chronicles chapter 22 That the word of the Lord came to David and told him that Solomon would be the king. That's 1 Chronicles 22, 9. Behold, a son shall be born to you, who shall be a man of rest I will give him rest from all his surrounding enemies, and his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quiet to Israel in his days. He shall build a house for my name. He shall be my son, and I will be his father, and I will establish his royal throne. So God had already made it clear. Solomon was to be the king. He was the anointed heir to be king. It was his by divine right. However, there was a contender. There was someone who wasn't satisfied with that. And we see his name, and his name is Adonijah. Uh he seemed to be everything that you could want in a king. He seemed to he seemed to be everything that David was when he was younger, but of course he's not anymore now that he's old. In fact, if you look in verse 6 of chapter 1, it describes him as being a very goodly man in the King James. That simply means he was handsome. He was easy on the eyes. And he again he was born after Absalom. Of course Absalom had died, and so now he is first in line to be king, humanly speaking Adonijah Again, he had everything going for him. He had all of the qualifications. Um as far as kingship was concerned, he looked like the the king, whether he would be the next king. And again, according to the ancient principle of primogenitorship, most people would have said that Adonijah had the right, legitimate claim for the throne. Even though God had already said Solomon is the king, Adonijah said, I will be king. Look at verse number five. Then Adonijah, the son of Haggath, exalted himself, saying, I will be king. In other words, king me. I'm the one that's supposed to be the next king. So he exalts himself, and it's really him saying it's all about me. He wasn't concerned about what God's prophecy had said. He wasn't concerned about God's will He was concerned about his own will. He wasn't saying, Your kingdom come, Lord, your will be done. No, he was saying, My kingdom come, and my will be done. And so he's a very selfish individual. I'm convinced that one of the most destructive sins in the Christian life is selfishness. It is opposite of how God calls us to live. You remember that Paul said we're to have the mind of Christ. And what kind of mindset did Christ have? He was selfless. He was always thinking of others. And so um What we see here is a man who doesn't think that way at all. And I want you to know that the call to follow Jesus is the call to have a selfless spirit, is to reject yourself as king and submit to Jesus and his rule in our life. So, but this man it isn't going to do that. But the idea I want you to see here is when we selfishly pursue our own kingdom instead of God's. We invite disgrace upon our own life and even danger. It is self-defeating to try to put your kingdom ahead of God's kingdom and try to do the thing that you want rather than submit to God's king and do what he wants. So what I want you to see in our passage today are six mistakes that people often make When they seek their own kingdom instead of submitting to God's kingdom. And that's what we see here in this passage. And here's the first mistake. Number one When we put our kingdom ahead of God's number one, we will be tempted to take advantage of the weakness of others. Look again how this opens up. Go back to Verse number one. Now King David was old and stricken in years, and they covered him with clothes, but he got no heat. Now remember, of course, we know that David was among the greatest of the earthly kings, maybe the greatest And from boyhood he had performed all these great heroic deeds. He killed lions and bears, he defended his father's flock, he slew giants, he conquered kingdoms, and on we could go. But at this point in David's life, however, it was all he could do just to keep warm. He was very, very old now, and again, he's almost ready to die. And so this story opens with David's health all but gone. His circulation wasn't sufficient enough to even keep him warm, even with the aid of blankets. So they decided to help him out in verse two, wherefore a servant said unto him, Let there be sought my lord the king, a young virgin, and let her stand before the king, and let her cherish him, and let her lie in thy bosom, my lord the king, make it heat So they define they decide to find a nurse in this matter. She would kind of be like a human hot water bottle, if if you will. Uh she w a a very pretty one at that because the Bible says she was a beautiful woman and she would lie lie beside David and keep him warm. Uh now this was in keeping with the medical customs of that day. That's typically what they would do. Josephus, the Jewish historian, writes about this very thing. She was to be a virgin because uh you know she couldn't be She had to be free of other domestic responsibilities in order to be able to do this. And so David is old and and uh he's he's um his hearing is failing, his eyes uh are failing. His body circulation isn't working well. And uh this is kind of a a picture that really I ha you know don't want to sound negative tonight, but all of us are gonna face this thing of aging, aren't we? That's why it's better that the bo does the Bible say, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. If we remember him when we're young, we'll remember him when we're old, and God will be with us. But it was during this time of weakness that Adonijah saw this as an opportunity. to basically take advantage. And so this is what selfish self-serving people do. Rather than showing concern over his father's weakness, what does that an idea do? Well, he decides that this is the time to uh put into effect uh his coup d'etat, his plan to take over and become the next king. And how many times have we seen this in a family where uh this is typical in a major conflict when things aren't right, someone will just step forward and uh have their own selfish agenda rather than caring for someone else. One time I was when I was pastoring a lady came to me, a dear old lady, and her husband had died not too long ago, and she told me a sad story, how her husband left her plenty of money and resources for her to live, but she had a son-in-law who voluntarily decided to handle and manage all of her finances. And basically what he did was he he extorted all that money and took it for himself and left her without nothing. Just a terrible story. But that's what selfish people do. They're seeking their own kingdom. And so this is what he what Adonijah does. He tries to uh already establish his own kingdom But here's the second thing. Not only will we be tempted to take advantage of the weakness of others, but here's number two, we engage in shameless self-exaltation. Look at verse 5. Then Adonijah the son of Hageth exalted himself, saying, I will be king. And he prepared him chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him. Notice that phrase, I will be king. Grammatically the word I is in the emphatic position. We can almost imagine Adaniah pointing to himself or even thumping his chest saying, I will be king. And furthermore, another thing about this verb is it indicates continuous action. He didn't just say this one time. He was announcing it all over. He was living his whole life like I'm the next king. He was letting everybody know who would listen to him that I'm going to be the next king. He had lived like that all of his life And notice some of the things he does to exalt himself. In verse 5, it says he prepares chariots and horsemen. I mean, if you want to know how important you are, it helps to have your own entourage. And that's what he does here. So he gets his men together, an arm arm of palace chariots, with footmen to run ahead and announce his coming. And even before he arrived, people would know that someone important was coming down the way. And so it it helped also ready his coup d'etat against his father. And look what it says in verse six. And his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, What hast thou done so, or why hast thou done so? And he was also a very goodly man, and his mother bare him after Absalom. In other words, the author is kind of throwing more light on Ad Adonijah and his character here by recording that he was he was spoiled. His father never really challenged him. His father never really kept him accountable. His father never came to him and said, What are you doing and why are you doing this? Pretty much he grew up and he got to do whatever he wanted. You might say that he was a kind of a spoiled, undisciplined man who received a lot of admiration all through his life because of his good looks, and he never had to give accountability of anything he ever did or ever was And that's the reason why he perhaps thought that this scheme would work as well, because all the way through his childhood and growing up into adulthood, every scheme he ever tried to do, it always seemed to work out Why would this be any different? And by the way, this is a terrible indictment of David for his failure in fatherly discipline I think this happens to be one of the most important comments made anywhere in the Bible on the subject of raising children. The implication is that David wasn't holding his sons accountable. And he should have held this young man accountable. But Adonijah was rebellious. He was full of rotten. David had not loved him wisely. He was an excessively indulgent father who had produced a self-exalting son in this situation. And so he's Adonijah, he's out there, he's promoting himself. And notice what else he does in verse 7 And he conferred with Joab the son of Zurih, and with Abathar the priest, and they followed Adonijah helping him or followed Adonijah and helped him And so basically what is he doing now? He's gathering around him powerful men, key leaders. Joab worked for David for a long time. And also uh the the priest also he worked with David for a long time. And so these were key leaders. These were some key men. And he's bringing these men uh around them and he is using them uh in a way to kind of help promote his own position. You know, knowing the right people is important. What's the old saying? It's not what you know, it's who you know And that's what he's doing here. You know, if you want to get ahead in life, it's it's helpful to be able to hang around powerful people. You can just hear Adonai just saying, you know, I was talking to my good friend Joab the other day, and this is what he told me He's getting the word out that he's up there with a powerful people. But also notice his public display. Look in verse 9. And Adonijah slew sheep and oxen and fat cattle. by the stone of Zohaleth, which is by and and Rogil, and called all his brethren the king's sons, and all the men of Judah the king's servants. So he honors himself by making a public display of his personal wealth He basically has this grand feast and he has a long checklist, a guest list of people that he wanted there. These would be important people. Again, people that had political power. This would also enhance his reputation as being a man to be reckoned with. And so they're throwing a party. He's uniting all these people together. He's gathering political influence. He's setting up him himself to be the next king. And yet he's doing all of this for his own honor and for his own glory. You know, we're tempted to king ourselves in the same way. We kind of try to impress people with who we know. Or how much we're doing for God. We have the tendency to do this. Sometimes we care more about what people think of us than what God knows about us. And We surround ourselves with people who will tell us that we're doing the right thing and oh yes, you are, you know, you're great. You are the next heir. And they won't really tell us anything wrong. This is the kind of people that Adonijah had around him. I want you to notice who he didn't invite. Look down at verse number 10 But Nathan the prophet and and Beniah the mighty and the mighty men and Solomon his brother he called not. He didn't invite them to the banquet. You know why? Because they weren't on his team. They weren't on his political team. And he didn't consult with them, you know why? Because they were likely going to tell him the truth about what he was doing. That what he was doing was wrong, that what he was doing was subversive, that it was effectively a coup d'etat And so he had already made his own decision for his own glory, for his own pleasure, without ever submitting to the rule of God. He's not going to talk to God's prophet. He's not going to talk to God's priest And he's certainly not going to talk to the man who was anointed to be the next king. He didn't want to hear from them. You know, this gives us a very practical principle in our own decision making Which is always to submit to the will of God. Am I doing what I'm doing because I want to do what is right before God because I want to do God's will? Or is it because I want to do what I want to do? You know, really, again, he's exalting himself. And again, I say this in the Christian life, there's no room for self-exaltation. There's no room for self-promotion. Again, this is opposite of how Jesus called us to live. He didn't call us to go out and exalt ourselves, go on a campaign to put ourselves forward He were called to pick up a cross, not pick out a throne or a crown. You remember the disciples, they had the same problem. Jesus had told them, you know, pick up your cross and follow me. And right after that, what were they doing? They were arguing about where they were going to sit, what throne they were going to sit on in the kingdom. They were arguing about who got to sit on the right hand and who got to sit on the left right after Jesus said, Pick up your cross and follow me. They weren't picking up their cross. They were picking out their throne. That's not what God called us to do. And so Jesus had to rebuke them on several occasions. Remember, Paul pointed to Christ as our example to reject self-exaltation, to reject self-promotion. Philippians 2. 3 says this, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind. Let each esteem others better than himself. Adonisha certainly wasn't doing that. He was doing the opposite. He was basically telling everyone how much better he was than Solomon. I'm the right choice, not Solomon. When Paul said, let nothing be done through strife, literally the word means rivalry. It's a political term. It's someone who has this the spirit of party politics, someone trying to win support, forcing people to take sides It's exactly what Adonijah was doing. Are you on my side or not? Are you going to vote for me? Are you going to support me? And then Paul also mentioned vainglory. Keno means empty glory. uh is the idea of uh of course uh glorious things. But putting these two words together, Paul is speaking of a self-promoting glory and how vain that is for anyone that would go around and promote themselves. and seek their own glory. Well, when we are seeking to build our own kingdom instead of submitting to God's king, We'll be tempted to take advantage of the weakness of others. Number two, we will engage in shameless self-promotion. But here's number three. We provoke the godly to stand against us. We will provoke godly people to stand against us because now from verse 11 down to verse 31. This all unfolds. Now, this chapter here has 53 verses in it, so we don't have time to touch on every verse, but let me just summarize what's going on in this section. From verses 11 to 31 This is where the coup d'etat is discovered. And some of God's people begin to see this happening. They see this unfolding, and you know what they do? They stand against it. They say, wait a minute. We can't let this happen. Notice in verse 11, Nathan the prophet alerts Bathsheba. Verse 11, wherefore Nathan spoke unto Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon, saying, Hast thou not heard that Adonijah, the son of Hageth, doth reign? And David, our Lord, knoweth it not. Now therefore come, let me, I pray thee, give thee counsel, that thou mayest save thine own life, and the life of thy son Solomon Nathan alerts Bathsheba and says, look, we need to counsel together. We need to do something about this. We can't let this go on because if he becomes king, he will he will get rid of you. He'll execute you, he'll execute Solomon. That's what ancient Near Eastern kings did to rivals. And so he comes up with a plan. He gives her counsel. And he basically tells her in verse 13, go to David. Let him know. And while you're speaking there, asking him to remember the promise about Solomon, I'll come in and I will also seek an audience with the king. And that way there will be two witnesses. Under the Mosaic Law, you have to have two witnesses to establish every word. David was kind of getting old. They wanted to make sure that Uh he would be uh remember what he told Bathsheba, so there would be another witness there to verify that, that being forgetful in his old age would not um go against him. And so that's what happens. She goes in to see David, verses 13 and verse 14. That's what the plan is. But actually drop down to verse number 15. So Bathsheba went in unto the king into the chamber, and basically she unfolds to David the plot, verse 17. Did you do you remember your oath? Basically what she asked And by the way, you know what Bathsheba's name means? It means daughter of the oath. Kinda is kind of ironic here because she's going to make sure that David keeps his oath. In a way she's kind of living up to her name right here. Uh the word Bathsheba. Oh actually the word Sheba is from the same verbal root that is used for swearing an oath. And we and in Hebrew we can see this throughout the whole chapter. So she goes in to make sure that David will keep it his oath. And verses 22 down to verse 26, excuse me, verse 26, while Bathsheba speaks, Nathan comes in. And he also gives facts about what's going on. When Bathsheba went in, she's saying, hey, did you know this was happening? There's a banquet going on. Adonijah is declaring himself king. While she's talking, Nathan comes in and he basically says the same thing, but he he gives even more facts. And then look at verse 27. Nathan asked David, Is this thing by my Lord the King? And thou hast not showed it unto thy servant whom should sit on the throne of my Lord the King after him? David, is this all of you? Is this something you're doing secretly? Is this all your idea and you just didn't tell us about it? Is that what's going on here? And of course, David responds in verse 28. Then King David answered and said, Call me Vathsheba. And she came into the king's presence and stood before him. the king. And the king sware and said, As the Lord liveth, that hath redeemed my soul out of all distress, even as I swear unto thee by the Lord God of Israel, saying, assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me He shall sit upon my throne in his stead, even so will I certainly do this day. And so David makes a promise. that indeed Solomon will reign. Now what happens here is godly people who were concerned about God's will and God's word stood up And they said, you know what, we have to do something about this. We can't just sit idly by and let this happen. Some scholars accuse Nathan and Bathsheba of kind of being manipulative. Of being deceptive. But that's not what's going on here. What Nathan and Bathsheba carried out was a holy conspiracy where they acted together for the kingdom of God. And those who love God and love his word and love his will will never let a selfish or worldly agenda upend it. And there are times when God will call upon us. to take a stand for his kingdom. And so don't you ever think that a person can get over on the purposes of God. The Bible says in Proverbs 1921, there are many devices in a man's heart. Nevertheless, the counsel of the Lord that will stand. So let me give you number four. When we selfishly seek to build our own kingdom instead of submitting to God's king, We try to take advantage of others. We engage in shameless self-promotion. We provoke the godly to stand against us. But here's a fourth mistake. We set ourselves up for failure. Because what you're going to see now is that all the plans that Adonijah put in place, you know what happens to them? They crumble. They fail. They fall. David He may have been dying, but as soon as he learned from Bathsheba Nathan about what was going on, he put a plan into effect. Look at verse 32. And King David said, Call me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Beniah the son of Jehoidah, and they came before the king. Verse 33, and the king Said unto them, take with you the servants of your Lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride upon my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon And let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet and Noham their king over Israel and blow ye with the trumpet and say, God save King Solomon. So first, Solomon would ride David's own personal mule, the royal mule, one that signified kingship. Then Solomon would be anointed. According to the scripture. And then after that they would uh they would also cry out, there would be a loud cry, God save King Solomon. Now, this is exactly what happens. They carry out his orders. In verse 36, we see Beniah. He was excited. He answered, Amen. The Lord God of my Lord the King say so. And uh he gives a blessing in verse 37. And verse 38, so Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet and Beniah, the son of Jehoiel. And the Cherithites and the Pelothites went down, and who were they? They were the king's b personal bodyguard. They went down, caused Solomon to ride upon the king's mule, and brought him to Gaihan. And in verse 39, they anoint him And all the people said in verse 39 after they blew the trumpet, God save King Solomon. And so this was such a celebration. You know what happened? The Bible says it felt like the it felt like the earth ran, but it was really like the ground was shaking so that the earth ran in the sound with the sound of them. So this is a great celebration And you know what? Again, Adonis's plans were defeated. They came to nothing. And I want to tell you, when you set yourself against God, When you have your own plans and you ignore what God said, that's a sure way of defeat. You will not Overcome God's plan or God's purpose. Remember Psalm 2? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel against the Lord. And against his anointed? What's God's response? Is God in heaven saying, Oh no, what am I going to do? He that sits in the heaven shall laugh, the Bible says. When we seek our own kingdom instead of God's We set ourselves up for failure. But then here's number five. We invite public shame and disgrace. Now I love this part because look at verse 41. And Adonai and all the guests that were with him heard it as they had made an end of eating. And when Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, Wherefore is this noise of the city being in an uproar? Now remember, they're having their nice banquet. They're having their a good time there celebrating the fact that Adonijah is going to be the next king. And right when everyone's feasted and Adonijah is reveling in his own pretentiousness, his own pretentious glory. And the noise dies down. Joab hears the sound of the trumpet and the noise in the city. And really this is the sound of Adonijah's downfall. And really, at that point, the party, for all practical purpose, was it was about over. I don't know if some of you may not be old enough to remember this, but you know, when I was a teenager I used to watch Monday night football. Anyone do that? Watch Monday night football? Any football fans in here? Rest of y'all need to, you know, get a you know, get right with the Lord here. But um I remember we this was all the way back when it was still Howard Cosell and Don uh Don Meredith was in the booth. Some of you remember that? This was a long time ago. The reason I bring it up is because at the end of every game, when the other t when the the losing team had had enough really and they were going to lose, there was no way for them to come back Don Meredith would begin singing a song. Anybody remember the name of the song? Turn out the lights, the party's over. He would just start singing that song. Turn out the lights, the party's over. That's what I think about when I read this verse here. Basically the party is over for Adonijah. He doesn't know it yet. We know it. And by the way, this is uh the proper literary term for this kind of situation is called dramatic irony. Dramatic irony takes place whenever the reader knows something that the character of the story doesn't know. We know the party's over. Adonai doesn't know it yet. He finds out in verse number 42. Look at verse 42. And while he yet spake, behold, Jonathan. The son of Abiathar, the priest, came, and Adonijah said unhim, Come in, for thou art a valiant man, and bringest good tidings. Oh, come on in, Jonathan. I know you have some good news for me Well, not quite. Look down at verse 43. And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, Verily our Lord King David, has made Solomon king. And the king has sent with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Beniah the son of Jehoidah. And on down, and basically it says at the end of the verse, and they have caused him to ride upon the king's mule, and Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king, and Gihon, and they are come up from thence rejoicing. So that the the city rang again. And this is the noise that you heard. Well that really messed up that whole dinner party. That news right there, in the words of Matthew Henry, the message that Adonai received spoiled the sport of his party and dispersed the company and obliged every man to run on his o for his own on his own for safety. That's exactly what happens. Everyone there at the party, they get afraid. All of a sudden now they're afraid for their life. And the party is dispersed. And it's pretty much over. You see, sooner or later, what happened to Adonijah will happen to anyone who tries to sit on the throne. of his own kingdom, of his own universe, and declare himself king and seeks his own kingdom instead of seeking first the kingdom of God. Let me give you the last thing. You see, when we try to build our own kingdom instead of submitting to God's kingdom, we're tempted to take advantage of others. We engage in shameless self-exaltation. We provoke the godly to stand against us. We set ourselves up for failure. We invite public shame and disgrace. But also we endanger our very own lives Look at verse 15. And Adonijah feared because of Solomon and arose and went and caught hold of the horns of the altar. Now Adonijah knew the game was over. He knew that his attempted coup had failed. And now he his life is in danger. Why? Because again in the ancient Near East, when a king took the throne, he would get rid of all traitors. He would get rid of all rivals. And certainly Solomon was was within his right to do that very thing, to have Adonijah executed. And so Adonijah runs to the tabernacle, where he grabs hold of the horn of the altar, the of the brazen altar that's in the tabernacle courtyard. Why did he do that? Well there's This was a practice that was common in Israel, and the symbolism of taking hold of the altar was actually a cry for mercy. It meant, you know, just like God has been gracious To us in forgiving our sins here at this altar, even so I'm asking for my sins to be atoned. I'm asking for forgiveness. And rather than put him to death, you know what Solomon does. Look down in verse 51. And it was told Solomon saying, Behold, Adonijah feareth King Solomon, for lo, he hath caught hold of the horns of the altar. Saying, Let King Solomon swear unto me that he will not slay his servant with a sword. Verse 52, and Solomon said, If he will show himself a worthy man There shall not a hair of him fall to the earth. But if wickedness shall be found in him, he shall die. Solomon said, You know what? If he proves to be a worthy man, I'll let him live What does Solomon mean by a worthy man? If he can submit to the true king, if he can prove himself to be loyal, Then I'll let him live, but if not, he will die. So in verse 53, so King Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and he bowed himself to King Solomon. And Solomon said to him, Go to thine house. So get this. They take Adonijah, they take him from the tabernacle. He finally lets loose. of the altar. They bring him in before Solomon. What does he do? He bows down before him. This was an outward act of, yeah, I submit to you as king. But the question is, did he really mean it in his heart? There's a lot of people that outwardly they they may look as if they had made Jesus their king. But do they really mean it in their heart? This is what Solomon said. If he proved to be a worthy man, if he proved to be sincere, if he can truly submit to my authority and be loyal. Then he will live. Now, we're not going to deal with this today, but we'll see later on what happened with Adonaijah as we in another study, whether or not he was a worthy man. But you know, this whole story kind of leads us to consider ourselves in the story. Consider our relationship to God's anointed king, the Son of David, Jesus Christ. Have you bowed before him with total sincerity and made him your king and your lord? You know, the Bible says that Jesus is superior to Solomon And as much as we may admire Solomon for giving Adonijah another chance, we should praise Jesus for giving us grace, for giving us another chance, and for constantly Giving us the grace that we need. Solomon promised to spare Adonijah's life if he was worthy. But the truth of the matter is, Jesus accepted us and he loved us even when we were not worthy. The Bible says God commended his love towards us, and while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. So the question is, have you bowed to the authority of Jesus in your life? Have you made him your king? And are you focused on his kingdom? Are you submitted to him? Or are you out there trying to build your own kingdom? If you're doing that, you're destined to fail. You're destined to bring disgrace upon yourself. And you may even Endanger your own life. Because let me tell you this: anyone who hasn't truly, sincerely confessed Jesus as the Lord, you know what? They're not truly a believer. What does the Bible say? If thou shalt confess with thy mouth, Jesus as Lord, and believe in thy heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Will you get off the throne and will you put Jesus in his rightful place? Will you bow to him and seek his kingdom first and submit to his authority? So when we don't do that, these are the mistakes that we make. And let me just say one more thing and we'll be done. As we consider Christ as king, I can't again help but notice how that This is the antithesis of what we see in Adonijah. Adonijah announced his own kingship for his own glory, his own pleasure. Jesus did the exact opposite Jesus renounced his own glory, laid it aside. Jesus laid aside all of his rights, all of his privileges, laid it all aside. And he came to die for man's sin. He didn't come to do his own will, the Bible says. He came to do the will of his father, which meant going to the cross. Dying for our sins, Jesus set aside all of his own agenda, all of his own pleasure, and he endured the pain of crucifixion and death. And then rather than exalting himself, you know what he did? He waited on the Father to exalt him. What does the Bible say? God has given him a name that is above every name. He didn't try to make a name for himself. He just submitted to the Father. You know what God did? God gave him a name that is above every name. This is the king that we serve, not a king who is in it for himself. But who rules for the good of his people and for the glory of his father. And you know what? God calls upon us to live the same way. To live for him and for his kingdom. Let's let's bow for prayer together. Father, I thank you for your word here and how it's a reminder to us that we are to lay aside our own selfish agenda when you call us to follow you. You're not calling us to say king me. You're calling us, rather, to say that Jesus Christ is King of kings. And crown him. You're calling us to follow in the footsteps of our Master, to serve others, to put others ahead of us, to refuse to be uh engaged in shameless self-exaltation. To refuse to ever take advantage of the weakness of others. Lord, help us to live the way you've called us to live. To put your kingdom first, to make Jesus truly King and Lord of our life. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' name with heads bowed and eyes closed. Let me just ask you real quickly tonight Friend, have you prayed? Have you made Jesus your Savior and Lord? Are you certain of that? The Bible is constantly inviting people to come to Christ. To turn to him, the true King, the one who died for your sins. Again, we saw in Romans, I quoted If we confess him as Lord and Savior, if we believe that God raised him from the dead, that he died for our sins, that God raised him from the dead, and we call upon him, he will save us. But you take a minute, examine your own heart, and say, Lord, I want you to reign in my life as my own king Again, Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Use them. For your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.