Now take and open this morning to the book of Ezekiel, chapter twenty-eight. Ezekiel chapter twenty-eight, there in the Old Testament. And I'm going to be preaching today about know your enemy Know your enemy. You know it was Napoleon who said that knowing your enemy is half the battle. And I think he was right. And I want you to know that you have an enemy today. You might say, Well me? I I don't have an enemy. If you're a Christian, you do. We have three enemies. Actually, there's the world, that's our external foe. There's the flesh, that's our internal foe. And there is the devil, that is our infernal foe. And I want to warn you today about your adversary, the devil. Now, I would rather, I'd ten times rather preach about Jesus than about the devil. But friend, the Bible tells us and warns us about him, and I would not be a good pastor or preacher if I didn't warn you and give you the whole counsel of God And every once in a while we need to remind ourselves about our enemy because he's the one who wants to bring misery into your life. He wants to bring heartache. He wants to bring defeat. And it's absolutely necessary for you to know about him and his wiles. Paul said this in 2 Corinthians 2, verse 11, lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. Now, friend, if you're ignorant about Satan, if you're ignorant about his devices, Paul said he will have the advantage, and I don't want him to have an advantage over any of the children of God. That's why God has given us his word. So he can teach us. Now, when it comes to the devil, there are about normally three attitudes. First of all, there are some people that do not believe he exists. They say there is no devil. You talk about a devil. That's Puritan. That's old. Uh there is no devil. Uh it's like the boxer who was out there, he was getting badly beaten and battered and bruised, and he leaned over the ropes and said to his trainer, he said, throw in the towel. And the trainer said, Oh, he hadn't laid a glove on you He said, Well then you better watch that referee because someone's beating me up out there. Now friend, if you don't believe in the devil, my question for you is who's beating me up? Who is the one that's out there beating and battering and uh what what about all the things that are going on in this world? Uh it's ridiculous not to believe in the devil if you ask me And yet in America, we seem to have cast that aside. According to one survey, two-thirds of Americans do not believe in the devil. Another telephone survey said that uh sixty-two percent did not believe that he was a living entity. And so there's one attitude. There are some people that don't even believe that there is a devil. And by the way, Satan would rather have it that way, friend, because if he can blind you, he can bind you And if people believe he's not around, then he has an advantage. But here's a second attitude, and that is to be overly obsessed about him. Then there's the other extreme, and that's where people they see the devil everywhere. They see the devil under every bush. They're obsessed with the devil and demons, and they see it all over the place. And that's another extreme. Uh and they blame everything on the devil. Now the devil does a lot, friend, but he doesn't do everything. And he's not uh under every bush. Again, it's like the little girl, her mother came to her and said, Shame on you. She said you The devil made you kick your brother, and the devil made you hit your brother, and the devil made you spit on your brother, and she said, Mama, the devil made me hit him and kick him, but Spitloanum was my idea You know, the devil does a lot, but he doesn't do everything. And there's an unhealthy obsession that some people have with the devil. Corey Tinboom said this. She said, We must be careful Not to advertise the devil by talking too much about him and about his devices. And then the third attitude is to just simply underestimate him And there are some people that they they don't take him very seriously. And they kinda look at him as like some kind of cartoon character, you know, the devil with the pitchfork and with uh uh a red suit and horns and he's walking around kind of a comedic character uh waiting to stick somebody with his pitchfork and so they don't really get serious about the fact that they have an enemy called the devil Uh I heard about a preacher years ago, he lived many years ago, who would just kind of make a joke about the devil and say, Come on smutty face, let's go a few rounds, let's go a few rounds And people would laugh. But the sad part is that preacher had a son who did not receive the Lord Jesus Christ and died without Christ. And so it maybe it is that the devil did go a few rounds. Friend, we should not make light of the devil either, because he is a serious enemy. The Bible says, neither give place to the devil. And so we need to be warned. We need to know what the Bible has to say about them. The Bible says, Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. During World War II, the great, brilliant general Uh Rommel, the German general, was defeated by Patton, and Patton kind of laughed after the battle and said, Rommel, I read your book. I know your strategy And friend, thank God we have a book that tells us about the strategy. And so I want to just share with you a few things about uh the devil here, what the Bible has to say. Now look at Ezekiel chapter 28, and let me give you the context. Context real quickly. In the first part of Ezekiel, it's really two parts of this prophecy. Ezekiel talks about the person on the throne, the king of Tyre. Look at verse 1. The word of the Lord came unto me saying, Son of man, say unto the The Prince of Tyrus, thus saith the Lord, because thine heart is lifted up, and thou hast said, I am God, and I sit in the seat of God in the midst of the seas, yet thou art a man and not God. Though thou set thine heart as the heart of God. And so the first part of this prophecy, Ezekiel is prophesying against this prince of Tyrus And he's just simply an earthly king. And he sits on his throne. Some scholars call him Ethbael, who ruled from 591 to 590 B. C. And this king felt like he was uh filled with wisdom and he felt like he could call himself God. Can you imagine having that much pride to call yourself God. In fact, in Ezekiel's day, the kings of the city of Tyre would believe to they believed them to be And so here's this man who is sitting on the throne, acting proudly, calling himself God, and God's about to judge him. Look what it says in verse number nine. Wilt thou say yet before him that slayeth thee, I am God? God's basically saying, look, I'm going to send some uh armies to to uh attack your city and they will kill you. There's gonna be soldiers gonna come and kill you, and when they come to kill you, why don't you try telling them that you That's what God is saying. And this man is filled with pride, and God's going to judge him. And by the way, history verifies that God did bring armies against this city of Tyre. God brought uh Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon against this city of Tyre. God brought Alexander the Great against this city because of the kings who acted That's the first part of the prophecy. But there's a second part of this prophecy where Ezekiel is not talking about the person on the throne He shifts, there's a slight shift in the text, and he's talking now about the power behind the throne. Look in verse eleven. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, take up a lamentation unto the king. of Tyrus. Now notice the difference. First he was talking about the Prince of Tyrus. Now he's talking about the king. And it's a totally different word He went from talking about the person on the throne, the prince, to the power behind the throne. And if you look at verses 11 down to verse 19, the description in these verses fit no earthly monarch. He can be talking about none other than Satan himself. This is God speaking to Satan through this earthly king. Remember one time Jesus came to Peter and said to Peter, Satan, get thee behind me, Satan. He was speaking to Satan through Peter. That's exactly what's going on here in this passage. God now is speaking to the devil through this earthly king. And when we look at this, this whole text here kind of opens up a invisible world, some things we would never know unless God by inspiration shared these things with us regarding Satan, this person that was uh causing this king to act this way. So what I want you to see based on that are just three Facts that we uncover about my enemy, your enemy, that we need to know. First of all, if you're taking this, just write down, he was created in perfection. He was created in perfection. Look at verse number 12. Son of man, take up a lamentation unto the king of Tyrus and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord God, Thou sealest up the sum Full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. Now some will ask the question: why did God create the devil? Friend, God didn't create the devil, God created a perfect angel And the Bible says here, look at his perfection. Thou sealest up the sum. That is, he was perfect in beauty. Now I've never seen anything perfect in beauty. But friend, that's what the Bible says about him. He was perfect in beauty. He was a ten. You seal up the sum. Again, God didn't create some Prime Minister of Eagle, God created a perfect angel, and he was surpassing in beauty. But notice his pre-existence in verse 13. Thou hast been in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was thy covering, the Sardis, the Topez, and the diamond, the burl, the onyx, and jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle. And gold and the workmanship of thy taverns and thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou was created. Notice he was in Eden. Again, this through the process of elimination. This can only be Lucifer Uh uh this uh only Adam was in Eden and God was in Eden and this isn't talking about Adam or God. Who else was in Eden? Well Satan was there. You were in Eden And then notice it talks about his position. Notice the stones that it mentions there in verse number 13. Nine of them were worn by the high priest of Israel. Now, what do these stones really signify? And we'll talk about that. But also notice the workmanship of thy tablets and thy pipes, it says in verse 13. These are musical instruments. And so what are we seeing here? Look at verse 14. Thou art the anointed cherub. Here he is, this beautiful archangel that God created in heaven, perfect in beauty, filled with wisdom, and the Bible says of him that uh he walked amidst these stones of fire. He was an anointed cherub. He had the gift of musical ability because it talks about these musical instruments here And so think about this. In verse 14, it says, Thou wast upon the holy mountain of God. And so here's what I think when I see this: that he had a special position there in heaven. What does it mean when it says stones of fire? Some people think it's referring to these stones that were mentioned. Others think that uh this is referring to the the stones that the priests wore. But I think when it says stones of fire I think it's referring to a wall. The fire there is glory. Stones make up a wall, and a wall suggests uh inaccessibility. Only certain people were accessible when you put up a wall around something. And these are stones of fire. And so really I think what it's Referring to there in heaven was a wall of glory. And yet here, this anointed cherub had access behind this wall of glory And I think what it's referring to is the fact that he was an anointed angel, an archangel. Uh he had access to the glory of God, to the throne room of God, a place where not all angels had access. He could walk where other angels Feared to tread because he was the anointed cherub, perfect in beauty, perfect in wisdom. You might say he was God's prime minister in heaven, his choir director in heaven, because it was his job to write music that would bring worship and honor to the Lord. That's what God created. A beautiful angel A angel gifted in music. What happened? I want you to see the second thing. Not only was he created in perfection, but right down number two, he was corrupted by pride. Corrupted by pride. Look at verse 15. Thou was perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created. Till iniquity was found in thee. Now you want to know where the first sin originated, friend. Right here it is It originated in the heart of Satan. This is the first sin. It appeared in his heart. God did not create sin. God created a perfect angel. And in this perfect creature Sin came to being in his heart. It didn't come from the outside. It started within him, and it wasn't a defect of creation because the Bible says you were perfect in all your ways until s iniquity, sin was found in your heart Now, what sin was this? Well, this was the sin simply of pride. Satan, Lucifer, originally was his name, son of the morning, became Satan, which means slanderer. But what happened was pride erupted in his heart, and the Bible doesn't offer any other explanation just other than just to say this is where what happened In this perfect creature that God created, sin came into his heart. And there was something about the worship that God received and the glory that God received that Lucifer said, I want that And he would direct angels to worship him, and he got covetous of that. He got jealous of that, and he wanted to be worshipped. He wanted to be like God. And friend, that was pride that was in his heart. That's why, by the way, God hates the sin of pride. And the Bible warns us about that constantly In first Timothy three six, talking about being a pastor, it says, not a novice, lest being being lifted up with pride, he fall into the condemnation of the devil. That's the devil's sin. It's the sin of pride. He wanted to be higher. Hold your place here in Ezekiel 28 and go to Isaiah chapter 14, the passage we read for our scripture reading. And look, notice what it says here. I want you to notice the I wills. Of Satan, because it mentions it here in Isaiah 14 down in verse number 12. How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground which did weaken the nation? For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven. What's he talking about there? Up to God's position. I want a higher position in heaven He says, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. Who are the stars of God? That's what the other angels. I want a throne that's higher. He says, again, I will sit also on the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. That's the throne room of God. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. And the clouds that he's talking about there are clouds of glory. The glory of God. I will ascend above those glory clouds. I will be like the most high. Satan said, you know, to the Trinity, I want in on this. I want to have my throne there. I'm going to exalt myself. And because of that, the Bible teaches us that God cast him down. Notice his punishment. If you look, go back to verse 12 of Isaiah 14. How art thou fallen from heaven? How art thou cut down to the ground? What did God do as a result of his pride? God cast him down. He was cast out of heaven. Luke says this in Luke 10, 18. Jesus said, I saw Satan falling from heaven. Jesus saw that whole event. Friend, he was created in perfection, but he was corrupted by pride. Now listen, all the gifts that God had given Satan are now used for evil. His wisdom is used to discredit. The wisdom that he had now, he will use that wisdom to go against the people of God. He's called the accuser. You know, Satan is always making accusations. And the Bible says he's the accuser of the brethren. In fact, when we look at Satan in scripture, we see in three appearances. In Genesis, he was accusing God to man. In the book of Job, chapter one and two, he was accusing man to God. And then in Matthew chapter four, when he came tempting Jesus. He was accusing the God man. But he's always making accusations. He's a destroyer Write down first Peter 5 8, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. All that wisdom that God gave him, now he's using it. To destroy, to discredit. If you ever want a blessing, just go to the Bible and study the names of Jesus. But if you ever want a warning, go to the Bible and study the names of Satan. And see how he works. He's called the devil, he's called the great red dragon, he's the roaring lion, the destroyer, the tempter, the prince of this world. He is the liar. And he specializes in lies. And we'll talk about that in just a minute. Now, his wisdom is used to discredit, his beauty is used to deceive You know, when Satan fell, he didn't fall by himself. The Bible says he took one-third of the angels in heaven. And I want to tell you something, you have to be a pretty good con man to con angels to leave heaven And uh we don't know how many that was. You say what's a third? Well, I don't know because the Bible says in heaven there are myriads and myriads of angels. And he took one third of that. But I do know this, he's got an army and it's well organized. And it's it's designed to bring you down And to hinder the kingdom of God, the Bible speaks about principalities, powers, rulers of the darkness of this world, spiritual wickedness in high places. And so his wisdom is used to discredit. His beauty is used to deceive now. His musical ability is used to defile. Now you can call me crazy if you want to But I believe that Satan inspires a lot of the secular music that's out there today. I'm not saying that all secular music is wrong, but I'm saying there's some of it out there that to me it's devil inspired. And he is trying to to plant lies and falsehood in the hearts and minds of people. And I think one of the ways he does it is through music. The Bible talks about his musical ability. That's why you better be careful what you listen to, friend. You better be careful about that. I remember when I was in seventh grade, our music teacher made us Memorize lyrics to songs. And I still have some of those lyrics in my mind. I wish I didn't, to be honest with you. But I remember one song she made us memorize. It was a song called I I Write the Songs. That was a famous Barry Manilo. Shame on you for knowing that, by the way. No, I'm just I'm just teasing. I'm just kidding. I had to learn that song And we had to sing it in music class, but think about the words. I thought about this later. Actually when I was studying this passage. I've been alive forever. Who's that talking? I wrote the very first song. I put the words and the melodies together. I am music. I write the songs My whole world lies deep within you. I have my own place in your soul. And when I look out through your eyes, I'm young again, even though I'm very old. Now I don't know about you, but that gives me the creeps. I think he uses his musical ability to corrupt minds. to plant lies. His wisdom is used to discredit, his beauty is used to deceive, his musical ability is used to defile But let me give you the third thing about your enemy. He was created in perfection. He is corrupted by pride. But here's the third thing: he will be cast into perdition. He will be cast into perdition. Again, you're in Isaiah 14. Look at verse number 15. Notice what it says. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell to the sides of the pit. You see, God cast them down to earth, but one day God's going to cast them down to hell. And the first two chapters of the Bible and the last two don't have Satan in it. And friend, thank God for the day when Satan will be cast down to hell. And the Bible says in Ezekiel 28:19, and never shalt thou be any more. There will be a time when Satan and evil and sin will be gone forever Thank God for that. Satan is a defeated foe. I want you to remember that. He is a defeated foe. And I want to talk about that in a minute, but let me just first of all say this, but let me just say, having said that Satan is a defeated foe, I want to be careful to emphasize that Satan is a dangerous foe. Even though he's defeated. He is still dangerous. He knows what his where his fate is. He knows his destiny. But friend, that only makes him more dangerous. I was reading an interesting interesting article. Listen to this. According to doctors at the Good Samaritan Regional Medical Center in Phoenix, Arizona, listen to this, rattlesnakes thought to be dead, can still strike, bite, and kill you. It's article goes on to say doctors in Phoenix said they have a large number of patients admitted each year suffering from bites from rattlers thought to be dead. Sometimes the snakes were shot Their heads cut off, but the snake head retains a reflex action. And one study showed that snakeheads could still make straight Making tight motions for up to sixty minutes after decapitation. Can you believe that? And when I read that, friend, that that reminds me about Satan. Now listen, he's already been defeated, friend. He's already been decapitated. And he has a short time. But that only makes him more dangerous. The Bible says that in Revelation. He knows Revelation 12 Revelation 12, 12, that he hath but a short time. And so therefore he is out to get you. He wants to bring down as many as he can. And so, friend, that's why we have to beware. So, let me just give you two things quickly on how do we deal with him? How do we overcome him? Well, here's the first thing: know where the battle takes place. We are in spiritual warfare against the devil, but we have to know where that battle takes place. Have you ever asked yourself that question, how can you fight a foe that you cannot see? Where does the battle take place? And we learn of this by looking at the life of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we don't have time to look at it, but just listen to me. In Matthew chapter 4, you remember Jesus fasted 40 days. He was in the wilderness of Judea. And he was met there by Satan. This was Satan's strategic moment to tempt our Lord Jesus. But again, if we look at that, we can learn where the battle takes place. It wasn't a geographical battle. Because Satan took them to three different places. He took them to the wilderness, to the temple, and to a high mountain. It wasn't a geographical battle. It wasn't a physical battle What kind of battle was it? It was a battle of the mind. It was a philosophical battle. Because what happened is Satan tried to plant lies in the mind of our Lord Jesus. That's exactly what he does to people today. You know where you battle Satan? It is in the mind. That's the battleground. And the and the sooner you learn about that, the better off you're going to be. When he comes against you, he comes to your mind, he will plant a fiery dart, he will plant a lie in your mind, and friend, if you believe that lie, he's got you Now let me tell you something. You say how do you fight how do you fight a lie? You fight a lie with the truth. That's the only way to fight a lie. That's why, if you want to overcome Satan, the best way to do it is to know this book right here. To know the Word of God. Remember what Jesus did when Satan came with the temptation? Jesus said, Satan, it is written. He's quoting from the scripture three times. It is written. It is written. It is written. Jesus came right back with the word of God against every one of Satan's lies, and I'm afraid that we have a generation of young people now, their minds are in bondage. Because Satan has planted one lie after another after another, and they have believed it, and the only thing that is going to free their minds is the truth of the Word of God. The Bible says Satan blinds the minds of them that believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ should shine onto them. And so we have to get out the truth. Write down 2 Corinthians 10 verses 3 through 5. Though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. I said the the battle is not carnal or that is fleshly physical, it's spiritual. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds, casting down imaginations, and every High thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. You see what Paul's describing there That warfare that takes place in the mine. He compares the mine to an ancient city with walls around it. And what does the enemy try to do? They try to they put ladders up against those walls and a soldier will get up and get in there. And if he can get inside those walls, he can open up the gates and And all kind of enemy soldiers flood in. And that's what Satan's trying to do. He's trying to plant lies into the minds of people. And if he can do that, friend, he'll open up the floodgates. And people are gone. Again, we fight lies with the truth of God's word. Now, let me tell you something: when it comes to spiritual warfare, there's no easy way to win the battle. You have to know the Word of God, and that requires effort and diligence on your part to know the scripture. Because when Satan brings a lie to you, you have to just go to the Word of God and say, Devil, I have a verse for you. I have scripture to apply to what you're trying to say to me. We have to know that the battle Takes place in the mind. That Satan's weapon is a lie. Our defense is the truth. But let me give you the second thing real quickly. We have to know where the battle takes place. Secondly We have to apply the victory of the cross to our enemy. Apply the victory of the cross. Just write down quickly Colossians two fifteen. That having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. And Paul in that verse in Colossians is referring to the fact that Satan has already been defeated and he met his defeat at Calvary. And let me just tell you this and and I pray that God will open your eyes to see this. That if you're a Christian, you already won the victory. You're not fighting for victory, you're fighting from victory If you're a child of God, you have already won because you're in Christ, and the devil can do nothing to you but what you allow him to do. That's why the Bible says, neither give place to the devil. Because he cannot do anything to you that you don't allow him to do by by sinning and not confessing it, by believing his lies, you give place to the devil And the Bible says, don't do that. You already have victory in Christ. Now, what Paul's referring to here is a Roman triumph. That's where a victorious general marched into the city of Rome And you know what that custom was? They would chain to the victorious general's chariot was the defeated general. And as they marched through the Via Triumphant, that archway into the city of Rome They were throwing rose petals. They were burning incense. That's where we get the expression, the sweet smell of victory. The victorious general had this defeated general chained to his chariot. Behind that chariot were the Children of this general riding on white horses. And that's the image that Paul's giving here. By the way, the defeated general, he was shamed, he was humiliated, he was stripped He was completely subdued. That's exactly what Jesus did to Satan. And he would just as soon you not know that. He would rather you not know that he's already been defeated. He's already been shamed. He's already been humiliated. And you know who was is riding the white horse behind? That's you and me, children of God. You know why? We share in that victory. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Let me tell you something, friend. You when Satan comes, you remember you already have victory. He has no place in your life. Nothing. And you claim the victory of the cross. And you've already won. That's what it means to resist the devil. He will flee. You remind him of Calvary, you remind him of the cross, because that's where your victory Lies. And so, friend, I pray that God will help you to see these things and apply these truths to your life. Now let me just close with this one illustration. I heard about a man who was once a citizen of France. And that man became a citizen of Great Britain. But you'll remember that the English defeated the French at Waterloo. And while that man was a citizen of France Waterloo for him was a defeat, but when he became a citizen of England, Waterloo for him was a victory. It depends on what side that you You see, Calvary for Satan and his children is a defeat. But friend, if you come on the other side of the cross and you come to Jesus, Calvary is a victory. It depends on what side of the cross you're on. And so I want to ask you this morning, what side of the cross are you on? Because if you want victory, it's available. It comes through our Lord Jesus Christ. Come to him. No Christian has any business living a defeated life. Victory has already been given. You just need to claim it. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you for the victory we have in Christ. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that's on the wrong side of the cross, That they would come on the right side. That the cross will be to them not a savor of death, but a savor of life and victory. And I pray, Lord, if there's some Christian here today that's been living in defeat, they've allowed Satan to have place. And they've listened to lies. They've Not lived a clean life where they've confessed their sin and Satan is wreaking havoc in their heart. I pray that today in the power of the cross That they would claim the victory that they have. And whatever ground they've yielded over to Satan, they would take it back in the name of Jesus. That they would confess That they would remove any thoughts and replace it with thoughts or doubt of doubt and unbelief and replace it with the truth of the Word of God. I pray for victory. And how many of the children of God, I said, ask my prayer today with my hand lifted. Whatever ground I've yielded to Satan, I'm taking it back in the name of Jesus. In the victory of the cross, I take it back God bless you, dear friend. How about those of you who are on the wrong side of the cross? Would you want to come to Him today? Would you want to come to the victory side, friend? And friend, I don't say that in any way other than a loving concern for you and a humble appeal. Friend, where would I be without Jesus? I'm nothing. None of us are anything without Jesus, friend. And we only had victory because of him. He is our our conqueror, our king. And I'm inviting you to come to him. If you don't already know him, I want you to come to him Him today, friend. He's waiting for you. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. So we Once you put your faith in him, once you come to the cross, repent of your sin, trust him, he will give you eternal life. You say, that's my prayer. I'm coming to Jesus. Would you lift your hand? I want to pray for you. For anyone here, I'm looking around. I just want to pray for you. I want to help you to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. Anybody here say that? Alright. Let's all stand together then, dear friend. Thank God for his word. Thank God for the victory that he gives us in Christ.