It's so good to see you here tonight. I want you to take your Bibles, open to the book of Nehemiah, as we're studying this book here on Wednesday night. And we're going chapter by chapter through Nehemiah. And tonight we're in Nehemiah chapter 6 And I want to deal tonight with this idea of knowing Satan's schemes. That's the idea that we can learn, some things we can learn as we look at Nehemiah chapter number 6. Now in 1896, Norman the Kid McCoy was the welterweight boxing champion. In one of his fights, he learned that his opponent was deaf. So McCoy finally he learned this, and as they were nearing the end of the third round, McCoy stepped back and pointed to his opponent's corner, indicating to him that the bell had rung. When his po his opponent turned his head McCoy unloaded a powerful blow and knocked him out. You say that is cheating. You're right. That is unfair. But it was very effective. Let me tell you something about Satan. He doesn't play fair. Satan delivers cheap blows. And that's what he tries to do to the believer. He's filled with schemes, and he's looking for the opportunity to land that knockout punch to you tonight. And that's why the Bible constantly warns us. Peter said, be sober, be vigilant. Your adversary, the devil, is on the prow, right? He's walking about, seeking whom he may devour. That's why Paul told us in Ephesians 6, put on the what? The whole armor of God. Because we wrestle not against flesh and blood. So we're going to learn some schemes of Satan here from Nehemiah chapter number six. Now you have to remember where we are in the book of Nehemiah. Remember he God put a burden on his heart to go back to Jerusalem and to rebuild the walls. The city was kind of in desolation and things weren't happening, and and God laid upon his heart to go back and rebuild the walls of the city And so God opened doors for him, wonderful doors. The king, Artaxerctes, gave him his full authority to get all of the supplies and resources that he needed. to give him protection as he traveled back to Jerusalem. He told the people what the Lord was, excuse me, doing. And all the people had a mind to work, the Bible says. Um and so they were able to get a lot done. However, it wasn't without difficulty. We learned in chapter number four That Nehemiah had to overcome some violent threats from the enemy. There were enemy nations around. Sam bowed into Biah. They didn't want them rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem. They had a vested interest in the Jews not prospering in the land. But Nehemiah overcame those obstacles. And then there was discouragement. Some of the people got discouraged. And Nehemiah was able to minister to them. And then there were internal conflicts. The wealthy were taking advantage of the poor. And Nehemiah had to deal with that. And he dealt with it head on. And now they're almost done, the walls. He's making great progress. Even though he has to overcome obstacles, they're still making great progress. We saw in chapter three where he was an administrative genius, really, just organizing over forty-two groups around the wall, and they were all doing their job, and some were working double-time. And doing above and beyond. But when we come here to chapter 6, what we see are several schemes that are thrown at him. We could call these the schemes of Satan. Because here in chapter 6, the wall is just is up. I mean there's no gaps left. The wall is up, but the gates are still not on. And so the enemy knows this is a key time. He better attack now. And so what we're going to see here are some of the schemes of the enemy. The enemy does not give up. You ever notice that? Satan's not going to give up even when you're almost done, especially when you get almost done, that sometimes is when Satan will be at his worst. And so, really, the idea here in chapter 6 is to complete the work God has given us to do, we must discern and resist Satan's many schemes. So let's look at some of them. Here are four schemes that we see here. Here's the first one, if you're taking notes, write down number one, distraction. Distraction. Look at verse 1. Now it came to pass when Sinbalad and Tobiah and Gishem, the Arabian, and the rest of our enemies heard that I had built the wall And that there was no breach left therein, though at that time I had not set up the doors upon the gates, that Sandalad and Gisham sent unto me, saying, Come Let us meet together in some one of the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief. Here's distraction. And notice the enemy's attack in these first two verses. Again, Nehemiah had completed the walls. The walls were up. No gap, no breach. He's almost finished. There's only one thing left to do, and that's to put in the gates. Because a wall, even though it's finished, if it doesn't have any gates Or if there's a gap there, there's no door on the gates, then it's still vulnerable, right? When I was over in Jerusalem, uh um, you know, it's it's it's pretty neat to see an ancient city there. You know, there's a modern city to kind of grow around this ancient city that has the walls And when you go into the old city you have to go through one of the many gates. And those gates sometimes can be locked up. And that's the way it was in the ancient world. At nighttime they would lock the gates, or when the there was a threat of enemy, the gates had to be locked. And so you had to have doors or gates on those areas, and that had not yet happened. So this was the most important part Getting the gates up. And this is right about this time that Nehemiah gets a message from Sandbalat and Gishem. And again in verse 2 they say, Come and let us meet together in one of the villages in the plain of Olno. In other words, let's have a summit meeting, Nehemiah. Let's have a peace conference. It's time for us to come together. They were calling the ONO Summit peace meetings. And so really, if we think about it, up until this point in the whole building program, Sandbao, Tobiah, and Gishem, they opposed everything that Nehemiah did. They opposed the Jews. But now suddenly they want to cooperate. And they offer to meet Nehemiah in a village halfway between Jerusalem and Samaria, right on the border of Jerusalem and Samaria, a quiet place. And so their idea was, hey, you're willing to meet us halfway, Nehemiah? I mean, let's be neighbors. I can just picture them singing the Mr. Rogers song, Would You Be My? Could You Be My? Won't You Be My Neighbor? And so all of a sudden they're coming with this strategy. Really the strategy was if you can't beat them, join them. But really they're not interested in helping Nehemiah. They want to hinder him. They want to take him down. And Nehemiah is able to see through this ruse because look what he says. And verse two, at the end of verse two, but they thought to do me what? Mischief. They wanted to lure him outside the city with the pretense of peacemaking. And again, this was about seven miles southeast of Jappa, neutral territory. But really, this attack is against Nehemiah himself They're trying to get him and bring him down. You know what Satan knows? If he can bring down the leader, he can wound a lot of people. So Nehemiah is there. Target. You've probably seen the Gary Larson Farside cartoon that shows two deer standing upright. One has a huge target on his chest, and the other deer says bummer of a birthmark, Ernie. Every Christian leader has a target on his chest. And if Satan can bring down the leader, he can do extensive damage. But whether you're a leader or not, Satan uses the same schemes. He's going to try to distract you. I mean, James Montgomery Boyce writes this: what's wrong with holding such a conference? Isn't dialogue good? Isn't it always better to talk than fight? To keep the lines of communication open? Isn't a refusal to talk to our opponents always unnecessarily and unreasonably belligerent Isn't there a time to let bygones be bygones to bury the hatchet? What possible reason can there be for refusing to talk? Once the election is over, once the job is done, and then he says this, there's just one problem. The job was not done. That's the problem. The job was not done. This is nothing but a distraction to keep the job from getting done. And that's Satan's scheme, distraction. So notice how Nehemiah answers them. Look at verse 3. I sent messengers unto them saying, I am doing a great work. So that I cannot come down, why should the work cease while I leave it and come down to you? And so when they said, Let's meet on the plains of Olno, Nehemiah said, Oh no. I'm doing a great work. I cannot come down it back. You know, a leader, I learned from this one principle, a leader has to learn when to say no. And sometimes leaders feel the pressure to please people or to give in to outside peer pressure from people around. Nehemiah didn't do that. In fact, he said no four times. Look at verse 4. Yet they said unto me four times. After this sort. And I answered them after the same manner. Four times. He said, No, I'm not coming down. No. Just because you resist the devil once doesn't mean he's going to leave you alone. He's going to come back again and again. And again, I like what Donald Campbell writes. He says the local Samaritan Daily Sun might have reported the incident like this: Nehemiah says no to oh no. Samaritan officials have disclosed that Nehemiah, governor of Judah, has again turned down the offer to Governor Sandbaud of Samaria to meet at one of the local villages. And Ono, on the Judah-Sumarian border. The proposed conference would be included the big four: Gishim, Tobiah, Sandball, and Nehemiah. Sam Ballot issued a statement today in which he sharply criticized Nehemiah for his repeated refusals to cooperate. He reports that the purpose for such a meeting would be to work on a formula for lasting peace in the region. These repeated refusals mean that the responsibility for increased tensions and any violence rests solely on Nehemiah. That's probably how the paper would have read. Sounds like our paper today, doesn't it? Satan says, come and let's let's meet together. Let's negotiate. It all sounded good, but Nehemiah knew it's not the right thing to do. Again, Satan loves to work through distraction Right? You ever notice when you pray, you suddenly remember everything you need to do? You ever know that in fact if you forget something you need to do, just start praying and the devil will remind you He would rather you do anything than pray. Vance Habner said this: the devil will let a preacher prepare a sermon if it will keep him from preparing himself. He will divert you with good things, as long as he will keep you from doing the best thing. I read about a hunter who raised his rifle and he took careful aim at a large bear. And right when he was ready to pull the trigger, the bear stood up and said, wait a minute, let's talk about this. I mean we can negotiate this matter. And the hunter lowered his rifle and said, Well, you know, I I just want a fur coat. And the bear said, That's understandable. I just want a warm meal. Let's talk about this. And after a while the bear walked away alone and the negotiation was a success because the bear had a warm meal and he had a fur coat. He ate them. Some of you didn't get that. I would appreciate a courtesy laugh even if thank you. Even if you don't think my joke is funny, I really, really need you to laugh. Alright? And that's how Satan works. He says, let's negotiate. Let's negotiate. You know, there are many pastors and Christian leaders that get lured into this trap of compromising. And being distracted from doing the main thing that God has called us to do. And what's the main thing we are to preach the gospel We are to share the Word of God. We are to share the gospel and reach people for Christ. That is our main thing. Let's not let Satan distract us from the main thing. Which he does all the time. Now, let me give you number two. Number one, there's distraction. Here's the second scheme. Defamation. Defamation. Look at verse number five. Then send Sambalith, his servant, unto me, in like manner, the fifth time, with an open letter in his hand. Wherein it was written, It is reported among the heathen, and Gashmou saith it, that thou and the Jews think to rebel, for which cause thou buildest the wall, that thou mayest be their king according to their words. And thou hast also appointed prophets to preach of thee at Jerusalem, saying, There is a king in Judah. And now shall it be reported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore and let us take counsel together. Here's the the strategy changes now. Distraction didn't work. Now there's defamation. They're going to defame the character of Nehemiah. So notice the enemy's accusation here. This is the fifth time they approached Nehemiah with a different tactic. They're going to circulate a letter accusing Nehemiah of sedition and rebellion and leading a revolt. They said Nehemiah, he's mounting a Jewish insurrection. That's why he wants to get the walls done so fast. I mean, he wants to proclaim himself king. And the word is out, Nehemiah, that you have hired prophets. To proclaim in Jerusalem that you are the new king. Now, this is an open letter that's being circulated. Normally, a letter between officials was sealed in private, but this one was open. On purpose. They wanted the word to get out. They wanted the rumil to get to work. And something about gossip, you only have to repeat it one time to one person, it gets out. And that's what was going on. There's this open letter, and it's circulating all around, this idea that Nehemiah wants to be king. And that's why he wants the wall. And they're saying, by the way, Nehemiah, we're going to tell the king of Persia what you're doing. You're leading a rebellion. And so you see what they're doing here. And so they get the word out. So the equivalent today would be putting an article on a newspaper, putting it on a blog or a website And saying things that aren't true, you know. And so this is the way Satan works. He works through rumor mills, he works through gossip. He works through slander. They're questioning his motive. They're just outright slandering him publicly. And let me just warn you folks, don't ever be a part of anything like that against the servant of the Lord. A. P. Simpson said this, I would rather play with fork lightning or take in my hands living wires in their fiery current. than to speak a reckless word against any servant of Christ. Very true. But notice Nehemiah's response What do you do when that happens? What do you do when the rumor mill is working and there's all these things being said that aren't true? And it's obvious to throw Nehemiah off his game to intimidate him What do you do when that happens when people do that to you? Well, notice Nehemiah's response. Look at verse 8. Then I sent unto him, saying, There are no such things done as thou sayest, but thou feignest them out of thine own heart. For they all made us afraid, saying their hands shall be weakened from the work that it shall not be done. Now therefore, O God, strengthen my hands. Very simple response. He says in verse 8, you're lying. You made these things up. Basically, what he was saying is, I had too much work to do to go out and try to put out your lies or your rumors. You know, I can't play detective. I can't go around trying to find out who's doing all this, who's slandering me, gather every lie, mistruth, keep it from spreading. That's impossible anyway. Someone said a lie runs around the world while the truth is tying its shoes. There's no way for you to spend time defending yourself Like this. Don't let Satan put you on the defensive. You know what? If you take care of your character, God will take care of your reputation. Let me say that again. If you take care of your character, God will take care of your reputation. I'm not saying you won't be slandered. I'm not saying people won't believe it. But ultimately, you know what always happens? God will vindicate you. And the truth of the matter is, we might need to be humbled by some of that anyway. So you just take care of your character. Let God take care of your reputation. On more than one occasion, the great Bible teacher G. Campbell Morgan was the target of savage gossip. And his usual approach was this, you know, it'll blow over. I got too much work to do. And that's the way he approached it. There's just too much for me to do. Now, I've had the unfortunate uh experience of having letters circulated against me. I'm such a nice guy, I don't understand that. It's not fun. But you know what? We just do what Nehemiah does. We just get back to work. We don't have time for that. Just get back to work. A man was slandered by a newspaper article, and they asked the pastor what he should do. This man came to his pastor and said, What should I do? And the pastor, this is what he said. He said, nothing. He said half the people who bought the paper didn't read it. Excuse me, half the people who read it didn't understand it. Half the people who understood it don't believe it. And half the people who believe it, they're of no account anyway. He said, just give it get back to work and do what the Lord has called you to do. Hold on for a minute. I knew this would come in handy So, distraction, defamation. Let me give you the third one. Here's the third scheme of Satan: deception. Deception. Look in verse number 10. Afterward I came unto the house of Shemiah, the son of Deliah. the son of Mahet Abel, who was shut up, and he said, Let us meet together in the house of God within the temple. And let us shut the doors of the temple, for they will come to slay thee. Yea, in the night will they come to slay thee. So here's the next scheme, and that's deception. So what happens now? Well, the enemy hires a false prophet. And he comes to Nehemiah pretending to be from God, but he's not from God. So notice this false prophet's act. He devises a really clever plan. First of all, he sets himself up in his house to give the impression to Nehemiah that he himself Is a target and his life was in danger. And when Nehemiah comes, he sends for Nehemiah, and when Nehemiah comes to see him, Nehemiah is thinking this is a true prophet. Initially, that's what he thought And he wants to hear from God from a prophet, so he comes to see this man, and Shemiah makes a suggestion. He says, Nehemiah, you know what we need to do. You and I both since we are a target and we're in danger. We need to go and lock ourselves up in the temple where the enemy will not be able to reach us. Your life is in danger. They're going to kill you if you don't do this They're going to slay you. Two times he says, they will come to slay thee. And so he's telling Nehemiah, this is the advice. And by the way, it's hard to see this in the English translation. But this was a spoken oracle. This was a revelation, supposedly, this prophet was giving. In other words, this false prophet is pretending to speak. A word from God to Nehemiah. Nehemiah, here's what God is telling me to tell you. Go to the temple. Lock yourself in the temple. Because people will Kill you, take refuge in the temple there. And by the way, if Shemiah's father, Deliah, is the same one mentioned in 1 Chronicles 24, he is a priest. So this means that Shemiah is in the priestly line. He's a priest. And he's lying, by the way. But if he's a priest, that's the reason he has access to the temple, being a priest. And that's why he can get Nehemiah in the temple. But this doesn't sit well with Nehemiah. When he hears this, there's several things wrong with this. Let me tell you what they were. First of all. Notice, well, first of all, notice his response. Look at verse 11. And I said, should such a man as I flee? And who is there that being such as I am would go into the temple to save his life? I will not go in. In other words, he knew it was wrong to do this. Why? The word for temple here is not talking about the outer temple, it's not talking about the roots around the temple. The word for temple is talking about the inner temple, the holy place. Nehemiah, go into the holy place, into the holy of holies, hide there. You'll be safe there. What was the problem with that? There's no no one's supposed to go into the holy place except the priest. Especially the Holy of Holies. There was a king who made that mistake before. Um Uzziah, when he tried to burn incense on the altar of incense, there right at the curtain of the holy place, right before you go into the Holy of Holies. And Uzziah, all he did was he took and tried to burn incense there, and what happened to him? He was struck with what? Leprosy, right? It was against the law of God. To go into the temple like that. Besides, Nehemiah says, Should such a man as I run away? This is a show of fear. Even cowardice, it also shows a lack of trust in God. Would God ever want me to demonstrate a lack of trust in Him? Would God ever want me to demonstrate fear and cowardice in the face of my enemies? You ever think that's God's will? No. That's not God's response. So Nehemiah is discerning this. And again, he's putting it toget it together. I shouldn't go into the temple. That's not right. And by the way, write down Isaiah 8, verse 20 to the law and to the testimony, if they speak not according to this word, it is because there's no light in them. There's one guideline given even in the Old Testament here. And that is, if any prophet claims to speak for God, and it's not according to this word, there's no light in them. There's no truth in them. And Nehemiah knew this. And he discerned this. You know what the lesson is? There's a lot of deception going on out there And Satan is in a lot of deception. And the way that we discern God and His Word, and when God's speaking to us, is through the Word of God that He's given us. That's why we have to know God's word. And we have to watch out for deceptions. Just because a man says that he speaks for God doesn't mean that he always speaks for God. Just because a person says, I have a word from the Lord for you doesn't mean it's from the Lord. You better watch out. You better use God's word to help you discern And so Nehemiah, he sees the strategy now. Because look down in verse number 12. And lo, I perceived that God had not sent him. But that he pronounced this prophecy against me for Tobiah and Sambalad had hired him. Therefore was he hired And I should be afraid and do so and sin, that they might have the matter of evil report, that they might uh reproach me. In other words, Nehemiah said, Yeah, if they can get me to do this Then I can sin against the Lord by doing following this advice, and then they'll use this against me. They'll use it as an evil report. Did you hear what Nehemiah did? Nehemiah defiled the holy place by going in there and hiding because he was afraid. What kind of leader does that? And he understood what was going on there. And again, this is how Satan works. He works through deception Deception. So we have to be careful. We have to use the Word of God. Our guide is what saith the Scripture? What does the Scripture say? That's why when you come and you hear the Word of God, when you hear me preach, or you hear anyone preach, you have to be an active listener and you have to listen and check out these things for yourself to make sure it's true. You better get in the habit of doing that. Is this according to the word of God? Nehemiah weighed Shemiah's words, and he said, This guy's not from God. He's not from God. And so he had that discernment. You know what? It's always right to obey God's word no matter what the threat of consequences may be. Nehemiah could have gone in there and hid because he was in danger. But he said, I am not going to disobey God's word. It is always right to obey the word of God. So he refuses his counsel. And so there is distraction, there is defamation, there is deception. But let me give you the fourth scheme of Satan, disrupt disruption. Disruption. Look in verse number 15. So the wall was finished in the twentieth and fifth day of the month, Elo, in the fifty and two days. And it came to pass that when all our enemies had heard thereof, and all the heathen that were about us saw these things, they were much cast down in their own eyes For they perceived that this work was wrought of our God. Now, notice what happens here. The wall's finished in 52 days. This is incredible. 52 days. Everything is complete. And when the enemies in the surrounding nations saw this, they just completely lost confidence. I mean, this was the thing they were trying to hinder, and they couldn't. And you know what? In verse 16, they had to admit that this was of God I mean, for something like this to happen, this was close to being a miracle. This had to be of God. You know, even though Nehemiah and the workers worked very hard, their enemies knew it wasn't just Nehemiah. This was God. God did this. This should be the model for us. We work hard as if everything depends upon us, but we pray and we trust and depend that everything really is based on God. It depends on Him. We work like it's depending on us. We pray like it's depending on God, and we watch God work, and we want to see God do so many great things that even the enemies of the Lord will say, This was the Lord's doing This is what God has done, not just them. This is what the Lord does. So they were able to complete it. So then we read, so Satan gave up the battle and went and went home, and Satan and the rest of the Jews lived heavily, uh happily ever after, right? That's not what it says. Do you think that Satan gives up even though you win? Let me just say that right after a victory, you better watch out because that's when you're vulnerable. That's when he'll come harder. Satan lost the battle, but he didn't give up. He's still trying to disrupt the work of God And one way that he does this is by putting wheat, or excuse me, tares among the wheat. Remember Jesus gave that parable in the New Testament? That wherever God plants wheat, Satan plants tares. And we see this here in this story right here. Because look down at verse number sixteen, and it came to pass that when all our enemies heard thereof we read that drop to verse seventeen. Moreover, in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters unto Tobiah And the letters of Tobiah came unto them, for there were many in Judah sworn unto him, because he was the son-in-law of Shekaniah. the son of Arah Arah and his son Johannin had taken the daughter of Mushelem, the son of uh Bir Birakiah, And also they reported his good deeds before me and uttered my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear. Now you say, what's going on here? Well Tobiah is the governor of the Ammonites. And he was kind of a nominal, kind of half-Jew. Actually, his name is Jewish, meaning Yah is good, that is, God is good. But he was related by marriage to very influential Jews. Do we see this And uh these names that we read. But notice in verse 18, he had really business contracts. He swore unto them that is they were bound by oath. He had business contracts with these men And they were in frequent contact. They were constantly sending letters back and forth. These were some of the nobles who said they were on Nehemiah's side. This is actually part of Nehemiah's group of workers, the nobles that were there. And so here's Tobiah, and he's among them. And basically he shows his true colors because we read in verse number 19 that he wrote letters against Nehemiah. He pretended to be one of Nehemiah's crew and a helper, but he actually opposed him. And he was able to persuade some people onto his side. We'll see this later on in the book of Nehemiah. He takes advantage of this. But basically, what we're seeing here is that Tobiah is a tear among the wheat. He's not at all part of the crew that's the people of God. He's got his own agenda. And this is how Satan works. You better watch out because you know what? If persecution from without doesn't work, his next strategy is infiltration. He'll try to put some of his own people. To cause others to stumble right there around you. He'll put people that look like a Christian, talk like a Christian, they seem like they're on your side, they seem like you know everything's on the up and up. But you know what? Eventually they reveal that that's not what they are. And this is the the situation with Tobiah. And again, Jesus gave the parable to warn us about the tares among the wheat. And one of the things that Jesus said was What the tares will do in Matthew 13, 42 is that they will cause the children of God to stumble. In fact, right down Matthew 13, 41. Where it says, they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend. That is, all those tares that are there, they're the ones that cause offense. The word for offend is scandalon It's a Greek word which means to trigger a trap or a stick that is a trap. You know, when I think of this You know, when I was a little kid growing up in South Baltimore on Riverside Avenue, sometimes we would take these little milk crates and we would put a stick under it and we would connect a string to it And we would go and hide around the corner. We'd put little breadcrumbs, a trail of breadcrumbs, you know, uh into the crate. You know, what were we trying to do? We were trying to catch a pigeon, trying to catch a bird. We never ever caught one by the way. We thought we were going to catch one. But the idea of that stick holding up the crate and then pulling it away and that's the idea behind this word here. A scandal on a trap. Eventually, this word came to mean anything that causes someone else to stumble or fall. You see, that's what Satan does. He puts people in your path that will cause you to stumble or fall. That's what he wants to do. That's his strategy. They disrupt your life. They're there to disrupt your walk with God. It might be someone in your life right now. The whole purpose is for them to get you all focused, to get you from walking with God the way you should, to get your mind off of spiritual things, to put on carnal things. Look around at your friends. You are what your friends are Or you will become what your friends are. You better watch out for Satan putting people around you that will cause you to stumble and not walk with God the way that you should. This is the warning that we see here And there's several lessons we learn from this as well. That is, let me just give them to you real quickly because we're almost done. Do not expect perfection in Christian work. It is just remember this that in the church, you know, Satan is going to plant some tares. There's no perfect church. There's no church without problems. And we see this in this fallen world. And then another thing is we must never put confidence in our work, but only in the God who enables us to work. Our confidence needs to be in God. Nehemiah couldn't kick back and admire the wall because there were other ongoing problems he had to deal with. And he had to trust in God to help him through these other problems. Another practical lesson I see here is when God's people compromise with the world, it hinders God's work. When people among Nehemiah's group began to compromise with Tobiah, it hindered part of the work of God. And that is still true today. And so we have to be Uh aware of Satan's schemes. Distraction, defamation, deception, disruption You know what Paul said in the New Testament, 2 Corinthians 2. 11? Lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. You know how he gets an advantage of us? If we're ignorant of his schemes. But you know what? The more we read God's Word, the more we see his schemes. So we're not ignorant of his devices. So he doesn't have that advantage. We have to constantly, like Nehemiah, be on our knees And be in God's word and watch out. Be careful. Because he wants you to stumble. Let me just close with this. There's a story of a lady who never spoke ill of anyone. And a friend told her, she said, you know, I believe that you would say something good even about the devil. And the lady said, Well, you certainly do have to admire his persistence. And you know what? She's right. Satan is persistent. He does not give up. And to finish our course, to finish the work that God has for us We have to discern his schemes. We have to resist him. We have to learn to overcome him through the power of the word of God. And the power of prayer, just like Nehemiah, if we're going to be used of God. So let's have a word of prayer together. Let's pray together. And so, Father, we pray that you will help us to take heed to this warning. Lord, we're thankful for your word. It gives us light, gives us understanding, helps us to see that we have an enemy. And whenever we determine to serve you, to do what is right, we know that we will not go without a struggle. Satan will not allow us an easy road So Lord, help us not to be ignorant of these devices. Help us to receive what you've given us here in Nehemiah chapter 6, and there's so much more. But help us to have hearts that are open. Lord, give us a mindset that helps us to realize that we are in spiritual warfare constantly. And we have to watch out. We know Satan's looking for that sucker punch. He's looking for that cheap shot to give us. Lord, make us strong. May we be able to say like Paul, be strong in the Lord, and the power of his might. May we be trusting not in our own strength, Lord, but in your strength, your strength alone How many with upraised hands say that's my prayer tonight? God, give me wisdom, discernment, and strength to stand against the wiles. Father, bless your people. Bless us with your wisdom and strength to stand for you in these days. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.