Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, chapter one. We're in a study in the book of Ephesians, and we're going to look at verse 15 down to verse 23 this morning. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Ephesians chapter one. And I want to read these verses. Verse 15. Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus, and love unto all the saints, cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the sp the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of Him. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you might know what is the hope of his calling, and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints, and what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us who believe. according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places. Far above all principality and power and might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in the world which is to come. And to put all things under his feet and gave him to be the head over all things. to the church, which is the f which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. Thank you. You may be seated. Don't you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for Jesus Christ. Thank you, Lord, for the grace that you have given us to be your children and that grace, Lord, that helps us also to grow in Christ. And may we learn more of Christ today in this passage. Help me, Lord, to make it clear for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This week I was uh reading about a duck that thought he was a dog. And here's a story. You know, scientists tell us scientists tell us that ducks tend to imprint soon after their birth. To imprint means you know they attach themselves to the first thing that they see after they hatch, thinking that they are that thing. And so this is supposed to work normally, because normally when a duck is hatched, the first thing it sees is mama duck, right? So it normally works perfectly. However, this phenomena can backfire occasionally. And for example, a duckling was hatched under the watchful eye of a mother collie dog. And the baby duck took one look at the collie and decided that the dog was its mother. And the baby duck followed the dog around, ran to it for protection, slept with it at night. It spent the hot part of the day under the front porch with the dog. And when a car pulled up into the driveway, it would run out quacking, pecking at the tires, just like a dog would. Some things, however, could not be changed, and the duck still liked to quack, it still liked to flap its wings, and it still liked to and enjoy the water and swim in the water. So sometimes it acted like a duck and sometimes it acted like a dog. It had an identity crisis. Many Christians are kind of like that. They have a confusion about their identity. You know, we were born into a fallen world, born with a sin nature, and the world's definitely made its imprint on us when we were born We learn the ways of the world and we become like it. But when we became a Christian, we were then placed in Christ And we die to the old world that we knew, as it were, and we're born again spiritually, so we're no longer what we once were. However, many Christians don't see themselves correctly, and rather than seeing themselves as they are now, they still revert back to what they were. We act like the thing we think we are, rather than what we really are. We believe and try to do the right things, but for the life of us we can't get it exactly right. We still have the fallenness of our old sin nature pulling us down, trying to cause us to do the things that we used to do And when we least expect it, a car pulls up into the driveway of our life and we explode out from underneath the porch quacking at it, so to speak. When uh who are we? We're not supposed to do that. We're not supposed to live like that. We're supposed to be swimming around in clear lakes and enjoying who we are. Ephesians 1 tells us who we are as Christians. And if we could see ourselves more clearly as what we really are, then we can Consistently walk that walk that God has called us to. That's why the Bible spends us so much time telling us who we are in Christ. If we understand this, if we believe this, this will help us to live it out. The me I see is the me I'll be. So how do you see yourself? So the rest of chapter one here in Ephesians is the Apostle Paul, and he's praying that the eyes of your understanding would be open, that you might really understand who you are in. Christ. Do you know who you are? Now here's the key. The only way you're going to really truly know who you are is to know who Christ is. You have to understand that. Your identity is inseparably linked to Christ. And in order for you to know who you are, you have to understand who Christ is You see, the battle cry of modern psychology today is search for your self-esteem. You need to feel good about yourself. And Paul's answers to this is you don't need to feel you don't need to have self-esteem to feel good about yourself. You need to have Christ's esteem. To feel good about yourself. You need to feel good about Christ. And the more you love and treasure Christ, the better you'll feel about yourself. The key, the way to have a healthy self-image, is not through being self-centered and being introspective. It is through being Christ-centered and focusing on the excellency of Jesus Christ. You see, on one hand, man's wisdom tells you that you were descended from an ape, and then it tries to tell you to feel good about yourself. Really? Is that the way it works? But Scripture tells us how incomparably great Christ is, and then tells you that at salvation you were placed in him. And you are identified with him. Scripture tells us that we were so highly valued that Christ paid an infinite price to purchase us. Scripture tells us how beautiful and how excellent Christ is, and then tells us that He created His life for ours. How could anyone have a lack of self-esteem knowing that? Therefore, the more you value Christ, the greater your own self-image. And since you are in him You must know who he is. Now, this again is the great prayer and longing of the Apostle Paul. For the Ephesians, and it's also the longing that he has for you as well, that you might truly know who you are by knowing who Christ is and that you are in him. So look at verse 15. Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and love to all the saints Cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers. Paul is introducing his prayer request to the Ephesians here. And notice his prayers were continual. Paul says, I cease not to to pray for you. Paul's letters in the New Testament kind of gives me the impression he had a long prayer list. He was constantly praying for people, and he was praying for these believers here. What was the main uh prayer request that he had? Look at verse number 17. Where it says that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him. So what is the request? Paul says, I want you to have the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him. Now the word wisdom, Sophia, that's the ability to apply what you know. It's the ability to apply the truth, to act on the truth that you have been given. Revelation means to uncover. And this is the work of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit uncovers to us the truth, and then we are supposed to apply that, and we're supposed to live it out. So Paul is praying that God will give the believers not only the ability to understand this and see this, but that God will give them the wisdom, the ability to apply all of this these spiritual realities about who they are in Christ Jesus. Notice again in verse 18 where it says, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened. Paul's praying for their spiritual eyes to be opened. So they can know who they are and what they possess in Christ. Most Christians don't realize the resources that they have in Christ. And so Paul's prayer here is very simple. Paul is praying Having opened the treasure chest of spiritual blessings that you have in Christ, Paul's praying that you might have the ability to see what you have. And then to apply what you have in Christ. That is his great prayer. So I want you to see three glorious realities about Jesus. Now again, remember, you're not really going to know who you are until you know who Christ is. You have to get that understanding. And so Paul's going to give us some realities about Christ and also remind us that you are in him. And because you're in him, you have all the resources of Christ. So here's number one. To know who you are, number one, you must know the person of Christ. You must know the person of Christ. Again, verse 17: may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of Him Paul says, I want you to know him. Now, some of you might say, well, I already know Christ, but there's different levels of knowing Christ. Or I could say different ways of knowing Christ. And so Paul, I think, in our text describes at least two ways that we know Christ. That you have to know him. First of all, know him personally. The word for knowledge in verse 17 here. is gnosis. We hear this in some of our English words. When you go to the doctor, he will give you a diagnosis, right? Trying to tell you what your issue is. And sometimes he will give you a prognosis. How long it's going to take for you to get better and so on. That's the normal Greek word for knowledge, gnosis. But Paul then puts a little prefix in front of this word gnosis. It's epic or You know where we get our word epic from, which means what? Big or super? Something great. And so we got the word epignosis is the Greek word here. This is this is a super knowledge This is something that's more than a basic understanding. It is a personal knowledge. It is a experiential knowledge. It's one thing to know about someone, it's another thing to know someone. I remember reading a book about a great pastor that I really admired, who would who was in heaven, but it was a book about him. And then uh in my church down in uh Tennessee when I pastored, a man came into my church who knew this man personally. He was his pastor. I knew this man through a book, but this man knew this man personally. His knowledge was epigenosis, not just a basic knowledge. And that's what he's talking about right here. That's what Paul's saying. We don't need to know just about Christ. We need to know Christ experientially. And this happens at salvation, and then we grow continually personally knowing Jesus Christ. That's what the Christian life is all about, getting to know Christ more and more. Paul said that I might know him. That was the great cry of Paul's heart that he might know the Lord Jesus. Peter said, Grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord. How do I grow in knowledge? That's through God's word. So we have to know him personally, but secondly, we have to know him preeminently. And Paul makes this clear. Drop down to verse 20. We'll kind of look at the end part of this passage. Look at verse twenty, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in heavenly places, far above all principality and power and might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. Now, Paul emphasizes here the preeminence of Christ. We have to know his preeminence. He talks about Christ's exaltation. Preeminence simply means that Christ is above all. He's raised above all. He's in authority over all. No one is higher than Christ. No one has greater authority or even comes close to the greatness of Jesus Christ. When God the Father raised Jesus from the dead, he raised him out of that grave all the way up to heaven, and he's seated next to the Father, ascended there in heaven. From the tomb to the throne. He's now preeminent above all. How high did God exalt him? In verse 21 again, far above All principality and power and might and dominion, all of these terms were traditional Jewish terms to designate angelic beings of great rank and might. Jesus is raised above all of them. Above all the angelic spiritual beings. And he's raised above every name. Look again in verse 21. And every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. Sometimes people in that day would call upon various gods by their name. And I think here Paul is kind of taking a shot at an ancient heresy that was starting there at that time. It was uh it was uh the uh uh uh first form of Gnosticism, which basically had this idea that you ascend into the spiritual heights By naming certain angelic or godlike beings, you had to know their name, you had to have this secret knowledge, and you would name that name, and you would ascend this ladder high into the heavens. And Paul says, look, there's no name higher than Jesus. That's the name that you need to understand. This is a heresy that was spreading about these angelic beings. You know, you need to ascend this ladder. These angelic mediators, Paul saying, Jesus Christ is the mediator. He is the one and only. He is the name that is above every name. And you need to know that. He's exalted above every name in the universe. For all times, there's no one higher. There's no source of power, authority that is greater. But then he talks about his dominion. Look at verse 22. And hath put all things under his feet. This emphasizes the total dominion of Christ over all things. All things are under his feet. And this is an allusion to Psalm 110, verse 1. The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I make all thy enemies thy footstool. When we were in Egypt last year we went to see the uh the throne of the famous King Tut, it's put on display there at the at the museum. And uh you can look at the throne, but right beneath the throne there's a little footstool, a golden footstool, and written on the footstool are the names of all the enemies that he had. The enemies of Egypt were there on the footstool. That's what ancient kings would do. They would put on their footstool the names of their enemies, which symbolically said they are they have conquered, they're victorious over all of their enemies That's what this is referring to here. Christ is victorious over all enemies. He is above every name, and all enemies are under his feet. Now you might be sitting there asking yourself, how does this apply to me and my problems? I'm just trying to make it through the week. Well, notice how Paul applies this to you and to me, the church. Notice that in verse twenty-two he says this, and gave him to be head over all things too. the church. Paul applies this to the church and thus to you and thus to me. If Christ is head over all, that means he's head over all the church. And who is the church? You're part of the church if you're saved. If you know Jesus Christ, the church and Christ are inseparably linked. He is the head, and the church is his body. And the head and the body are united. They're one. So notice verse 23. Notice what it says in verse 23. Which is his body, the fullness of him that duleth all and all. Fullness is plurama, means complete. In another passage in Colossians, it says that Jesus is the pluroma of God the Father. All the fullness of God the Father dwells in Christ. And if we the church are the pleroma of Jesus, that means all of the fullness of Christ dwells in his church. It dwells in us. You get the connection there? So that means if you're saved and you're part of the church, all the fullness of Christ is available to you. It's available to you. All the power that Christ has is available to you. All the dominion over satanic forces is available to you. All things that were put under Christ's feet are also put under your feet. All the victories of Christ, you share in that. All the power of Christ is available to you. Jesus fills all in all, giving to all believers his fullness. That's what Paul's praying that you understand. You say, I don't get it. I know that's why Paul's praying it. You say, if I if I had it, how come I don't have it? Because you don't realize you have it. And that's why sometimes we are crushed beneath the weight of our problems and our burdens when we need to realize that in Christ He's given you all power and all fullness so you can rise above it. And all those powers can be under your feet, all those problems. So through the Holy Spirit, we are united to Him as the members of His body. That means we we share. And all everything. We share in His His resurrection. We share in His ascension. We share in His exaltation. We too are seated in the heavenlies. All things are put under our feet. No wonder Paul's saying, look, I want you to know the exceeding greatness of the power. I want you to understand this. I want you to know this. Because if you don't know this, you're not going to be able to draw on these resources to help you. When the time comes to need them. When Timothy was having a difficult time and he became discouraged, Paul wrote to Timothy, remember what he said in 1 Timothy? He said, Timothy, remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead. Timothy, remember Jesus. I know you're going through a tough time now, but remember Jesus. Remember the one risen from the dead. Remember the greatness of that person that lives inside of you. Every Christian should continually have that focus. Because when we realize this, when we fully understand it, We'll be able to better see our problems as they really are. And we'll be better able to understand the power that we have. And we'll be motivated to tap into that resource that God has given us. So you must know the person of Christ. You must know him personally. You must know him preeminently. But here's number two. You must know the provision of Christ. Look at verse 18. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that ye may know what is the hope of his calling, and what the riches of the glory of the inheritance in the saints. And so Paul prays that their eyes will be opened so they can know two things. First of all, the hope of his calling. What is the hope of his calling? We could actually say it like this: the hope to which he has called you. Hope in the Bible is not talking about a wish. You know, when we talk about use the word hope today, we're we're talking about something we wish or we hope will happen. We're expressing a possibility, a wish. Like I I hope that the Orioles win the World Series. Uh too soon, right? Shouldn't have said that. I hope the Ravens win the Super Bowl. We're expressing a wish. But when the Bible uses the word hope, that's not how it uses the word hope. Hope, and the Bible was not a wish. Hope is a certainty. It's something that's absolutely certain. And the hope that Paul is referring to here is the fulfillment of everything that we have in salvation being fulfilled. The certainty of all eternal blessings, all the things that God has laid up for us there in heaven. It's this confident expectation that final salvation will happen. And it includes everything that God promised us, everything that's laid up for us. Many Christians are depressed because their spiritual eyes haven't been opened to understand the hope of their calling. They don't focus on the reality of heaven. Our lives are caught up in the earthly, worldly, temporal things, carnal pursuits. And we don't see the big picture. We don't see eternity. We don't see the hope of our calling. And that's why sometimes God has to get our attention to get us to focus on that. Focus on your hope. That's why Paul said in Romans 8, I reckon that the sufferings of this present life are not to be compared with the glories that shall be revealed. That's the hope of your calling. But then also the riches of the glory of his inheritance. Notice verse 18. What the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. Now some interpret this to mean the inheritance that comes from God to us I don't think that's what Paul's talking about here. He already talked about that in verse 14. This phrase does not refer to our inheritance in Christ, but rather his inheritance in us. In other words, we are God's possession purchased by the blood of Christ. Thus we are his portion or inheritance. Which he will finally and ultimately possess throughout all eternity. That's an amazing thing to think that God looks on us as his wealth. You are his inheritance. That's what he's saying there. Does that blow your mind? Just as a man's wealth brings him glory to his name, even so God Gets glory from his wealth. And what is his wealth? You, the church. You that are believers. God doesn't point to a bank book to talk about his wealth. He points to the Lamb's Book of Life. And says, here's my wealth. My inheritance, my wealth are the believers that are in Christ. Because he's invested in us. So you need to think of yourself that way. We're talking about, you know, having a healthy self-image. Well, think of it this way: you are God's treasure. You are God's wealth. You might say, Well, I'm worthless. No, God looks at you and says, No, you're priceless. You're the glory of my inheritance. You are my treasure. You are my wealth. How can we have a low self-esteem knowing that that's what God thinks about us? F. F. Bruce, the New Testament scholar, wrote this. He said that God should set such high value on a community of sinners Rescued from perdition and still bearing too many traces of their former state might well seem incredible were it not made clear that he sees them in Christ. That's why God values us so much, because when he looks at us, we are his treasure, but he sees us in Christ. We are in Christ. And so this is the key. God wants you to know how valuable you are. Why? So that you'll live up to that. So that you'll live up to your calling. So that you'll live up to all that God has invested in you. You're God's priceless possession. Now live like that. That's the idea. If somebody listen to this and think, well, I want to believe all this, I'm just having trouble. I don't think of myself as having infinite worth. How can God love me with all of my sins and my deficiencies and my faults? Well, let's just say that let me get use an illustration. Let's just say you want to buy a gold mine, and you buy that gold mine. And you're overjoyed. And if the gold could talk, the gold would say, How can you love me? I'm all dirty. I'm mixed up with worthless iron ore. I've got all these mineral deposits on me. How could you love me? And your reply would be, you know, I see your real value. And I'm going to get rid of all those mineral deposits. I'm going to get rid of all the ugliness because I see what you're really worth Now I warn you that the process isn't going to be easy. But I know your value and I know who you are. And here, look at this beautiful jewelry. This is what your the end product will be. I'm going to get rid of all that other stuff. And I'm going to purify you because that's what you are to me. You're valuable. And that's how God can love us, even with all our perfections. Guess what? God isn't done with us yet. He's working, but we are his valuable treasure. So you must know, to know yourself, you must know the person of Christ. To know yourself, you must know the provisions of Christ. But here's the last thing You must know the power of Christ. Look in verse 19. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power? And again, Paul here is just pileing up words to describe God's power. He just enlists all these different Greek words. Power, working, energy, where we get the word energy, power is dunymus, might, that's an inward strength. Power is the ability to rule. It's like Paul's pulling out all these Greek words about power and trying to describe all the power that you have in Christ. And he's saying, this is what you have. That's a lot of power. This is what it's like. And you have all of this. And the good news is, all of this power, it's available to you. You say, well. You know, how much power is it? Well, it's the power that raised Christ from the dead. Look at verse 20, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead. That's a lot of power. So, no matter what you may face, God's given you access to the power to overcome it. That's again is the point. That's part of the riches that you have. Now you might say, well, how do I tap into this power? And again, the keys of verse 19: to usward who believe, it is available to those who come and ask for it by faith. You have to ask for it. It's God's grace that supplies our spiritual wealth, but it's our faith that applies the spiritual wealth God's grace supplies it. Our faith applies it. You know, people were talking about power shortages. You know, hurricane hit and there's people dealing with power shortages, and we certainly pray for them. But I want to tell you the greatest power shortage today is not the lack of generators or gasoline. The greatest power shortage today are for believers that don't realize the power that they have in Christ. And so therefore they haven't tapped into it. And so that's what Paul's prayer is, that you might know your power source, that you might get it. And verse 19 again, according to the working of his mighty power, the Greek literally reads, according to the inworking of the might of his strength. God works mightily in us and gives us the power and the strength when we ask for it. When we ask, now why does God give us this power to persevere through trials? Paul Paul knew this. I read this verse to you before, but Again, it applies here. Paul in 2 Corinthians 1. 8 said, For we were we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life We were so pressed down. We were so in such circumstances that we despaired even of our life. We had the sins of death in and of ourselves. That we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raises the dead That's Paul's referring to the same power, that power that raised Jesus from the dead. Paul said, you know what? I'm going to We came to the end of ourselves. God put us in this trial so that we might learn to trust in his resources. To make it through the trial. To overcome temptation and live in holiness. God's mighty power gives us all that we need for life and godliness to overcome any temptation that comes our way. If you fall into temptation, don't say, Well, I didn't have any choice. Yeah, you did. God gives you the power to overcome it. No temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God will with the temptation make a way of escape. That you might be able to bear it, he gives you the power to overcome temptation and live in holiness, to serve God faithfully. Paul said in Colossians 1. 29, whereunto I also labor, striving according to his working, which worketh in me mightily Paul was able to do so much because it wasn't Paul, it was God working in and through him. He gives us his power to fulfill everything that God has called us to do. That's why Paul could sit in a a Roman prison and say, I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. To fulfill everything God has called us to do, to keep us to the end. It's God's power that keeps us. Peter said, you're being kept by the power of God. That's what this power does. It keeps you all the way until he delivers you to heaven. That's why I can't lose my salvation. I'm not the one holding on to it. It's God holding on to me by his mighty power. So here's the point, and I'm I'm I'm almost done. Maybe. No, I just say a few things and we're done. Um again, I want you to understand your identity is inseparably linked to Christ. God wants you to know Christ and to know that you are in Him. You're in Him. And you have to know Him. And also know that you are God's priceless treasure And if you understand who you are, it'll control how you live. If you understand who you are. In Christ. Many years ago in England, a little girl named Vicky was being taught a history lesson by her tutor. And in the course of the lesson, the teacher showed her her family tree, her genealogy. And little Vicky studied the family tree, and she suddenly realized that she was in line. She was going to be the next ruling monarch in England. She would become Queen Victoria. Once she understood and discovered who she was, she wept And then she said this through her tears. If this is who I am, then I will be good Knowing who she was determined how she behaved. And the same is true for you as a child of God. Knowing who you are in Christ. Should determine how you behave as a believer in Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the reality of this spiritual treasures that we have And Lord, we just we need your help to open the eyes of our understanding, to help us to see this. to grasp this precious truth in all its fullness so that Lord we can tap into the great power that we have in Christ. I know, Lord, there's believers here going through difficulty. Some are battling sin in their life, seemingly just given up, failure. But want to have victory. Some Lord are going through a difficult trial and they don't know how they're going to make it through another day. Lord, help us to see That in Christ you you get you give us the strength. It's not ours, it's yours, but it's available to us If we'll just ask for it. Lord, in your grace, you supply the strength. In faith, we apply it. May we apply This incredible power, this these spiritual realities of who we are. And help, Lord, those who are struggling, having trouble, to rise above it in the name of Christ. With the power supplied by our Savior. Father, bless this word to hear your hearts. And if you're here today, heads are bowed and eyes are closed. If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, that's where it starts. You have to know Him. And you have to know him by putting your faith in him, coming to him as a sinner, realizing that there's nothing good in us as sinners. He died for our sin. Turn from your sin and turn to Christ and say, Jesus, I want salvation. Please save me now. And the Bible says, Him who comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. Come to Christ. Put your faith in the risen Christ. Father, thank you for your word. Use it in every hearing heart. We pray in Jesus' name.