I invite you tonight to take your Bibles, take God's word, and open please to the Book of Revelation. As you know, we are in a series in the Book of Revelation. It's been a while since we've been in this because I've been gone, but we're going to pick up where we left off in Revelation chapter three, and we're looking at the seven churches, and we're coming to the last church tonight, in verse 14 down to verse 22. We're going to deal with the church at Laodicea Now what we've learned is very important as Christ has studied these churches. At the church at Ephesus, this was the loveless church. They had a lot going for them, but they had left their first love. And this is a reminder to us that there's no replacement for loving Jesus preeminently. Then we looked at the church at Smyrna. This was the suffering church And they teach us that we need to persevere through difficulties and remain faithful. And we looked at the church at Pergamos, and this was the compromising church, and we were This reminds us that we need to maintain our convictions and our belief in the word and be separated from the world. And then we looked at the church of Zyatira. And this was a church that allowed itself to be influenced by corruption, and we need to learn to take a stand and not allow false teaching. And then we looked at the church at Sardis, which was the church that looked as if they were alive, but actually they were dead. And we learn from that that we constantly have to be dependent upon the power of the Holy Spirit. And then we looked at the Church of Philadelphia. This was a church with an open door. And we re were reminded that when God places before us an open door, we need to be faithful and to and to Trust God to help us use that opportunity. Now we come to the church at Laodicea. And what's interesting about this church is that our Lord has not one good thing to say about the church at Laodicea. Of the seven churches that we studied so far, this is by far the worst of them, because again, the Lord has no words of commendation. In fact, Jesus says something about this church that is rather shocking. And I think the Lord meant for it to be, you know, when I teach hermeneutics sometimes in seminary, uh the hermeneutics is a word that just simply means interpretation, it's the principles of learning how to interpret God's Word. There's one principle that we often mention. It's called the principle of original impact. And what we try to do is to understand how the the the message of God's word impacted that original audience. What kind of impact did it have for those people there. And by doing that, we try to consider the historical setting and how they would have heard that message. And so I I think about this when I think about the words of Jesus to the church at Laodicea. Can you imagine being a member of that church in that day and hearing word that you uh the church has received a letter from the beloved Apostle John given to him By the Lord Jesus Christ. These were the words that Jesus told him to write down, and these are words directed specifically to your church. And then the pastor stands up to read the message. that Jesus has for you. Can you imagine the excitement of getting a word from God? And then you hear these words. Look in Revelation chapter 3, look in verse number 16. So then because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. You talk about being a bit deflated after hearing that. Literally, this means um can I say it like this, you make me sick? This is the Lord saying this to the church. Now when I first read this, I thought surely this has to mean something else. So I dig a little bit into the Greek and I find out from my Greek lexicon that the word actually means to reject with extreme disgust. It literally means to vomit. This is the only time this word is used in the New Testament. Now when that happens, you normally when you're studying a word like this, you do a word study. If this is the only time that this word is used in the New Testament, automatically what you do is you you begin to look at other places where the word would have been used. And the first place you would go is to the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. And you ask yourself, was this word ever used In the Old Testament Greek translation in any way because it helps you to understand how the word was used and what it actually means. And it was used In the Old Testament Septuagint in Isaiah 19, 14, listen to how it was used. Here's the verse. The Lord has mingled within her a spirit of confusion. And they will make Egypt stagger in all its deeds, and as a drunken man stagger staggers in his vomit. There's the word Vomit. That's the same Greek word here. And so again, it carries with the idea of making someone sick, of making someone nauseous. These are very strong words. As one commentator noted, they were pictured as utterly abhorrent to Christ. That is, that church was pictured that way. Now you would ask yourself, what would cause the Lord to make such strong words to this church? What was it about this church that made the Lord say, you make me sick? You make me nauseous. Well, it tells us. We don't have to wonder. Look in verse 17. Because thou sayest, I am rich and increased with goods. Now it was not that they were rich. It's not a sin to be rich. It's not a sin to have means. God isn't, after all, the one who gives us the ability to do that. But it was that they were proud of their riches. There's no humility here. It's not wrong to be rich, but pride is the worst of sins in God's sight. They didn't say, oh, how God has blessed us. We're so Thankful, we're so humbled that God would entrust upon us all of these riches. That's not their attitude. Their attitude was quite the opposite. They said, I am rich. Because thou sayest, I am rich. And there's a note of pride there. Here's a church that was boasting in their Riches. The Church of Philadelphia had an open door, but they had little strength. They didn't have a lot of resources. Here's a church that has all the resources. They have money, they have wealth, they have all that they could ever want And instead of using that in a humble way, they're lifted up with pride. And this is what was abhorrent to our Lord. I can't help but think about our church the church in America. We have all the resources here. We are a a rich country. But Can it be possible that we can be exalted and we can be proud and we can lose our spiritual hunger for God? Now this becomes very real to me when I go to other places. As you know, I was just over in Egypt. And uh meeting with believers there, many of them meeting in places that are not advertised for obvious reasons because the country is ninety percent Muslim and some of them meeting uh at the risk of their own life um at the risk of other things and being persecuted in their faith. And the last thing they're worried about is the color of the carpet or the paint on the walls or the chandeliers. or is the is the video uh working or any of those things. Those are things that we might be concerned about here in America. In fact, there are some people that make their decision on which churches to go to based on how the auditorium looks. That's the last thing that these believers were thinking about in Egypt. They just wanted to be able to worship God in peace. And many of the places they worshiped were upstairs rooms or basements or out-of-the-way buildings. And they didn't have the resources that we had, but they had a a a desperation for God and a passion for Jesus Christ that I think sometimes is lacking in some churches in our country. We have all that we could want. We have million dollar budgets and plush carpets and the latest audio and video and Technology and we have family centers and some churches have Starbuck cafes and bowling alleys. But do we have the power of God? Do we have the blessing of God? This church said, I'm rich. In verse 17, and increase with goods. And here's the second part of it. Not only were they arrogant, but they were self-sufficient. And notice it says the next part of verse seventeen, I'm rich and increased with goods and have need of what? Nothing. We need nothing And Jesus is saying that this church had this self-sufficient attitude, and they in essence were saying, we don't need anything. We have all that we need. We're fine, just the way we are. What's interesting is you look in the background of the city of Laodicea and you find out that they suffered a terrible earthquake in 60 A. D. The Roman government offered disaster relief to help this city. The Roman government extended a gracious hand to help them rebound. But the city said, we don't need your help. We don't need your resources, we have our own. In fact, Taxitus, the Roman historian, in his annals, this is what he wrote, quote, one of the most famous cities of Asia, Laodicea, was in the same year overthrown by an earthquake. And without any relief from us, recovered itself by its own resources. End quote. That's what he wrote. Now evidently that self-sufficient, I don't need anything attitude that seeked down into the church, and here's the church. That has the same kind of self-sufficient attitude as the city, and they were saying, we have need of nothing Some, I'm afraid, may have that same spirit uh in the church where we say, you know, I don't need any help. I don't need any help. You we become self-sufficient. You know what? I want to be a part of a church that says we need Christ. We are absolutely dependent upon our Lord. And like the Apostle Paul said, who's sufficient for these things? I don't feel sufficient in and of myself. Quite the contrary. I realize my own insufficiency and I need The Lord continually in my life. This is to be the attitude of a Christian that we know that we can do nothing of any spiritual value without the Lord's help. We want to reject this attitude of self-sufficiency, the attitude that says, I have need of nothing. Remember what Jesus said in John 15? Without me ye can do nothing. There's no value or any good that we can do if we if we say we need nothing and we become self-sufficient. But here's this church that was saying this. And they had this attitude, and this is what was abhorrent to the Lord Jesus. So what I want you to see here in this passage are three blessings that this church lost. because of their self-sufficient attitude. Here's the first thing they lost. Number one, they lost their usefulness. They lost their usefulness. God can't Use a church or a person who has this attitude that says, I need nothing. Now look at verse 15. I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would that thou wert cold or hot. So then, because thou art lukewarm and neither cold or hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth. Now I think that this verse has some misinterpretation. I've heard preachers preach on this, and this is normally the way they preach it. They say, you know, here's the Lord saying, He would rather you be cold And cold meaning he would rather you be lost. He would rather you be a Christ rejector as an unbeliever, or he would rather you be a Christian that has an absolutely backslidden cold heart He would rather you be cold, or he would rather you be hot, hot, meaning the absolute opposite of that, hot being a person who's on fire for God, who has a passion for God The Lord is saying, I would rather you be cold or hot, but not lukewarm. Lukewarm is bad. So God would rather you be one of those two rather than lukewarm. Now I've heard that preached a lot, but let me just say that I respectfully disagree with that interpretation because for one thing I believe that the Lord never wants us to be cold. He doesn't want us, first of all, he wants us to know Jesus, and he doesn't want us to be backslidden or cold in heart. And so what the Lord is actually saying here, I think in this, is that cold or hot actually means the same thing. You see, he's referring here to to water. Um, you know, we use hot water And we can use cold water, but we really don't have a lot of use for lukewarm water. Now, this is especially true at the church at Laodicea, because let me describe to you the historical background of this church Did you know that the city of Laodicea was located in the Lycus Valley, just across from the Lycus River, and they were not far from a city by the name of Heropolis? Heropolis was a city And listen to this, it was known for its hot mineral springs. The hot water was very therapeutic. People love to bathe in that hot water. In fact, if you go over to that region today, you'll see people that are there bathing in the hot mineral springs. in that place of Heropolis. On the other side of Laodicea was the city of Colossae. And Colossae was known for their cold spring water, the exact opposite. And did you know that the city of Laodicea wanted to take advantage of this and they built a costly, elaborate aqueduct system, and they piped in hot water from Heropolis and they piped in cold water from Colossae. In fact, archaeologists have studied there and they found this elaborate fountain in the ruins of the city and they found a water tower that was there in the city of Laodicea But here's what they found. By the time the water ran through the aqueduct, it was piped into the city, it was no longer hot or cold. That was a problem. When the people went to drink the water, it was lukewarm Here's what one scholar wrote. The water supplied by the spring was tepid and nauseous by the time it was piped. To Laodicea, unlike the therapeutic hot water of Heropolis or the refreshing cold water of Colosseum Here's another man, Kenneth Dodders, wrote some interesting things about the city. Listen to what he said. He said they couldn't use the Lycus or Meander Rivers for drinking because those waters were too dirty. Besides, the Lycus River often dried up during the dry season. Most of the springs in the area are hot and full of gaseous and other chemicals, gases and other chemicals, I should say. The Lodiceans had no choice, he writes. They had to pipe in water from distant springs through twin lines of stone pipe Each stone was about three feet across, hollowed through the middle. The water carried by those pipes was so charged with impurities that it dropped much of its load in the flow. The car the calcium carbonate gradually clogged the pipes. The water was collected in a central water tower, then distributed through the streets by pipes Radiating from it. The water tower and selections of the terracotta pipes are still visible even today. It is evident at least that the water it carried was bad. And uh so whatever finally got to the city was uh not useful. And so here's the point. Hot water was f therapeutic It was good for bathing. Cold water was refreshing. But unfortunately, even though Laodicea tried to draw from each What happened was evidently the water was lukewarm, and when the people would drink the water, they would spit it out of their mouth. They would spew it out. Now Jesus is drawing upon this, and he's applying this to the church. When those people would drink the water, sometimes it would have a bad taste and they would automatically spit it out. And here is Jesus saying to this church, this is exactly what you are to me. You're neither cold nor hot. That is to say, you're not useful to me. I could use you if you were cold or hot, but you're not. You're lukewarm. And because of your self-sufficient, arrogant attitude, you're lukewarm, and I will spew you out of my mouth. I can't use you when you have this type of spirit. And the thing that we have to ask ourselves is, is that Part of us? Do we have that kind of, you know, I can do it on my own, independent, self-sufficient spirit? Because I want to tell you, as a child of God, part of your spiritual growth is growing to be dependent on Christ. You know, it's kind of the opposite of uh physical growth. You know, in our when we have children in our home, we teach them and they grow up And what happens is that they grow to become independents. That's all part of their physical maturity, their mental and social maturity. They grow up and they don't need mom and dad anymore and they're off on their own now. They become independent. That's Physical maturity, physical growth, but spiritual maturity is the exact opposite. In your spiritual life, as you grow and you mature, you become more and more dependent on Christ. That's your spiritual growth. So here's a church that had absolutely no spiritual power because they had this self-satisfied, self-sufficient attitude. And John Stott wrote, the Laodicean church was a half-hearted church. Perhaps none of the seven letters is more appropriate. to the twentieth century church than this. It describes vividly the respectable, sentimental, nominal, skin deep religiosity which is so widespread among us today. Our Christianity is flabby, it is anemic. We appear to have taken a lukewarm bath of religion. Strong words. But when you have that attitude, You're not useful, Jesus said. They lost their usefulness. But here's a second blessing they lost. They lost their understanding. Look what it says in verse 17. Because thou sayest, I am rich and increase with goods, and have need of nothing. And knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. I think the key phrase here is the phrase, knowest not. Their self-sufficiency led to self-deception Because they really didn't understand where they were spiritually. May I say that that's a very dangerous place for any Christian to be, is to be in a place where you really can't Correctly diagnose your spiritual condition, where you're you're deceived about yourself. You say, oh, I'm alright, I'm doing well, and actually you're not. And this is what this church was like. They really didn't know how bad off they really were. Notice the condition of this church. Jesus said they were blinded as to their It reminds me of Samson in the Old Testament. Remember? After he had sinned against the Lord, and he wished not that the Lord had departed from him. The Spirit of God was on him to win many great victories, but there came a point in time where God departed from him. And Samson, he didn't know it. He didn't realize it. And this is the condition of the church at Laodicea. They lost their ability to discern their own spiritual condition. And Jesus tells them what it is in verse 17 Because thou sayest I'm rich and increased with good, have need of nothing, and you know not That you're wretched. Here's one thing that the Lord said. Wretched means unfortunate. It was a word used to describe ravaged lands, devastated countries, pillaging. He says you're miserable. This is someone to be pitied. You're an object of extreme pity. Jesus says you're pitiful. You're wretched, miserable, you're poor. This is the Greek word for extreme poverty. A beggar. You're blind, spiritually blind, without any spiritual sight. You are naked without any garments. The worst condition for anyone to be in the ancient world is poor and blind and naked. And here Jesus is saying, this is what you are spiritually. Now again, we're talking about how this impacted the church, and really to understand that, you have to understand Some things that the city of Laodicea boasted in. For example, did you know that the city of Laodicea boasted in their money? It was a rich city. It was famous because they had a banking center there in that city that serviced all of Asia Minor. In fact, when Cicero the Great Roman was traveling in Asia Minor, It was in Laodicea that he cashed in his letters of credit because of the banking system there, and they were known for being able to d to detect uh uh money when it was uh when it was counterfeit So they bragged about their money. And again, when the earthquake hit, they didn't need any help from Rome because they had all that they needed. They minted their own coins. They exchanged money. They knew how to detect the counterfeit money. They boasted in their money. Another thing they boasted in was their medicine. Did you also know that the city of Laodicea had in it a very famous school of medicine? And you know the the thing that they were most noted for in that school of medicine was that they developed a certain ISAV when a person began having problems with their eyes, maybe because of the the hot climate or something that was giving them problems. They had this ISAV that people came in from all over the world to to use this and get this because it was offered some measure of comfort and healing to their eyes. In fact, Aristotle spoke of this very thing. this medical school with this special ISAB that they had and they used and they were noted for. But also, you know else they weren't they were proud of? not only their money and their medicine, but their material. Did you know that Laodicea was a center for manufacturing clothes? And the th and the thing that they were really noted for was around Laodicea They were famous for the sheep that would produce this black wool. This was expensive material. And again, the city took great pride in this material. And as a result, the people of the city became very fashion conscious. And they were proud of their materials. And so Jesus uses all of these things that they pride themselves on as a way to help them understand their real spiritual condition. Jesus was saying, you might be proud of your money, you might have riches. You might be able to discern and detect counterfeit money, but what you can't really discern and detect is that you are spiritually, you're a beggar. Spiritually, you are destitute. You might be physically rich, but spiritually you're poor. You might have medicine to help your physical eyes, but spiritually you are blind. You need spiritual eye south to be put on your eyes. You might have expensive clothes, but spiritually you're naked. You really don't understand how pitiful you really are in your spiritual condition. You know, it is true that a person can be having all these things, material things, wealthy things, and you might think by these outward physical, material blessings that you're doing really well spiritually. But you know what? The quality of your life and character spiritually cannot be measured by your outward circumstances. That's not a good gauge to measure your spiritual life. And so what's the counsel of Jesus to this church? Look at verse number eighteen. I counsel thee to buy of me gold Tried in the fire, that thou mightest be rich. Jesus said, You've been deceived long enough about your real wealth. You've been depending on and trusting in substitutes long enough It's time that you get the real thing. It's time that you get real spiritual riches. And I counsel you to get gold tried in the fire. True spiritual riches belong to Christ. In Luke 16, 11 it says, If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you true riches? And what he was talking about was a spiritual power. Gold in the Bible often symbolizes practical righteousness which comes from Christ, a sanctification. that we get and we're walking, we're becoming more like the Lord Jesus Christ. True spiritual riches. You see, they were they were not living for Christ. They were compromising. They were They were not passionate in their pursuit of the Lord Jesus Christ. They felt self-sufficient. And what they needed was true spiritual riches. To pursue Christ in their heart. And then spiritual raiment. Look what he says again in verse 18. I counsel thee to buy me gold, tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich, white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed. So that you can be true truly clothed, spiritually clothed. You don't understand that you're you're naked spiritually, and you need to be clothed with white raiment. You know what this reminds me of? A story that I learned as a child. You probably read the story by Hans Christian Anderson, The Emperor's New Clothes. Have you ever read that story? Remember that a certain emperor is very fond of his clothes and his appearance, and these certain clever philosophers that were really con men offered to weave him a very rare, beautiful garment And they said that this garment would be invisible to all except those who were pure in heart and those who were wise. And boy, this really delighted the Emperor, and so he commissioned, he said, Yeah, I want you to go ahead and do this. And soon the Emperor was curious about what they were weaving, and he sent some messengers to go and look at it. And these guys pretended to be weaving, but they were actually weaving nothing But the servant that went to look at it, he didn't want to be thought of as someone who was unwise or impure in heart. So when he went back to the emperor, he said, Oh, it's beautiful. It's beautiful garment. It's I'll tell you, it's the best thing I've ever seen. And the and the king sent some other messengers and the same thing happened with them. They didn't want to be thought to be impure of heart or And they came back with the same report. And finally the king, still waiting, went himself to look. And when he looked, he saw nothing. But again, he didn't want other people to think he was impure in heart or unwise. So he pretended that he saw something. In fact, he gave these weavers medals for the great job they were doing. And finally the day came when it was time for him to put on these new clothes, and these con men dressed him in nothing. And then he was paraded before the people, and all the crowds were looking at him, and no one in the crowd wanted to be thought of as unwise or an impure in heart. And so they all began to clap and say, oh, what beautiful clothes. The king looks so good. Until finally one little boy said, the emperor has no clothes. And you know what? It was finally realized. And when I think of that, I think of this church of Laodicea. They thought that they were clothed, but here Jesus says, no, you're naked spiritually. You're naked. And I counsel you to get white raiment, to put on white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, that the shame, look in verse 18 again, that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear. You need to be clothed with spiritual clothes. And what I think he's referring to there is again A life that is walking in the way of Christ, that is pursuing sanctification, pursuing holiness in the fear of the Lord, practical righteousness You see, that's what the white garments of righteousness speak of here. And then he says, you know, you need to be spiritually You need to have spiritual riches, spiritual raiment, and then you need spiritual revelation. Look again what it says in verse 18. And anoint thine eyes with what? With Isav that thou mayest see. You need to have spiritual vision. You might have something to help your physical eyes, but you need spiritual eyes so that you can see. You can have real vision This is what you lose. When you become self-sufficient and proud, you lose your understanding of how you really are spiritually. They lost their usefulness. They lost their understanding, but here's the third blessing they lost. They lost their union. Look at verse 19. As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten, be zealous therefore, and repent. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man will hear my voice and open the door, I will come into him and will sup with him and he with me. Now this is a verse that oftentimes we hear used for evangelism. But this verse really is speaking about Jesus talking to his church. And where is Jesus? He's on the outside of his church, and he's knocking on the door because he wants to come in. What does that mean? He's not part of this church. It should not surprise us that Jesus is on the outside wanting to come in because this is a church that said we don't need anything. And that included Jesus. We can do for ourselves. And so here's Jesus on the outside of the church. Knocking on the door, and I want to tell you folks, as long as Christ is on the outside of the church, nothing of God will happen in a church where Christ is not a part of it. This is like having a flashlight with the batteries taken out. You have no power. I had a church bulletin that had an announcement. The announcement said, ladies, don't forget the rummage sale. It's a chance to get rid of those things not worth keeping around the house, and then it said, Bring your husband. This church had gotten rid of their husband, Christ. He was standing on the outside. And here is Jesus. And what does he say? First of all, look at what he says again. He said, as many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. So he's speaking to them. You know, when we're not where we need to be, what's the first thing the Lord does? He begins to speak to us spiritually. He'll speak to us through the word. He'll speak to us through the preaching. He'll speak to us maybe through the counsel of a godly believer. And this is what the Lord does. He's speaking. I'm talking to you right now. And he's rebuking them And he's rebuking them because he wants them to get back to where they need to be spiritually. And so he starts with speaking. He says, be zealous, therefore. Don't be lazy about this. Don't be self-satisfied. There needs to be a holy discontentment for where you are spiritually. You need to be zealous. And then he says, repent, turn from your sin, turn to the Lord, seek him. There's speaking, and then there's spanking. Look again, he says in verse 19, as many as I rebuke and chasten. And this is another form of God's chastisement. First the Lord will speak, and if the speaking doesn't work, then the Lord starts spanking And here he will use providences to get our attention, to drink to bring about true righteousness in our life. He will chastise us. And then he's standing here, we see in verse 20, Behold, I stand at the door and knock If any man will hear my voice and open the door, I will come in. And here's the next thing. He's supping. He says, I will sup with him and he with me. And the picture here is the image. of wonderful fellowship, of close fellowship. You know, the best fellowship that we have Is uh fellowship around the table. Is that not true when we're eating together? Didn't you just enjoy that with Thanksgiving with your family? How many of you had a wonderful Thanksgiving? Yeah, and it was wonderful to be with family. We were we had uh our family there. We had uh Joe and Brenda Centenno. They're now part of our family. Did you all know that? Our son Josiah married their daughter, Brianna, and we just adore her. She's more like a daughter to me and Joe and Brenda, they're not really in-laws. They're kind of brothers and sisters for us right now. I mean we're all one big family. They were with us You know, we I I adore my daughter-in-law, my sons-in-law. And when we're all together around a table and we're fellowshipping, isn't that wonderful? Isn't that sweet? Isn't there an intimacy there? A closeness that you get there. And no other place like it. And here Jesus is talking about that. I will come in if you open the door. And here he's talking about fellowship, a wonderful fellowship with Christ. You know what you miss out on when you are self-sufficient and arrogant? You miss out on a close intimacy with Jesus Christ. Guess what you miss out on? And here, Jesus wants that fellowship, that wonderful fellowship. He wants to come in, he wants to sit down, he wants the fellowship. And then he gives a promise here in verse 21. To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame and am sat down with my father in his throne. And so here, Jesus is standing at the door. He's waiting for them to open the door. But one day he will no longer be standing and waiting. One day he will be sitting and judging. And now he waits, but one day he will be the judge. And uh but he says to anyone that overcomes, you know what, you're gonna reign with me? Think about that. If we're faithful to Christ here One day we're going to have positions of authority there in heaven. Did you know that? In fact, this is what the disciples were arguing about. Who was going to sit on the right hand of Christ? Who was going to sit on the other side? Remember, they were constantly argue about who was the greatest in the kingdom and and they were competing for that. And you remember how James and John one time they had their mom go and ask for them. Lord, would you please let my son sit one on the right hand and the other on the left? As the other disciples got angry because they didn't think of that. Man, we should have had our mom ask for this. But the Bible says one of these days we will have positions of authority, but it's according to our faithfulness to Christ here and now. Listen to what Paul said, 1 Corinthians 6. 2. He said, Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try trivial cases Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more then matters pertaining to this life? And Jesus here is saying, look, if you're faithful, And you live for me and you're and you're committed and and you get back to where you need to be spiritually. Just know this to those that overcome I will grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I overcame and am set down with my Father in his throne. He that has an ear to hear, let him hear. So here Jesus says to this church that's so self-sufficient, you lost your usefulness. You lost your understanding. You lost your union with me. And you know what? You need to repent. And you need to overcome. And if you do repent, we'll have wonderful fellowship. And if you do repent and overcome, the reward will be you will have a place of service and authority in my kingdom. So we need to examine our own hearts and we need to ask ourselves, where are we spiritually? Have we gotten to the place in our own spiritual life where we are just self-sufficient? Where we feel like, you know, we really don't need some of these things. You know, we we don't need, you know, too much church. You know what's the indicator of our absolute dependence on the Lord? What is the indicator of it? You know what it is? It's prayer. A person who never prays, they don't pray because they don't think they need it. They think that they're good. I'm good. But a person who prays constantly, who prays without ceasing, is a person who is absolutely, totally dependent upon the Lord. And that's the spirit that God wants in his people. You know, why is it nowadays that when you call a potluck meeting everybody shows up? Uh again, I don't know why we call it potluck. It should be pot safe. When people bring food, you know, people come out and it's all but when you call a prayer meeting, you're lucky if you get a handful. You know why? Because we have become rich and increased with goods, and we don't think we need it. A person who will pray together and God calls the church. What did Jesus say? My house shall be called a house of prayer. That's what we should do. When we come together on our Wednesday nights and we pray together, we're expressing our utter dependence upon Christ. I want to tell you something. If anything good gets done in this church ministry, it'll be the Lord who does it. It'll be the Lord who does it. And we need to be absolutely, totally dependent upon him. And that dependence is expressed When we pray, when we cast ourselves before the Lord, and we say, God, we need your blessing. We need your help. I don't ever want the Lord Jesus on the outside of the church knocking on the door saying, Hey, I'd like to come in. I'd like to be a part. I'd like to have fellowship with you. May God help us. Let's all pray together tonight. So, Father, as we read these words from our Lord Jesus given to the church at Laodicea, we examine our own heart, and quite frankly Lord, we're rebuked. Many times we have copped the same attitude as this church, Lord, to our shame. When at times we may not have said it with our mouth. But with our heart and our spirit, Lord, we have had the same attitude as the church at Laodicea, where we have said, I don't really need anything. I don't really need anything. I don't need any hope. When the truth is, Lord Jesus, we can do nothing without you. And we confess tonight that we are absolutely, totally dependent upon you, as the branch cannot bring forth fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine. Lord Jesus, we need to abide in you. So, Lord, would you forgive us for our pride? Forgive us for our attitude of self-sufficiency. Lord, because we know if this is part of who we are, we will never be useful. We'll never really understand where we are spiritually. We'll lack that vital union that we need with you. So Lord, forgive us. Help us to continually wholly dependent upon you and everything in our life. Speak to our heart. Help us, Lord. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, would you, just while you're there, I just want you to pray where you are. I'm not going to ask you to come forward. But I'm going to ask you right there: if you personally would just do business with the Lord and would you ask God to remove from your heart any attitude of pride? It's self-sufficiency. Confess it is sin. And tell the Lord that you're holy, completely dependent on Him in all things. Take a moment and just talk to the Lord. Open the door of your heart and ask him to come in. Father, thank you again for your word and how it speaks to us. Bless this word to every hearing heart, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.