So I want you to take your Bibles and go to the book of Luke, chapter 23. There's so much to say about the cross, and I'm sure I won't get done everything I want to say. And I hope this will be a blessing to you as we look at the cross today. Luke chapter 23. I want to talk to you about the last words from the cross. I was reading an article that said that several years ago an online magazine asked the question Uh if you had to summarize your life in six words, what would they be? You think you could do that? Summarize your life in six words? Six words would be tough. What about six sentences? What if you just had six sentences to give that would summarize your whole life, do you feel like that you could do a good job summarizing your life in just six sentences? I thought about this What I'm going to preach tonight when I read that because really when you think about it, on the cross, when Jesus was there to dying for our sins, he gave, he uttered seven sentences from the cross. Seven sentences. And really those seven sentences summarize God's beautiful plan of redemption for all of us. There's such depth and meaning to the things that Jesus said when he was there on the cross Now, keep in mind that when a person was crucified, they're hanging on the cross. It was very difficult for them to even breathe. One medical doctor was describing what it was like to for a person who would be on the cr on uh uh during crucifixion what it would be like to be on the cross. And he said this air can be drawn into the lungs but not exhaled. He said he fights to raise himself in order to get even one small breath Spasmodically, he is able to push himself upward to exhale and bring in life-giving oxygen So it was obviously very difficult even to breathe for a person that was crucified on a cross, but let alone to even say anything. Which is why that when Jesus was there on the cross, suffering and dying for our sins, he really uttered just seven short sayings. In order to do that, he would have to push up, he would have to draw breath and say something. But every time Jesus said something, there was a power to it. There was a depth to what the Lord Jesus said. And I want us to look at these things tonight. I want us to think about what Jesus said when he was on the cross. And I want us really again to just think totally about Christ and the cross and what he has done for us. So look in Luke chapter 23, look in verse number 33. It says and when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him And the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left. Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. The first words that Jesus uttered from the cross were words of pardon. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. J. C. Rowl said that when Jesus uttered these words, that they probably had just nailed him to the cross. when he uttered these words. And so he goes on to say it's worthy of remark that as soon as the blood of the great sacrifice began to flow, the great priest began to intercede. Here is Jesus praying for forgiveness for the very ones that had crucified him, that had nailed him to the cross. Think about that. Here was a mocking, jeering crowd of people, and they kind of reached a fever pitch while they were taunting the Lord Jesus. And they probably saw him push up in order to even say something, and perhaps the crowd when they saw him do that were thinking he's probably going to utter some kind of words of revenge against these people. Did you know that the Romans worship revenge? In fact, revenge was one of their gods. And so they were probably anticipating words from Jesus that were spiteful words. But instead what they heard were were the words, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. I think perhaps the crowd at the cross was stunned. When they heard Jesus say those words. And Jesus was setting an example. Hadn't Jesus taught us to pray? Forgive our debts as we forgive our debtors. But also Jesus was fulfilling prophecy. Write down Isaiah 53. 12 where it says, He poured out his soul unto death He was numbered with the transgressors. He bore the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors. Jesus is fulfilling prophecy here by praying for these The Bible calls transgressors, those that put him on the cross. But also he was pleading mercy. Notice he said they know not what they do. That phrase does not mean that they were not aware of what they were doing. They knew that they were doing wrong. They were fully aware that Jesus was innocent. Pilate said, I find no fault in him. The soldiers and crowds could easily see the injustice that was being done. So, what did Jesus mean when he says they know not what they do? What he simply meant was they did not know the enormity of what was going on there. They didn't really understand or see who Jesus really was. They could not seem to see that he was the Son of God, the Lord of glory. The Apostle Paul said in 1 Corinthians 2, 8, had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But they did not really see Jesus for who he was. And so Jesus says, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. And so how appropriate that the first words that Jesus spoke from the cross really define the essence of the reason for the cross. He died that we might receive forgiveness. This is the whole purpose of him, going to the cross, so that we would have the forgiveness of God. You know, most people when they come to Christ, they think in terms of You know, I want Christ to fulfill all of my dreams. If I just become a Christian, all of my dreams and desires will be fulfilled. But I want to tell you, friend, that's not the gospel. Jesus didn't die so that you could have a fulfilled life. He died so that you could have a forgiven life. The issue is not that you be fulfilled here on earth. The issue is that you be forgiven so that you can enjoy eternal life in heaven And that was the whole issue there. And so we see then those first words, words of pardon. But then secondly, we see words of promise. Look again in Luke chapter 23. And look down in verse number forty-three. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. Here are the second words that Jesus uttered, words of promise. Now, who is Jesus talking to here? Well we know that Jesus was crucified between two thieves. This is really an amazing situation. Probably probably the natural thing to do would have to put these two thieves together. And then Jesus, but no, Jesus was in between them. And again, that was a fulfillment of prophecy because it says in Isaiah 53, 12, he was numbered with the transgressors. Luke's gospel is very careful to point that out. And we also see that in this passage that these two criminals were mocking Jesus The people were mocking him in verse 35, the rulers and the people. The soldiers were mocking him in verse 36 and verse 37. And then the thief on the cross was mocking him. But there's something that happened to one of them. One of them began to see Jesus for who he was. This is really an amazing thing here, I think, when you think about it. One of them fell silent. When the other be continued to mock, he actually rebukes his friend. Look down at verse number forty. But the other answer rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? For we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing amiss. Right in the middle of all of that, one of these thieves, they begin to see Jesus for who he really is His eyes were opened. He goes from mocking to being silent. And then from being silent, he goes to repenting. And he says to his friend, Don't you fear God? Suddenly he realizes that God is a holy God. Suddenly he realizes there's something different here about this one, the one called Jesus. And he admits that he deserves what he's getting. He says, we receive what we deserve. What to do for us? But this one here, he's innocent, he's holy. So suddenly he sees Jesus as holy. He's the holy one, the one who is sinless. He's done nothing amiss. And then he makes an incredible prayer. Look at verse number 42. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy Now I think that this is one of the most incredible prayers in all of the New Testament, a prayer for salvation. First of all, he calls him Lord. And if he calls someone Lord, that makes you what? His servant, right? So all of a sudden now he's submitting to Jesus. He goes from being a scoffer to submitting to Christ. He calls him Lord. And then he says, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Now if you have a kingdom, that makes you a what? A king, right? So suddenly he sees Jesus as a king, the sovereign king. And suddenly he knows that Jesus has authority. How do we know that? Because now he knows that Jesus has the power to determine where he spends eternity. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom Well, how's Jesus going to do that unless he has the authority to say where he's going to spend his eternity? So suddenly this feast sees Jesus as Lord. He sees him as king. He sees him as one in authority, the one who is able to determine his eternal destiny. He sees him as God, because only God can do that. And I believe that he thinks that Jesus is going to rise again. You say, how do you know that? Because a dead man can do nothing. A dead Savior can't do these things. You can only do this if you're alive. And so this is just an incredible transformation that takes place in this man's heart at that very moment. Suddenly he sees Jesus Christ for who he is. And then he prays the prayer, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus in response in verse 43 says, Verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Let me tell you, no sinner has had better assurance than that thief on the cross. When Jesus said today, and you know what this tells me that salvation is completely by grace. There's nothing we can do to earn our salvation. It's only by Christ. Some people say, well, you have to go to church and be good. This man was a thief. He was dying for his his crimes. He couldn't obey the Ten Commandments. He couldn't do any ritual. He couldn't be baptized. There are some people that say you have to be baptized before you can be saved. This man could do nothing. The only thing that this man could do is confess that he was a sinner and confess who Jesus was and repent and ask for forgiveness. And friend, that is the gospel. And so salvation is completely by grace with no works. And then also, you know what I think when I think see this? God is willing and eager, eager to save sinners. Here, Jesus, while he was dying, saved a sinner right there while he was there on the cross. You know, sometimes I hear preachers say, I don't believe in deathbed conversions. Really? Well, we have one right here in Scripture. Now, think about this. We have one. So that we might not presume upon the grace of God, you better not wait until you think you're ready to die before you pray because you never know when you're going to die. We have one illustration so that we won't presume upon the grace of God. If you're not saved, you better get it settled right now. Because we don't know what a day is going to bring. But we we have we do have one illustration so that we might hope and so that we might know that God is a merciful God. God will save Even until the very last moment, to the very last breath. That's why I say to people, sometimes they say, well, I'm still praying for my loved ones to get saved. Don't give up praying for them. As long as they're alive, there's hope. Because God is willing to save sinners. He's eager to save, and he'll save even on a person's deathbed. I uh read the story of Ty Cobb. Some of you who know baseball might know that he was one of considered to be one of the greatest baseball players ever. He batted 400 for four years. No player can do that now. And yet he was also a man who was very wicked. But he got saved. He got saved right on his deathbed He prayed and he asked Jesus to be a Savior on july seventeenth, nineteen sixty-one. And this is what his last words. He said, You tell the boys, I'm sorry, that it was in the last part of the ninth that I came to know Christ I wish it had taken place in the bottom of the first. But I got saved in the bottom of the ninth. Do you believe that God can save a person in the bottom of the ninth with two strikes and two outs? He's willing to eager to save, even in the bottom of the knife. And so this thief cries out, and Jesus says, Today you'll be with me in paradise. These were words of promise. But also their words of provision. If you just take your Bible, look in the book of John, chapter 19. Look in the book of John, chapter 19. And we're going to flip around actually the three of the Gospels to see these words as we put them together. But look in John chapter 19. And notice in verse number 25, it says this, now there stood by the cross Jesus, mother, his mother. by the cross of Jesus, his mother and his mother's sister, Mary and the wife of Cloephas and Mary Magdalene. And when Jesus therefore saw his mother and the disciples standing by whom he loved, he said unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son. And he saith unto the disciple, Behold thy mother. And from that hour the disciple took her unto his own house. So it wasn't only enemies that were standing at the foot of the cross. As the word spread that Jesus was dying, there also came his mother, Mary. Along with uh s some other women that were there at the cross. Can you imagine what it was like for Mary to see her son dying there on the cross? It had to be agonizing. It was agonizing really for all the disciples and those who loved Jesus, but especially for Mary. If you remember, soon after Jesus was born, Mary and Joseph took the baby Jesus to the temple, and there they met an elderly prophet named Simeon. And he was a prophet that was waiting to see God's Messiah. God had promised him that he would not die until he saw the Messiah. And surely God fulfilled his promise. And when he saw Mary and Joseph and the baby Jesus, he took the baby Jesus in his arms and he thanked God and he rejoiced and he said, Mine eyes have seen thy salvation. But then he gave a prophecy to Mary. This is what he said. He said, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, and a sign which shall be spoken against And then he said this to Mary, listen, he said, Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also. And the sword that Simeon was speaking about. was now piercing through Mary's soul as she stood there at the foot of the cross and she was watching her son die in agony, paying the penalty for sin And Jesus didn't, when he died on the cross, he didn't just die and suffer a physical pain. It was so much more than that. It's more than we could ever even comprehend. He who is infinite suffered in a finite period of time. What we being finite would suffer in an infinite period of time If we died and went to hell, all of the hells were compressed upon Jesus there on the cross, all the eternities of every person compressed upon Jesus there on the cross. And when he was dying in pain and agony, all of that was there on him. And Mary had to watch all of that. But now when Jesus sees her, he calls out and he says, Woman, behold thy son. And who was that? He was talking about John. And he said to John, to the disciple, behold thy mother. And you know what Jesus was doing at that moment there on the cross? He wasn't thinking about himself. He was thinking about his mother. We don't read of Joseph. He had already, we believe, scholars think that he had died. Or Joseph would have surely been the one to take care of Mary, but she was a widow now. And the half-brothers and sisters of Jesus didn't yet believe. And so Mary was really there on her own. And Jesus was concerned about her. And so he says to John, Behold thy mother. And the Mary, behold thy son. And do you know the tradition says that John actually took her as his own mother from that point on Tradition says that Mary actually died in Ephesus, where John was pastor. And Jesus, I think, wanted Mary to leave. He didn't want her to be there anymore. He didn't want her to have to see him suffer in agony. And so in a sense, he dismisses her from the cross. And I think that there's some relevance in that. Did you know there are some religions like Roman Catholicism that actually believe that Mary was the co-redemptress in salvation. And friend, that's simply not true. Mary needed a savior just like anyone else. And she left that place. In fact, in in Rome, in the courtyard of the church of Mary the Major, there in Rome, there's a crucifix that the that depicts Jesus on one side and Mary on the other. Friend, that's just simply false doctrine There's no hint that Mary could have anyway served as a co-redemptress to sin. It was Jesus bearing our sin, and he had compassion on his mother. So these words are words of provision. But then I want you to look in Matthew 27. Go to Matthew chapter 27. And I want you to see the other words that Jesus gave. These were words of punishment. Now, Matthew 27. This is really is the fourth statement that Jesus speaks from the cross. We're looking in Matthew 27 and verse number 46. And let me give you a little background about what's going on here. Now the first three statements on the cross, they don't surprise us, but this fourth statement is somewhat mysterious. It's hard for us even to comprehend. The first three statements Jesus gave, it was daylight. But these next four statements he's going to give is going to come in a time of darkness. Look at verse 45. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. The sixth hour, that's about twelve noon, until the ninth hour, that's about three o'clock in the afternoon. There was darkness over all the land Jesus was on the cross for a period of six hours. So these would be two three-hour periods. Again, the first three hours there was light, but the next three hours there was darkness. And so from 12 o'clock noon Until three o'clock, the Bible says there was darkness over all the land. Can you imagine that? Now, Matthew in Matthew 27, what he records, his gospel is very unique in that he records the miracles that took place at Calvary. And here's one of them. That at twelve noon it suddenly got dark. Can you imagine what would happen if today at twelve noon it suddenly got as dark as midnight? I mean that would get your attention, wouldn't it? And we would wonder what's going on. And it not only did it get dark, it stayed dark for three hours. Three hours. Now some have tried to explain this darkness away. Some say, well, this was simply an eclipse, but this could not have been an eclipse. The sun and the moon were on opposite ends of the earth at this time of year Some say, well, this was probably a Siracko wind, you know, that kind of stirs up dust and blocks out the sun for three hours? That's never been heard of. Also, this was all over the land. This wasn't just local, this was universal. So much so that the early church father Tertillion, when he was arguing and defending Christianity, mentioned it in his book called Apologeticum And he says this at the moment of Christ's death the light departed from the sun, and the lamb was darkened at noonday, which wonder is related in your own annals And is preserved in your archives to this day. So Turley and said, look, you saw this happen. This very miracle. It's recorded in the annals. What was God doing? God was saying to the whole world and especially to the people in Jerusalem at that very moment, stop what you're doing and take notice. There's something happening here. Something unique that's never happened in history, it'll never happen again. I remember one time I was in a department store ready to purchase something and the lights went out. And it got totally dark. We're talking about a big department store, nice and loud, but when the lights went on, it got completely silent. And people were afraid. They didn't know what was going to happen. I think this is probably the reaction that happened here in Jerusalem. You can imagine in Jerusalem at Passover, there were millions of people there, and suddenly it gets dark. What was God the Father doing? Again, God was saying that this behold my son, behold what's going on here. I think also this is the darkness of sympathy. I think all of creation grown with Jesus on the cross. The sun stopped shining. We sing the song, Well Might the Sun in Darkness Hide, and shut his glories in when Christ the mighty maker died for man the creature sin. The sun did not shine. This was the darkness of sympathy. This was the darkness of secrecy. Did you know in the Old Testament, when the high priest went into the Holy of Holies, it was dark. And there in the Holy of Holies, he would make that transaction. He would sprinkle blood on the mercy seat, but it was done there in darkness. In the Old Testament, when darkness came, it was a sign of the judgment of sin And I think at that very moment God the Father was judging sin. This was the darkness also of separation And this is when Jesus cries in verse 46. Look at it. About the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lamax Sabacthani, which is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Now the people when they heard that they didn't really understand because part of the phrase was in Aramaic, the other part was in Hebrew. They thought he was calling out unto Elijah. But at that very moment That was the moment when Jesus bore the sin of the whole world. He bore all of your sins. He bore all of my sins upon himself at that very moment. And God the Father turned away at that moment. The Bible says his eyes are pure than to behold evil. And he could not look upon his son when he was bearing sin at that very moment. Jesus didn't die as a martyr, or because if he did, God the Father would have looked upon him with pleasure. Jesus at that moment was dying and bearing sin. The Bible says he who knew no sin became sin for us and at that very moment God turned his back at that moment on his son because he could not look upon sin there was a separation What is the essence of the separation? This was not a separation within the members of the Trinity. That could not be possible to happen. This was a separation of fellowship. For that moment in time, Jesus was By himself. He was alone. We heard the men sing, when he died, he died alone. And the scripture says that That for that moment Jesus was separated from the Father with respect to intimacy and fellowship and communion. And by the way, this was the cup that Jesus did not want to drink. This was the thing that Jesus was shrinking back from. He wasn't shrinking back from his duty to be the sin bearer, but he was shrinking back from that moment when he knew that he would have to bear sin and there would be separation. with him and the father. Think about this. Never in eternal history had that ever happened. That there was separation between God the Father and God the Son So there's a sense in which at that moment God's wrath came upon Jesus. God's wrath was falling on him to satisfy his holy demand that sin be punished. Our sins. And then there's number five, words of prophecy. We see words of pardon when he said, Father, forgive them, words of promise. Today thou shalt be with me, words of provision, woman, behold thy son, words of punishment, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? But notice also words of prophecy. Go to John nineteen I love this here in John 19, verse number 28. By this time, Jesus had already been on the cross for six hours. He had been in the sun for three hours, now in darkness for three hours. He had lost much blood and moisture from his body. The Bible says in Psalm twenty two, fifteen, his strength is dried up like a potcher like Clay in the oven. This is prophetic words from the psalmist talking about the cross. But notice what it says here in verse number 28 of John 19. And after this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished That the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst. I love this where it says, that he that all things might be accomplished. You know what this tells me about Jesus? He's in full control here on the cross. Even though he's dying, he knows what's going on. He's aware of everything. And he knows that at this point there's a prophecy that needs to be fulfilled. And so, in order to fulfill that prophecy, he says, I thirst. This reminds me that everything was in God's control. Nothing was out of his control. And so Jesus says that in order to fulfill Scripture. Now you remember in Matthew 27, they tried to give him vinegar. This was right after they nailed him to the cross. They were trying to give him vinegar. In that case it was really kind of like a painkiller, but Jesus refused it. And the reason he refused it is because he wanted to bear the full pain of Being nailed to the cross, he wanted to bear the full pain of suffering for sin. But here when they offer him vinegar, it's something totally different. This is not What they offered in LaFour, this is kind of a a cheap, sour wine the soldiers commonly used this to quench their thirst. There was perhaps a jar of it close by and they dipped the sponge in it and they lifted it up to Jesus and this time he drank but he did it the Bible says to fulfill scripture. What scripture? Psalm 69 verse 21, they gave me also gall for my meat, and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. And so Jesus says, I thirst, but even these words were words that he might fulfill prophecy. But then look at another thing that he said. And again in John chapter 19, look down at verse number 30. And when Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. It is finished to telestim. The whole plan of redemption, the work of paying for sin, is complete. God's wrath has been satisfied Now this word to telesti is a very interesting word. It's used a lot in ancient literature. This was a servant's word, often when a servant would Finish a task that his master gave him, he would come back to the master, and he would say, Tatelastai, it's finished. In a sense, this is what Jesus is saying. Jesus the servant did exactly what the Father told him to do. The Bible says that Jesus said, I have glorified thee on earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. Jesus finished that work. It was an artist's word. It was used by an artist. When an artist or was making a sculpture or a painting, when he finally made the last stroke or finished what he was doing, he would stand back and look at it and he would say to Telestai. And there's a sense in which the cross, you know what the cross was? It was a masterpiece painted by Jesus. When he stepped back and he said, it's finished, it's done. It was a merchant's word. When something was bought and paid for. They would write on a receipt, sometimes on a piece of clay, to telestiy, it is finished. And that's what this means. Jesus paid our debt. It is finished. It was a warrior's word When a warrior was on the battlefield fighting, and finally the battle was completely over, and he looked around, he would say to Telestei, son. The war is over. At Calvary, Jesus was locked in mortal combat with the forces of sin and Satan, and Jesus won. And Jesus said, it's finished. It was a prisoner's word, when a prisoner's debt was paid for. Normally when they were put in prison, the list of crimes was nailed to the door. Did you know the Bible says in Colossians that when Christ was on the cross, it was as if all of our sins were nailed there on the cross, listed there? But when Jesus paid for those sins, he said, it is finished. It was a priest's word. When the high priest would go to the temple. He would take the sacrifice, take it to the brazen altar, cut its throat, the blood would drip into a bowl. He would take that blood, he would go into the holy place. Into the Holy of Holies. He would sprinkle the blood on the mercy seat. He would then come out of the holy place, out to the outer court, and he would say to the crowd of people that were waiting there, these words to telesty. It's done. It's finished. So when Jesus used these words, he was saying at that moment that the cross was the brazen altar. of sacrifice, the cross was the mercy seat where God's wrath is satisfied. Nothing else needed to be done Nothing else needed to be done. Sometimes I hear people say, well, Jesus, you know, he took his blood and went to heaven and sprinkled it on the tabernacle in heaven. Listen, friend, that takes away from the cross. The cross is where it all got done right there. It was finished at that moment. It was complete. When Jesus said it is finished, he meant it. It was done. But then finally, let me give you the last words. Words of peace. Go back to Luke chapter 23. And look at this last thing that Jesus said. Luke chapter 23, verse number 46. Again, in verse 44 it says it was about the sixth hour. This is There was darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. And the sun was darkened. It says In verse forty five, the veil of the temple was ran in the mist. Verse forty six, and when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And those were the final words That Jesus said before he died. He died willingly. This wasn't death in a frenzy of resistance. It wasn't a wretched struggle. He was completely submitted. He was completely at peace. He died peacefully. The Bible says he gave up. Give up here is the idea of just peacefully handing over. Jesus handed himself over, his spirit over to the Father. He died peacefully. He died actually. There are some who argue that he didn't really die. He did die. The Roman soldiers came by to break the legs of the thieves, and they already saw that Jesus was dead. They knew he was dead. They were Roman soldiers who were experts at execution. They knew he had died. He died physically While Jesus' body died, the Bible says that he went and preached to the spirits in prison. His spirit and soul were very much alive But his body died there. He died victoriously there on the cross. And he and he did it for us. He did it for us. Let me just close with this illustration. Rembrandt was perhaps one of the greatest artists in the in the in the world and ever, really. And he often would paint scenes of the cross. Did you know that he had a painting called The Raising of the Cross? And in that painting, which is very famous, you can go see it in museums in Europe. If you look at the painting, he's wearing a blue, he is in actually in the painting. He has painted himself into that scene there where the soldiers are raising the cross after they had just nailed Jesus to the cross, the soldiers are raising it. And there is Rembrandt. In that scene, it's very obvious because in that particular part of the painting it's kind of light while all around is somewhat shadowed and dark. And there he is wearing his blue artist foray As he's raising the cross with the soldiers, he painted himself into that scene. Did you know he also did that again on another painting that he did, one called the three crosses. Again, if you look at that painting, you look at the center, you see Jesus dying there. You see all kind of characters around the cross. Again, it's somewhat shadowed there. But if you look very carefully at the very edge of the painting There again is the image of Rembrandt. He again is there in that portrait. Every time he painted the cross, he painted himself in it. And you know why? Because Rembrandt really believed that it was his sins that crucified Christ. He was the reason why Jesus was dying on the cross. So every time he painted the cross, he painted himself in the scene. And friend, that's exactly what you must do here on this Good Friday. You have to paint yourself in the scene. When you look at the cross, see yourself there. See yourself as being part of those people that crucified Christ. Because, beloved, the truth of the matter is it was my sin, it was your sin that put Jesus on the cross. He died that we might have life. And the greatest thing that you can do today is to go to the cross, see yourself there. You were there. Your sins were there. Your sins were laid upon Christ. But friend, also when you go to the cross and you paint yourself in, make sure you paint yourself kneeling at the cross. Asking for forgiveness. And friend, if you'll do that and mean it, you can have eternal life. All of our hope is in the cross of Christ. All of it. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, I pray that you'll take these words and that, Lord, they would find a hearing in every heart here tonight. That as we come to the cross and we kneel and we see you again, dying for our sins, high and lifted up, bearing the wrath, the holy wrath of the Father. That we would again be drawn in in wonder, love, and praise for what you have done for us. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to paint ourselves into this scene. To see that it was our sins. But Lord help us also to come to the cross now humbly, thankfully, knowing that because of what Christ has done, we have forgiveness. When we trust in the finished work of Christ. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that's never done that, if they've never come to the cross by faith and knelt at the cross and repented of their sin, that tonight would be The time of salvation. So, Lord, speak to hearts. And I'm just wondering with heads bowed and eyes closed, is that your condition tonight? Have you ever been to the cross? Have you ever knelt there by faith? And said, Lord Jesus, I receive you into my heart as my Savior, my Lord. I know that you died for me. You took my sin debt. I'm coming to you today and I'm asking you to save me. I turn from my sin. I turn to you, Lord Jesus. I want to challenge you tonight. If you haven't done that, I want you to do right there where you are. You know, you don't have to walk an aisle to get saved. You can get saved right there where you are There's nothing wrong with confessing Christ, letting it be known publicly that you're one of his. But the truth of the matter is, all it takes is for right where you are. To turn from your sin, to put your faith in what Christ has done for you. And the Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And if you haven't done that, friend, I I encourage you to do it tonight. Would you pray this prayer? You can just pray it in your heart. You don't have to pray it out loud. God can hear your thoughts Would you be willing to say, Lord Jesus, I know that you died for me. I know that you hung in agony on the cross there because of my sins. And so today I turn to you and I ask you to save me, forgive me. Thank you for paying the sin debt for me. With your death. Save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, pray that. Mean it. Reach out by faith. And you know what? You can hear, you can have the words that Jesus said to that thief. You'll be with him in paradise You'll have eternal life because you've trusted in him. Father, bless these words, word to hearing hearts. Use it, we pray, in Jesus' precious name. Amen.