Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of Ephesians, chapter three, as we continue our study in Ephesians three. And I want you to look at verse fourteen. Ephesians 3. 14. And will you stand for the reading of God's Word this morning, please, as we read a few verses here together? Verse 14. For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory To be strengthened with might by His Spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breath and length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge, that you might be filled with all the fullness of God. Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus, throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. Thank you so much you may be seated. To pray with me this morning. Father, thank you for the privilege that we have of worshiping you here. And uh in our worship, Lord, we want to learn from you, from your word. So Father, will you help us and give us understanding into this tremendous passage of scripture that you have for your people, Lord, that we might apply it to our life and receive blessing. So Lord, save souls, strengthen the body of Christ. Build your church for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to talk this morning about laying hold of your spiritual riches. D. Al Moody was a tremendous American evangelist, and he would love to refer to Philippians 4. 19. The verse that says this, My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. And Moody used to call this a blank or a bank check. A bank check. He said, The firm is my God. He said, The promise is shall supply. He said the amount is all you need. The capital is his riches. The address of the bank is in glory, and the signature is Christ Jesus. And then he would say this, he said, the check must be endorsed by the person to whom it is made payable. Well I want to tell you this morning how you can endorse a check. that uh and cash it in the bank of heaven, how that you as a believer can lay hold of the spiritual riches that God has given you in Jesus Christ. This is what Paul wants us to understand here in this chapter. Now, the verses that we just read are a prayer that Paul is praying. Now, this is the second prayer that we see. in the book of Ephesians. The first prayer is in chapter one. That was really a prayer of enlightenment. Paul prayed that we would understand and know how spiritually rich we are. But here, this is a prayer of enablement. Paul here wants us to be able to get our hands on this spiritual wealth And I want you to notice that in this prayer, just like the first prayer in chapter 1, this is a prayer that has to do with the spiritual condition of the inner man. This is not about the material needs of the body. There's nothing wrong with praying for physical or material needs. That's all has its part. But Paul knew that the inner man was the most important part of us, and when we take care of the inner man, the outer man will take care of itself. Too many of our prayers I think are focused on material things or physical things. Not enough of our prayers is focused on our spiritual condition, on our inner man. And that's where the greatest needs are. And that's why this prayer here is so important. It's a prayer that we should learn and we should emulate so that we can lay hold of our spiritual riches. And I want you to notice three qualities of this prayer In order really to lay hold of our spiritual riches, we have to pray. That's the way we do it. We lay hold of those riches through prayer, but it has to be the right kind of prayer. So I want you to see three things here this morning. Number one, to lay hold of our spiritual riches, prayer must have the right posture. It must have the right posture. Look at verse 14 again. For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father. Notice where he says, for this cause, or for this reason. Paul says, here's why I'm praying. And he's pranked because of what he had just shared with the church. Really, it's everything that he's already talked about from chapters one through three Now hopefully you've been here for this whole series in Ephesians, but if not, let me just tell you again what Paul shared with the Church of Ephesus from chapters one to three. That this whole section is filled with tremendous doctrine, astounding truth. And really, that's the motivation for prayer. You know what will put you on your knees as a Christian? When you understand the great truth of God's word, God's word will get us on our knees. And Paul says, here's why I pray, here's why I bow my knees. Well remember in chapter 1, verse 3, God has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. In chapter 1, verse 4, God adopted us, chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world. In chapter 1, verse 6, he accepted us into the beloved. In chapter 1, verses 7 through 9, Christ redeemed us with his precious blood. He made known unto us the mystery of his will. In chapter 1, verses 12 to 14, the Holy Spirit sealed us And that's why we know our salvation is secure, and he has guaranteed our inheritance. In chapter 2, verse 1, God quickened us. While we were dead in our sins, God made us alive. In chapter 2, verses 2 through 4, despite our depravity and our wickedness, God saved us by his grace and made us his children. God saved us that we might do good works that He has before ordained, chapter 2, verses 5 to 10. And then God broke down the wall of partition that separated us from God and us from our fellow man. He's making us all one in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's all in chapter three. All of that is enough to praise God throughout all of eternity. But Paul here says, this is why I bow my knees. This is why I pray based on all of this. And notice his posture. We see here two things. The reverence of a worshiper. He said, I bow my knees. I bow my knees for this cause. Bowing knees was it's common for us. But in Paul's day, that's not really how Jewish people prayed. They didn't really bow their knees. That wasn't a common posture. Typically, Jews would stand upright when they prayed. Sometimes they would have their arms raised up. If you've ever been to Jerusalem or seen Jewish people praying at the at the Wailing Wall, you might get an understanding of what I'm talking about. Their hands raised up, their head lifted up. to God. That's normal, the normally the posture that is used. But in the Old Testament there were many postures of prayer. Abraham stood before the Lord, the Bible says. David sat when he prayed before the Lord. We think about our Lord Jesus where it says he fell on his face in the Garden of Gethsemane when he prayed. Kneeling was done normally in periods of extreme humility or distress. Ezra knelt and prayed. Daniel knelt and prayed. And Paul several times mentions kneeling. Now, having said all that, let me just say this. God is really not concerned about the posture of your body when you pray. I think you can have whatever posture. You can pray sitting, standing, walking, laying, you know, um while you're driving, but please keep your eyes on the road. Whatever works for you. Whatever works for you in prayer. What is more important is not the posture of your body, but it's the posture of your soul. The posture of your heart. And that's what this statement really says. I bow my knees. Paul is expressing a heart of a true worshiper. This is a reverend heart. Prayer above all things is an act of worship to God. And so we bow before the Lord. And when we do that, we are acknowledging that He is sovereign, He is Lord over all, and we are in submission to His. Lordship. And again, for Paul, the thing that really caused him to bow in reverence was the truth of God's word, the truth of what God has given us in Christ. When's the last time that you bowed before the Lord because you were driven there, driven to your knees because of what God's word taught you? So we see the reverence of the worshipper, then the reliance of a child. Look again at verse f fifteen, of whom the whole Family in heaven and earth is name. Paul says, I bow my knees to the Father. The word Father there is the Greek word, has the idea of a Uh ancestor, a male ancestor of a whole family line, someone who begins a family, and then Paul talks about the whole family in verse number 15, the whole family in heaven and in earth. And so this is all of the people of God. This is a reference to the family of God. There's really only two families in all the world. There's the family of the devil, and there's the family of God. You say, Well, preacher, that sounds pretty harsh. Well, let me read you the words of Jesus, John eight forty-four. Talking to unbelievers, this is what Jesus said. You of your father what? The devil. And then later on in 1 John 3. 1, John was writing to believers, and he said this, Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. What incredible privilege that is. Salvation is God taking us out of the family of the devil, placing us into his family, the family of God. And God is now our Father We are adopted into the family. And you know what? The family all we all share the same name. It says in verse 15, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. We bear the name of God. We bear the name of Christ. And we approach God on a parent-child relationship. And so there's an intimacy here, there's a freedom here. You notice how children are free to go to their parents when they have a need. You know, ever notice how children, if they need something, they know how to get it? I know my grandchildren, they know who to come to when they need something. They might not go to mom and dad or grandma. They'll come around to Paw Paul. He likes to spoil. We'll get it from Paul Paul. But children love to, you know, go to a parent when they have a need. And you know, we as parents, we love to give our children things that they need, right? How much more so our Heavenly Father. Jesus said this in Matthew seven eleven, if ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children How much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? It's an incredible privilege to call God our Father. And so to lay hold of our spiritual riches Prayer must have the right posture. But secondly, write this down. Prayer must have the right petitions. Prayer must have the right petitions. Look at verse 16. That he would grant you according to the riches of his glory. Now, Paul, here in this prayer, is going to give us four petitions. And these requests really build upon each other. There are really four requests that one leads to the next, and then that one leads to the next one. And here's the first thing that we should be praying for, inner strength in verse 16. That he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. And so here's the first request. that we would be strengthened with a strength that is not of us, a strength that comes from God. This strength is not of human origin. This is not self-discipline. This is not positive thinking. You know, this is not, you know, that phrase out there, when the going get tough, the tough get going. That's not what Paul's talking about here. This is a strength that refers to a strength that comes from God, not us. It's a source that is outside of us. You know, I have a mobile phone. It's a wonderful intelligent device. But you know the thing about the mobile phone, it doesn't have its own strength. It doesn't have its own source of power. One time I was on a long international flight and my iPhone went dead. I I just couldn't say, hey Siri, come on. When it gets tough, tough get going. So I get up, come on now. Find that inner strength, Terry. It's not going to work. You know what it needs? It needs to be plugged in. It needs to have a source of strength outside of itself. And that's what Paul's talking about here for the believer. We need a strength that is not of us. You know what? We need to stop beating ourselves up over the little strength we we we do have and then pray for a strength that we don't have. Ask it from Almighty God. God is not looking for strong people. He's looking for weak people that will plug into him for his strength. Pray for that inner strength. You know, all of God's giants have been weak people that God has used greatly because they have learned to go to God to find a strength that they don't have. So here's the first request, inner strength. But here's the next one, deep faith. Look at verse 17. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. that ye being rooted and grounded in love. So notice that expression that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. If you're a Christian, Christ already dwells in you, right? So why is Paul saying praying that Christ might dwell in your heart. Now Paul is writing to Christians here, and he's not telling Christian people that are already saved to get saved or to bring Christ into your heart. If they're already saved Christ is there. Christ is already there. So what does Paul mean when he says, pray that Christ may dwell in your heart? Well, the only conclusion we can draw from this Is that Paul is talking about something more than Christ dwelling in us at the point of salvation? He's talking about Christ being at home in our heart. The word dwell here means to settle down or to be at home. It's the idea of being comfortable in a home. And so the idea is that Christ will not be comfortable in the house called our heart until our hearts are controlled by the Holy Spirit of God. Christ may be resident in your life, but is he comfortable there? Is he at home in your heart As a believer. Think of it this way. Imagine you have to move in with a new family. And this family opens their home and they invite you to come in and uh you take up residence in that home. But the way these people live makes you feel very, very uncomfortable. They never throw out the trash or pick up their used dishes. They never uh wash their clothes, they leave food to rot on the cabinets and in the refrigerator. They never sweep or mop. They have animals, but they don't seem to take care of them. And in fact there's a lot of other critters running around there in that house And the house is just a mess. You may live there, but you don't feel at home there until that thing is cleaned up. Well the same can be said of of a Christian's life. Spiritually speaking, Uh Christ can dwell in a believer, but Christ not may not be at home in that believer until that believer is sanctified or the Holy Spirit is cleansing their heart. You see, this verse is not about salvation, it's about sanctification. Christ dwells in the hearts of those who come to him by faith, but is he at home? Or is your life under the control of the Holy Spirit of God? That's the thing. A deep faith. is where the Holy Spirit is cleaning us up. And Christ feels at home he dwells deeply in our heart So Paul said, pray for an inner strength, pray for a deep faith, but here's the next thing, abundant love. Look at verse 17, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted And grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ, which passes knowledge. Now Paul here is going to use two metaphors. He's kind of mixing them together. First he says rooted and then grounded in love. So he's using a metaphor from the world of botany and one from architecture. Rooted is a picture of a growing tree. It has strong roots deep into the ground. It is a solid tree with these deep roots and it's it's growing more and more. That's the idea behind the word rooted and grounded. That picture is a solid building being built upon a strong foundation. The foundation is strong, and the building is going up. It's getting higher and higher And so these two metaphors together picture uh an unshakable love for God that does not fluctuate with circumstances. A strong love, a stable love. That's how the Christian life begins. The Christian life begins when we become rooted in God's love. The foundation is the love of God. And just like a tree grows, so we should grow in our love And that's why Paul says we we need to pray for this. That this love will increase. It may be that you were saved out of a background where not a lot of love was in your life. Perhaps you're in a home there where there wasn't much love. There was a lot of hostility. And when you come to salvation in Jesus Christ, You now come to a family of love in the church. You are now rooted in the love of Christ, but you have trouble maybe growing in that love or showing that love. That's why Paul says, look, we need to pray that we grow in our love. When you place your faith in Christ, that's the beginning. You're rooted and grounded in this love, but now it needs to abound. It needs to grow. You need to grow in your knowledge of Christ and in your Christ-likeness, and then your love will grow Now, what's the motivation for this? The thing that motivates us is comprehending God's love for us. So here's the point that Paul's teaching. The more we comprehend God's love, the more we can love other people. That's the whole point. That's why it says in verse 18 that you might be able to comprehend with all saints What is the breadth and length and depth and height and to know the love of Christ, which passes knowledge? That's kind of paradoxical, isn't it? Paul says, I want you to comprehend this. But also want you to know it passes knowledge. You need to comprehend it. When it says comprehend, it means to lay hold of or seize Paul is praying that we have the power to lay hold or to comprehend the immensity of God's love for us. But also know that while we might know about it, there's no really end to it. It it passes knowledge. You know, but here's the issue that Paul's dealing with. The problem is these are Christians that he's writing to, but they haven't fully appreciated God's love. I don't know about you, but I feel convicted when I read that. Because I feel the same for me. I know that Jesus loves me, but I wonder sometimes if I fully comprehend and appreciate the love. Of God, how immense it is, how deep it is, how wonderful it is. And I think that's true of believers. If we're not careful, friend, we could take for granted them the immensity of the love of God for us. And the way we grow in love is to pray that God help me comprehend. Help me to comprehend the immensity of your love. There's a depth to it I was reading this week about off the coast of Guam, there's what is called the Mariana Trench. It's the deepest place in the ocean. And back in 1962, men climbed into a submersible vessel and they went all the way down to see how far down that they could go. And they went down, it's the it's the world record, it hasn't been broken yet, they went seven miles underwater. Seven miles underwater. I mean the water pressure was just unbelievable. There was a depth there that was just incredible. But I was reading that and I was thinking, as deep as that ocean is, it's nothing compared to the depth of God's love for us. It's like the songwriter wrote, Could we withink the ocean fill? Or were the sky of parchment made, where every stalk on earth a quill and every man ascribe by trade? To write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry. And friend, that is so very true. But the more we think about and meditate on the depth of God's love, the better we are able to love other people. And Paul says there's dimensions here to the love of God. He talks about the breadth of it. Christ's love is wide enough to embrace the whole world. At the throne of God in heaven, there'll be people from every tribe, every language, every country, every tongue, the Bible says, every nation. will be represented there because of the breadth of the love of Christ that reaches around the world. It talks about length. The length of Christ's love extends from eternity to eternity. It is an eternal love that will not let us go. As Spurgeon said, quote, it is so long that your old age cannot wear it out. So long you your continual tribulation cannot exhaust it. Your successive temptation shall not drain it dry. Like eternity itself, it knows no bounds. The height, the height of his love, because it lifts us all the way to heaven, To where we're seated with Christ in heavenly places. It's high enough to take us to heaven, but also the depth of God's love. It's because it caused Jesus to leave heaven and come all the way down here to this earth. It reaches all the way down to where we are. in our sin, and although we were rebels and enemies against God, the love of Christ redeems us from the slave market of sin and makes us an heir with him. That's the depth of God's love. And we can really never get to the end of the immensity of the love of God. But here Paul is saying, look, I pray that you will understand this. Understanding the depth of God's love will help you to grow in love. So we pray for an inner strength, a deep faith, and abundant love. And here's the next one, complete fullness. Look at verse 19. And to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. That's a remarkable request. How can the finite hold the infinite? That I could be filled with all the fullness of God. How can something so small contain something that is so vast, so limitless? You know, it's like standing on a beach looking at the ocean, having a bucket, and you know, looking at that horizon where the ocean has no limit and just taking that bucket and dipping it in the water. That bucket can be filled with the fullness of that ocean, but there's no limit, there's no end to that ocean. There's a sense in which we as finite people We can have a taste of the infinite God, the fullness of God, if we by faith yield ourselves to Him That's what God wants. He wants us to be filled with all of his fullness. And really the word filled here means to be filled to the full. It speaks of total domination. That's the idea. God wants us to be yielded to him so that he's fully dominant in our life. You see, a person who is filled with anger is dominated by hate A person who is filled with wicked desires is dominated by lust. A person who is filled with happiness is dominated by joy. So a person who is filled with the fullness of God will be dominated by God in their life. What a great prayer to pray, that we might be filled with all the fullness of God. But then let me give you the last thing. To lay hold of our spiritual riches, prayer must have the right posture. Prayer must have the right petitions. We pray for inner strength, deep faith, abundant love, complete fullness. But here's number three, prayer must have the right perspective. Look in verse 20. Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us. Now when Paul ends this prayer, really he ends it with a burst of praise to God. Some prayers in the Bible end with a doxology, and this is what Paul's doing here. He's just bursting forth with a doxology Uh w from the Greek word doxos, which means glory, and then and so really it's talking about giving God glory and praise. You just burst forth with praise And this is what he's doing here. But as he gives his doxology, he mentions three things here that we need to keep in mind as we pray. First of all, God's sovereignty. We see that God is sovereign. Now in the Him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. God is sovereign, and his sovereignty means that he can answer prayer far above what we can even imagine. Maybe you're here today and you're in a situation in your life and you say, from my perspective, it looks hopeless. But let me tell you something, friend, God can do above what you think. He can go far beyond what you can imagine. There's no hopeless situation with God. He is sovereign. You know what that means? It means he can do whatever he wants. He has the authority to do whatever he wants. Prayer changes things. Take your situation to God who is able to do above what we even ask or think in our life. But then, God's power. In verse twenty, according to the power that worketh in us, God has the power to do anything he chooses. Again, no prayer is too hard for God to answer, no circumstances beyond his ability. But then here's the next thing in this doxology: God's glory. And verse 21. Unto him be glory in the church. It's all about God's glory. This is the ultimate reason for all things, beloved. We do what we do for the glory of God. And our prayers need to be based upon that one ultimate motive that God would be glorified. Look at your prayers and say, can God be glorified in what I'm asking? If you can ask it in the name of Jesus and know that God will be glorified, friend, you don't have to wonder, God will hear that prayer He will hear that prayer. That's the reason for all things is the glory of God. And that should be our ultimate purpose. Everything that we do should be for the glory of God. Everything. I was reading where Johann Sebastian Bach, the great composer, would always aim to have all of his songs Before the glory of God. So his all the songs that he would compose at the beginning of the song, you could see the initials JJ, which stand for Jesus Juva, which means Jesus help me. And then at the end of every song, you see the letters S D G, which means Sola Deo Gloria, glory to God alone. Because he believed that every song should be done in the help of Jesus and for the glory of God alone. But that should be true of every believer in our life. Everything we should do we do needs to be with the help of Jesus. And it needs to be done for the glory of God alone. That's why God answers prayer. That's why God shares with us his power. Why? So that we can boast and brag? No. So that we do what we do for the glory of God. Glory in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. So we lay hold of our spiritual riches through the right kind of prayer. Prayer must have the right posture. You have to have the reverence of a worshiper, the reliance of a child. Prayer must have the right petition. We pray for inner faith. Deep inner strength, excuse me, deep faith, abundant love, complete fullness, and then number three, prayer must have the right perspective. Stay focused on God's sovereignty, God's power for God's glory. That's why we pray. That's our perspective. Did you hear about the drunk who was down on all fours late one night on a under a street light? He was groping around on the ground. He was feeling around for uh Little cracks, he was looking for something, and a friend came along and said, Notice that was his friend, said Sam, what what are you doing? What are you looking for? He said, I lost my wallet. And I'm looking for it. And so the friend got out of the car and he began to get he got down on his hands and knees and he too was groping around along the cement, feeling in the cracks and looking for the wallet. And finally he said to his friend, he said, Are you sure you dropped the wallet here? He said, of course not. I dropped it a half a block away. He said, well, why are you looking here? He said, because there's no streetlight over there. So I'm looking for it here. Some believers are like that man. You're groping around looking for their spiritual wealth and you can't find it. You know why? Because you're looking in the wrong place. You're looking in the wrong place. Paul tells us here in Ephesians where to look and how to ask for the spiritual riches that God has given us in Christ. God's not hiding it. He's revealing it to us. He wants us to have it. He wants us to learn to lay hold of the spiritual treasures that are ours in Christ. He doesn't want us to live in like a pulper. You are spiritually rich. You need to tap into those resources that God has for you. God is waiting for you to write the check and bring it. So that you can cash in on the spiritual strength and power. Anything that you need in your spiritual life, God is waiting to give it to you. Let's bow for prayer together this morning. With heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just ask you this, friend. If you're here today, maybe you're here visiting for the first time. Maybe you're here because someone invited you. And when we talk about being in Christ and spiritual riches, it kind of it doesn't really register with you. Maybe it's because you haven't made Jesus Christ your Savior and Lord. That's the first step right there. You have to know Christ as your Savior. So let me ask you, does Jesus dwell in your heart? I'm talking about salvation. He wants to enter in, he wants to save you. He wants to cleanse you from all of your sin. He wants to give you eternal life in heaven. That's why he came. That's why he lived a sinless life. That's why he died on the cross. To pay your sin debt. All of your sins were placed upon Jesus on the cross. He died and paid the penalty for your sin. And salvation is now a gift that you receive by faith. You just come and say, Lord Jesus, thank you for dying for me. I know that I'm a sinner. Please come into my heart, Lord Jesus, please save me. And you know what? He will do that. He'll save you. And Christ may dwell in your heart, like Paul said to the Ephesians. We dwell in you. Would you be willing to pray right where, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, save me. Come into my heart. Make me your child And if you pray that, let us know. We want to encourage you along in your Christian faith. We want to encourage you to get into God's Word. Be faithful in church. Be faithful in your daily devotions. Reading God's Word. That's how you grow as a Christian. Maybe there's some believers here, you are saved, you know the Lord, but you're trying to operate in your own strength. And you need to grow in your love. You need to learn to trust in the Lord for his power in your life. Right now, when you just reach out in prayer to God, just tell him, ask for that inner strength that comes. Because you're a believer and it's your spirit, part of your spiritual riches. Ask God for that. Ask God for that deeper faith that Christ might dwell at home in your heart. Ask for that complete fullness as a Christian that's yours. Father, help us. To walk in it the way you've called us. And to not live spiritually like pulpers, but to tap into the wonderful riches that we have in Christ. That we may represent you well in this lost world. And people will see Christ in us and come to know you. Bless this word, Lord, to every hearing heart, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.