Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians. We're in a study in Ephesians on Sunday morning. Ephesians chapter four is where we are going to be this morning and I want you to look at verse thirty. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Ephesians chapter four and verse thirty. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed into the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. You may be seated. Thank you so much Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the Word of God. Lord, give us instruction from it to apply to our lives, to obey you, Lord, in all things that we might be pleasing in your sight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning I want to talk about learning how to forgive. The Spanish have a story about a father and a son who became estranged. And the father sent out to find his son after his son had left home. And he searched for many months with no success. And finally, in desperation, he put out a newspaper ad and it read this, Dear Paco. Meet me in front of this newspaper office at noon on Saturday. All is forgiven. I love you. Your Father. On Saturday, 800 men named Paco showed up looking for their father and his forgiveness. We live in a fallen world where forgiveness is essential to maintaining close relationships. We all need forgiveness. We all need to learn to forgive because we all sin and we all have been sinned against. But people struggle over this issue of forgiveness, asking for forgiveness and granting forgiveness. Sometimes isn't very easy. And really it's according to how deeply you have been hurt. The harder you have been hurt, the harder it is to forgive. Some of you here, you may have been abused emotionally, ph physically, or even sexually by a trusted person, a family member even. Some of you may have children who are abused by um a family member. Some of you have been betrayed, perhaps, by an unfaithful spouse, a spouse that you loved and you care for deeply. These kinds of wrongs are Not easy to forgive. But if you're a Christian, granting forgiveness is not optional. We have to learn to forgive. Jesus said it like this. He said, look, if you don't forgive others, your Heavenly Father is not going to forgive you for your transgressions. And I need God's forgiveness in my life, so I need to learn how to forgive others. And also, if I want to worship God acceptably, I have to forgive. Jesus said this, look, he said, look, if you're worshiping God and you remember that your brother has ought against you, you need to go and you need to be reconciled with your brother. Leave your gift at the altar, go and be reconciled. So in order to worship God in an acceptable way, we have to grant forgiveness and we have to f uh learn to ask forgiveness. So I want us to learn from our passage four principles that I see here in Ephesians 4 about forgiveness. First of all, there's the mandate. for forgiveness. In our passage, the Apostle Paul is teaching us ways that we put on the new man. If you were with us last week in our study, we talked about that. Sanctification is likened to being to putting off old soiled garments and putting on new clothes That's an image that Paul uses. He kind of takes it from the Old Testament. And if you're a believer, now that you're in Christ, you take off the old clothes of your former life, those soiled garments, and you put on the new garments of salvation We're told what to put off in verse 22 of Ephesians 4. We're told what to put on in verse 24, and we're told what to put away, and we saw that in verse number 25. In these last verses of Chapter 4, Paul is emphasizing the need to take off the garments of bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking, and we are to replace it with the new garment of forgiveness. Look at verse 31. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away with you away from you with all malice. Paul says, let's put these things away. And when he says this, this is not a suggestion. This is an imperative in the Greek. Remember I told you Greek verbs have different moods. This is in the imperative. It's a command. God is commanding us to put away Bitterness, wrath, and so on. And notice there's a progression in the way Paul gives these terms. He starts from the inside and he moves outward. Bitterness, that's an inner attitude, a resentful attitude. Its outward expression is a outburst of rage, seething anger, to be verbally abusive, that's clamor. It all concludes with it with malice, which just kind of covers all of the forms of anger that he mentions here. Let's look at these words here. Bitterness. That's a word that means a smoldering resentment. Bitterness develops over time as we nurse a grudge, maybe a wrong committed against us. wrong that her husband committed against her over the years of marriage. She thought she had an airtight case for for her anger, for her wrath, and the pastor told her to burn that book. And of course she refused. She never came back to counseling after that. She would rather burn inwardly than burn the book. And the Bible warns about the danger of bitterness. In Hebrews 12, verse 15, it says, it will root up in us, that root of bitterness will defile us. Bitterness is an acid that destroys its own container. And it'll hurt you. But then he means then he mentions wrath here. Again, it means to boil over. Just an outburst of anger. I read one time where that in the spring of 1894 the Baltimore Orioles went to Boston to play a routine baseball game But what happened that day was anything but routine because the manager of the Orioles at that time, John McGraw, got into a fight with the third baseman of the Boston Red Sox, and it resulted in a brawl and all the platters jumped in and then people out of the stands And as a result, uh someone lit the fire to the stadium, to the stands, and it caught fire, and then the fire, uh not only the entire ballpark was consumed with the fire, but it actually caught some buildings in Boston on fire And a hundred and seven Boston buildings were caught on fire as well. That's the result of anger. Anger, someone said, is one letter short of danger. And then he and then he mentions anger here. This is a constant attitude. He's talking here about an inner constant attitude. I mentioned this last week. For some people it's their default mode. They just they're angry all the time. I mean that's their defining personality. They want to be angry. They live in anger. That's what they know. Uh and you try to find a reason to be angry all the time. And by the way, that is what we see in our society. Our society today is fueled by anger. I don't think in my lifetime I've ever seen so many angry people. And and again, it's uh it it's being fueled by psych psychology. People are being told you have a right to be angry And you know, they feed it. Your anger is justified. You you've been mistreated. You are a victim. You need to be angry. I saw a cartoon where a little boy was asking his father for something and the father was trying to teach the little boy manners and he said, What do we say when that you know what do we say that gets us what we want? And the little boy said, I'm offended. It used to be pleased. Now it's I'm offended or I'm angry, you know. Ecclesiastes 7. 9, be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry, for anger rests in the bosom of fools. Solomon says anger to be angry all the time, that's that's foolishness. But yet this is what's driving our society. It's in our music, it's in our films. The most popular movies are the one about anger and vengeance. It's in our schools, universities, it's in our families, it's everywhere. And Paul said, you've got to put this off. This is not to be named among those who are children of God. You need to put it off. And then clamor, that again that's a verbal outburst. This is a person who has the personality of a double barrel shotgun with a hair trigger, and when properly provoked, they explode all over everyone with verbal abuse And and Paul says, that's that's wrong. You can't do that. And then evil speaking is the word blasphema, where we get the word blasphemy, it means the slander. And this is someone on a or not campaign because of bitterness they're trying to destroy someone else. All of this is because of a refusal to forgive. But Paul says, look, you have to put that away. That's not to be among you. Not only the mandate for forgiveness, but the meaning. What does it mean in the Bible to forgive? And let me just give you several things that the Bible teaches with regard to forgiveness. First of all, biblical forgiveness is a deliberate decision. Look again at verse number 32. And be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. The thing I notice about Ephesians 4 verse 32. Again, it is a command. God commanded us to put away these negative emotions, and he's commanding us to forgive. An imperative mood. Now, that's how I know that this is not really an emotion. Sometimes people will say, well, I don't feel like forgiving. Well that that's really beside the point. You don't command a feeling. God is just saying you forgive. It is a deliberate decision. God didn't say do it because you feel like it. God said, just do it. And certainly forgiveness doesn't come naturally to fallen creatures. We have a tendency to be driven by our emotions and our feelings so much. And if we indulge these bitter feelings, it's going to be hard for you to learn to forgive. You don't indulge those feelings. You make a decision. It is a willful decision. You put aside these negative emotions and you make a decision to forgive. And those who say, Well, I'm not going to forgive until I feel like it, well, you'll never learn to forgive. You'll never learn to truly forgive. You just You just do what God says do. You make a deliberate decision to forgive, and you know what? Your heart will catch up to you later. You just do the right thing. Those who forgive, even when it's hard, find that proper emotions will follow Listen to what Jesus said. Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you. Those are all willful, deliberate, rational acts. They're not emotional reactions. Those are deliberate, emotional, or excuse me, willful decisions. Obey Christ's commands to do these things. And you know what? Your again your heart will will catch up. It's it's a it's a ch it's a choice that you make. A friend of Clara Barton, the founder of the American Red Cross Cross, once reminded her of an especially cruel thing that someone had done to her many years ago and but Miss Barton didn't seem to recall it. And her friend said, Don't you remember this? And Miss Barton said, I distinctly remember forgetting it. That's forgiveness. And forgiveness involves at least five aspects. First of all, it's to release the offender from the guilt of his sin. You see, when God forgives us, he brings the gavel down and he says, not guilty. And that's what forgiveness is. It's when you choose to put bring the gavel down and say, not guilty. To the offender who offended you, not guilty. I'm releasing you. from the guilt of this. I'm releasing you from the prison of my heart. You're in the no longer in debtor's prison in my heart. I'm releasing you from that. It is a deliberate choice that you make. It's to refuse to bring up the offense to use against that person. Listen to Hebrews 8. 12. For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more. Again, Hebrews 10, 17, and their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. God doesn't forget our sins and iniquities because he has divine amnesia. That's not what that means. Rather, it means he will not bring up any of our offenses anymore in the future. They're gone in that respect. We don't have to fear standing before God one day and God bringing up something in the past that we had done that he's already forgiven. It's gone. It's over with. God says, I'm not going to remember that anymore. So to forgive someone is to promise not to bring up the matter to use against them again. You're not going to bring it up. You're not it's uh number three is to refuse to think about the offense. Thank God God is not in heaven rehearsing our sins every day. They're forgiven. He doesn't think about them. And that's has to be with us. We we have to Deliberately choose not to think about it. We release them from the prison of our heart. We will not bring it up again, and we don't dwell on it. We don't think about it. It's over. It's in the past. But it's also to refuse to talk about talk to others about the offense. If you say that you forgive someone, and then you go out and you tell everyone else about the offense. Then you really haven't forgiven. You're trying really to make the offender pay for forgiveness Or you're trying to evoke some kind of sympathy or admiration from others because of how much you have forgiven, when you forgive, you choose to drop the matter. You don't bring it up again, you don't talk about it, you don't think about it, you don't bring it up to others. It's over. But also to be reconciled with the offender is far as biblically possible. God forgives us so that he might be reconciled to us. And that's what forgiveness is. We forgive in order that the reconciliation may take place. As far as is biblically possible. Obviously, if there has been a serious breach of trust, that person, even though they're forgiven, still has to build back that trust, right? We understand that. But as much as biblically possible, you are reconciled to that person. This doesn't mean that you have to be the best of friends. But the forgiveness is there. You definitely don't say I forgive you, but I never want to see your ugly face again. That one doesn't work. That's not the way God treats us. So biblical forgiveness is a decision to release the offender from the guilt of their sin, to refuse to talk about the offense. Think about the offense, talk about the offense to others, to be reconciled as much as is vividly possible to that person after the offense. So it's a deliberate choice. But secondly, biblical forgiveness is undeserved. Someone say, yeah, well they don't deserve forgiveness. Well, yeah, I know. Guess what? Neither did I, neither did you when God forgave us. God forgives us by grace alone, which is undeserved favor. If someone has to earn it, it's not really forgiveness, is it? You're making them pay the debt. So forgiveness is undeserved, but biblical forgiveness is total. It's total. God doesn't just forgive some of our sins and then bring some of others up No, God forgives all of our sins. So we can't say to a person, well, I'll forgive you for this, but I'm not going to forgive you for this. Forget it. As if you're bartering. Oh yeah, for the big offense, for the little offenses I'll let go. But I can't let this one go. I can't forgive for this. That's not biblical forgiveness. It must be total. And then also biblical forgiveness is final. You can't say to a person, well, I forgave you yesterday, but I'm not forgiving you today. Not doing it today. God's forgiveness for us, I'm glad God's not that way because his forgiveness for us is eternal. It's eternal. God doesn't say if you do that again, I'm revoking you all of your previous forgivenesses. That's not the way God operates. He forgives us finally, totally, completely. Again in Hebrews 10, 17, their sins and their iniquities I will remember no more. So to forgive a person is to dismiss the case against them completely, finally, totally, forever. Gone. It's over with. You can't bring it up. That's the meaning of forgiveness in the Bible. So there's the mandate for forgiveness, there's the meaning of forgiveness, and then number three, there's the model. Notice the pattern again in verse 32. And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven you. We are to forgive like God forgives. Now, again, how does God forgive? Now there are two views on this. There's really some debate among some about what this actually means. And so let me just give this to you really quickly. First of all There's the debate of conditional versus unconditional. Now some say that this means conditional forgiveness. And they'd reason like this. God forgives only those who repent. So then we don't have to forgive someone until they've repented. If they don't repent, if they don't acknowledge what they've done wrong, we don't have to forgive. In fact, there are some good counselors that teach this. For example, Jay Adams, who I respect, says it like this. He said, It should go without saying that since our forgiveness is modeled after God's, it must be conditional. Forgiveness by God rests on clear, unmistakable conditions. The apostles did not merely announce that God had forgiven men. Paul and the apostles turned away from those who refused to meet the conditions just as John and Jesus did earlier when the scribes and the Pharisees would not repent. So he's saying basically in the Bible, God will forgive conditionally, he'll forgive upon a person's true repentance. Now, there's some merit in that position of Jay Adams. There are times when forgiveness must be conditional. I agree with there are times when it must be conditional. I agree with that. And we'll talk about that in a minute. But I disagree on this position that he takes. To make conditionality the gist of Christ-like forgiveness seems to miss the whole point of what Scripture says. When Scripture instructs us to forgive in the manner that we have been forgiven, what is in view is not the idea of holding forgiveness until the offender expresses repentance. That's not what is in view there. For example, listen to these verses, Matthew 6, 12. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. For if ye f for if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your heavenly father forgive your trespasses. In other words, this this here there's no conditionality there. You just forgive people that have sinned against you. You just forgive. That that's the way you're to operate. James 2. 13, for judgment will be merciless to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. Again, there's no conditionality there. Matthew 18, 35. So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses. So these these verses all emphasize freely forgiving, generously willing to forgive. Quick, immediate forgiveness from the heart with no conditions. That I I call this the default mode of the Christian. I'm just gonna f Forgive people who sin against me and I'm going to do it freely, I'm going to do it without condition, I'm going to do it immediately, I'm not going to hold anything against anyone. That is I think the idea of what Jesus is talking about when it says we are to forgive. Now, most people think that every offense demands a formal confrontation and you have to elicit a an apology and then and only then can you forgive And that's the way we're to do it all the time. I mean, the offender has to ask for forgiveness before we give it. And some people they hold to this opinion, and so therefore they never really forgive. They become these obsessive confronters. They're always confronting people about every little thing that they've ever done in order for that person, in order to forgive that person Now think about that. Think about if a person all the time confronted you about every little thing that you ever did, would that relationship not get to be a little bit odious after a while? And I I deal with this in marriage counseling all the time with with husbands and wives, where I teach, look, the Bible teaches that love covers a multitude of what? It just covers it. In other words, that's the you just freely forgive offenses and you freely forgive things that you've done wrong. If you demand for every little thing that's done against you To confront that person in order to elicit an apology in order to forgive, you're going to live a really difficult life. Because you're going to be confronting people all the time about things. Let me just say I want to go on record and say, I thank God that my wife doesn't confront me about all the things I do wrong. Because that would be hard. And you know what? We shouldn't be that way to others. Now again, there are times when we have to confront There are times when we have to be conditional in our forgiveness. There's no question about that. And the Bible makes it clear when we are to be conditional in our forgiveness. But that's not our default mode. Our default mode is just unconditional forgiveness. I'm just going to freely forgive. I'm going to let it go. I'm going to cover that offense with love. Because love covers a multitude of sins. You say, well when do we have to be conditional? Well Jesus taught that there are certain situations when a brother and sister has to be confronted. We call this the process of restoration, or some call it the process of church discipline. Jesus taught about it in Matthew 18. If your brother sins against you, go and talk to your brother. Go confront them. Talk to just you and them alone. But most of the time, however, we are to overlook the offense. Our forgiveness is unconditional. It's unilateral It is, you know, quietly, we don't make a big deal about it. We just we just forgive. Write down 1 Peter 4:8. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. Proverbs 1012. Hatred spurs up strife, but love covers all offenses. 1 Corinthians 13, 7. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. And uh we see this again here in Ephesians verse 32. There's a humility, a gentleness, a tender-heartedness that needs to come with our forgiving other people. Unconditional forgiveness is what he's talking about here. And that's why he said earlier in in chapter four, look back in um Chapter 4, verse number 2, with all lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love. That's what that means there. We just put up with each other. We just we bear with each other. We we just And you have to have forgiveness in order to do that. Living with each other, we forbear one another in love. We just freely, unilaterally, unconditionally, we forgive. Now you say, well, again when do we when do we confront? Um Well, let me just give you a few points about this here. First of all, whenever possible, especially if the offense is petty or unintentional, it's best to forgive unconditionally. If someone's offended you, if it's petty, unintentional, just forgive them. Just let it go. Don't bring it up. Again, that's what it's teaching here about being forbearing. That's what we see in Joseph after he forgave his brothers. for all their offenses. But also number we also um if if you're the only injured party, even if the offense was public and flagrant You may choose to forgive unconditionally. If you're the only one offended, again, even if it's flagrant, even if it's public, just forgive it. Just let it go. Number three, if you observe a serious offense that is a sin against someone other than you, then you have to confront the offender. I can forgive offenses against me I can forgive when people do things against me, but when I see someone doing someone something against someone else, hurting someone else, then I may need to go and confront that other that brother. In that case here, I see that someone else has been sent against. It's my duty to seek peace and justice on behalf of others in that And the Bible tells us in Exodus 23, verse 6, you shall not pervert the justice due to your needy brother and his dispute. I am to help others get their due, to get their justice. And so I might have to confront someone else on the behalf of others. I might have to do that. And then number four, when ignoring the offense might hurt the offender That's when confrontation is necessary. If I see if someone sins against me, and I see that what they've done against me is not really going to hurt me, it's really going to hurt them more If I see someone sinning, you know, in a way that in a pattern of sin that is destructive to their own personal life and behavior, then I'm going to go confront them. You know why? Because I'm I I love them. It's not about me. It's about them. I don't want them to continue in this destructive pattern of behavior because it's going to end badly for them. So now I'm going to confront them because what does the Bible say? We're to bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. And if I see a person in this pattern of sin, I don't want them to continue in that pattern. And so that's where Matthew 18 comes in. That's where I have to say, look, you sinned against me. And the church and I need to go to you and I because I don't want you to continue this. And the Bible says if they hear you, then you what? You've gained your brother But again, I'm doing it not out of a selfish motive. I'm doing it because I don't want them to continue in this terrible pattern of behavior that'll be so destructive to them. But then number five, when a sin is scandalous or otherwise potentially damaging to the church, confrontation is necessary. If I see a person engaged in a sin that's going to cause damage to the body of Christ, that change the name of Christ Then I have to go to that person. I have to confront them. A dear lady showed me an article in a paper about a pastor who confronted a lady in his church who was a gossip. And he was practicing church discipline for the sin of gossip. And they were asking me, was this the right thing to do? Well, yeah, absolutely. Because gossip is destructive. It's divisive. It will hurt others. It will hurt the body of Christ. So there are times when you have to confront someone because of the nature of that sin and how damaging it can be. We see this in the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, when he confronted what the behavior of a certain individual in the church there, it was so scandalous that it was uh Paul said a little leaven leavens the whole lump. That one little sin spreads throughout the body of Christ. It's going to hurt the whole church. So now I have to confront that. Now I have to deal with that. And so Number six, anytime the offense results in a broken relationship, that's when confrontation is necessary. If if this sin has severed a tie, broken the relationship. Then there has to be that confrontation and there has to be the formal recognition of things that you've done wrong and then you you elicit a response. You confront at that point But it's like I tell people all the time when I counsel, especially married couples, these three sentences will really help you if you learn them. You ready for it? I want you to write this down I'm sorry. I was wrong. Please forgive me. Just say it. I'm sorry. I was wrong. Please forgive me. I say it so much I say it in my sleep. Sorry. It was wrong. Please forgive me. If you just say that and mean it from your heart, then there can be that reconciliation in that relationship. And so, but other than that We forgive we through we forgive freely. We forgive unconditionally. Again, it is our default mode. You know, sometimes people will come up and by the way, if you've done something against me and I don't know it, please don't feel the need to come up and tell me. I want you to forgive me for what? Well I had really bad thoughts about you. Uh please don't please don't unload that baggage on me. I don't need to hear that. I don't need to know that. Just uh you know what? You were forgiven before you said that. All right? You're forgiven. Okay? That's our default mode. Let me give you the last thing quickly and we gotta go, and that is the motive for forgiveness. What is the motive? Why do we need to learn biblical forgiveness and practice it? Well, back up to verse 30. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you're sealed into the day of redemption. You know what grieves the Holy Spirit when we don't forgive? I've counseled married couples where one will say, I just can't forgive them. I just can't forgive them. And I said, well, what's what's your other option? What's the other option? You want to live in bitterness? You want to grieve the Holy Spirit of God the rest of your life? Because you can't seem to forgive this person? For what they've done? You've destined yourself to a life of bitterness and anger and grieving the Holy Spirit of God. And by the way, you know why the Holy Spirit grieves? He grieves because he loves you. He grieves because he loves the other person. He grieves because he's holy. And for you not to forgive, you're holding on to that sin. That's going to be a stumbling block and a hindrance in your life for the rest of your life. But you grieve the Holy Spirit of God when you don't forgive. But here's another motive. It glorifies God when we do forgive. It glorifies God. Again in verse 32, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. The motive in forgiving others should be to glorify the God who has forgiven you for so much. He's forgiven you for so much, so therefore you forgive others And by doing that, you bring praise and honor and glory to Jesus Christ. You say, what if the offense is great? Well, the greater the offense and the greater for the forgiveness, the greater the glory to God. So you forgive and you remember how much God has forgiven you. Jay Adams Illustrates how much God has forgiven us by saying this. Imagine sitting in a movie theater. The theater is packed and the show is about to begin. You discover that this movie is an unedited, undeleted story of your entire life The soundtrack will contain everything that you've ever said. In fact, the movie will project everything you've ever thought, including all the things that you would have liked to have done if you thought you could have gotten away with it. Every one of us here today is relieved that a movie like that about us doesn't exist. Well let me tell you, in the mind of God it does exist. Because God knows all about all of that. He has that movie reel. And you know what God does with it? He casts it into the deepest sea. He throws it away and he doesn't remember it anymore. We've been forgiven for all of that. And that should be the motivation in our heart to forgive others who have sinned against us. Amen. Let us bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for forgiving us. Because of Christ. Thank you for our Savior who came to this world sinless, the virgin-born Son of God, who fulfilled all the law perfectly on our behalf. And he who knew no sin took upon him the sins of us all. He drank from that bitter cup. That we would have our sin debt paid. That complete, total forgiveness could be rendered to us. Thank you, Father, for forgiving us for all of our sins and our iniquities. Thank you, Lord, that they're cast into the deepest sea and they're remembered no more May we glory and rejoice, Father, in this unspeakable gift, this incredible forgiveness that you've given us in Christ. And Lord, help us to have the grace to pass this along to others. Lord, may we free from the prison of our heart all debtors. All those who have sinned against us, may we be able to honestly say before you this morning that there's nothing in my soul. There's no one that I haven't forgiven. I've released all prisoners The gavel has come down, not guilty. Because you've forgiven me, I forgive others. Lord, let this be the condition of every heart here today. May we rejoice in your forgiveness. May we render it to others that you might be glorified. And we pray in Jesus' name.