God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of 1 John. Is where I want you to find, and we're going to look at verses 1 down to verse number 6. Will you stand for the reading of God's Word as we read these few verses here together as a congregation? Look in verse 1 of chapter 4. Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the world. And hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God. And every spirit that confesses not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God. And this is the spirit of Antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should come, and even now already is it in the world. You are of God, little little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. They are of the world, therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them We are of God. He that knoweth God heareth us. He that is not of God heareth us not. And hereby know we the Spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me today? Father, thank you again for the privilege we have of digging into the Word of God. And we know that we need the help of the Holy Spirit in every way. So, Holy Spirit, please help me as I present the truth. Help me to do it with clarity. And help those who listen to receive the truth and to apply it to their lives. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So in our study in 1 John, I'm going to preach this morning on this topic, learn to discern. Learn to discern. Now, have you ever heard the word eureka? That's not a word that we use a lot around nowadays, but do you know what the the word actually means? I remember studying uh uh in my Greek class when you had to memorize all these Greek vocabulary words. The eureka the word eureka means I have found or I have found it. That's the idea. Now this was a word that was used by California gold prospectors. in the eighteen hundreds when they were prospecting for gold and they would find uh what they thought was a gold nugget, they would cry out Eureka. But these prospectors soon learned that not everything that glittered in the creek was gold. There was a thing out there called fool's gold or it's called iron pyrite. And uh and so they would have to look very carefully at what they had, whether it was real gold or whether it was fool's gold. And for the experienced miner they could do that, but it was very easy to be deceived in this area. And so what they did is they developed some tests on how to know the difference between real gold and fool's gold. And the tests were very simple. And you might want to use these sometimes, you know, as you're looking at that fellas, when you're looking for a ring to give to your uh to your future wife Uh you want to know if it's real gold. Well hit this is what they would do. First of all, they would bite down on the either the rock or the coin. And why was that? Well because gold is softer than the human tooth And so by biting down they could tell whether it was real gold or not. So take that ring, guys, and just kind of No, I'm kidding, don't do that. The other test was uh they would take the real gold when you would uh you know scrape it against either uh a white rock or ceramic it would leave a yellow streak but fool's gold would leave this this greenish black residue So by doing that they could tell what was real and what was not. But when they found the real thing, after biting down They would cry out, Eureka, I found it. I found the real gold. Now spiritually speaking, we live in a world today where we need to test things to see if it's real because in the spiritual world how many of you know that not everything that glitters is gold? Not everyone who claims to be from God is really truly from God And so John here is going to help us because he's going to teach us some methods on how to discern what is really of God and what is not of God, what is real gold and what is fool's gold. Because I want to tell you something, beloved. We live in a very dangerous world today, spiritually speaking, because there's a lot of people out there claiming to speak for God, speaking things that seem like they're of God, but actually it's not of God And so we have to be very, very careful. I believe the church today, uh the church abroad is lacking in this thing called spiritual discernment. There are so many Christians that are allowing themselves to be influenced by teachers and preachers that are not of God. And so we need to understand that not everyone who claims to speak for God is truly of God. And so John is calling upon us here to test the Spirits. Look at verse number one. We read it a minute ago. Look at verse 1. Beloved Believe not every spirit, but try the spirits, whether they are of God. Because many false prophets are gone out into the world. Now the word spirit here can be interpreted in one of three ways. When he says try the spirits, he's not talking about ghosts or the paranormal world, okay? He's not saying that you need to be out there and you need to be demon hunters All right, that's not what he's talking about. Uh I remember one time years ago a guy called me up and he said, Pastor, I need you to help me to cast the demon out of this person. And it is a woman and I have her in a hotel room and I want you to come and cast the demon out of her And uh true story. And I say, let me pray about it. No. I don't think so. I'm not gonna go to a hotel w uh hotel room with a woman and try to cast the demon out. Forget it. It's ridiculous. A lot of Christians feel like you know they have that ministry of going around and doing all that. That's not what John is talking about here. When he when he says spirit here It could be used one of three ways. It could be the spirit behind the prophet who is speaking. Many false prophets have gone out into the world, in which case it referred to either uh A false spirit or the Holy Spirit. What is it? Is it this what is the spirit that is speaking or actually using this person? So it could be the spirit behind the prophet. Or it could be, this word spirit could mean prophet himself, a figure of speech meaning the actual prophet, or it could mean the message. Spirit meaning the figure a figure of speech as a metaphor for the message that he is preaching. I think that the correct understanding of this is that it's a reference to the spirit behind the prophet. Is that person speaking of the Spirit of God, or are they speaking of another Spirit? And I think the reason for this is that there seems to be a contrast here in this passage. between the Spirit of God and the Spirit of Antichrist. As we're going to see that here in the passage here. And we see that really in verse number two and three, where he says, Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. And every spirit that confesses Jesus Christ has come in the flesh. And then in verse number three, we see the spirit of Antichrist. Every spirit that doesn't confess Jesus has come in the flesh, that is the spirit of Antichrist. So I think that's why this is really referring to the spirit behind the person who is making the claim to be of God. And so there's a contrast then between the Spirit of God and the Spirit of the Antichrist. the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. When a person speaks, uh What spirit is behind them? What spirit is empowering them? Now in order to know that, there are just a few tests that John is going to give us. And I want you to just see really in this passage for basic guidelines that will help us to discern what spirit it's from. First of all, write down what I call listen discerningly. Listen discerningly There are two commands here in verse number one. The first command is, don't believe everything you hear. Okay, look at verse one. Beloved, believe not every spirit. Believe not is what is called by Greek scholars a prohibition imperative. We could describe it like this. John is actually saying, stop believing every spirit. In other words, it's commanding an action to stop that has already begun. So evidently there were already some in John's time that were believing everything that they were hearing. When a person would stand up and say they were of God, people would automatically believe that. And John is saying, look, stop that. Stop that. Again, he's writing to believers that were learning to have discernment. And again, there are so many out there today that don't have spiritual discernment. believing everything that is being said. And so we have to develop this discernment because that is a mark of spiritual maturity. You know, when our children are small crawling around on the carpet, we have to watch them why? Because a baby will pick up anything off the floor and put it in its mouth, right? Why? Because they don't have any any discernment And the same is true spiritually. Spiritually, as we grow and mature in Christ, we discern what we will receive and what we will not receive. That's the whole principle here. So stop believing every Spirit, every everything that says they are from God, or every person that says, we are from I am from God. And that's one of the reasons why God gives to the church pastors, because the ministry and job of a pastor is to teach the truth of God's word, so you will grow in Christ. So you will develop that discernment that you need to have. Write down Hebrews 5, verse number 13. For everyone that is as uses milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he is obeyed. Verse 14, but strong meat belongeth to them that are of a full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. So you need to grow from being a spiritual babe to being more mature, and what is the mark of that? That you're able to discern between what is true and what is not true. Or even more specific, what is almost true and what is true. You have to know what is real truth. And so the second command here is test everything you hear. Again, in verse number one, try the spirits whether they are from God. Now the word try here or test, we could say, is a Greek word. It's the word dokumas. And let me describe how this word was used back in John's day. Back in John's day, it was used to talk about real coins, coins that were authentic versus coins that were not. You see, in the ancient world, they didn't have banking systems the way we do today, and they weren't able to really mint things the way we do today in such a precise way. And when they made coins, they would just they would melt down the the precious metals, put it into a mold And after it would dry, they would kind of smooth out the edges. But some people who were dishonest would rather than smooth out the edges of the coin, they would shave off the edges. Therefore giving a false balance. It wasn't really legit in that way. And so the coin was thus counterfeit For example, in Athens, Greece, there were 80 laws that were passed to stop the practice of shaving coins and putting them in circulation. And so coins had to be tested, and the word that was used there is documus. They had to be documus tested to see if it was a legitimate weight And when it was legitimate, it was declared, approved, and that's the essence of the word here, tested and found to be authentic. That's what documus means. Tested and found to be authentic. And so John here is commanding us to use discernment to test, to make sure that what people hear is truly of God. It's authentically of the Lord. And that's where discernment comes in in the simplest Definition, discernment is the ability to know whether something is authentic from God and whether it is not. And that is something that all of us need to develop in this dangerous world. And again, this is because uh our we have a society today that is extra that exalts relativity That basically truth is relative. It's only meaningful if it's meaningful to me. And that causes a lot of confusion And the problem today is that we fail to be antithetical in the way that we think. That is to say that there is white and there is black, there is truth and there is error, there is right, there is wrong Everybody wants to make things gray. And there's no antithetical thinking that is in our world today, and thus we have very little discernment, because if you're going to have discernment, you have to have an absolute You have to have absolute truth. You have to have a guide. And you know what our guide is? It is the Word of God God's word is the absolute truth that we have to use. So relevant Christianity today is now relative. It's all subjective. It's all experiential. I even find people out there teaching people to go by your feelings. Go by your subjective emotions. And stop being so antithetical in the way that you approach theology and doctrine. And that is a very dangerous thing to do. Paul, when he went through Berea, taught, he did what he always would do. He would go into the synagogue and he would give them truth from the Old Testament. And some places he was kicked out, but when he went to Berea, the Bible says the Bereans Heard what Paul said, and they they searched the scriptures to see if what he said was so. And Luke, when he wrote Acts, said, these were more noble. When Paul went to Thessalonica, they received the truth, and it was a wonderful thing. But Luke says those in Berea were even more noble than those in Thessalonica. Why? Well, because when they heard what Paul said, they searched the scriptures for themselves to see if it was true. And he said, That's more notable. I remember one time I heard a a megachurch pastor. This was when I was in college. And he got up and I'll never forget, he said this. He said, There are three groups of people here in this room. He said group number one are people that believe everything I say just because I say it. He said group number two are those people who hear what I say, they evaluate it, and then they decide whether or not to believe me And then he said there are people in group number three, and that's people who don't believe anything I say. He said, my goal is to move everyone from group three to group one. From group three to group one where you don't believe anything I say, but then now where you believe everything I say. I remember sitting there as a college student thinking, that's not what I would want. My goal would be to move everyone from group three to group two. Listen to what I say. Use your own discernment and evaluation through the Scripture, the Word of God, and then decide whether or not you will believe it. And the Apostle Paul would say the exact same thing. Paul said this to the Thessalonians in 1 Thessalonians 5. 21, prove all things. Hold fast to that which is good. The word prove here is the exact same Greek word documents. Test what you hear to make sure it is genuine. And then hold to that which is good. Hold on to what is spiritual truth. You can test what you hear. I don't expect you here today to believe everything I say just because I say it. Because I, you know what, I'm trying to give you exactly the Word of God the way God wants you to have it. But you know what? Sometimes I might be wrong. Now, I don't know anywhere that I'm wrong. Because if I knew where I was wrong, I would correct it. I would make it right. I would submit myself to the Scripture. So I'm right on everything. No, I'm just kidding. But you understand, I mean, I'm I am s under the Word of God just like you are. I have to be submitted to the scripture just like you are And my whole heart's desire, because believe me, beloved, one day I'm going to have to stand before the King of Kings. And I'm going to have to give an account to him. For everything that I have taught, and everything that I have said, and I promise you, that is a fearful prospect So I want to make sure that I'm giving it to you right. But you have to hold me accountable. You have to search the scriptures for yourself. Listen discerningly. But here's number two, moving along, listen defensively. We should be just like those Bereans. Test everything that we hear. Why? Well, because look at the rest of verse number one. Because many false prophets are gone out into the world. Very simply because there's so much deception out there, many out there to deceive you, you have to use caution. You have to use caution. Okay? I remember one Wednesday night, a few years ago, I was driving home from church and I got hit. I was it was a stoplight that was flashing because there was kind of a malfunction. And I remember that everyone was taking their turn going through the the flashing red light like you're supposed to do, right? And it was my turn to go through and when I went through a lady just hit me, T-boned my my uh my SUV. And she was going so fast that it flipped me over and I landed on it was on the roof. I was, you know, upside down I remember poor Mrs. Barbara Hilton was f following me and she she texted her husband and said, I think the pastor's dead. And then uh then she said, wait a minute, he crawled out of the back. And by the grace of God I was able to crawl out the back of it. And I'm still in my suit, you know, brushing off the dust, coming out of the the SUV. And uh later on uh an insurance report was made on it and they they determined it was not my fault But in a sense, it was my fault. You say how? I'll tell you how. I forgot one basic principle that was taught to me by my driving instructor When I was first learning to drive, and what is it? Drive defensively. That's right. What does it mean to drive defensively? Well let me give you my version of it. Everyone out there is crazy And they're trying to run you off the road. So you have to drive like everybody is trying to run you off the road. You gotta look out all around. And just assume that. That's driving defensively. And there's a sense in which spiritually that is true. You have to listen defensively because there are so many false prophets out there that want to deceive you and get you off the path. They are Asians of Satan. So you have to listen defensively when you listen to the word of God being preached. Why is that? Well because of the number of false prophets. Notice what he said, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. Not just a few, but many false prophets Man, they're out there in bunches, a lot of them. Remember when Elijah was facing the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel? And it it had gotten in it to that point in Israel it was so bad that it just looked like everybody was listening to the prophets of Baal. It was hard to find a true prophet There were prophets of Baal all over the place. And Elijah met with him. It was 1 verses 450 on Mount Carmel. And it felt like, this wasn't true, but Elijah felt like I'm the only one. I'm the only one. There are so many out there. Because of the number of false prophets, but then also because of the nature of false prophets, because the word false here is from the Greek word pseudomai, which means where we get the word pseudo, which means constantly telling lies or committed to deception. And that's what Satan is all about. He's all about deception. He's all about deceiving because of the number of false prophets, because of the nature of false prophets, but then also because of the nearness of false prophets, he said they're gone out into the world. That is to say, they're everywhere They're all around. They're in churches. They're in colleges. Some colleges that used to be a citadel of truth are now taken over by apostasy. And heresy. You say how does that happen? Little by little, one person just slips in, like Jude says, you know, they just kinda slip in the side door. And the next thing they're there and they're they're very subtly teaching falsehood rather than teaching the truth. And the next thing you know the place is infested. They're in seminaries, they're in public office, they're in government, they're in Sunday school classes, they're in Bible studies, they're everywhere. They're everywhere. Jesus said this. He warned us. He said, many will come. And Luke chapter twenty-one, verse eight, and he said, Take heed that you be not deceived, for many shall come in my name. Many out there So we have to listen defensively. But here's the third thing. Listen doctrinally. Listen doctrinally. And we see this in verses two and three. Notice John gives a simple test to help us discern if a person is really speaking for God. Now people today they use all kinds of criteria to judge whether a person is really of the Lord or not. The only problem is that the criteria they use is not from the Bible. It's not what God says. For example, some people will use experience. Uh you know, physical, emotional, mental experience, and so on. All experiences need to be tested against the testimony of Scripture. Some people use feelings. The Mormons talk about the burning in the breast, you know, how you feel. You know the problem with that, you say, well that's Mormonism. Yeah, but that's creeped into true Christianity. Or some people are using that as a standard. And then numbers of followers Numbers of followers is not a test that a person is truly of God because some of the biggest false prophets out there have a large following. So you can't go by numbers of followers. And you can't go by church size. Um, thank God for big churches that are true and committed to the scripture. And God does bless in that way. But just because a church is large doesn't mean that it is biblical. That it's of the Lord. We have to still test. And then another thing is signs and wonders. Some people think, well, if it s has a sign or wonder, it's got to be of the Lord. No, Satan is able to do de sit deceptive signs and wonders And then this the success of the teacher, uh, you know, if a person looks like they are uh successful, you know, if they have uh you know, m wealth and and they dress nice and all these other sort of things. That that's not a test of being someone who is of the Lord. Don't be swayed by rich uh televangelists. But then also apparent authority. Many people speak as if they have an apparent authority. But let me just tell you, my dear friend, the only authority that anyone has comes from the Word of God. And us being in submission to what God's Word says. Here's the final authority right here. This is the final authority. John doesn't mention any of these things when he says to test them. What does he mention? Listen to their doctrine. More specifically, we would say listen to the doctrine of Christ, listen to their Christology. What do they teach about Jesus? That's the question. Did you know that the incarnation of Jesus Christ is the major pillar upon which Christianity rests? It is the major pillar. It is the fundamental doctrine of Christianity. So listen to their doctrine. What do they teach about Jesus? What do they say about Christ? Now this can be challenging at times because deceivers, false prophets, like to use orthodox words with heretical definitions. That is to say, they use our words, but they attribute their own definitions to those words. For example, when I say I believe in the deity of Jesus Christ, a false prophet will say, Well, so do I. Oh, I believe in the deity of Jesus Christ. But when you get real specific, what they mean by deity and what you mean by deity is totally different. You know, uh uh uh I can say I believe in the infallibility of Scripture, and a false prophet will say, Oh, so do I But what they mean is not the same as what I mean. In fact, that's the reason why conservative ministers don't use the word infallibility so much because it's been captured by liberals and it made it to mean something it doesn't really mean. So we use the word instead inerrancy. The Bible is without error. Because that other meaning has been taken over Or that word that infallible has been taken over by the liberals and the false prophets. When I say that Jesus Christ is God, a false prophet will say, Oh, I believe that. But what they mean is not the same as what I mean. They might mean that he was still a created being, but he's still a God. Not the God, not the second member of the Trinity, equal with God, and is God indeed in every way. That's why throughout history When some of these false doctrines have crept into the church, it has forced the church to be specific in their doctrinal confession and in their statements. There's a sense in which we owe a debt to heretics. You say, why? Well, because they have forced the church to be specific. About what we believe, about what scripture teaches. That's why confessions and doctrinal statements that are precise are so very important in the church because we want to be clear in what we believe about Jesus Christ. And John's very specific here. He gives this one monumental test about Jesus. Look at verse number two. Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God And every spirit that confesses not that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. This is that spirit of Antichrist whereby we have heard that it should come, and even now it already is in the world. The one who confesses that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God. And what John says here when he says Jesus is come in the flesh is that That you believe that Jesus is everything that he claimed to be. It's really a summary statement about all about the life and work and ministry of Jesus, that he's the virgin-born Son of God, sinless, second men member of the Trinity, God becoming flesh in his incarnation, taking upon him uh uh a body Not appearing to be a man like the Gnostics in John's day taught, but no, he literally became flesh. Linsky, a great commentator, said this. Jesus has come in the flesh, summarizes the whole gospel, the entire person and ministry of Jesus. It summarizes all that John had to say in his epistle about Jesus. And all the scriptures have had to say about Christ. It summarizes the work of all of Christ's offices. To confess Christ is to sit at his feet for prophetic instructions, to stand at his cross for forgiveness. to bow before his throne as Lord for royal guidance. And I I agree with that wholeheartedly. A summary statement about all That Jesus is. All of our major doctrines flow from that one central idea: who is Jesus? And did He come as God into this world as a man? Become flesh. And if you don't believe that, or if you in some way try to pervert that or say something different than what Scripture says about that, then you are not of God, John says. All of our other doctrines flow from this one thing. You get the question of Jesus wrong in your theology, you're wrong. And you're wrong on many other areas too. If Jesus is not God in the flesh, then God the Father lied to us, and he's not God. The Bible then is untrustworthy because the Bible says God became flesh. If Jesus is not God in the flesh, then the Holy Spirit is a false witness because the Holy Spirit bears witness to him to us. If Jesus is not God in the flesh, we have no salvation. Because it is not by but but by but but by grace through faith that we're saved and Jesus doesn't qualify as the savior No incarnation, no virgin birth means scripture is not inerrant, there's no atonement, no bodily resurrection, and everything falls apart. So that's the one question. But let me give you the fourth thing quickly. You have to listen discerningly, listen defensively, listen doctrinally. But then here's the fourth thing. Listen dependently. Dependently, and dependent upon two things that he mentions here. First of all, we are dependent upon the Holy Spirit. I love verse number four. Listen, look at verse four. Ye are of God, little children. And have overcome them because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And John here gives us a word of confidence and encouragement when it comes to learning to discern. Now you might be sitting out there and thinking, man, I can't do all that discernment. I can't know all those things. And John says, oh yes, you can. Yes, you can. Now let me tell you something that should encourage your heart. You don't have to sit through a whole seminary class on false religions and false cults. All right. Now we do have that class in seminary. I'm not saying don't join our seminary class. But the truth of the matter is you don't have to have a degree in seminary. You don't have to sit in those classes to be able to discern between truth and error. You don't have to do that. You know why? Because God has already given you the equipment and the tools to be able to do that. You say, what is it? First of all And John, by the way, he is assuring you. That's why I love verse 4. It's such an assurance. He says, you are of God, little children. And you have overcome the wicked one. John is already commending many of the people that he's writing to because he says, some of you you've already overcome. You've already learned this. Yeah, those Gnostic false teachers that left the church and left you devastated, they may be intellectually smarter than you intellectually, but you've still been able to overcome them. Don't worry about these people out there with PhDs that try to tell you the Bible is not the Word of God. Don't be intimidated by them. Because you're able to overcome them. You don't have to master the techniques of debate to overcome them. You can overcome them. Why? Well because Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And this is a point that John had already made earlier. You have an anointing, you have the Holy Spirit You don't need that any man teach you, and he's not saying in chapter 2 that you don't need human teachers because God gave to the church human teachers. What he's saying is you don't need the spirit of man's wisdom. You don't need to be educated in all those other things outside of Scripture. Because you have been given the Holy Spirit, and greater is He that is in you, the Spirit of God that is in you. than he that is in the world. What is in the world? It is the spirit of Antichrist. It is the spirit of deception. That spirit is in the world. But guess what? You have something greater in you. So you already have the tools, you already have the ability to overcome the deception that is in the world. And the word for overcome is a favorite word that John uses. He'll use it several times. It's the word Nike. And it means victorious. You're able to have victory. And it can happen. John says, you can do this. Just be dependent upon the Holy Spirit that He's already given you. But then also dependent upon the the word. Look at verse, we see this in verses five and six in closing. I think there's a purposeful contrast in verse five. With the they of verse 5 and the we of verse 6. He's making a contrast. In verse 5, notice what he says, they are of the world. Notice how verse 6 starts. We are of God. Now the question is, who is John talking about when he says they and we? Well, the they are the false teachers. They're of the world and the world listens to them. It doesn't surprise me to see a false teacher have a huge crowd of people. You know why? Because they are of the world, and guess what? The world listens to them. Doesn't surprise me. You know, when a false teacher sets aside unpopular notions that we teach we teach that all are sinners. And we all need to humble ourselves and be repentant and run to Jesus Christ, who is the only way of salvation. It's not a very popular message. A more popular message is, oh listen, you're wonderful. God loves you just the way you are. Something good is going to happen to you today. All those things were it You know, you're not told to deal with your own sin before a holy God, and Jesus Christ is the one who came to reconcile us as sinners to God. You know, the problem is their message is not of God. It's of the world. And the world hears them. It listens to them very well. So I'm not surprised by the size. But then John says, we are of God. And verse number six. Now the question is, who is the we that he's talking about there? The we that he's talking about Now some commentators say, what's talking about all believers? No. He already talked about, you know, you are God little children in verse number four. The we Is John talking about himself and the other apostles through whom God has given the inspiration of his word? We get the word of God through the apostles. And their teaching. They are commissioned by Jesus to give his message, to give the word of God. The inspired word of God comes through them. And the one who listens to them is actually those who are listening to the Word of God. Let me tell you something. There's no one out there giving um prophecy anymore the way God gave it to the apostles. We have the complete revelation of Scripture right here. It's already been given. And John says we If you're listening to us, we are the ones that have given this. God through us has given the word. And here's a very simple test of whether a person is truly of God or not, whether you're a truly believer and whether you're not. And the question is, who are you listening to? Are you listening to people that are giving you what God says? What God's Word says. And that's what John means here. When he says, we, look again in verse number five, verse six, rather, we are of God. He that knoweth God hears us. He that is not of God heareth us not. So, who are you listening to? Are you listening to true, authentic preaching and teaching from the Word of God? That's what God's people want. God's people want to hear the word of God. Those who are not truly God's people, they don't care about hearing the word of God. They want to be entertained. They want their ears to be tickled. They want to hear something that makes them feel good. But those who are of God, they want to hear the word of God. Their hunger and their desire is for the truth. So who are you listening to? And that's a test that John gives here. And so That's the test. Who are you listening to? Now let me let me close here today. So how do we learn to discern? Listen discerningly, listen defensively, listen doctrinally, listen dependently. Make sure you do all those things, and God will help you to discern what is genuinely gold, true of God, and what is not of God. Let me close with this illustration. Did you know the commercial pilots are trained to land aircraft in conditions where their eyes cannot be trusted? When the fog is thick, when clouds overrun the runway, when night obscures all visual reference points. You know what pilots have to do? They have to rely entirely upon their instruments. In fact, aviation instructors warn pilots that your senses and your human body will lie to you. You may think that you're going straight when actually the airplane is banking. You may think that you are climbing when actually you're descending. If you rely on your senses, that will end in disaster. And so they're trained, and they're taught this one phrase: trust the instruments, not your instincts. Trust the instruments, not your instincts. And spiritually speaking, that's exactly what John is telling us to do right here. False teachers, they often sound right. They feel right, they may appear right, they may appear confident and convincing, but feelings and impressions and experiences are not reliable instruments God has given us something more dependable. He's given us his word. And discernment is learning to trust the instruments that God has given us In this thing. And when the spiritual fog rolls in, and believe me, beloved, it will. The ones who land safely are not the ones with the strongest feelings, but the ones who trust the instruments that God has given us. Let's bow for prayer together today. So, Father, thank you for the Word of God and for the Spirit of God that you've given to those who know you to help us, Lord, in this world that is so filled with lies and deceptions. That we would remain in the truth and walk in the truth and live in the truth. I pray for every person here, Lord, that You will protect them from being led astray into lies, but that their faith would be grounded and rooted strongly in the Word of God. So much so, Lord, that we we cling with all of our heart to the true gospel of Jesus Christ and to our Savior, and we lead others into the pathway of truth. And friends with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to just give a quick invitation. It may be that you're here today and you've never Put your faith in Jesus Christ and I want to invite you to do that right now. You can do it right where you are. Just reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus. I want to know you. I want to be forgiven for my sin. I want to have eternal life. And I realized that today, well, God's word was being preached. I'm not where I need to be. I'm not there. But today I turned to Christ with all my heart I ask him for to save me. Friend, if that's your prayer, you can right there reach out in faith. Ask Jesus to save you right where you are. Lord, just pray something like this. Lord Jesus, forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart. Save me, Lord. Jesus. And the Bible says, Him that comes from me I will in no wise cast out. And friend, if you prayed that prayer and you need more spiritual guidance, We're gonna have ministers here in the front. We're gonna give an invitation time. If you just need to come and pray, if there's something on your heart, we're here, they'll take you aside. But whatever the need is, you do it the Holy Spirit Spirit tells you, let's all stand together. Can we have just a brief moment of invitation? And let the Holy Spirit work in your heart today and do what the Holy Spirit tells you to do here today. We're going to sing together, pass me nine. Has me not no chance to say your dear my harm without On others thou art cause me to not as we stay. Already Do not pass me. One more stanza together, one more stanza. God speaking to you, come. Let me at thy bone of mercy by. Find a sweet mealing there in deep contrition help my uncle. Say your sort here, my humble price. While on others thou art calling to address me. Let's bow for prayer and then we'll sing. our closing uh hymn of closing benediction. Let's bow for prayer. Father again, thank you for the privilege of worshiping you here today. And now as your people go to their various places, Lord, may they leave with blessing, watch over them. And bring them back at the next appointed hour. And we thank and praise you for all that you're doing in our hearts and in our lives. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.