Thank you. Would you take God's word tonight, please? Open to the book of Hebrews, chapter 11. As you know, we are doing a study on Hebrews 11 called the Hall of Fame of Faith. And we're looking at these characters mentioned in Hebrews 11 because all of them to some degree illustrate to us walking by faith. And the writers established clearly to us that without faith he cannot please God. And remember, he's writing to Hebrews that were considering the claims of Christ, considering whether they should fully embrace Jesus Christ or go back on into Judaism. And the writer was basically saying, if you turn back, God said, My soul will have no tr uh w pleasure in you. And we saw that in chapter ten, uh, and verse number thirty-eight, where in actually verse thirty Yeah heard it verse thirty eight verse thirty nine. Now the just shall live by faith, but if any man draw back my soul shall have no pleasure in him And that's really that verse right there is kind of a key verse, a foundational verse for everything he's going to say in chapter eleven. He's saying, Go forward in faith. Trust Jesus as your Savior. And then as we walk in the Christian life, we walk by faith. Faith doesn't just get us into the Christian life and that's it. Faith takes the first step to knowing Jesus, and then every day of our life after that, we live by faith, we walk by faith, and if you want to know how to do that, the writer gives us a list of People in the Old Testament, all of whom live by faith, walk by faith, and we can learn lessons from all of them. Now look in verse number 21 of Hebrews chapter 11. Tonight we talk about Jacob. By faith, Jacob, when he was dying. Blessed both the sons of Joseph and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff That's an interesting verse there. He worshiped God leaning on the top of his staff. He summarizes the life of Jacob and just One verse. When he was dying, he blesses the two sons of Joseph, and he worships the Lord, leaning on a staff. Now what does that mean? And here is the lesson for us today that we need to understand from Hebrews 11 on the life of Jacob, and that's simply this In order to live and walk by faith, we must be broken of all self-sufficiency. That's what God needs to teach us. And we have to look at this in the life of Jacob, and if you'll just look in Hold your place in Hebrews 11, because of course we'll come back, but we have to go back to Genesis chapter 32 and see what the writer is describing because he just gives a little bit of a uh a reminder to the to the readers. But remember he's writing to to Jews who knew the Old Testament scripture and they knew these stories, so when he would Give these little reminders, their mind would go back into the whole story of the Old Testament, and they would remember what happened in his life. And I want us to look at that. And uh we're going to look at Genesis chapter 32 and look at verse number twenty-four. We'll start there. But you know our society today puts a premium a premium on self-sufficiency. It's a virtue, our society thinks, to have the attitude, I don't need anyone's help. I'm a self-made man. People kind of look at that as being a great virtue. I heard one time that when Muhammad Ali, the great boxer, was in his prime, one time he was sitting on a plane and a stewardess came by and said, Buckle your seatbelt and she and he said, uh, Superman don't need no seatbelt. And uh she said, Well Superman don't need no airplane either, so buckle your seatbelt. But but but we uh we make heroes out of those people that are very self sufficient. Uh that kind of spirit. And you know, honestly, we have to fight that in ourselves. We want to be self-sufficient. We want to stand upon our own two feet. We take pride in our independence. We take pride in our self-sufficiency. But let me just tell you that as far as the Christian life is concerned, that's not the spirit that will help us to walk by faith. Because what God wants from us is not a spirit of self-sufficiency, but of God sufficiency. Of leaning totally, completely upon the Lord, putting all of our trust in God. God wants us to lean upon Him fully, to trust in Him fully fully. And that's really the lesson. God, and may I say this, God hates self-sufficiency where you say, I can do it myself and I don't need God Remember in the New Testament where Jesus was talking about the church at Laodicea, that church that he said, you know, I want to it makes me want to spit you out of my mouth. Why was that? Because they were so so Self-sufficient because they said, we have goods, we have riches, we have goods, we have need of nothing. And that's the church where Jesus was on the outside of the church, knocking on the door, trying to get in. They were so self-sufficient, they didn't think they needed anything, and that included the Lord Jesus. Friend, God hates the spirit of self-sufficiency when it comes to living the Christian life And so Jacob is a man who has that spirit. And God has to break him. Jacob was a conniver, he was a schemer, he was a deceiver, he was constantly lying to get his own way. And He was a con artist. You remember he conned his brother Esau out of his birthright. He made him sell it for a bowl of chili. He lied to his father Isaac, who was old and blind. And uh he stole all the assets and will uh um from his brother Esau. He made his father give him the b the birthright, which was the legal will. that he would have all of the blessings of the firstborn. And so after that he has to run for his life. He has to run 'cause Esau's so angry he wants to kill his brother Jacob. And so he has to run to his uncle, this is his mother's brother, a man by the name of uh Laban, old uncle Laban, and he works for Laban for twenty years. And after 20 years, Jacob decides then it's time to leave and go back to the Promised Land. So he sneaks out of town. He doesn't tell anyone. He just packs everything up and he just he just leaves secretly. Some of you are here been in Baltimore long enough to remember when the Baltimore Colts left for Indiana. Uh they just loaded everything up in the middle of the night on a Mayflower truck and they left. And I'm still hurt over that But that's what Jacob did. I mean Jacob loaded up the Mayflower truck, got everything on the truck, he stopped at an ATM machine on the way out of town. This is all in the Hebrew language here. You can't read it in the in the in the English translation. And he basically decided that it's time to head back to the promised land. But before he crosses the border to go into the promised land, God has to teach him a lesson. God has to break him of his self-sufficiency. And so this is what we see here in Genesis chapter 32. Whenever you come to a passage like this, you want to ask two questions. What did it mean to the original audience? What does it mean to us today? Remember Moses is writing this, and who is he writing it to? He's writing it to the children of Israel. And the lesson is you need to learn this from your forefather Jacob, who had the spirit of self-sufficiency. He had to be broken before to to learn to trust in Yahweh. And you all as a nation need to learn the same lesson. And by the way, you know what? We all as believers need to learn that same lesson to be broken of our self-sufficiency Now, the New Testament kind of broadens the concept of the promised land to mean um it can it's used in a typical way to speak about salvation And uh also it's used to speak about victory. The New Testament writers use it in this way. And so think about the promised land as salvation. Did you know that you can't come to salvation until you are broken of all of your self-sufficiency? Until you come humbly. Remember what Jesus said, you have to be poor in spirit. You have to be absolutely totally dependent upon the Lord. As I said many times before, no one struts into the kingdom of God. Jesus said it like this, unless you become like little children, you can in no wise come into uh be a part of the kingdom of God. What are little children like? Well, they're absolutely dependent upon their appearance. Absolutely dependent upon their parents. Sometimes adult children are like that too. But as a little child A little child is absolutely dependent upon its mom and dad. Even so, Jesus said, that's the way you have to be in order to get into the kingdom. Jesus also said they strive to enter through the narrow door, for many I tell you, will try to enter and they will not be able. Why will they try to enter and not be able? Because it's so hard to lay aside pride. It's so hard to lay aside self-sufficiency. Everyone wants to think that there's something they can bring into the kingdom with them. There's some contribution they can make with regard to their salvation, and guess what? There's nothing. There's nothing. You have to come absolutely broken. You have to come absolutely totally sufficient or self- uh broken of any self-sufficiency and dependent upon the Lord But also Canaan, the promised land, stands for victory and blessing. And if you ever want to have blessing and victory in your life as a believer, you also have to come to this point where you're absolutely, totally dependent upon God for it. Because we can't do it. And I know we say that sometimes we can't do it, but do we really believe that? And God has to break us God has to bring us to that point to show us that we can't do it. Jesus said it like this, I'm the vine, you're the branches. Without me ye can do Nothing. Absolutely nothing. So we're absolutely dependent upon the Lord for victory. Someone wrote this, dear God, so far I've done all right. I haven't gossiped, I haven't lost my temper, I haven't been greedy or grumpy or nasty or selfish or overindulgent, and I'm very thankful for that. But in a few minutes, God, I'm going to get out of bed. And then I'm gonna need your help. And that's true. We need God's help. Actually, we need God's help before we get into bed. And then we need God's help as we get out of bed. We need to be absolutely, totally dependent upon the Lord. Now, God has to break Jacob. He's got to break them of his self-sufficiency. So how does he do it? There's three means that God uses. And here's the first one. Write down this one. God brings us to a place of isolation. He brings us to a place of isolation. Look at verse 24 of chapter 32, where it says, And Jacob was left alone, and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. Now, up until this time, Jacob had always surrounded him with himself with an entourage. He had his possessions, he had all his people around him. But as you read through chapter 32, what you're going to see is that God begins to strip these things away one by one. He begins to strip away his possessions, and then he begins to strip away all the people around him until finally Jacob is absolutely left alone. And he God brings him to a place of isolation. He takes away all the things that are dearest to him. First of all, possessions Go back to chapter 32, look in verse number 3. And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau, his brother, unto the land of Seir. the country of Edom, and he commanded them, saying, Thus shall you say unto my lord Esau, thy servant Jacob, saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and stay there until now. I have oxen and asses, flocks and manservants and woman servants, and I have sent to tell my Lord that I may find grace. in thy sight. And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he commanded to meet thee and four hundred men with him. And so Jacob knew that when he entered back into the promised land, his brother Esau would be waiting there to take vengeance on him for what he had done to him so many years ago by stealing his um his blessing and his birthright. And so, but Jacob here now he's still scheming and doing things his own way to try to protect himself. And so as he travels into the Promised Land, uh basically he he sends messengers uh to say, hey, you know, uh just make sure that Esau knows, you know, why I'm coming. And the messengers return with this report, Esau's coming with four hundred men. Well, if you're Jacob, you're a little bit concerned about that. That his brother's coming with four hundred men. In verse seven it says he was distressed. Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed, and he divided the people that was with him, and the flocks, and the herds, and the camels, into two In verse 8, and said, if Esau come to one company and smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape. And so he again he's a master planner. He's he's good at getting out of difficult situations. And so he has this plan. He said, I'm going to divide everybody up and all the possessions up. And if Esau comes to one group, then this group will escape. If he comes to the other group, this group will escape At least he only get half of my stuff, you know, when he comes. So he again he's still relying on his own ideas instead of really uh relying on the Lord. Then he also comes up with a plan of uh how he's going to try to uh keep Esau from becoming so angry at him, or basically um he's going to keep Esau from uh you know his rage and his fury. And this is what he does. He he cu he kinda uh g he's gonna give 'em a big gift. We see this in verse number fourteen, and it adds up to five hundred and fifty animals. He's gonna just give them this huge gift. This was a gift for a king. I mean this gift is large enough that Towns were likely to to pay tribute to kings with this kind of a a gift. And Jacob, you know, he decides he's going to give all this to Esau, but he's not going to do it all at once. He's going to do it a little bit at a time as he gets closer and he's gets closer to what Jacob, you know, he'll see a he'll meet some servants and they'll say, Oh, this is from uh Jacob to you and then he gets he travels a little more and he says, Oh, this is more for you. You know what I call this? This is the price is right method. You know, oh we have a gift here for you. What do we have behind door number four, Johnny? Well we have this work, Esau. And then you know the whole idea here is to kind of overwhelm Esau. Overwhelm the recipient with uh with this goodness. And he again, what is he trying to do? In verse number 20, notice what it says in verse 20. And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us, for he saith, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me. His whole desire is to appease Esau. Jacob is still saying, I want to take care of this. Again, this is an expression of self-sufficiency. We also see another thing about Jacob that in this chapter, verses 9 down to verse 12, he does pray to the Lord, but when you read the prayer that he prays, You get the sense that he's praying really not out of devotion but out of desperation. He's just desperate. And by the way, that's okay to pray when you're desperate. But it's much better to pray out of a consistent devotion that you have to God. rather than just a desperation. And there's a sense where you get the sense that he's trying to manipulate God to uh to basically um move on his behalf. And so he's he's trying to work things out on his own But what we see happening here is that his possessions are being removed from him a little bit at a time. A little bit at a time. And then also people. People are being removed from him. Look at verse twenty-two. And he rose up that night, and he took his two wives, and his two women servants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the Ford Jabuk. And he took them and he sent them over the brook and he sent them over that he had. And verse 24, and Jacob was left alone. Now, again, in the breaking process, God has to separate the things from us that mean the most to us. He's unable to sleep that night. And even though he has the presence all laid out there for Esau to see, hopefully that will appease him and assuage his wrath, he still doesn't have peace. And so he gets up. And he feels so much pressure in this situation that he sends his families on ahead. Uh he separates himself from the people that are the dearest. So we see kind of a stripping away. From the things that mean the the least to him till the things that mean the most to him until finally all of it's gone. All of it's gone. You know, sometimes God might do that to us. He might take things away from us temporarily Things that mean the most to us, people that mean the most to us, he might separate us from their presence. Why? Because God wants to get us to a place where we're completely alone, just us and him. Because that's where God does a lot of his work. When it's just God and you. And what we're seeing here is Jacob is beginning to break. He's beginning to break here. He's left alone. Now, what happens next is very interesting in verse number 24. Where it says, and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. He was left all alone. Again, it's in isolation that God really works. Do you know you ever notice that there's something in our flesh that doesn't want to be left alone That we always want someone or something always around us. The sidelines sometimes we can't handle. You know, we always have to have the radio on or the TV on. Someone said if David had a radio, we would never have Psalm 23 God wants us alone because God can speak to us a lot of times when we when we all the noise of the world is drowned is gone And uh he can speak to us and we can think. And God got Jacob alone in this place of isolation. But here's number two: God brings us to a place of confrontation. A place of confrontation. What God is going to do is He's going to reveal to Jacob who he is And how does he do this? Again, in verse 24, there's an encounter that is mysterious. Someone comes just out of the darkness. and begins to wrestle with Jacob. Martin Luther called this passage one of the most obscure in the Old Testament. This strange wrestler. Here is Jacob, the way I pictured in my mind, he's camping by the Wadi or the Brook Jabuk. And out of the darkness there appears this man, and Jacob doesn't know who he is at first. I mean you can imagine how he must have been terrified. All of a sudden he's just there sitting by the campfire and here comes a guy out of the shadows. And just begins to wrestle with Jacob. Is this a bandit? Is this someone come to rob him or someone come to end his life? He's in the dark, so he can't completely see who this is, but the two just begin to wrestle. And this isn't some ordinary wrestling match. The Bible says this hap- this takes place all night long, just before the break of day. I don't know about you, but to me that's incredible. Now I grew up with three brothers in my house and we wrestled all the time. And I want to tell you something, after about an hour I had enough. I mean, you know, it's strenuous when you're young. You know, I'm talking about when you're young and you have all that energy. Now I couldn't go five minutes. But for an hour I was like, okay, I'm done. But here is Jacob and he wrestles with this stranger. All night long. He had to be absolutely, physically, completely done in and exhausted. By the time morning had come. Now, this is not a dream or a vision. Some preachers, when they preach this, they try to spiritualize the whole episode. No, this is a real wrestling match. It is a physical fight, and it results in a physical injury, a physical injury to Jacob. And the person that came to Jacob that night, we could call this a Christophany or a Theophany. This was a pre-incarnate appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ. And somewhere through the night in this wrestling match that Jacob has, he realizes That this is God that has come. That's why, again, this is just a mysterious passage for many reasons. But we also need to be clear here that Jacob knows that God is the aggressor. And Jacob was defending himself. Some preachers, when they preach this text, they use it as an example of wrestling with God in prayer all night long. But that's not the lesson behind the struggle. It wasn't Jacob that was laying hold of God at first. It was God that was laying hold of Jacob that was breaking him. And so God was laying hold of him. Why? Because God was bringing Jacob to the end of his own strength and self-sufficiency. And that's what God does. He brings us to the end of our own strength. All of his life Jacob had thought that Esau and Laban were his adversaries. But now at some point in the struggle, he discovers to his horror that the one that really is against him right now, his adversary right now in this wrestling match, is God. Or rather, he has been God's adversary. He's been on the wrong side. And somewhere along the line, he has to realize that the problem is me. You want to know the greatest enemy you have in the Christian life? You look at that person in the mirror every morning. The problem is me. The greatest struggle I have is against me. And we're all like Jacob. We all think that the problem, the enemy out there is someone else. I've heard people say, oh well the problem is my wife, or the problem is my husband, or my parents, or my boss, or my poor circumstances, and God needs to take care of all those problems for me. But really, the truth of the matter is the problem is you You're the enemy, and you need to be broken of all of your independence and all of your pride. The problem is me, the problem is my flesh, my sinful, selfish nature that dominates my life. That's what gives me all the trouble. So God has to reveal to me the power of my flesh before I can be delivered from it. And so that's why the wrestling match lasted all night long. Because that's how much self-will, how much stubbornness, how much self-sufficiency That Jacob had. And God had to wrestle it all out of him. God had to bring him to the end of his self. You see, here's the thing. God makes us weak. And he makes us weak in order that he might make us strong. And God now you know the way this story ends that um God cripples Jacob in the end. He just touched Jacob's hip. And Jacob felt excruciating pain and his hip was wrenched and uh and and the wrestling match was over at that point. God could have done that at the very beginning. He could have done that immediately with Jacob, but he didn't. He wrestled with him all night long. I don't think it was a hard thing for God. All right. I think again, he was letting Jacob be drained of all of his strength, of all of his self-sufficiency. until he brought him to the end of his self, to the end of his strength, until he had nothing left. And he acknowledges somewhere along the line, we see this in verse 20 of uh chapter 32, verse 20, he acknowledges Actually verse 30 rather than verse 20, he acknowledges that this stranger that was wrestling him with him was God. And so God weakens us. He brings us to the end of our strength. And then God cripples us at times. In verse 25, uh we see this. Um God touched the hollow of his thigh. And so look at verse 25. And when he saw that he prevailed not against them, he touched the hallow of his thigh, and the hallow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint as he wrestled with him. God cripples us. It's as if the Lord is saying, you know, I hate to do this to you, Jake. But I'm going to have to do this to get you to where I need you to be. I'm going to have to cripple you. I'm going to have to touch the hell of your thigh. You know, I've heard, I've read, and actually I did a little bit of wrestling in high school, but you know the the uh the most important muscle to a wrestler is his thigh and his legs. I mean that's what keeps them strong. That's what keeps them up. And if your legs are crippled, if your thigh is is weak, then you're pretty much a goner. So the Lord cripples them. And again, this is all a picture of how self-will in the flesh must die. That will has to be broken Just like a parent has to break the will of the ch of a child. I tell parents all the time, what you need to do with your children is break their will. Don't break their spirit. Break their will without breaking their spirit. Until they're submitted to you. And this is what God wants. He has to break us down and tame the flesh. So God wrestles with them all night. And then here's the reverse of it. In the breaking process, God must teach us to cling to Him. instead of other things. Because although God wrestled strength out of them, somehow, somewhere, Jacob now has the strength to hold on to God To reach forth and hold on to the Lord. Look at verse number 26, where it says this. And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou Bless me. Immediately after God cripples Jacob, Jacob reached out, reaches out, and he grabs hold of the Lord. And the angel says, Let me go. And again, there's a paradox here in that Jacob seems to have incredible strength in clinging to the Lord after he's wounded. And of course, I don't think the Lord is there saying, Oh, I can't break free. Let me go, let me go. Now this is exactly what God wants. Yeah, yeah, let me go. Actually, hold on tight. God wants them to hold on tight. God wants them to cling to him. You see, God loves it when his children cling to him in brokenness and say to God, God, I will not let you go until you bless me. I will not let you go until you bless me. You know, Jacob was called the heel grabber. When he was born, he was grabbing his brother's heel. Now he's grabbing hold of God. He's grabbing hold of the Lord. But again, we're all like Jacob. We won't cling to the Lord until we've lost strength in our own self, until we really see ourselves. really the way we are. And here's the lesson. In breaking us, God gives us a new strength. To hold on to Him. That's the point. He gives us a new strength to hold on to Him. So in breaking us, God has to bring us to a place of isolation. Then God has to bring us to a place of confrontation And then here's number three. God has to bring us to a place of desperation. Of desperation. Again, look in verse 27. And he said unto him, What is thy name? Again, here's the Lord speaking. What is thy name? Do you think the Lord asked that because he didn't know who this guy was? Of course not. God knows everything about Jacob. But he asked him, What's your name? Now, this is not like, hey, I'd like to get to know you, let's exchange hey, what's your what's your what's your s with your mobile number let's let's talk later. This is what is your name? It's kind of like, you know, when I would wrestle with my brothers and I always won. Especially my little younger brothers, I was a bully. And uh I had him down and he would say, Let me up, let me up, I would say, Who's the best? Who's the best? Who's the strongest? You are that's right. Who's a worm? Those are the weakest. I am. I am. That's that's the idea here. What's your name? What's your name You know what the name Jacob means? It means deceiver. Deceiver. It was God. Getting Jacob to really see who he really is. Who are you? What is your name? I'm Jacob. And I think it probably maybe for the first time in his life, he gets a good look of what he really is. And I want to tell you, if God can reveal to us what we really are, that's a blessing because from there, God can do great things. He can do great things. And so he says, what's your name? By the way, the last time a father asked that of Jacob, who was it? It was his father that he lied to. What is your name? I'm Jacob. He was lying to his father Esau. But here, God is now asking that same question years later: what's your name? He had to remember that. He had to remember what a liar and a deceiver and a scoundrel he really was and what he did to his father that had to bring back memories of that. But in this answer that he gave, he was basically owning up to who he really was. I'm Jacob. I'm this deceiver. I'm this liar, schemer. Someone has been lying and scheming all his life. It was it's like he was saying, you know, it's it's I'm the problem, Lord, I get it. To me. I'm the sinner. And I want to tell you again, when you get to that point of really seeing who you are and and truly coming to God and brokenness. Realizing who you are, that is when God can do great things. Until you can say, my name is bitterness, and I've been bitter and angry. And I need to confess that. Or my name is greed. Or my name is deception. Or my name is unfaithfulness. God will ask you, what's your name? Who are you? And you have to realize who you are in this breaking process. Whenever you're ready to come clean, God will make you clean. And God will make you new. He'll do something new in your life. Because notice, again, God has to break Jacob. Did you ever notice, you know, when we when we break stuff, we throw it away. But God doesn't use anything until he breaks it first. He breaks it before he uses it. And so there's a new name conferred upon him. Look at verse number 28. Notice what he says. And he said, Thy name shall be no more Jacob, but Israel. For as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. And Jacob asked him and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. So here it is. God says to Jacob, Jacob, you're no longer going to be called that. Now in Hebrew a name reflects your character. And by God giving you a new name, what is that saying? God is basically saying, I am now complete authority over your life. When you're able to rename someone, what does that say? I have total, complete authority over you. You know, what if during a baby dedication someone came up here and said, you know, I want to dedicate my baby and I I take the child and say, what's the name of your child? Well, his name is John. Oh well, I'm gonna change his name here That wouldn't go over well in a baby dedication, would it? Oh, your name is John, but for now on I'm gonna call you Jerry. You know, the parents would be livid. Who do you think you are? You don't have the authority to change my child's name, and they would be right. That's never happened and it never will, so everybody relax But let me tell you something. If you're God, you can change anybody's name anytime you want to. And you're saying to that person, now you belong to me. You are mine. And your name is no longer Jacob. Your name is now Israel, because you've prevailed with God. Instead of being a supplanter, a deceiver, you're a prevailer. And what this represented is that God at that point was going to do something brand new in the life of Jacob. Something brand new, something that came from God, a blessing that came only from the Lord. And because Jacob had prevailed with God. And as a token of that encounter that Jacob had with the Lord, Jacob was going to limp all the rest of his life. And look at verse number 30. And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. Now Jacob's not saying he saw God's face, but rather in the darkness, he had this personal encounter with God. And uh he'll limp the rest of his life, and that'll be a reminder to him that God had done something new in his life. And that he was no longer the person that he used to be because God had completely broken him. And after this, there's a new sense in which Jacob learns to really lean upon the Lord. I'm not going to tell you that he got it perfect right after that. Because if you look at his life, he still struggled a bit. But God has started something new in his life, to where he learned to completely trust in the Lord. And if you fast forward many years later, right before he's ready to die, Um Jacob is still worshiping the Lord. And you know what? The Bible gives this picture of him calling in the sons of Joseph. This is after that whole episode with his son Joseph and all he had to go through there. And all the ups and downs with that and the trials and all of that. And again, this reminds us that our walk of faith, it's not going to be a perfect walk, beloved. But we have to keep our focus on the Lord. And we have to, you know, when we when we get knocked down, we get back up and we just keep walking with the Lord and trusting God and leaning upon God. And we see that in the whole life of Jacob until finally at the end of his life, he's still trusting in the Lord, he's walking with the Lord, and there's a sense in which his faith has grown, and now he's at the end of his life. And he calls in the sons of Joseph, and the Bible says that he blessed both the sons of Joseph and he worshiped the Lord. And guess what he's still doing? He's leaning on that staff. It's a reminder of the encounter that he had with Almighty God. Through it all, Jacob trusted and believed God. He hobbled everywhere he went. And he struggled still a bit, but ultimately he trusted in the Word of God. He trusted that God was going to do what he said he was going to do, and he lived a life by faith. Jacob was stronger leaning on a staff than he was upon his own two feet when they were strong. And that's where God wanted them. Self-sufficiency is not a virtue. You can't walk by faith that way. Any true walk of faith is going to have a little bit of a limp in it It's going to have a limp. That means you've been broken by God, and God has had to bring you to that place where you're learning to lean upon Let me give you two concluding thoughts. Take time to be alone with God. It was when Jacob was left alone that God wrestled with him And God did his great work in Jacob's life. I believe that God does some of his greatest work in the life of his people when we are alone with him. When we are alone with the Lord. And then number two, use your victories which come out of God's breaking you to teach others. When God breaks you, don't keep that to yourself. When the family asked Jacob, you know, you know, Granddad, why are you always limping? Why are you using that staff? I don't think Jacob said, well, you know, this arthritis is catching up to me. Uh no. Let me tell you why. Let me tell you what God did in my life one day. Use the time, the message, the lesson that God did in your life to get you to that place of brokenness. Use that to encourage other people. The Lord wants you to pass that on. And in fact, in uh Genesis chapter 32, verse 32, the last verse, let me read to you what it says. It says, Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank which is upon the hallow of the thigh, unto this day, because he touched the hallow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank. In other words, Moses explains a Hebrew custom in which Continues even to this day among Orthodox Jews that they do not eat the sinew of the hip of animals because that is the place where God touched Jacob. And it was a reminder to all of them of what God did in the life of Jacob, how that God had to break him of his own self-dependence and self-sufficiency. So as the Lord teaches you these lessons, make sure you're faithful to pass them on to other people That's what God wants from us. And may it be said of us that by the our last days, I don't know about you, but I want to be faithful and I want to end well. And I want to worship God leaning on my staff, being faithful to the Lord and all of what He's done in my life. Amen. That's the walk of faith. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for your word and these beautiful narratives, these stories that teach us lessons of faith. Lord, we need these to encourage us on our own well because all of us struggle. We had a tendency to be so self-sufficient, Lord. We do. It's part of our sin nature. We think in our own mind that it's easier, but it's not. The greatest thing we can do, Lord, is to give up all self-sufficiency. And say, Lord, I'm trusting in you. All of my hope is in you. Lord, you are my help. The God of Jacob is my help. And Lord, may we fully rely upon you and worship you every day, leaning on our staff. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.