As you know, on Wednesday nights we're going through the book of Joshua here. And I want you to look in Joshua chapter 1, Joshua chapter 1, and verse number 10. We'll start there tonight. And I'm going to preach tonight on learning to lead. Joshua chapter 1, verse 10. Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, Pass for the host and command the people, saying, Prepare you victuals, for within three days ye shall pass over this Jordan to go in to possess the land, which the Lord your God giveth you to possess. Now, this is one of the great passages in the Bible about leadership. I'm surprised that there are many commentaries that simply pass over this narrative without really giving it a whole lot of consideration. When I was studying this passage here, it spoke to my heart. And it reminded me about what I need to be as a leader. And these verses I think will speak to your heart as well, at least I hope they will. And by the way, let me just say that in the book of Joshua, you really can't study this without talking somewhat about leadership. We can learn some things from Joshua. Did you know that many great leaders of our own era have learned a lot from just looking at the book of Joshua. For example, General Douglas MacArthur. He once listed Joshua as among the truly great generals of world history. Theodore Roosevelt said that the book of Joshua was his favorite book, and if you read some of his speeches, you'll see that he referenced Joshua often and some of his speeches. And he said that this this book and this man command uh helped him to be forthright and forceful in his own leadership as president of a nation. Now Joshua came on the scene at a time when there was a crisis, and there was needed at that time forceful, decisive leadership. And by the way, may I say that today we also need the same thing? I think that we're facing a leadership crisis today. I think this crisis is in our country. We have a leadership crisis in our nation. We're living in a nation where we have a ballooning debt. We have budget deficits. We have a nation drifts towards economic disaster. It seems like the current crop of uh leaders that we have in office are unwilling to make the hard decisions or can't seem to get along And uh those who are in the government seem to have lost the confidence of many of the people that they serve. Not to mention terrorism is on the rise. We have the threat of ISIS, we have the threat of other countries that are uh rattling their sabers against us. There's a crisis in our country, but there's also a crisis in the church. And when I say church again, I'm talking about the church all over America, the church in broad, where are the preachers that stand up and preach the truth without compromise? and are willing to call sin and are willing to defend uh our moral values. It seems like our Christian moral values are constantly under assault uh in the entertainment, uh media, and even from the government itself. But also there's a leadership crisis not only in the nation, in the church, but also in our homes. Children are not being trained by parents, we have passive fathers, we have misguided mothers that are not focusing upon that important duty in the home, but also in the school. There seems to be a leadership crisis in the school. It looks like that our cis school systems are not turning out leaders that are ready to face the challenges of this 21st century. Herman Miller wrote this in his book. He said the art of leadership, uh this is what he said in the art of leadership. Leaders are responsible for future leaders. They need to identify, develop, and nurture Future leaders. And he's exactly right. And with all that in mind, I'm simply saying our world today is crying out For modern day Joshua's men who know how, men and women I should say that know how to lead. And so we want to look at Joshua. And we want to learn some things about being a leader from Joshua. I need to learn leadership skills. You need to learn leadership skills in some capacity. We all function somewhat as a leader. So with that in mind, I just want you to see two points in the sermon tonight with several subpoints underneath. But here's the first thing we're going to talk about is the principles that forge a God leader. I want to talk about these principles. That make a person a good leader. But then secondly, not only the principles that forge a godly leader, we're going to talk about the people that follow a godly leader. Alright? Here's the first one. The principles that forge a godly leader. Now I see them as I read these verses. Look again at verse 10. Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, pass through Now here's the first principle and write it down. This is what I want to call the communion principle. And this principle states this: a leader must be in tune with God. A leader must be in tune with God. Look in verse 10 where it says, then Joshua. Circle that word then. That's a transitional word. And you know what it forces us to do? It forces us to look back, right? And what we see is in the first nine verses of chapter one, Joshua had just had communion with Almighty God. Joshua had just received his orders From Almighty God. In fact, you can divide chapter 1 into 3 divisions. God talks to Joshua, verses 1 through 9 Joshua talks to the people, verses 10 to 15, and then the people talk back to Joshua, verses 16 to verse 24. When you say like this, God encourages Joshua, Joshua encourages the people, the people encourage Joshua. But it all starts with Joshua having that communion with God, walking with God, and getting his orders from God. And as a result of that, you know what? The people are now ready to pass over. Look at verse number 16. And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou commandest us we will do, and whithers wherever thou sendest us, we will go. They were ready Because Joshua had gotten his orders from God. You know why some people are reluctant to follow a leader? Because they're not convinced that that leader is following God. But when people know that a a leader is following God, they're going to want to follow you. That's what the people wanted to know. Look at verse seventeen. According as we hearken unto Moses and all things, so we hearken unto thee, only the Lord thy God be with thee, as he was with Joshua. They just wanted to know that Joshua was walking with the Lord the way Moses was walking with the Lord. And so Joshua gets his orders from the Lord, and he gets his orders from spending time with the Lord. You know, we have too many soldiers that are getting their marching orders from other soldiers instead of speaking to the captain himself. And that's what God wants. Now, what were the orders that God gave Joshua? Let's kind of look back. Remember, look at verse 2. Remember, God said to him, There's a past to put aside. Verse 2, Moses, my servant, is dead Now therefore, arise over this Jordan, thou and all this people, into the land which I do give them. God said, Joshua, don't stay at the grave of Moses and mourn. Moses, my servant, is dead. Moses was a great leader, but that era is over. It's time to move on. It's time to go forward. Don't be hindered by the past. And remember, we learned that. Don't be hindered by past grief, past glory, past guilt, or past grudges. Put it all in the tomb of time and move forward. But then also he said there's a possession to possess. Look at verse 3. Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you. God said, Canaan is already yours Remember, we saw that the Christian life is really like a a person claiming their Canaan, Canaan land being victory, and the Christian life is really just walking on ground already conquered by the Lord Jesus God said to Joshua, I've already given you this land. Go and get it. But then he said, There's a promise to plead. Look at verse 5. There shall not be any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so will I be with God gives Joshua some wonderful promises. He gives him a promise of conquering power. He gives a promise of his continual presence. And he says, I'm going to be with you like I was with Moses And then he said, There's a plan to pursue. Look at verse eight. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then shalt thou make thy way prosperous, and then shalt thou have good The Word of God is your greatest weapon, Joshua. Talk about it, think about it, act upon it. And after getting all of this plan and these orders from God, The Bible says in verse 10, then Joshua commanded the officers. After spending time with God, after God telling them all these things. Joshua then turns to his officers and he said, Here's what we're going to do. You know where that confidence, that encouragement, that courage came from? It came from time with God, getting his orders. from the Lord. And so that's the first principle. A leader must be in tune with God. But here's the second principle. Write this down. I call this the companion principle. The companion principle, a leader must be able to delegate to responsible people. Or actually say it like this, a leader must be able to delegate responsibilities to faithful people. Look again in verse number 10. Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people. I want you to notice that Joshua didn't go right out and talked to the whole of Israel. He didn't talk to all the people. Who does the Bible say he talked to? He talked to his officers. What does that tell me? There was a structure in place There was an order of men that were under him, and these officers had a military function as well as a civilian function. And the Bible references these men in Deuteronomy 16, Exodus 5, it calls them foremen or taskmasters. And let me just say this, nothing hinders leadership more than not having trustworthy people to delegate responsibilities to, and along with those responsibilities to delegate authority. You can't delegate the responsibility without also giving them authority And so nothing hinders leadership any more than that. And so think about that. Joshua wanted to cross over Jordan in three days. Now think about it, a nation of two million people, if he didn't have a structure in order, men that he could delegate things to, it would have taken him three days just to tell the people to get ready But in three days he wanted to pass over. So without delegation of this responsibility to good people He would have never been able to do it. Friend, we need to learn as leaders to duplicate. I need to duplicate myself into the life of others. who are able to also do the work, duplicate, and then delegate and then dedicate. Once I delegate it, I dedicate it, I oversee it, but we let it go. And so this is exactly what Joshua is doing here. Too many times we have what I call the Moses syndrome. Say, what's that? Go back to Exodus chapter 18. Let me show you something real quick. Look at Exodus chapter 18. And notice what the Bible says here. This is uh, let me tell you what's going on here. This is when Moses' father-in-law came to visit Moses and to rejoice in all that God did after they were delivered from Egypt. Exodus 18. Look down it, we'll pick it up in verse number 9. And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the Lord had done to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians. And Jethro said, Blessed be the Lord who hath delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, out of the hand of Pharaoh who hath delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians, now I know that the Lord is greater than all gods. For in the thing wherein they dealt proudly, he was above them. And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took burnt offerings and sacrifices for God, and Aaron came and all the elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses. Now look at verse thirteen. And it came to pass on the morrow that Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood by Moses from the morning until evening. And when Moses' father-in-law saw all that he did unto the people, he said, What is this thing that thou doest to the people. Why sittest thou thyself alone? And all the people stand by from thee morning until even? And Moses said unto his father in law, Because the people come unto me to inquire of God When they have a matter, they come unto me, and I judge between one and another, and I do make them know the statutes of his laws. Look at verse 17. And Moses' father-in-law said unto him, This thing that thou doest is not good Thou wilt surely wear away both thou and this people that is with thee. For this thing is too heavy for thee. Thou art not able to perform it to perform it thyself. Hearken thou unto my voice. I will give thee counsel And God shall be with thee. Be thou for the people to Godward, that thou mayest bring the causes unto God. And thou shalt teach them ordinances. And drop down to verse number twenty-one. Moreover, thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness, and place such over them to be rulers of thousands. And rulers of hundreds, and rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens, and let them judge the people of all seasons And it shall be that every great matter they shall bring unto thee, but every small matter they shall judge. So shall it be easier for thyself, and they shall bear the bur the burden with This was advice that Moses' father-in-law gave him. He sees Moses judging all this people, doing all but himself. And Jeffrey says, Moses You can't keep doing that. You're going to kill yourself and these people. No man can bear this burden by himself. Get some good, faithful men. Look for men who fear God. Look for men who love truth. Look for men who hate dishonesty. There's no reference here about their educational background, just men who love God, fear God, love truth, and cannot be bribed. And get these men around you and organize them into smaller groups and set them over thousands and hundreds and fifties and tens. Put in there an administrative structure and delegate both responsibility and authority And if you do, it's going to be well with you. And the rest of the chapter says that Moses did exactly that. And I believe, beloved, that in order for any leader to really be able to accomplish God-given objectives, he has to have faithful people around him. that will also take up the mantle of responsibility and will be able to help this leader out. And uh one person said this: the best leader is one who has sense enough to pick good men to do what needs to be done and self-restraint enough to keep from meddling with them while they do it. Now, here's the third principle Now the first principle is the communion principle. A leader has to be in tune with God. Number two, there's the companion principle. A leader must be able to delegate responsibility to faithful people. But now here's the third thing. Write this down. The communication principle. A leader must have a plan, and he has to clearly communicate that plan. Go back to Joshua chapter 1. Notice what he says there in Joshua chapter 1. Verse number 10 and 11. Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, Pass through the host and command the people, saying Prepare you victuals for within three days ye shall pass over this Jordan, to go in to possess the land which the Lord your God giveth you to possess it And to the Reubenites and to the Gadites and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joshua spake Joshua, saying, Now here's the thing. Joshua in verses 10 and 11 clearly communicates the plan to the people. This is what we're going to do. He had a plan, and he clearly communicates that plan. And that's another duty of a leader. You have to get your orders from God, get your plans from God, and then clearly Communicate that plan to others. And a wise leader will structure his message so that for to the audience so that everyone understands clearly what's being said. Many times leaders try to sound too intelligent. Someone said just because the water is muddy doesn't mean that it's deep. And I never try to sound deep, friend. I just try to be clear. And I think that's what a leader has to be. You have to be clear. And you have to communicate, not just with words, but also with your spirit. With your enthusiasm, with your attitude, when the people saw Joshua and they saw him communicating this plan, that can that was contagious and the officers also picked up on that and they communicated it to the people. Now notice how he communicated, first of all, with clarity, again in verse eleven, notice what the plan was. Prepare, in verse eleven, prepare you victuals. That is Get some food ready. You know why? Because the manna is about to stop. For 40 years you've been eating manna. Now you better pack a lunch. Because we're going to pass over. That's the next part of it. In three days you're going to pass over. So prepare, pass over, and then in verse 11, and possess. Take possession of the land. There's a three-point outline that Joshua preached Prepare, Passover, possess, this is what we're going to do. He communicated with clarity, but also he communicated with urgency. Joshua wasn't waiting around He knew what God wanted, and he said, this is what we're going to do. A. W. Pink wrote this. There's a wise old adage that says, strike the iron while it's hot. Act at once in response to the convictions of the conscience or the promptings of the Spirit. Delay itself is disobedience, and he's exactly right. Much of God's work is accomplished in God's Timing and this was the time. God said, This is what I want you to do. Don't stay by the grave of Moses Pass pass over this Jordan. Go into the land. And Joshua knew it was time, and he acted with urgency. He communicated with urgency. But also he communicated with authority. Look again in verse 10. Joshua commanded. Didn't say he suggested. Didn't say he went around and got a poll and a survey from the people. Hey, do you think we should pass over? You think this is a good idea? He didn't need to do any of that. He already got his orders from God. He didn't take a vote on it I'm not saying there's not a time where you shouldn't vote on things, but beloved, when God's already spoken, you don't need to vote. When God's already said what to do, you just need to move. I know Joshua didn't want to vote. He remembers the last time Israel voted on going to the Promised Land. You remember what the vote was? Millions said no, and two men said yes, let's go. And he was outvoted And they had to end up staying in the wilderness for forty years. Let me tell you something, the majority is not always right. And let me just also say a church is not a democracy. Sometimes we had the uh the the uh tendency to uh to to read a democracy into the church because as America that's supposedly our government structure This is a democracy. We vote on everything. And again, there's nothing wrong with voting on things. But as long as you know as the church is a theocracy, it is ruled by God, not the people. God is the one who is over his church. And when we vote on anything, we should be voting to do the will of the Lord. We're trying to find and do the will of God. And so he communicated with clarity. With urgency, with authority, but also with certainty. Look again in verse number 11. He said, Ye shall pass over. Not maybe, not we have a good chance of this working out, not it's a real possibility, but you will pass over. He was supremely confident because he knew this was the will of God. John Maxwell said this, a leader is one who knows the way, goes the way, and shows the way. And that's what Joshua is doing here. Matthew Henry, the one who wrote the commentary that we love to read, when he was a young man, he went to London and he met a young lady of nobility who was very wealthy, and they fell in love. And she went to ask her father if uh she could marry him, and he said, no, he's got no background, we don't know where he's come from. And she said, yes, but I know where he's going, and I want to go with him. That's a leader. A leader is someone who knows where he's going, and he brings others with him. A leader is a person who has a compass in his head and a magnet in his heart. Now let me give you the fourth principle Number one, I said the communication principle is you have to be in tune with God. Number two is the commute the companion principle. You have to be able to delegate responsibility to people around you Number three is the communication principle. You have to have a plan and you have to clearly communicate that plan. But here's number four. This is what I call the confrontation principle. A leader has to be willing to tackle problems head on. Now, look at verse number twelve And to the Reubenites and to the Gadites and to the half-tribe of Manasseh spake Joshua, saying, Remember the word which Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you, saying, The Lord your God hath given you rest And he hath given you this land. Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle shall remain in the land which Moses gave you on this side of Jordan. But ye shall pass before your brethren, arms, and all the mighty men of valor and help them Until the Lord hath given you your brethren rest, and he hath given you, and they all have possessed the land which the Lord your God giveth them, then ye shall return unto the land of your possession and enjoy it which Moses the Lord's servant gave you on this side of Jordan toward the sun rising. They said, what's going on here? Well when Joshua gave an order to the officers, he said, you go tell the people to get ready. Joshua personally goes to this tribe, the tribe of Reuben, the tribe of Ged, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. And Joshua didn't delegate this. He did this personally. He went to them personally. He said, listen to me, you folks. He said, you also are going to go over and you're going to help your brethren fight for this land. And get this land. Now, question, why did Joshua single out the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh? Why? I'll tell you why. Because years before When they were on the west side of the Jordan, these people came to Moses and they said, Moses, you know what? We don't want to cross over the Jordan River. We'd like to land on this side. In fact, we want to just go ahead and settle down right here. Now at first when Moses heard that, Moses was upset because he thought they were weak in faith and they didn't want to fight. And then Moses said, okay, I tell you what, you can have some allotted land here on this side of the Jordan, but when it's time for your brethren to pass over the Jordan River, you're you the mighty men, the the soldiers are going to have to go over and help your brethren fight and get the land. You can't just stay behind and let your your brethren do all the fighting. You've got to go over with them. And you know what they said? They said, okay. And Moses said, well you better make sure that you do it, because if you don't do it, be sure your sin will what? Find you out. Your sin will find you out. If you don't do what you said you're going to do Now this is years later, it would have happened. Moses died. And Joshua knows now that the commitment they made to Moses They could easily forget. In fact, he was already thinking ahead of time, thinking, this is probably what they're going to say. Well, you know, Joshua, we made that commitment to Moses, not to you. And says Moses is gone. We're no longer binding this, this, we don't have to do that now that Moses is gone. And Joshua, he is thinking about this. And so he goes specifically to this group and he says, do you remember What you said to Moses? Yeah, we remember. Well, guess what? I'm gonna hold you to that. You see, what was he doing? He was tackling a problem head-on, a potential problem. He thought this can be a potential problem, and I'm going to deal with it head-on. And I tell you, dear friend, that's exactly what a leader should do. He will see, foresee perhaps, potential problems and difficulties and conflicts, and he is already ready to personally deal with those conflicts head-on. I tell you, I think one of the reasons why we're suffering as a nation is because we've had a train of leaders that have swept problems under the rug because they just don't want to deal with them. And then the next person has all these other problems he's got to deal with, and rather than him dealing with those problems head on, he'll sweep them under the rug too. And we have no one that's willing. To get dirty, so to speak, and deal with the problem because it might make them look bad, because it might make them look like they have failed Joshua doesn't worry about that. He goes right to the people and he says, this is what you're going to do. And so, friend, we have as leader we have as leaders we have to be willing to do the difficult things And we have to be open and ready for attack. The leaders are vulnerable and they will get attacked and they suffer stress. Ted Ing Ted Ingstrom wrote this. He said, true leadership, even when it is practiced by the most mature An emotionally stable person always exacts a toll on the individual. And I think he's exactly right. But you have to be willing to tackle problems head on. And Joshua is willing to do all this. So he's a great example for all of us. And so these are the principles that I see here. That forge you got a leader, the communication principle, you have to be in tune with God, the companion principle, you have to be able to delegate to faithful people, the uh the the uh communication principle. A leader has to be have a plan and cle clearly communicate that plan. The confrontation principle, a leader has to be willing to tackle problems head on Now let me give you the second part of this sermon. Notice the other part, the people that follow a godly leader. Notice the encouraging response of the people. Look at verse 16. And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou commandest us, we will do. What a great response from these people. These people here are an example of good followers. They were an encouragement to Joshua. They had to be. What an encouragement they were. When I graduated from seminary with my PhD I received a uh a personal letter from a nationally known preacher from MacArthur, and uh he was very kind in his letter And he congratulated me. But one thing he wrote in the letter, I'll never forget, this is what he wrote. He's talking about being a pastor and being a leader. And he said this, when the flock loves, responds, and serves with unity, the joy is unspeakable. Now here's from a man who has served for over 40 years, and he said, when God's people come together and they follow godly leadership, he said, the joy is unspeakable. And that's so true. And that's what we see here from these people. This is a different generation. Poor Moses, he had to deal with the older generation They weren't very easy to uh pastor, you could say. They were high maintenance. They were always complaining. Uh they couldn't seem to uh be happy about anything And as a result of their unbelief, they died in the wilderness. But here's a new generation. And they responded a different way. And they say to Joshua in verse 16, all that thou commandest us, we will do. You know, one thing I've learned in ministry is not everyone follows godly leadership. That's a sad thing to say, but it's so true. Else I noticed I've preached in a lot of churches. Churches, like people, have their own personalities. I've noticed that. And some churches are very submissive and very easy to pastor and people want Godly leadership in there are other churches, kind of like some children that are strong-willed. It just takes a little bit more, you know, uh to lead. And uh I just notice that. Not everyone follows godly leadership. And if you look in the Bible, you'll see that Moses again had to deal with this. Jeremiah was called the weeping prophet because he faced the rebellious people, Jesus himself. I would submit to you that there was not a greater leader that walked the earth than Jesus. And yet Jesus was constantly dealing with hostility and rebellion from people. But here, these people were different. How did they respond? They responded with unity. Look again in verse 16. All that thou commandest us, we will do. Whithersoever thou sendest us. We will go. Just underscore those pronouns in your Bible. We and us. It's important that in any great venture that a people be unified. And they were. A people sanctified and unified is a mighty force in God's hand. Satan's motto is to divide and conquer. And Joshua knows the importance of unity, especially in this huge challenge that they have. That's why he went personally to speak to the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh. He wanted to make sure that they were on board, that there was total unity in the nation. And in fact, this unity is emphasized throughout the book of Joshua. Look in chapter 3 and look in verse number 1, just to kind of give you an idea. And Joshua rose up early in the morning and they removed from Shittim and came to Jordan. He and all Notice where it says, all the children of Israel. Look in chapter 4, verse 1. And it came to pass when all the people were clean passed over Jordan. They all went. And then look in verse number 14 of chapter 4. We see the same thing. On that day the Lord magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel. And on through this book we could go and we could see the emphasis on unity. You know it was estimated that if all the American American colonies were unified at the time of the Revolutionary War, it would have lasted one year instead of eight years? Interesting. And Joshua here was about to go to war, and he needed all the people. So these were people who understood unity. But here's another thing. These people understood loyalty. Look again in chapter 1. Look in verse number 17. According as we hearkened unto Moses and all things. So will we hearken unto thee, only the Lord thy God be with thee as he was with Moses. Now these people pledged their loyalty to Joshua. They said, you know, we'll hearken unto you the way we did to Moses. Only the Lord be with you as he was with Moses. Now I want you to notice, they pledged their loyalty. But notice this, this wasn't a blind loyalty. Notice what they didn't say. They didn't say, we're going to follow you, Joshua, no matter what. No, that's not what they said. They had a loyalty, but it wasn't a blind loyalty. We'll follow you like we followed Moses. As long as you are following the Lord the way Moses followed the Lord, then we'll follow you. I remember once when I was a young man, younger man, I was listening to a pastor preach. He was preaching, it was a large church considered a megachurch. And this is what he said in the sermon. I remember hearing it. He said, there are three kinds of people in this room. He said, there are some people that listen to me and do everything I say just because I say it. That's group number one, he said He said, then there's group number two. And that's people who listen to what I say, they think about it themselves, they check it out themselves, and then they decide whether or not they're going to follow what I say And then he said, there's a third group of people, and there's a group of people that don't do anything I tell them to do. Now he said, my goal here as the leader of this church is to get everybody in group number one. And I remember sitting there thinking, that would not be my goal. My goal would be this. My goal would be to get everybody in group number two. In other words, I would want people to listen to what I say, and then think about it yourself, and then check it out in the scripture to make sure what I'm saying is right. And then when you see that what I'm saying is right, it's biblical, it's scriptural, then you do it. That would be my goal. Isn't that what the Bible says of the Bereans? They were more noble than those in Thessalonica. Why? Because they searched the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. By the way, who was preaching to them? The Apostle Paul. He probably knew what he was talking about. But these people, they looked at what he said. They checked it for themselves. You know why? That teaches discernment. That teaches thinking skills. And there's a lot of people out there, a lot of leaders that are deceiving people. And there are some people that are just blindly swallowing whatever they hear. God doesn't want that kind of following. And so I think these people understand true loyalty. And they understood that they As long as Joshua followed the Lord the way Moses did, then they would follow Joshua. Loyalty in Scripture is never blind. It is discerning. And I think this is the right kind of loyalty. Now, there's another thing though. These people understood unity. They understood loyalty, but also the understood authority. Look at verse 18. And whosoever he be that doth rebel against thy commandments And will not hearken unto thy words in all that thou commandest him, he shall be put to death, only be strong. and of a good courage. Now again, these are the people talking to Joshua. And he said, anyone that doesn't listen to you, Joshua. Who doesn't hearken to your commands and to your words will take care of him. He shall be put to death. Now that's very strong here. But they understood that Joshua was the Lord's man, and Joshua was following the Lord. And as long as Joshua was following the Lord, the commands he gave were the commands of God Like an Old Testament prophet. Now today we understand that we don't have prophets like they had in the Old Testament. And every once in a while you'll see a church sign where a guy will have advertised when they're the apostle So-and-so, apostle with a capital A. And uh, can you imagine? You can call me now the Apostle Jerry. Just call me the Apostle Jerry. You say, what's the problem with that? Well, it makes it look like he has more authority than the average person. May I tell you that there are no more apostles with a capital A? No one has the gifts of an apostle. No one has seen the risen Lord with their own eyes, or have done the signs of an apostle. Now there is an apostle small a because apostle in the New Testament is the word apostolos, and it simply means a messenger So there are apostles small a messengers of the Lord. I think sometimes missionaries that go to foreign countries and plant churches, they are apostles small a. They are messengers of the Lord But they don't have the authority that the apostles had in the New Testament. You see, what's your point? My point is we don't have prophets and apostles The way they did in the Old and New Testament. We have preachers who are committed to the Word of God. And let me just say this: my authority comes from preaching this book and standing behind this book And telling you what God says, and as long as I'm faithful to tell you what the Lord says, I'm speaking with the Lord's authority. Amen. That's why I say check it out for yourself. Don't just believe me. Now you'll find out that I'm right. I'll save you some time. It's it's right. But go ahead and check it out. And be discerning. And that's where our authority comes from. It comes from the Lord. Now these people here, they they understood that Joshua was a prophet. And when they disobeyed a prophet of God, a true prophet of God, it was like disobeying the Lord himself. And so they understood the principle of authority. And that's the people that follow a godly leader. Now think about these principles. Are they true in your life? Are you an effective leader? And by the way, let me just say in closing, nobody exemplifies these things better than the Lord Jesus Himself I mean think about it. Do you think that the Lord Jesus got his orders from God the Father? Oh, absolutely. When he walked his life during on this earth, he got up early, the Bible says a great while before day. And he communed with God the Father. Jesus said, He that sent me is with me. The Father has not left me alone. I do always those things that please him. Jesus said, I do nothing of myself, but as the Father hath taught me, I speak those things. Jesus got all his orders from God the Father. And by the way, did he have a group of people around him that he delegated things to? You ever heard of the disciples? He gathered 12 men around him. And he duplicated himself and them, and then he delegated to them. He said, take this gospel into all the world, and he gave them authority to do it. And he dedicated them unto the Lord. What about a communication? Did Jesus clearly give his plan? Read Matthew 28, 19 and 20. Go ye therefore. into all the world and uh teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. What about the confrontation principle? Did Jesus confront things head-on? Let me tell you something, friend. Jesus came into this world and he confronted the sin problem head-on. And he gave his life so that we could have salvation. And as people were to look unto Jesus, he is the author and finisher of our faith. Let me close with this. E. Stanley Jones told of a missionary who lost his way in the African jungle. And uh he couldn't find any landmarks. Seemed like the trail had vanished. Eventually he came stumbling into a village to a small hut. And he asked the native that was living there, he said, Could you help me? Can you lead me out? And the native rising to his feet nodded and said, Yes, follow me. And then Uh he just followed this native and he went straight into the brush, this native there, with a sword. He began hacking through this thick brush. This dense forest with a wall of vines and and grass and he just continued hacking out a path. And then the missionary became worried after a while and he said, Are you sure this is the way? I don't see any path And the African just chuckled and he said, Biwana, there i uh there is no path. I am the path. Follow me And of course he did follow him. And he found his way out. And that reminds me of the Lord Jesus when he came into this sinful world. He made a path, the path of salvation, and he did it for all of us. And Jesus said, I am the way. the truth and the life. And no man comes under the Father but by me. The greatest leader came into this world and has given us all an example to follow. He's given us the way of salvation and he has taught us how to lead. And may we learn to follow him. Do you know him tonight? Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, help us to just apply these principles. If we look at the life of Joshua. We see a man that has been entrusted with much, and a man who's learning to lead. And Lord, we can learn so many good things for our own life. Help us to follow these things. Help us to learn to get our orders from you. Help us, Lord, to duplicate ourselves in the lives of others. So that we can not only lead ourselves, but teach others to lead. And Lord help us To be clear in communicating your word to others and be willing to confront difficulty and not run from it Lord, make us all godly leaders. And along with that, Lord, godly followers that understand loyalty and unity and authority. And Lord, for this church here, Lord, just make us that kind of a people. Even more, Lord, do a great work in our hearts so that we can do great things. for your kingdom. We're not concerned about our own glory. Lord, we're concerned about your glory. And we're concerned about the lost. So Lord help us to be this kind of people. And bless these words to our heart, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.