All right. It's good to see you in the Lord's house tonight, and I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the book of Philippians. And tonight we are in chapter four, and uh we are going to uh actually finish up the book of Philippians in chapter four, Lord willing. That's uh sees uh depending on how well you listen tonight. and how well I can get through. But look at Philippians chapter four, just a great, great chapter of Scripture. And look at verse number ten. But I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now until last your care of me has flourished again, wherein you were uh also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of one, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. And so tonight I want to talk about learning the secret of contentment. In one of my trips to London, uh I visited a cemetery that was at one time on the outside of the city limits of London, but the city kind of grew around it, but it's called Bun Hill. Fields Cemetery. Kind of that name kind of was uh uh was a derivative of what was used to be called Bones Hill. And now they just call it Bunhill, but it was a cemetery, it was a nonconformist cemetery where um they would bury preachers who were not in conformity to the Church of England. So it was a cemetery that was used by a lot of Puritan preachers. And as a result, there are many uh great preachers that are buried there, many Puritan preachers. And I just you know, I'm kind of a h history nerd, I guess you could say. I love history and I love visiting historical historical spots. And so I wanted to go and visit this cemetery. And there are m men like John Owen there and Thomas Goodwin. Those are are again great Puritan names and John Bunyan, the writer of Pilgrim's Progress. But there's also an author who's buried there, who is a Christian man and a great writer, a man by the name of Daniel Defoe. And he wrote a book, a famous book that you may have heard of called The Adventures of Robinson Caruso. How many of you have heard of that book? Well, that was a great book, and in it he has a lot of Christian principles that were woven throughout the book. So basically the book is about a man by the name of Robinson Caruso who sets sail from England in 1651 and he's eventually shipwrecked and he washes ashore on an island where he spends twenty-eight years there Can you imagine being 28 years on a desert island? He is a uh he during that time of isolation on the island He has access to water, to to fresh water. He has access to food. He gathers up supplies from the wreckage of the ship. And he can build a shelter, and he can find ways to survive. In fact, he finds wreckage from other ships that are there, and he uses all of that. to be able to help him to uh to build a l- uh whatever life he had there while waiting for rescue. And uh he builds shelters. And during that time, he begins to go through a religious conversion while he's there on the island. And this is a fascinating part of the account of his conversion. I don't know if you ever read the book, but he is converted to Christ while he's there in isolation on that island. He came from a religious family, but uh he turned his back on all of that when he set out to be a sailor But now that he's isolated on that island, he begins to think about God. He begins to think about all the things that he had learned when he was young. And Carosso finds among the wreckage, he finds a Bible And then he salvages that, of course, and he begins to read the Bible. And at a time when things were not going so well He stops and he cries out to God and asks for God to have mercy on him and to save him. And he he's convicted about his sin by reading the scripture And so he truly repents of his sin and he truly comes to Jesus Christ there on that island and he finds peace with God. And not only that He learns on that island, isolated from the outside world, he learns to find true contentment there by himself on that island. And I want to read you an excerpt. This is what Robinson Caruso said, and I'm quoting here a quote. I learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition and less upon the dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted. And this gave me sometimes such secret comforts that I cannot express them, and which I take notice here to put those discontented people in mind of it. Now he's talking to me and you Let me talk to you discontented people, he says. Discontented people who cannot enjoy comfortably what God has given them. Because they see and covet something that He has not given them. All our discontents about what we about what about what we want appear to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for what we have, or that is the lack of thankfulness for what we have. And so he learned it. He learned there on that island contentment. He learned the secret. Have you learned it Have I learned it? It's something that we constantly have to deal with in our own Christian walk. There is a general lack of contentment. I think as you look around in our world today, you can agree with that. It's basically reflected by the the high rate of consumer debt, people not willing to live within their means and things they have to have and thinking if they ha if they have this it'll make them happier or make them content Uh it also rears its head with the high divorce rate. Uh people can't seem to find happiness in the marriages that they have. They think that they need to at some point to trade in their mace to find real contentment, but only to find that, you know, the same problem occurs in other relationships. You bring your your troubles with you. Our lack of contentment is seen in the clamoring of for rights, uh while all while claiming to be victimized. We just can't seem to get fair treatment. We think if we can get fair treatment that we will be happy. And and people are suing one another at astonishing rates. People trying to make a money grab off of lawsuits and things like that. There is a great need for God's people to learn contentment and then to model contentment to this world in which we And this is what Paul's talking about right here. Now think about the passage that we're going to study here in verses 10 on down. This is written by Paul, a man who sits in prison because of corrupt officials. He's awaiting possible execution over false charges. And this is the man that's going to write to us and tell us how to find contentment. A man who's in a prison. And who's been in that prison for two years? And the answer lies buried here in this letter, which I call a thank you letter. to the Philippian church. And that's really what the book of Philippians is. The Philippian church had sent Paul a financial gift because he was a prisoner. And now he wants to express his heartfelt heartfelt thanks to them for this gift that was given to them, but he wants to do it in a way where he doesn't want to convey the fact that the Lord was not sufficient for his need. So while he wants to be thankful and let them know his gratitude, he doesn't want to give the impression that God wasn't taking care of him where he was, even though he may have lacked some things. uh at times, even though it was a very difficult situation. He did not want his donors to think that he was discontented before the gift arrived. He wants them to know how much he appreciates them, but he also wants to know that he has learned, even in that difficult situation, that he could be content with what the Lord had given him. So The question is, have we learned contentment? And are we learning contentment? This is not something that we master perfectly, but it's something that we should be working on in our own life. Amen. So the question is, are we learning it? And in this passage I want you to see four indicators to help us measure our own lives. to see whether or not you and I are learning to be content as we should. Here's the first one. If you're learning to be content, you will be focused on God's providence instead of your problems. You'll be focused on God's providence instead of your own problems. Look at verse number ten again. But I gr I rejoice uh in the Lord greatly that now at the last year care of me has flourished again, wherein you were also careful, but you lacked. Now again, Paul had started the church at Philippi. We know that. Ten years had passed since Paul started this church. The church had been one of uh Paul's supporting churches and they had uh just wherever Paul was they seemed to be able to find him and send him a gift. Um but it was hard to keep up with Paul. Can you imagine he's always moving around And he's going from place to place. And for a time, for some reason, the Philippians did not support Paul. They were unable perhaps to locate him Maybe they were going through some kind of a difficulty where they were. Perhaps they had sent out a gift maybe at times and it was taken. We don't know. But a time went by. And they were not giving to Paul. They were not communicating with him. When you see the word communicating here, it has the idea of giving to him. And so uh again I I think the real reason is because they they couldn't locate them. Communication back then was poor. Uh you know, to find out where Paul was was difficult at times. So maybe they didn't know where to send the money. It reminds me of uh David Liviestein, the missionary who went to Africa and for years no one knew where he was. There was no communication with him there. No one had contact with him because he was out of contact with the outside world. And so for a time they just didn't give to him. Again, it could have been an affliction. Paul mentions in 2 Corinthians 8. about the great trial of affliction that took place in the Macedonian churches. But uh but they felt responsible for Paul and they wanted to give. But the opportunity was gone. And by the way, this speaks to us as a church. We should be involved in missions, right? We should be involved in international missions. We should be giving to that, helping the effort any way that we can. That's certainly the responsibility of the New Testament Church. And so In verse number 10, notice where Paul says that now at the last year, care of me has flourished again. And the word flourished here is a Greek word that means to be revived. And he's referring to the gift. They finally located Paul. They finally were able to send the gift through Epaphroditus. And Paul is saying in the letter as he's writing back this thank you letter, your care of me has revived again It's like a flower that blossoms. That's the idea behind the word. You're giving flowered to me again. Notice what he says, wherein ye were careful. But you lacked opportunity that as you wanted to give to me, it wasn't a matter of them just losing concern over Paul Or losing their burden to help out in missions. Paul said, no, you were careful. You cared a lot about me, but the opportunity to give to me was gone. And so Paul says this because he wants to assure the Philippians that he was not upset at them because they stopped giving. This was not anger. You know, Paul didn't write a letter saying, hey, what happened to you guys? I'm down here by myself. Where's the money? That's like a lot of preachers today, you know, when they pass the offering, played around twice or lock the doors until we get enough. I've heard of preachers doing that, you know, um counting the money and saying, hold on, everybody, stay where you are, don't move. Uh Paul doesn't do anything like that. He doesn't try to manipulate people to give What he does is he shows a gracious attitude. He doesn't chide them. He doesn't rebuke them. He doesn't shame them or try to make them feel guilty. What he does is he he gives a generous thank you, a gracious Thanks on his part. There was no panic with Paul, even though he was there in that Roman prison and they weren't communicating with him. He didn't panic about that. Again, there was no attempt to manipulate the situation on Paul's part. Why? Because Paul was absolutely completely confident in the providence of God. He knew that ultimately God was in control, and he was the one that controlled what Paul got and when he got it. That was all in God's realm. And because he was absolutely confident in God's providence, he could be thankful in whatever situation he was in. And that's what the providence of God teaches us. us that God is in control of all the events of this life. God's providence allows for all the contingencies that we face, all of the events. The words that we hear, the acts that are done towards us, the decisions, all these elements that make up our normal life, God is in control of all of those things. There is nothing left to chance in your life or in my life And Paul was content because he knew that all those seasons and times and opportunities were in God's hand. They were in God's control You see, a person who tries to control their own lives, they're going to be very, very frustrated. A person who is a micromanager who wants to control everything. That's going to be a really person who has a lot of anxiety, a lot of worries, a lot of stress. Because guess what? There are things that you and I we cannot control. They're out of our control Write down Proverbs 16, verse 9. A man's heart devises his way. You might have a plan. You might have something that you're trying to do. But notice the rest of the verse, but the Lord directs his steps. You might have your own plan, but you know what? God can redirect that plan anytime he wants to. And then in Proverbs 19, verse 21, there are many devices in a man's heart, nevertheless, the counsel of the Lord that shall stand You again, you could have a lot of ideas, a lot of dreams, a lot of plans, a lot of visions, uh quote unquote, and you can have all of that, but ultimately It will be the counsel of the Lord that is what will stand. What will happen will be what God allows or permits or determines to happen in that situation. A confident trust in the providence of God is foundational to being content in this life. You have to have confidence in the providences of God. And Paul knew the Philippians didn't give because God providentially close the door. And Paul knew the Philippians gave again because God providentially again opened the door. That was all in the hand of God. And so we have to be satisfied with what Providence allots to us in life. That's the key. Are you satisfied with what God's providence dishes out to you, what he allots to you in life. That's the whole issue here. Charles Kelly said it like this quote, Christian contentment is the God-given ability to be satisfied with the loving provision of God in any and every situation. And that's so very true. Being content is learning to be satisfied with the loving provision of God in every situation that we find ourselves in. The Puritan Jeremiah Burroughs said this Christian contentment is that sweet, inward, gracious frame of spirit which freely submits to and delights in God's wise and fatherly disposal in every condition. And so it's being satisfied with what God has done in your life is with what you have, with what God has given you. Paul said to Timothy in 1 Timothy 6. 8, and having food and raiment, let us therewith be what? Be content. In Luke chapter 3, verses 14, some soldiers once asked John the Baptist how they could manifest genuine repentance. And John the Baptist said this, be content with your wages. You want to show that you're really repentant? Be content with what you are receiving. So in Hebrews 13, verse 5, let your conversation or lifestyle be without covetousness. And be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. Someone said that contentment was when your yearning power equaled your earning power. And that's so very true. And again, this is something that doesn't come natural. It is something that we have to learn We have to learn constantly. But here's number two. Number one was you will be focused on God's providence instead of your problems. Number two, you will find sufficiency in Christ instead of circumstances. You find sufficiency in Christ instead of circumstances. Look at verse number 11. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. And again, Paul didn't want the Philippians to misunderstand him. He wasn't speaking them from lack or for from want on his part. He wasn't commending them for their giving because he was in dire straits. That's not the reason he said what he said. Why? Well, because Paul had learned to be content in whatever situation he was in. And the key verse really again is right here, verse eleven, where he says, um I learned to be content. And for I have to learn in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. Now look at the word learn. You may want to circle that. It's a very important word here. This was a word that was used by Stoic philosophers. It came from the school of Stoic philosophy, and it means to learn by experience. And drop down to verse 12 where Paul says I know how to be abase, I know how to be abound. Everywhere in all things I'm instructed to be full, to be hungry. Notice where it says, I am instructed. That expression there means to be initiated into a secret. And this again is another one of those Stoic philosopher terms. So to learn, and I have been instructed I've been initiated into the secret. It's actually the Apostle Paul telling us here, I have learned the secret. And there's a sense in which he is using words that pr the Greco-Roman world would be familiar with because again they were used by these philosophers. Contentment is not something you learn right after you're saved. It's not something that you learn academically through books. In college or seminary. You can learn about the abstract concept of contentment, but learning to be content, that's totally a different thing. You can understand the concept without being content. And so you don't learn this through academia. You don't learn it through books or research papers. You know how you learn about contentment is God has to put you through some things. He's got to put you in different circumstances in life. You have to suffer some in this life. And that's how. God taught Paul to be content. That's how God initiates us into the secret of contentment. You want to learn this secret? Good, you've got to go through the school of affliction sometime. in order to really learn about this, to be content. Look at the word content there. That is the again a word that is Paul's using these words from that world and what he's going to do is he's baptizing them. He's going to put a new spin on the understanding of this. a Christ-centered spin, but the word content means self-sufficient or self-contained. This is the only time this Greek word is found in all the New Testament. Just right here. It's used in extra biblical literature to speak of being self-sufficient, having enough, not being dependent on others. One ancient writer used the word in reference to a country that had supplied itself and had no need of imports. Didn't need anything from anyone else. That one country was self-sufficient. Again, this was a favorite word of the doctrine of the Stoics, they elevated this doctrine, the ability to be free from any outside once That was considered to be the chief of all virtues. And they taught that a man by exerting the power of his own will should be sufficient to himself for all things. Therefore, he can endure all things. Just be strong in yourself. Just be sufficient. You know, you kind of tune out from all of the outward circumstances. You know, you rein in all of your emotions. You become like a uh to use a uh anybody ever watch Star Trek and see Dr. Spock on there? That's what the Stoics were like. You know, you're just no emotion, not really riled by outward circumstances. You know, you're just self-contained. It's kind of a grit grit your teeth and bear it. type thing. That was the philosophy of the Stoics. One writer, A. T. Robertson, said this. The Stoics made a good deal out of the virtue of self-scription. sufficiency or independence of external circumstances, they held that man should be sufficient in and unto himself in all things. Now, this is not what Paul means here when he uses the word, however. Paul's not saying that you need to learn in and of yourself. to be self-sufficient, to you know to divorce yourself from the outward circumstances and to reign in all of your emotions. That's not what Paul is doing here. That's not what he's teaching here. He doesn't say contentment is through detachment. That's not what he's teaching. What he does is he baptizes this idea into the Christian context. And again, Paul himself was not detached from his circumstances. He understood fully well where he was in and what he had to adore. He didn't detach his emotions. from the world around him. If we look in verse number 10, he shows how he rejoiced in the Lord when he received the gift. We see rejoicing all throughout this letter. We see a lot of emotion in this letter. So Paul was not detached from people. He wasn't detached from his feelings. He wasn't afraid to show his feelings or his expression of love towards others. And contentment also It doesn't mean complacency. It doesn't learn to you know me learning to be content doesn't mean that you remain complacent in every situation in life. As Christians, it's okay for you to work to better yourself or to better your situation whenever that opportunity arises. The Bible places a premium on hard work. And the rewards that come from it. As long as we're free from greed and we're working under the Lord and we're doing our business with diligence under the Lord, it's okay to accept whatever reward comes from that. It's okay to accept whatever promotion or it's okay to better yourself if God providentially opens the door for those things to happen. It's okay. If you're single and you're lonely, there's nothing wrong with seeking a godly mate Nothing wrong with that. If you're in an unpleasant job, there's nothing wrong with going back to school and getting training because you want to go to another level, maybe in your your career. It's okay to change jobs when doors open up. As long as you do all that in a submission to the will of God And in ministry, if you want to be used in a greater way, there's nothing wrong with seeking to get more training and learn to be used by God in a greater way. So contentment doesn't mean complacency. It's okay to have those godly ambitions. So what does Paul mean when he says he's learned to be content? Paul never taught the believer to find their sufficiency in self. The difference between the Stoic philosophers is they had a man-centered self-sufficiency, whereas real Christian contentment is learning to find all our sufficiency in Christ. That's the difference. We are dependent upon Christ. We find our sufficiency in Him. Write down 2 Corinthians 3. 5. This I think defines it very well. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves. To think anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God. We find our sufficiency in Him It's a Christ-centered, God-centered sufficiency. Paul found all in Christ. He was independent of his circumstances because he was dependent upon Christ. Look at look at his dire circumstances. Look at verse 12. I know how to be a base. Again, Paul's emphasizing what he learned. I know how. I know I know how to be a base. I know how to abound. A base needs to be humble due to a lack of material resources, humble through hunger or suffering. Paul says, look, I know how to be hungry. I know how to suffer need. This refers to all material earthly needs of this life, not spiritual needs. And again, Paul is no ivory tower theologian. He lived and worked in the trenches. I mean, his life was not exactly a testimony to the prosperity gospel. Definitely not a prosperity gospel preacher. I mean, Paul's trials started right after he got saved. In fact, he was doing pretty well before he met Jesus on the road to Damascus. But once he met Jesus on the road to Damascus, everything changed for him. He re he writes to the Corinthians. He reminds them of all he has gone through. He says, are they ministers of Christ talking about these others who were criticizing him. He said, I more, and labor's more abundant, and strife's above measure, and prisons more frequently, and deaths off Of the Jews received uh received thy forty stripes, save one. Uh five times I received thy forty stripes, save one. Thrice I was beat with rods, once I was stoned, thrice I suck suff suffered shipwreck, a night and a day. I've been in the deep. And journeys often in perils of waters, and perils of robbers, and perils of my own countrymen, and perils of the heathen, and perils in the city, and perils in the wilderness, and perils in the sea, and perils among false brethren, and weariness and painfulness and watchings off, and hunger and thirst, and fastings off, and cold and nakedness. And besides all those things, without that cometh upon me daily, there's the care of all the church. Doesn't sound like a prosperity preacher to me. But Paul learned to be content in all those conditions. And it didn't come natural. It wasn't instantaneous. He learned in all of these difficulties. How to be content. He learned by walking with God. He learned that Christ was sufficient for him in every one of those situations. That's what contentment is. It's learning by experience that Christ is sufficient for all of the trials and problems and circumstances that you will face. Have you learned that, believer? I can honestly say through the adversities and trials I've been through thus far, Christ has been more than sufficient. More than sufficient to help me through all of these things. But again, the key is understanding that all of this is under the providence of God. All of this is under the sovereignty of our God. So if you're walking with God and you find yourself in a desperate situation, you can know that you're not there by chance. This is not an accident. This is God's providence in your life. He puts you there. This is training in your faith. Why? So you can share in his holiness. So you can learn to find that Christ is all. He's sufficient for all these things. So Paul says, I know how to be abase. But notice the other part of this in verse 12, and I know how to abound. And this simply speaks to live in prosperity. Now we're a little bit we would rather have that side of it. Lord, I'd rather you test me with prosperity than adversity. Oh, that seems easy. Oh man, you know, prosperity. I know how to live in prosperity, really? Because there's a danger here too In fact, the danger may be more prevalent here. Some Christians who pass the test of poverty fail miserably in the test of prosperity. When we are prosperous and things are going well, let's be honest, we have a tendency to forget God. We have a tendency to uh walk away or not follow as closely to Christ as we should. And so Spurgeon says this. He says, these are both hard lessons to learn. I do not know which is the more difficult of the two. Probably it is easier to know how to go down than you know how to go up. But he says, How many Christians have I seen grandly glorifying God in sickness and poverty when they have come down in the world? And how often have I seen other Christians dishonoring God when they have grown rich? or when they have risen to a position of influence among their fellow men. These two lessons, grace alone can fully teach us. That's so true. But you will learn to find your sufficiency in Christ, not in your circumstances. Here's number three. Number one, I said you'll be focused on God's providence, not your problems. You'll learn to find your sufficiency in Christ instead of circumstances. Number three, you will rely on divine power instead of your own. This is another test to see whether you're learning contentment. You will learn to rely on divine power instead of your own. Look at verse 13. I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. And here's another secret of contentment. We learn to rely on the strength of Christ. We rely on his strength. There are two parts to this verse. Uh there's our part and then there's God's part. Some Christians put too much emphasis on I can do all things and on human responsibility. You end up burning out Because you can't do all things in your own strength. You can't do all things. And others put too much emphasis on true Christ who strengthens me. And they sit around passively not doing anything because they don't want to be accused of acting in the flesh. But the balance is to learn both of these. Our part is I can do all things. All things means Get this carefully, all right? Because that this is used a lot out of context. You know, I I like to use illustration, you know, I I I'm never going to be able to dunk a basketball. All right. It doesn't matter how many times I quote this verse or how much I depend upon God in that, I I'm just not going to be able to dunk the basketball. Alright. I see these athletes wearing these boxers going out there wearing Philippians four thirteen on their boxing trunks and going out there in the middle of the ring and getting knocked out. Well, you need to learn to be able to fight too, okay? It's okay to claim the verse, but that's not what this verse is talking about. All right. What does this mean? It means that I can do all things that God has called me to do in his service for the kingdom of God. That's the context of this. I can do everything that God wants me to do, requires of me, in service to him for his kingdom. That's the whole point here. He can provide for you. If God's called you to get up and speak, guess what? He'll give you the power to do it. If he's called you to serve behind the scenes, guess what? He'll give you the power to do it. If he's called you to to give large amounts to Further his work in some way, he'll give you the ability to do that. If God's called you to go through some trial and some suffering in your life, guess what? He'll give you the power to do that. Whatever the circumstance that God calls you to, that he puts you in, guess what? He's going to give you the power to overcome that. To do what he's called you to do in that. Write down 2 Corinthians 9:8. God is able to make all grace abound to you, that always having all sufficiency in everything, you may have an abundance of every good deed. So I can do all things, and here's God's part through Christ which strengtheneth me. And the word here in Dunemo to empower, to infuse with strength. It's a present-tense verb. The preposition is in, not through. Why is that important? Because it emphasizes the believers living vital union with Christ. We are in Christ. We get all of our strength through our union with Christ. So we can literally say it like this, I can do all things in Christ which continually strengthens me. Whatever you need to deal with, whatever you go through, Christ is sufficient for that need. And that's the thing that that we need to learn. And we need to learn that daily as we're depending on the Lord. You know, this doctrine is under attack. uh in certain circles in in the Christian psychology movement, which basically says that, you know, well Christ is sufficient for all of your spiritual needs, but not your emotional needs and other needs. You know, as if Christ is not sufficient for that. But if you look at the fruit of the Spirit, you find in that list a lot of things that are emotional attributes. that the Spirit of God gives us. The Bible says that we are equipped for every good what? Every good work. You're not equipped for every good work if you're an emotional wreck. No, Christ is sufficient for those needs, for all of those needs. But sadly, the church today is selling out, trusting in the all-sufficiency of Christ for a lot of worldly philosophies. That take away the believer's sufficiency in Christ. We need to be careful about that. Whatever you need, you can learn to trust daily in the sufficiency of Christ for this need. Let me give you the last one here real quick. Number one, you'll be focused on God's providence instead of your problems. You'll find sufficiency in Christ instead of your circumstances. You'll rely on divine power instead of your own. And then here's number four. You will be preoccupied with the well-being of others instead of yourself. Look at verse fourteen. Notwithstanding ye have done well that you did communicate with my affliction. Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity, not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that it might abound to your account But I have all and abound, and I am full, having received o the paper apaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odour of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. And as I said, this is a thank you letter that Paul's giving to the church of Philippi for the gracious gift that he sent, that they sent to him. The church was simply God's instrument to take care of Paul's need, and Paul was confident in God's faithful provision. And we can be confident to know that God will always provide for us. But he's expressing gratitude. He's saying, look, you know, yeah, I'm content in whatever circumstances I'm in. Now he's careful to help them to see that he's not ingrateful or ungrateful for the gift. I mean when they read that, maybe first when they hear that they might think, well then why if Paul, if you're content in your circumstances, and Christ is all sufficient, why should we even send this to you? But Paul, he's very careful to say quickly, notwithstanding you've done well that you did communicate. with my affliction. Paul said, you done well. Kalos, that's noble, beautiful. Listen, what you did was good. This is the way it should be. The church should take care of its missionaries. It should take care of this work and God's people and so on. What they did was noble, Paul says, what you did was noble. What you did was needful. By sending this gift. And again, Paul describes it, it was a time when no other church was communicating with him. There was this time in Paul's ministry when he wasn't receiving any gifts from anyone. For a time he got something from the church of Thessalonica and Corinth and other places, but there was a time when no one was giving to Paul. And Paul expresses that here in these verses. No one communicated, no one shared with me. And so there was a great need. And what you did was good. It was noble. It was needed. And so he embraces the gift in verse 17. But he says, Not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that it might abound into your account. He clarifies his motives. I am so grateful for this gift. But not because now I'm rich because of it. It's not out of selfishness that I'm writing you this thank you. It's because I want there to be fruit for your account. This shows that your faith, you're growing in the Lord, and your giving is an expression of worship and love to God. And that's fruit for you. So what does this teach us that when we give to the Lord's work, what is that? That's fruit that God sees it's under the Lord. It's fruit on our account. And that's what Paul is really, really thrilled about, that they have been manifesting this wonderful spiritual fruit in their life by giving. And that's what Paul's focused on. And then in verse 18, I love this where he says, But I have all and abound. And here Paul is using a verb used commonly in the ancient world to denote a full payment. Stamped paid in full. I have more than enough. This account is is is uh is paid in full. In fact I have a surplus. I have more than enough. And in verse 18, he calls their gift a fragrant aroma, an acceptable sacrifice. Well pleasing to God. And I love those terms. And again, it reminds us that when we give, it is a sacrifice to the Lord, is an offering to the Lord. It's done unto the Lord. And Paul describes their giving that way. And when you did it, you did it unto the Lord. And so in response to that, what does Paul do? He gives them a guarantee. Look at verse number 19. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. So there's a contrast between verse 18 and verse 19. Paul is saying, you met my need, God's going to meet your need. That's the whole point. You met the n the one need that I have, God's going to meet all of your needs. You took care of my one need, God's going to take care of all of yours. Notice in verse 19, God promises to supply all your need according to his riches. Not out of his riches, but according to his riches. What a staggering promise Because let me tell you something, beloved, God owns the whole world. He doesn't run short of resources. And he's going to supply according to his riches in glory. This is this is God's promise to take care of people that give as a act of worship to God Sacrificially, we have every reason to believe that the church at Macedonia, the churches they were going through a difficult time, and their giving was sacrificial at this point. They were giving sacrificially, but in return, Paul says, God will Meet all of your needs. You cannot outgive God. God will multiply and give back to you so much more than you give to Him And so this is just an incredible promise that Paul is giving them. But however, Paul was content because he wasn't preoccupied with himself. He was more concerned about the Philippians, their spiritual growth, about them having all of their needs met. About them having fruit that abounds to their account under the glory of God, their spiritual growth, their needs. That's what Paul was concerned about. He wasn't concerned about himself. And that's why he could learn to be content. So focus on God's providence, not your problems. Find sufficiency in Christ, not your circumstances. Rely on God's power, not your own. Be preoccupied with the well-being of others, not your own. And you know what? That's the secret of learning to be content in whatever situation you're in. Once a rich businessman was kind of disturbed to see a fisherman sitting by his boat being idle. And the businessman said to him, Why aren't you out there fishing? And the fisherman said, Because I've caught enough fish for today. And he said, Well, why don't you catch more fish than you need? asked the rich man. And the fisherman said, Well, what do I do with them once I catch them? He said, Well you can earn more money, buy a better boat so you can go deeper and catch more fish. And then you can purchase nylon nets and catch even more fish and make more money, and soon you'd have a fleet of boats and you'd be rich like me? And the fisherman said, well then what would I do? He said, well then you could sit down and enjoy life. And the fisherman said, Well what do you think I'm doing now? I'm doing that right now. May God help us to learn, to be content. May we learn that secret. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for your providence in our life. And we thank you, Lord, that we can have confidence that whatever circumstance, affliction comes our way. That, Lord, you brought it into our life for a purpose. And you're teaching us to be totally dependent upon Christ, to find all of our strength in Christ To find Christ to be all-sufficient in everything. So, Lord, help us to learn with the Apostle Paul the secret of being content in whatever circumstance that you, Lord, put us in. So Father, we can be a testimony to a lost world, a discontented world. Lord, help us to be a light of peace and joy and contentment. In a world that is so unsatisfied with everything around. And may Christ get honor and glory through all of this in our lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.