All right, good evening. Good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the book of Psalm 119? We uh continue our journey through this uh great psalm in the Old Testament. And tonight I want you to look at verse 81 down to verse number 88. Psalm 119, verse 81, down to verse number 88. Excuse me. And I'm calling this tonight the title's Left Hanging, but Still Hoping. Have you ever heard the expression the dark night of the soul? The dark night of the soul is uh is a spiritual metaphor, it's not talking about a literal dark night. And it describes a period of intense spiritual turmoil or despair and doubt. It's a time when one feels as if uh they're disconnected from God, which leads to emptiness and meaninglessness. And this was a phrase that was originated in the 16th century by the Middle Age theologian John of the Cross. He wrote about this in a poem that he called The Dark Knight. Now in Psalm 119, this is the dark night of the psalmist's soul. He has endured long seasons of suffering, waiting for God to intervene on his behalf. He's prayed, he's asked God for his intervention, and yet it seems as if heaven is silent. Mentally, emotionally, spiritually, he is at his breaking point. He's waiting on God to respond to his desperate condition. And he feels forsaken, he feels forgotten. In fact, look in verse number 81 where it says, My soul fainteth for thy salvation, but I hope in thy word. And then in verse 82, mine eyes Fail for thy word. This Hebrew expression has the idea of someone looking down a long pathway as far as they can see, looking for hope, looking for some kind of help. And he's looking down the pathway, he sees none. And it's as if he's saying, I'm coming to the end of my rope. I mean if we put it in our vernacular today, we would probably say something like that. He's looking ahead. He's looking at all of the persecution that he's dealing with. He's looking at the sufferings and all the horrible things that he's dealing with. And so he's just going through a difficult time. Can you relate to that? Look at verse number 83. For I'm like a bottle in the smoke. That's an interesting expression there. I'm like a bottle in the smoke. What does he mean by that? Well bottles back in that day were made of animal skins. They were what we call wineskins. And when the wine was uh no longer inside, they would be left hanging in the rafters of a tent or of a house. And they were sometimes forgotten and left there. And they would become dried out. They become would become shriveled by the smoke that was normally ascending from the fireplace. If it was in a tent, hanging in the rafters of a tent, uh and the smoke from the fireplace would And this empty wineskin would be just dried out. Sometimes it would turn blackened with the uh and cracked because of the smoke and the heat from the fire. And so this is how he pictures himself. He's saying, you know, I'm like one of those empty winescans. That's ex I that's how I feel He's in that sense saying, God, I'm I feel like I'm left hanging. I'm I'm empty, I'm unused, I'm I'm burnt out, I'm bottled up And to the Jews, by the way, wine represented joy. It represented fullness. And so this shriveled wineskin is a picture of uselessness and emptiness. It has no wine, therefore he has he's saying, I have no joy. Like the wineskin, the psalmist, he needs to be repaired. And he wants to be refilled. And he knows that only God can repair the destruction in his soul. He knows that only God can fill him with joy. And so he keeps hoping in God. He keeps longing. And he refuses, however, to forsake God's word. He's just hanging on to God's word. In fact, he's holding on to the promises of God with great determination. Perhaps that's why God is allowing him to go through that experience. He's teaching him patience and faith. We can learn a lot from this psalmist. Maybe we can some of you can relate to that, maybe not now, but maybe there was a time in your life where you were going through something similar, or there may be yet in the future. So let's take a closer look at this and see some things from it. First of all, I want you to see the circumstances he describes. First of all, his strength is failing. Again in verse number 81, my soul fainteth for thy salvation. The word soul is nafish, which is used in the Old Testament really to refer to a person's whole being. This is body, soul, spirit, his emotions, his mental state, his spiritual state. I think it's used that way here. His whole being. He's just failing with strength. Faint here has the idea of coming to the end. Again, he's describing a a place of absolute weakness. Uh you ever ha have you ever feel like you didn't have the strength to go on? I mean I'm I'm coming to the end and I have no strength to go forward And uh what has brought him to this place? Well, his sufferings. And we if you've been with us in our study, you know that he has gone through affliction a lot. He speaks about it a lot in this psalm, and a lot of it has to do with the persecution that he's dealing with If you've ever gone through a time of prolonged suffering, you know that it can bring you completely to the end of yourself. And maybe that's where God wants us at times, so that we can learn to find strength in the Lord alone. And you question whether or not, however, that whether you could go on, whether you have the strength to go on. I was reading a blog a few weeks ago that was said that as of 2024, more than 330 people were known to have died on Mount Everest since climbers began attempting to reach the summit uh since the early twentieth century. And so this death toll has been rising over the years of all these people trying to climb this mountain. Many of the bodies remain on the mountain in a particular area, the article says, called the death zone. This is where climbers lost their strength. And it was normally just past the halfway point. where the oxygen was a little bit the level of oxygen was low, it was harder to breathe. And um at that halfway point, many of the people on that journey just they just died. They just lost strength And and their bodies are still there. And when I read that, I thought of this section of the Psalm. This is the Mount Everest of Psalms, and here we are really just past the halfway point of this this uh whole psalm and he's the psalmist is just failing with strength And uh his strength is failing, but also notice his hopes are fading. Look again in verse 82. Mine eyes fail for thy word. Saying, When will thou comfort me? And my eyes fail again, carries the idea of longing. And many versions translate it that way. Some translate it, my eyes grow weary looking. for hope. And the Hebrew expression here draws the picture again of someone just looking down the path, looking for hope. And so, and by the way, the the uh word here for word, when I still for thy word here is the word debar, which means something spoken, a word, a promise. We could say it like this, my eyes grow weary, looking for what you have promised. In other words, the implication here is that God has given the psalmist a promise of something he was going to do, and the psalmist is now waiting on God to fulfill that promise. And he's saying, God, when is this going to happen? The psalmist is waiting. He's looking. He's asking God to fulfill his word. And he asked the question, when will you comfort me? Verse number 82. This comfort, of course, is the fulfilling of the promise that God gave him. God, when are you going to fulfill your promise to me? He has a promise, but he has no fulfillment of that promise. He waits and he waits and he prays, and it just seems like the heavens are silent. Again, have you ever been there? You're you're praying, you're waiting for something for God to answer. Maybe God has given an assurance in your heart, a promise to you, maybe for a child to return, or a a diagnosis to clear, or Just a need to be met, and you're praying and you're asking God and you're saying, God, when when are you going to do this? I would say that one of the most challenging times in the Christian life is when you're waiting on the Lord to answer a prayer. When you're asking God to move and nothing's happening. Perhaps you're here today, you've claimed a promise, and you're there, you're saying, God, I need you to work. And you've been waiting for weeks, for months, maybe some for even years. For God to comfort you with the answer. But then also, his days are fleeting. Again, look at verse 84. How many are the days of thy servant? When will thou execute judgment on them that persecute me? Now in this verse of this stanza, we read just two questions here. And again, this reveals to us that the psalmist is having a dark night of the soul. He's having a difficult time. We don't read of any questions that the psalmist asked God in this whole psalm up until this point, except for in verse number nine when he says, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? And that's a rhetorical question. But here what we see are questions that the psalmist is really wrestling with. Three qua questions that are directed to God. We already saw one question. When are you going to comfort me, Lord? When are you going to answer this prayer? And the next is in verse number eighty-four. How many are the days of thy servant? And again in verse eighty-four, when? When wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me? So he's basically saying, God, I'm not getting any younger. When is this going to happen? How long do I have to wait? My my days seem to be flying by. I need your deliverance. Warren Wersby writes, how long and when? These are the questions that have been asked by suffering saints, even by the martyrs in heaven. Because there are natural a natural response of people who are suffering. And so, and we get the idea of the source of his suffering in verse number 84 when he says When would thou execute judgment on them that persecute me? His enemies have been persecuting him, which leads to the next point. His enemies are frightening. His strength is failing His hopes are fading, his days are fleeting, but his enemies are frightening. And he describes how they targeted him. for persecution. Now, again, I told you this several times, but I think the writer is a young Jewish exile, he's being carried away into captivity by the Babylonians. It was Nebuchadnezzar's policy to use terror to control people. One historian wrote this. It was through acts of terror, often random in their affliction, but purposeful in the in the sense that they got it across the message That they lived at the whim and the will of their conquerors. They should harbor no illusions of revolution or improving their life. That was Nebuchadnezzar's policy And so they purposefully terrorized their exiles because they didn't want them to think that they were they had any hope. And here is this man, he's in that situation. Notice how he describes their persecution. They're digging pits in verse eighty-five. The proud have digg pits for me, which are not after thy Again, this is a metaphoric expression speaking about danger, scheming. They're scheming against me. They're making plans against me. Jeremiah uses this description in Jeremiah 1820 Where he says, uh, shall the evil be ri recompensed for good, for they have digged a pit for my soul. And Jeremiah prays for God to intervene. Often in scripture you'll see this expression used when it talks about the ungodly digging pits for the righteous. Often in that those passages it'll state how God turns it around. It'll be the the wicked that'll fall into those pits that they've dug for the righteous. Because God works on the behalf of his people. But then also he says he's wrongfully persecuted. Look again in verse 86 at the latter portion of it. Where it says, they persecute me wrongfully. Help thou me. He just cries now for help because he says, God, they're persecuting me wrongfully. Again, th they were marching him perhaps through the desert to Babylon. They were terrorizing him. And Habakkuk kind of describes the Babylonian soldiers. And Habakkuk 170 says this. They are terrified terrible and dreadful. Their judgment and their dign dignity shall proceed of themselves. In other words, they do what they want. They make up their own rules. They have their own system of what's right and wrong. And so they torture, they rape, they pillage, and they think it's the right thing to do. And so they were, and by the way, the Babylonians were completely intolerant of people who worshipped other gods. They wanted everyone conforming to their religion, to worshiping their gods. So you can imagine how this would make this psalmist, who was so loyal to God, so loyal to the word, a target for these who persecuted him, a target of their cruelty. He even says, I'm almost consumed. Look at verse 87. They had almost consumed me upon the earth. And here he's speaking, I think, of actual physical danger that he faced on a daily basis. They're almost they've almost killed him. Maybe they neglected him to give him food or water. Maybe it was just the cruel treatment that brought all his his death almost. So that's the circumstances. He's really going through a tough time. But I want you to see the second thing, the character he displays. And here's the thing I want you to see that no mat despite the circumstances, despite the darkness, despite how he feels. He continues to hold on to the Word of God. He continues to cling to the promises of God's word. And that's so important. Because in this journey that we're making on the on in this world on our way to heaven, we're going to go through times like this. And it's important during those times that we do not give up hope That we maintain our faith in God and His Word. So notice what he says: I hope in your word. Again in verse 81, the latter phrase, but I hope in thy word. This means expectant faith, waiting in faith. He's waiting for God's healing. He's waiting for God's fulfillment. He's in tremendous pain. But he's determined. I'm going to trust God. He knows that God is going to work on his behalf. You know, God again will allow us to go through long periods of testing, to tr to try our faith, to test our faith, to strengthen our faith. You know, it may be that you've been waiting again for a long time, and you're wondering why is God taking such a long time to answer me? In his book, It Happens After Prayer, Pastor H. B. Charles provides a really helpful illustration here. I want to share it with you. He says, one afternoon a certain woman walked to her neighbor's produce stand to buy grapes The line was long and each person seemed to get special attention. But she waited patiently. When she finally made it to the front of the line, the owner asked her for her order. She asked for grapes. Please excuse me, was the immediate answer. And when the owner walked away and disappeared behind the building, for some reason this rubbed the woman wrong. I mean Everyone was uh in line before her. They were greeted warmly, they were given special attention, they were waited upon immediately. But here she was forced to wait. She was waiting in a long line and now she made a request and now again she's forced to wait. She was offended by that. She felt like the the owner took her business for granted. And after she she waited longer, she became more angry. Finally The produce stand owner reappeared, and he had a big smile on his face, and he presented her with the most beautiful grapes she had ever seen. He goes on to say he invited her to taste them. She had never tasted grapes so good. And as she turned to leave with the grapes, he stopped her and he said, I'm sorry I kept you waiting. Said the farmer, but I needed the time to get you my very best. And then he goes on to say, how long have you been in line waiting on God to get your request? How long have you been waiting in line for God to meet a need, solve a problem, or open a door? Whatever you do, don't get out of line. Just keep waiting on God. But notice what else the psalmist says. He says, I don't I do not forget your word. Again in the latter portion of verse eighty-three, he's like a bottle in the smoke, but yet I do not forget thy statutes. Even though he feels, you know dried out and useless and empty and meaningless and he's in the smoke. Still, he refuses to let go of the promises of God. This is a mark of true faith Superficial faith walks away quickly. I mean if when the loaves and the fishes stop coming, people walk away. That's superficial faith. But genuine faith says, though he saved me, yet will I trust him. I trust God. The genuine believer holds on tighter to God's word during the storm. He doesn't release his grip on the word of God. He strengthens his grip on the word of God during those difficult times. And this man, he's believing in God's word more than ever. But then also notice what he says: your word is true. Look in verse number 86, where he says, All thy commandments are faithful. He doesn't say all your commandments are faulty or failing. He says, no, all your commandments, God, they are faithful. The word faithful here means firm, truthful, trustworthy, dependable. The ESV translates this, sure. All your commandments are sure. Lord, whatever you say is sure. Now again, remember he's saying this in the in the context of great suffering and great affliction. So he's reminding himself that God's word is worth all the persecution that he must bear. Matthew Henry wrote this: true religion, if it be worth anything, is worth everything, and therefore worth suffering for. God's word and believing in the promises of God's word and holding on to God's word, it's worth suffering for. So he's gonna wait. He's gonna trust. I never forget when I was uh uh one of the chaffel sermons I heard in and when I was in Bible college as a teenager Just 18 years old, went to Bible college. I heard a man who came and he preached a sermon that really had a huge impact on my life. I would say of all the chapel sermons I heard the whole time I was there, this was probably the sermon that had the most impact on me. And his name was Jules Smith, and he brought uh he had a whole display of Bibles uh that he brought in and laid them out in front of the of the uh chapel and he talked about each one of those Bibles and he talked about the story behind each one and he talked about believers who had suffered So that we could have the Word of God today. And he even had a Bible that had bloodstains on it from a Christian who had been martyred. because of their faith in uh you know God's word and holding on to God's word, they refuse to let go of Scripture even in the midst of the great suffering. And I want to tell you that that whole service had a huge impact on me. I never forgot I I had to go back to my dorm room and get alone and and deal with my own heart about God's word Uh i it it's uh providential that later on when I went to London and I visited the the Museum of the Book in London, the the the owner of that museum, David Smith, is the son of Jules Smith. And when I met him in the museum there, he was an American guy in London. And I said, you know, uh how long have you been here? Because I knew he wasn't from there. He said, I've been here for about 45 years And uh I said, you're you're you wouldn't happen to know a man by the name of Jules Smith, would you? He said, That's my father. And uh I said, Well I heard your father preach in chapel. And and and we kind of became friends after that But the story of believers suffering for God's word, it just made me realize that the Bible that we have today has been handed down to us by people who refuse to let go of the truth. Who refused to hold on to God's word, just like the psalmist here. But also he says, I forsook not your precepts. Look at verse 87. They had almost consumed me upon the earth, but I forsook not thy precepts. Even though he's suffering for his love for God's word, again, he refuses to forsake it. So that's the character he displays. We see the circumstances He describes, we see the character that he displays, but here's the third thing I want you to see in here. There are the changes that he desires There are several things that he's asking God to do on his behalf. And number one is relief. Relief. Look again in verse 82 where he says, When wilt thou comfort me? And here he's asking God again to re to remove the suffering, to remove the burdens, to fulfill his promise. There's nothing wrong with asking God, with going to God again and again and asking God to relieve the burden that you're in. The Bible says, cast all your care upon him because he cares for you. There's nothing wrong with laying our burdens on the Lord. In fact, God wants us to do that. He wants us to cast that heavy load upon the Lord Himself. First again, 1 Peter 5 7, casting all your care upon him because he cares for you. There's a beautiful hymn that we sing, take your burden to the Lord and what? Leave it there. A beautiful hymn. But then he also prays for retribution in verse number 84, where he says When wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me? And the psalmist is asking God to judge his persecutor His persecutors. He desires for God's justice. He desires for God's vindication in the situation. And this brings up a question uh a question And that is, is it wrong for believers to ask God to punish their enemies? And you know, the Bible teaches us that a Christian can pray for God to judge enemies. those that have committed wrongs to to make that right. In fact there are some prayers in the Bible that are called imprecatory prayers. There's some psalms in the Bible called imprecatory psalms where the the psalmist, in righteous indignation, prays for God to vindicate him and to judge his enemies. There's nothing wrong with praying for God's justice and for God's vindication. In fact the Bible says Vengeance is mine. We're to back off and let God take vengeance. If you've been wronged, if you've been treated unjustly, put that in the Lord's hands. But there's nothing wrong for with praying for God to make that situation right. Now, of course, when we pray for that, of course, we also pray for our enemies. Jesus taught us to pray for our enemies, and we should be praying for their salvation. Praying for God to work mightily in their own heart. But here in the in this case it's it's it's the Babylonians. And by the way, God does judge the Babylonians for what they did to his people. I mean, on one hand, God used them as a rod of his correction, but of course they went overboard and God judged them for their wicked actions against his people. And so God did answer the prayer of this psalmist in his own time. So he prays for relief, he prays for retr retribution, and then he prays for revival. Look in verse 88. Quicken me. Again, this is a prayer that we see him pray often. It's a favorite prayer, a favorite request of the psalmist. Quicken me 11 times he uses this request in Psalm 119. In this dark and smoke-filled stanza, the psalmist has poured out his soul. He has spoken honestly of his affliction, of his failing strength, of his fading hope. of his fleeting days, of his frightening enemies. Yet, though he feels like a a bottle hanging in the smoke, he still is hoping. And he's asking God, Lord, revive my soul Use me. Fill me. Maybe your soul is dry. Maybe you feel that way. You can go to the Lord and say, God, please. Lord, quicken me. Revive my soul. Revive my heart. It reminds us that God's silence is not God's absence. Just because God hasn't moved yet doesn't mean that God's absence. It tells us that when we're hanging in the smoke, God is still working in the shadows. God is not done. And so this psalmist example teaches us some things that we need to apply. First of all, just keep hoping in the Word of God. Just keep hoping in His promises. Number two, keep trusting in God's character. Beloved, God is faithful. God sees, He knows, He cares. Keep seeking God's reviving touch Pray the same prayer, Lord, quicken me after thy loving kindness, and trust that He will do it. God uses even the smoke to sanctify His people, that season of difficulty. So we just need to keep waiting on the Lord. We just need to keep trusting in God's word. The Bible says they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not saint. God's not done, so don't let go of your hope. And that's what this psalmist is teaching us. Even then when you're going through a dark night of the soul, hold fast and hang on, because he will comfort you. God will judge righteously and he will revive your soul. He will carry you through. And you know what? God will always fulfill his promises. He always does. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, thank you again for this beautiful psalm and this stanza, where we see the psalmist wrestling, going through a time of difficulty and darkness. But yet he refuses to let go. He refuses to walk away from the word. He holds on tighter to your promises. And Lord, that's the response of a true believer. Because Lord, we know that you are true. Your word is true. And we know, Lord, that you're faithful. Lord, I pray for maybe some here tonight that may be in a similar situation. They may be waiting upon you. They're having a difficult time. Lord, I pray that you'll encourage that heart, that you'll quicken their soul, just as the psalmist requested. And Lord, let this time of of of affliction, of difficulty that you allow us to have in our lives. Serve to strengthen us, sanctify us, so that Lord, you can use us all the more, so that we can be an encouragement to others. that that may feel left hanging and yet still hoping, hoping in the promises of Almighty. Father, so we trust you. We ask for your strength. We ask for your reviving presence in our life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.