Well, it's good to see you all here tonight at God's house. I encourage you to take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Psalms, chapter 119. I just want to say, Brother Dave Bidinger and your family, our hearts are with you, and the homegoing of your sweet mother have such wonderful memories of Miss Mary being here serving in our church. And uh what a precious saint. And she's now part of that congregation there in heaven. We've lost some precious saints from grace that are there on the other side. And uh can you imagine the homegoing that's going on there in heaven and some of the believers that are up there. Heaven is so very real. Thank God that all of us will be gathered together there one day who know the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. It's going to be a grand reunion. Take your Bibles in Psalm 119, verse 145 is where we are. If you've been with us, you know we've been studying through this great chapter of the Bible. And tonight I want to talk about lessons in fervent prayer. This seems to be the theme that stands out to me as we study these eight verses in this next stanza. I remember as a young uh pastor, pastoring my first church, I had the privilege of seeing an example of effective prayer Uh we had the great preacher, uh Dr. J. Harold Smith. I don't know if any of you ever know that name. He was a great preacher for many years, a preacher all over the country, and we had him there at our church, and uh he was going to preach that night his famous sermon, God's Three Deadlines. I don't know if you ever heard that sermon, but uh it's it's one that'll scare you to death. And uh if you're not saved, it'll make you will get saved, I think. uh if you have any heart whatsoever. And uh I remember I picked him up at his hotel that night and he was in his eighties at that time, I think mid eighties already and he had white hair and to me a young pastor he looked like an old testament prophet But while we drove uh to the church, uh I remember when he got in, he just said, Brother Jerry, you drive and I'll pray. And I don't think that was a reflection on how I drove. I think he was praying, and the whole way we pr he up to the church, he prayed for the sermon that night, for the service. And by the time we got to church, he was sweating just profusely I mean he and he prayed out loud. I mean it wasn't an inward prayer, silent prayer. He prayed out loud the whole time that I drove and uh I mean he was praying fervently And that course it's no wonder that people get saved when he preaches that sermon. And it was a very powerful service that night. And I just remember that it had such an impression on me as an example of effective, uh, fervent Prayer, effectual prayer. Spurgeon said pray prayer without fervency is like hunting with a dead dog. In the New Testament, James said this: the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. And the Greek word they're effectual is a word energia where we get the word energy from. It takes energy to pray. It takes work to pray effectively. Thomas Brooks said cold prayers freeze before they reach heaven. And so we need to be learn how to pray effectively. Now this whole chapter, Psalm 119, we could say is just one continual prayer of the psalmist. If you're with us and study that, you see that. It's just one long prayer But yet here in this section he just seems to turn it up a notch and it becomes more passionate, more fervent. And so what I see out of this then are just some lessons about fervent prayer that I'd like for all of us to draw upon And we can apply to our own life. Hopefully you pray, you pray daily. And there are times when we need to pray more effectively, or excuse me, more fervently than in others. Hopefully our prayers are always effective. But we need to pray fervently. So let's let's look at some lessons here. First of all, fervent prayer is wholehearted. It's wholehearted. Look at verse number 145. I cried with my whole heart. With my whole heart. You know, we see this word used several times, and if you've been with us in our study of Psalm 119, this is a I think a favorite word of the psalmist He says it so often. And he always it seems to be when he's seeking God, he always says he does it with his whole heart. For example, Psalm 119, verse 2, Blessed are they that keep his testimonies that seek him with the whole heart. Seeking God with a whole heart. Then verse 10 of Psalm 119, with my whole heart have I sought thee. Oh let me not wander from thy commandments. And then in verse 58 we see it again. I entreat thy favor with my whole heart. And then he also uses this word in conjunction with obeying God with his whole heart. In verse number 34, give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law. Yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart. And then again in verse 69, but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart. And now here he uses a word yet again, again, this time in reference to crying out to God. With his whole heart. So the question we need to ask ourselves, is our prayers half-hearted, or are we seeking God with our whole heart And there's some things that characterize, I think, wholehearted prayer. First of all, frequency. Frequency. Look again, he uses the word cry three times. Once verse 145, I cried with my whole heart. And then in verse 146 again, I cried unto thee. And then in verse 147, where he says, I prevented the dawning of the morning and cried. So he is earnestly crying out to God. And then in verse 149, he adds, he pleads for God to hear his voice. I think this is an illustration of what Paul wrote later in the New Testament of praying without ceasing. Just continually praying. This doesn't mean that we stay in our prayer clauses all day long. We can't obviously do that. But it means uh to use an analogy to keep the receiver off the hook so that nothing is between us and God. The line is always open, so that we can speak to God at any moment while we're during the day doing other things. We cultivate an attitude of prayer in the morning and we stay in communion with God all day long. It's almost like we call God in the morning and we keep the phone off the hook all the rest of the day. You remember that I used this illustration before. In the temple there was an altar of incense that the priests would every morning Light up, he would take coals and light up that altar, uh that altar, and there would be incense that he would put on the altar, and the incense would would burn and there would be a smoke ascending to the top all day long. But he ignited that altar in the morning and the smoke ascended all day long. And that smoke from the incense, from that altar of incense is a symbol of the prayers of the believer. It's an illustration of praying without ceasing. So there should be frequency but also fervency. Again, the expression I cried, that implies intensity. Again, three times he uses the word cried. But now the interesting thing is he uses two different Hebrew words here In verses 146 and 147, it's Qora is the Hebrew word there, and it means to call or to summons and has the idea of a deliberate, reasoned crying out to God, calling out, speaking out loud, even meeting the idea of giving a request, giving an argument. Lord, this is why I want you to hear me. And then there's another word that's used in 147, which is uh uh shawa, which is of the word that means more emotional word, it means to scream, literally, cry of distress. It's more visceral. It's uh it's kind of an emotion. It can come from anguish or pain. It's more emotional. It's really groaning. It's more of a an emotional crying out to the Lord. And so while the first word is more focused the first Hebrew word focuses more on intellectual arguments, God, here is why I want you to answer me. The second word is more on the emotion from the heart. Again, it is a just a groan, presenting our groan, our pains, our sorrows, the anguish. Sometimes have you ever prayed just out of sorrow and anguish? And that's the idea here. And so really these using these two words, it kind of gives us a picture of wholehearted prayer. Not only do we use arguments, but we also sometimes use anguish while we pray. pray. Not only do we uh pray with uh w talk, but we pray with tears. Our tears sometimes, our prayers. So one moment the belie the believer reasons with God on the basis of his word, and the next moment he weeps out of distress. And so both of these things are there, but the thing I want you to see is the is the fervency that comes from a heart. that is passionate, that is perhaps sometimes broken. John Bunyan said in prayer, it's better to have a heart without words than words without a heart. It's actually good to have both. But if you have to choose one, it's better to have heart without words. Again, going back to the illustration of the altar of incense, that golden altar of incense that was that was lit every morning and it would s the incense would as ascend all day long in that temple. How did it how was it lit? Well, there was a coal that was taken from off the brazen altar and it was put on the altar of incense. That's what started the uh the smoke rising up. And the brazen altar is a picture of sacrifice, really. It's a picture of the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. A priest could not just light that altar of incense using fire from anywhere. That was against the way God prescribed worship. In fact, that was called strange fire. You might remember in the Old Testament, Nadab and Abihu lit the altar with strange fire, and what happened? The Bible says God took their life. God struck them down because they offered strange fire. But the symbolism here I think is rich with meaning the brazen altar again points to the sacrifice. the blood that was shed, and of course it that points forward to the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the fire that ignites our prayers is by focusing on the cross in Christ. Christ. That's how prayer is ignited. Fervency is directly related to our focus on Jesus and what he has done for us on the The cross at Calvary. It is a privilege for us to be able to go into the presence of God, but guess what? We couldn't do that without the cross of Jesus Christ. It is only because of Christ that we can enter into God's presence. And so cold, lifeless praying is the result of forgetting the cross. But when we behold the Son of God who loved us and gave himself for us, our hearts will burn and our prayers will become fervent. So it it's it's a set of flame, we could say, by the grace of God, by the by Calvary. Calvary is what lights our prayers on fire, and it gives us boldness to enter into the presence of of the Lord and to pray with fer fervent sea now in the Bible we see some illustrations of fervent prayer. None better than in 1 Samuel chapter 1 when Hannah, you might remember she was praying, she wanted a child so badly And she went to the tabernacle and prayed, and Eli the high priest saw her there, and her lips were moving, but she wasn't saying anything, and he thought that she was drunk. And she said, Lord, it's not it's not that, uh my Lord. She said, it's just that, you know, my heart is broken. And he understood then that she was praying with fervency. And you know what? The Lord heard her prayers. I read about the story of David Brainerd, the missionary to the Native American Indians in the 1700s. He was not really known for his preaching, but what he was known for was his praying. His father in law Jonathan Edwards wrote about his life in a book and that book really inspired a lot of missionaries because in that book he documented the prayer life of David Brainerd and how in the winter in wood in the in the in the cold winter in the snow in the woods He would be praying for hours and he would melt the snow around him because he was praying in that spot for hours so fervently. He died at a very young age, at the age of twenty-nine, but his prayers left a uh impact on the earth. Many people. So frequency is a part of wholehearted prayer, fervency, but also faith. Just write down faith. Each time he says, I cried, it's followed by a petition. In verse 145, I cried with my whole heart, and then he says, Hear me. In verse 146, he again is followed by a petition. I cried unto thee, and then he says, Save me. So the psalmist is asking for God's deliverance. We can relate to that. You ever ask God to deliver you from a trial or sorrow? But then also each request is also followed by a promise of obedience. Again, in verse number 145, he says, I will keep thy statutes. He cried with his whole heart, Lord, hear me, and I will keep your statutes. And then in verse 146, again it's followed by a promise of obedience. I cry unto thee, save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies. So each time, Lord, I'll keep. I'm gonna keep. Now, the thing I want you to see here is that he's not bargaining with God. We could actually translate this expression like this: that I make and I will keep. It could be translated that I may keep. In other words, he's not bargaining with God, rather, he's dedicating himself to obey God regardless of whether or not he has an answer to his prayer. God, save me, hear me. But I'm going to keep your testimonies. I'm going to keep your word. That is faith. No matter what happens, God, I'm going to obey you. Remember the story that this reminds me of the story of the three Hebrew children in Daniel chapter 3. Nebuchadnezzar set up that image on the plains of Durah. Remember that, a golden image? And at the sound of music, they were supposed to bow down and worship. And when the music started, everyone had bowed down, but there were three guys that didn't. And that was the three Hebrew children. And Nebuchadnezzar got angry, and he threatened to throw them into the fiery furnace if they did not bow down. You remember what their response was to the king? They said, you know, King We're not careful to answer you in this matter. What does that mean? We're not worried about answering you in this. We're not afraid to answer you. Didn't that one on the say, if be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O King. But if not, we will not serve thy gods. I love that response. God's able to deliver us, and by the way, He will deliver us. One way or another, we're going to get delivered. We might burn up in the furnace, or he might save us, but either way, we're going to be delivered. But also we're not going to bow down God might choose to deliver us out of this fiery furnace. He might choose to deliver us in the fiery furnace or from it. But regardless of the outcome, we will not bow down. To your golden image. That is faith. Faith is not just believing in spite of circumstances, it's obeying in spite of consequences. No matter what the consequences are, we will obey So wholehearted prayer is completely submitted to the will of God in prayer. So it has frequency, fervency, and faith. But here's another thing about wholehearted prayer that I learned from this stanza. Fervent prayer is watchful. It's watchful. And we see this in verse 147 and verse 148. Notice how watchful and alert. The psalmist is in his prayers. And we see this in verse 147. I prevented the dawning of the morning and I cried. I hoped in thy word. Mine eyes prevent the night watches, that I might meditate in thy word. You know, there's a type of prayer being touted today by some that's not real prayer. I think I mentioned it to you before. It's called soaking prayer And this is promoted by some circles, mostly charismatic circles. It's the practice of lying silently before God in his presence Often there's music playing in the background and they're waiting for some kind of an experience. They're waiting for some kind of subjective experience for a presence to show up to get the a certain feeling. And, you know, I I think it's uh motivated by a desire for intimacy, which we certainly understand that, but it really has a tendency to be more like a passive mysticism closer related to a kind of an Eastern um meditation than biblical prayer. You just you you go in, you lay down, you wait, you're silent. That sounds like sleeping to me, but anyway In the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus told Peter, James, and John to watch and pray. And three times Jesus came back and what did he find? He found them in soaking prayer. They were just laying there asleep and Jesus wakes them up. Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation, Jesus would say to them. I can just imagine Peter saying, Lord, we are praying. It's called soaking prayer. That's not prayer. And we can see that's incompatible with what the psalmist is talking about here. Prayer in Scripture is active, it's not passive. We can certainly see that in this stanza here. Again, I cried, verse 145, 146, I prevented. That is, he's talking about staying up, staying alert. Late at night, staying alert early in the morning. That I might meditate, verse 148. He's not letting his mind go uh neutral. He's calling upon God. He's meditating. And then in verse 149, he's not silent because he said, God, hear my voice. That's what? He's calling out, God, hear me. Hear my voice. This is earnestly calling upon the Lord, not empty silence. That's not prayer. The Bible consistently presents prayer as words offered to God from our heart. But also prayer in Scripture is filling the mind with God's word, not emptying it. Not emptying it and waiting for something to fill it. Notice he says that in verse 148, that I might meditate. Prayer is a form of meditation. The best prayers that we can pray Come from meditating in the Word of God and taking what we have learned from God's Word and forming a prayer based on that and bringing it back to God Just praying a prayer back to the Lord. And I'll do that sometimes when I'm reading in the morning. I'll read a psalm and that psalm just seems to really resonate with my heart and it seems to really capture what I'm feeling and what I'm going through. And I'll take that verse and I'll Use it as a prayer and pray it back to God. That's a form of meditation. And prayer and meditation kind of go hand in hand. Prayer arises from our thinking about God's word over and over again in our mind. But also prayer in Scripture is hoping in the Word, not hoping in an experience. Again in verse 147B, he says, I hoped in thy word. His confidence is not in a subjective feeling, but in the promises of God. Soaking prayer often is an encounter with some kind of sensation which can shift hope away from Scripture to some kind of personal experience. But here he's hoping in God's word. But also prayer in Scripture is staying alert, it's not being half asleep. Alright, again we see here where the psalmist uh says he prevented the dawn of the morning in verse 147. seven and cried. And then in verse 148, he prevents the night watches. What does this mean? Well, prevented the dawn of the morning. The word prevent is a word that means to go before not or not to stop. So the psalmist is saying that he rose up before the sun in order to pray. And then it also says that he was um staying up late at night. Rather than sleeping, meditating in God's Word and praying. So the psalm was up before the sun, as Spurgeon said, eager to catch the first beams of the morning and turn them into praise. And then he was also staying up late. Notice what it says in verse 148. Hear my voice according to thy loving kindness. Or s uh I'm sorry, let me back up. Mine eyes prevent the night watches that I might meditate in thy word. What are the night watches here? Well The ancient ancient Israelites divided the night into three different watches. Later on in the New Testament it would be divided into four by the Romans. But the typical way to keep time over the the night into the morning was three watches. The first wat watch was from sunset to about ten p. m. The second watch was from ten p. m. to two a. m. And the third watch was from two AM until dawn. So to prevent the night watches means his eyes stayed open before each watch began. Again, in other words, he was he was alert. At night, and he was meditating in God's word and he was he was praying. He was alert while others were asleep. By the way, if you wake up in the middle of the night, a good thing to do is to start praying. Just pray. Maybe the Lord woke you up to get you to pray. Sometimes the only quiet moments I can have are when I wake up in the middle of the night. It's a good time to pour your heart out to the Lord in prayer. But so this echoes other passages in Psalm 5, verse 3. In the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee, and I will look up. In Psalm 119, verse 62, at midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee. The Bible says Jesus rose up a great while before day in order to pray. And then notice Psalm verse 150 of this stanza here. 150, they draw nigh that follow after mischief. And they are far from thy law Again, I'm pointing out here that he's he's very alert while he's praying. And he understands the dangers of living in a hostile environment. He says his enemies are drawing near, they're all around him. We live in a world where it's dangerous. There's all kinds of enemies around, especially for the child of God. So we need to stay alert. We need to stay watchful. 1 Peter 5. 8 says, Be sober, be vigilant. Why? Because your adversary, the devil, like a roaring lion, seeks whom he may devour. We have enemies all around. I know your heart has been uh touched and broken over some of the things that have happened these last few weeks in the news. Innocent school children being shot and killed by someone coming in with a gun and shooting them. It just breaks my heart to see little children the victim of such evil. And by the way, if you want to know where the devil is, that's that's Satan right there. That's nothing but demonic. And then also a a young lady being murdered, senselessly murdered on a train for no reason. Again, that is of the devil. And of course we we heard about uh a young man being shot today. Um all of that is Satan is is a murderer, Jesus said. He is he is the author of death and murder. And so, as believers, you know what? We need to pray for each other. We need to pray for God to protect us, his children. In this evil world. I pray in the morning. I pray for this church. I pray for families. I pray for God to protect you. I pray for God to protect my own children and family. We need to pray for each other. The psalmist knew that enemies were all around, so he had to be watchful in prayer. But also, these enemies are far away from God's word, he says in verse number one. 50, the latter part we says, they are far from thy law. These are evil people that do not fear God or his word, and we need to be watchful. And prayer and alert, as the Bible teaches us here. So fervent prayer is wholehearted, fervent prayer is watchful. But here's the third thing I want you to see: fervent prayer is word-oriented This is another element that we see here. Each verse in this section mentions the scripture and the writer's devotion to God's word. But notice again in verse 147 where he cries, but he says that he hoped in thy word. In verse 148, the latter part, that I might meditate in thy word. Verse 149, according to thy judgment, and verse 151, and all thy commandments are truth. And verse 152, concerning thy testimonies I have known of old. And so prayer has to be based upon God's word. It has to be understood based on what The Bible teaches us about prayer. Prayer and God's Word go hand in hand. In fact, you could say that it's really the Word of God that ignites us, that helps us, that inspires us to pray correctly because it's God's Word that teaches us how to pray. You want to know how to pray? You have to study the Word of God and it tells us how we are to pray. For example, we're t you know, we are to uh pray in faith. We can't pray in faith without God's word because faith is based upon The promises of God's word. But also, God's word ignites us in prayer by revealing God's character. When we study the character of God in Scripture and see what kind of God He is, I don't know about you, but that inspires me to pray. Since God is a God who is merciful, I can bring my prayer requests in confidence, knowing that He will give mercy and He will give grace. Also it unveils God's promises. It teaches us what the promises of God's uh are in the Word. It also convicts us of sin. When we read God's word and we're convicted, what do we want to do? If you're a true child of God, you want to run to God in confession. And you want to ask God for his forgiveness and true repentance. But also, as I study God's Word, it inspires me to praise and thanksgiving. The more I learn about God and His character, the more I want to praise Him and worship Him with adoration. And so fervent prayer is word-oriented. But here's the last thing. Fervent prayer is worshipful. It's worshipful. That's another thing I notice when I read this stanza, is that heart of worship is expressed in these verses. Look at verse 149. Hear my voice according to thy loving kindness. O Lord, quicken me according to thy judgment. And the psalmist is asking God to hear him. According to what? Thy loving kindness. Remember I said when we learn about the character of God. It helps us as we pray. And here he is basing this prayer on the character of God. And what characteristic? His loving kindness. Which is the, again, that Hebrew word kessed, which is such a rich word. It speaks about the steadfast love of God and his faithfulness. So he's appealing to God's love and faithfulness. And also he who used the divine name several times in this stanza, in verse 145, when he says, O Lord, that's the name Yahweh, that's an expression of worship. And then we see it again in verse 151 when he says, Thou art near, O Lord, again, that's Yahweh. So he's worshiping God. He knows God is his source of strength, that God is the God of life that can quicken him. And so he's appealing to the character of God. That's worship in prayer. But also, it's submitting to God's will. He asked God to quicken him according to his judgment. In verse 149, O Lord, quicken me according to thy judgment judgment here. Rather than asking God to bless his own will, he asked God to act in line with his own righteous standards. God, do what is Correct in your own will, according to your own judgment. That is again an act of worship and prayer. We are submitted to God's will and prayer. Prayer. But also he's exalting the attributes of God in this passage. He refers to God's loving kindness, but then he also refers to God's judgment. We see this again in verse 149. He speaks about loving kindness and then judgment. And remember in Exodus 34, verses 6 and 7, when God revealed himself to Moses. Moses said, God, I want to know what kind of God you are. And God revealed himself, he showed first of all his judgment and then his loving kindness. That's the way God revealed himself. And so I think the psalmist is kind of appealing to that revelation of God. He's a God of judgment. He will judge sin. Don't you think that any sinner is getting away with anything? No, because God is a God of judgment. But at the same time, he's also a God of loving kindness and mercy. And so he acknowledges God's, he exalts God's attributes here. And then another thing he's doing as he worships God in prayer is he is acknowledging God's eternal word. Look at verse number 152. Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them This is a great verse on the Bible being the eternal word of God. He he expresses his adoration to God for his eternal word. Lord, I know that you founded this, your law. You founded the word. He knows that God's word is not man-made. He knows that it comes from God, divinely established. Thou hast founded them. He confesses the scripture to be the very word of God. And so he's bowing down to God's authority. He's submitting himself to God's will. He's acknowledging God's character and attributes. His prayers are based upon who God is. Just remember that prayer is one of the greatest expressions of our worship to God. And that's exactly what he's doing here. So really, this whole stanza here holds a mirror to our prayer lives. The psalmist shows us that fervent prayer is wholehearted. Our mind and our heart are engaged together. We present arguments, but also tears. It's watchful. We open our eyes before the dawn. We pray in the night hours. We're alert. We understand the dangers around us, and that's why we pray in watchful prayer. It is word-oriented. Our hope is anchored, meditated in, and shaped by the Word of God. Word of God, and then worshipful. We appeal to God's loving kindness. We submit to his judgments. We confess that his testimonies are forever Friend, if our prayers are ineffectual, the problem is not with heaven. Maybe the problem is with us because we're just not fervent enough. in the way that we pray. We need to use the coals from Calvary's cross, from Calvary's altar, to set the incense burning in our heart. I was thinking about uh someone who really illustrates this, and I was thinking about Susanna Wesley, the mother of John and Charles Wesley. She's an illustration of learning how to pray. She had 19 children Can you can you imagine her learning how to pray with 19 children? Figuring out, you know, praying without ceasing. I'm sure she prayed a lot But raising 19 children. Her home was noisy, it was crowded, it was full of responsibility. Yet she knew how to find time to pray and to pray fervent prayers. She would set aside time every day, it was said, with the Lord. And when she couldn't get away, when she couldn't find a quiet spot, she would take her apron and pull up over her head. And when the kids saw that she pulled her apron up over her head, they knew, do not disturb mom, because she's meeting with God. That apron over her tet her head was the tabernacle where she was meeting with God in the Holy of Holies. And and she prayed, and that and John and Charles Wesley would later testify seeing her mother many times pulling her apron up over her head and knowing that at that moment she was speaking to the Lord. It was do not disturb She rose up early and prayed. She prayed all through the day. And you know what? Her prayers made a difference because her prayers bore fruit in her children. John Wesley became a great preacher that brought revival to England. His brother Charles wrote many of the hymns that we sing here in church. All because the mother knew how to pray and cry out to God with her whole heart and watch through the day and night, filling her house with prayers for her children. And she worshipped God as she prayed. And the result of her prayers really, we could say, was that it shook England because it eventually ultimately brought revival to that country. May God raise up more people like her. May we be like her. And may we understand that our prayers do make a difference, but they have to have to be fervent prayers in order to make a difference. Let's bow for prayer too. Father, thank you for the privilege that we have of praying. And Lord, forgive us for a times our prayers being heartless. Help us, Lord, to be as this psalmist here, to be, to cry out with our whole heart, to be alert, to prevent. uh the the dawn of the morning to precede it, to get up early, if need be, to find those quiet moments when we can seek your face. Lord help us to light the golden altar of incense in the morning and let it may it burn all throughout the day So that Lord, you hear our prayers. That we're always in the attitude of prayer. And everything that we hear, everything that we see, it causes us to whisper prayers and utter prayers in your presence. And may all that be a confession of how desperate we are for you, Lord, that we need you in every moment of our life. We are completely and totally dependent upon you. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.