All right, now take your Bibles and open to Jeremiah thirteen, the passage that was read this morning. And I know that when uh that passage was read there were perhaps some of you thinking, I don't think I've know this passage. Perhaps you would wonder why we would choose this as a passage to read from. And this morning I want to speak out of this chapter. Now, if you've been with us on Wednesday night, you know that we have been actually preaching out of some passages in Jeremiah. And I've been studying it and I just felt led of God to bring uh a message from this chapter. Uh this was normally what I would be preaching on Wednesday night, but I thought I would just go ahead and preach chapter 13 here this morning. And really the title of the sermon is A Lesson from a Linen Girdle. A lesson from a linen girdle. You know When the prophet Jeremiah delivered God's message to God's people, he would do it in two ways. First of all, he would do it through sermons and then through signs. Sermons are very obvious. We know what that is. That's the proclamation, the straightforward proclamation of the Word of God. And if you read through the prophet Jeremiah, you will find many sermons that he preached to a very stubborn people. For example, in Jeremiah chapter 7, he preached his famous temple sermon. He stood in front of the temple. As people were coming in, you have to remember he didn't necessarily have a church pulpit to preach from like we preachers do today. He would preach wherever there was a public audience and he stood in front of the temple and basically the the content of his sermon was this whole temple is coming down. The people had confidence that they would never be judged. This temple would never be destroyed. And Jeremiah boldly proclaimed that it would. That's just one example of a sermon. He has many of them. But there was another way he would communicate God's message, and that was through signs. And these signs were like living object lessons. They were really things that were acted out by the prophet. They are called enacted parables. Really, a parable that he kind of acts out. Why did God ask his prophet to do things like this? Well, you have to remember that Jeremiah was preaching to a very hard-hearted people. And the people of Judah and Jerusalem were so sunken in their thoughtlessness, uh, they were so hard hearted that it was absolutely necessary to grab their attention somehow. Even though Jeremiah and himself was a very dynamic speaker. And he used very figurative language if you read through the book of Jeremiah, you sense a poet in him as he uses figurative expressions to give God's message. Yet that didn't seem to be enough. When you go through the book of Jeremiah, you'll find God asking Jeremiah to do some very strange things. For example, in chapter 18, he says, Jeremiah, go down to the potter's house, and there's a a vessel there. I want you to look at as he works it on the wheel. And then in chapter nineteen he takes that same vessel and God commands him to go to the Valley of Hennan and smash that flask that was made there on the potter's vessel, which was a dramatic sign. to the people of impending judgment that was going to come. God would smash the pride of the people uh in the coming days. One time said to Jeremiah, Jeremiah, go and put on a wooden yoke. This was a c And so y can you imagine a prophet wearing a yoke, walking around through the streets of Jerusalem, and people would say Why are you wearing that yoke? And Jeremiah would give them the answer because one day God is going to put the people of Judah in the yoke of Babylon And then one time God said to Jeremiah, Go and buy some land, go back to your own hometown, buy some land and get the title deed. And why was he to do that? Because that sign was a a message to the people that God was gonna to regather the people into the land and and things would return as normal one day. Here in chapter thirteen, God gives another sign. We could call this the sign of the linen girdle. Or we could s you know So the the word here in verse or chapter thirteen is girdle. We could say sash or we could say belt. That would be closer to what we have in mind, the Bible has in mind. And God tells Jeremiah several things 13 verse 1 Thus saith the Lord unto me, go and get thee a linen girdle. This is the first command. This is not very hard. Some of you ladies perhaps could understand and you would enjoy this. God said to Jeremiah, go sha Shopping. Go find this piece of cloth. Uh and so he had to go out and get one. If Jeremiah were living in this day and he was a typical man, he would jump on the internet and he would Google this linen, you know, sash And get it from Amazon, right? And have them deliver it by Israel Express to your door to save you all of the hunting. He gets this girdle. This is a beautiful garment intended to impress. It was worn on the outside of a robe. It was uh meant to be seen when a person wore a thing such as this. And that's The next thing God says in verse one, go and get it, a linen girdle, and put it on thy loins. Don't just buy it, but I want you now to wear it Now everyone would notice this garment immediately. Here is Jeremiah the prophet wearing a bright, beautiful linen sash. This would be something that a priest would wear. This would be something that a king would wear, but this was not something that a prophet would typically wear A prophet would have a mantle, yes. Dressed in sackcloth, yes. But a beautiful bright sash? No. That's not something that a prophet would typically wear. Again, this would be something that a high priest would wear. This was a priestly garment. In fact Josephus was describing the outfit of a priest. He said this they wore a long robe reaching to the Flowers and a mixture of gold interwoven. That was typically what one would look like. So Jeremiah did as God told him. He put the sash around his grubby robes and began wearing this. This would be something that would catch people's attention. This would be like a construction worker or a car mechanic going to work with a one hundred dollar silk tie around his neck Uh you wouldn't expect that part of as part of the decor of someone like that. The janitor doesn't wear a white tuxedo vest to go to work And so when people saw Jeremiah wearing this this flashy garment, uh they would prop probably giggle about that. kind of a fashion statement are you trying to make? The fashion police would be on him already. Saying, wait a minute, you're not supposed to wear something like that. Uh you are after all a problem And then God gave him another command. He said, Don't wash it. In verse number one, put it on thy loins and put it not in water. This is a strange saying. God said, Don't wash it it such a nice garment, such an expensive expensive garment, and you're not to wash it. And so you can imagine day after day walking the dusty Streaks of Jerusalem from his hometown of Anaphath, back and forth, walking those dusty roads, how that this thing would get us uh Soiled. It would get dirty. People would again begin to wonder about him. Why would you buy such a nice garment like this and then not wash it And it began to dull, the colors began to dull, it began to get filthy. We don't know how long it was that God had him wear this sash before the Lord came to him again, but it was perhaps a while, weeks or months, perhaps even a year. But it was long enough for the people to see that this was getting dirty. And they perhaps wondered in their mind, what is he doing? And then God came again and gave him another command. Look in verse three. And the word of the Lord came unto me the second time, saying, Take the girdle that thou hast got, which I can just imagine Jeremiah saying, Thank God God, I can finally take this dirty garment off. But here was the thing, God said take it to Euphrates. Now wait a minute, where was Jeremiah at the time? He was in Jerusalem. Where is the Euphrates? That's in Babylon. How far is that? That's 350 miles. That's a pretty long walk. You want me to walk 350 miles and bury it there by the Euphrates River and of course Jeremiah obeys the Lord. He does exactly that. He takes that long journey, 700 miles round trip That perhaps took him a few months when Ezra made the trip from Babylon to Jerusalem. It took him four months to make that journey. And so here's Jeremiah. He goes, he walks three hundred and fifty miles, he buries it by a rock by the river. He comes all the way back, and now the people see him without this sash. And perhaps they're wondering in their mind what happened to this. Well, God wasn't finished yet. Uh in verse number six, and it came to pass after many days that the Lord said unto me, Arise and go to Euphrates, and take the girdle from thence which I commanded thee to hide there Now God comes and says, Jeremiah, I want you to go back. You want me to make this trip again, Lord? This same long journey? Yes. After many days of I wouldn't say exactly how many days, but I think the emphasis there is on it's been a while. This wasn't the very next week or next month. After many days, God says, go back and get it And bring it back. Go dig it back up. Dig it up. Bring it back. And this is exactly what Jeremiah did. Look in verse 7. And I went to Euphrates and digged and took the girdle from the place where I had hid it, and behold, the girdle was marred. It was profitable for nothing. I guess so. Now think about this, Jeremiah bringing this back, this garment that had been buried so long in the dirt, you can imagine how filthy it was, how terrible that this once bright garment, this nice piece of fabric, now is ugly and dirty and filthy and corrupt and threadbare and The people are just probably scratching their heads. This guy has to be crazy. He would walk uh fourteen hundred miles total to go bury a girdle by the Euphrates River. Why didn't he bury it by the Jordan? That's very close Why go all this way? Why do all this? This was a sign to the people. And by the way, this is a sign to us as well. Again, I say that there's nothing in scripture that is super It is there for our instruction. And so that now I want you to see three lessons that we can learn from this linen girdle. And the first one is this. Think about first of all the closeness that God designs. What is picture signified by the girdle? We don't have to speculate. Saith the Lord, that they might be unto me a people for a name and for a praise and for a glory, but they would not hear. In this enacted parable Jeremiah, we could say, represents God. The girdle represents the people of God. And the girdle being buried by the Euphrates River Represents the consequences of sin. What we see here, first of all, is God's desire. And this sport this story spells out One thing very clearly, that's the desire of God. And the desire of God is that he be close to his people. Close to his people. How close Well, how close was that linen sash to Jeremiah? It was very close. God wants his people to cleave unto him, just like that girdle would cleave Around his midsection, even so God wants his people to cleave to him. He wants to be close to them. That's what God desires. Did you know that God wants to be close to you? you today. Isn't that an incredible thing to think about? This great God, the creator of all, this mighty God, wants to be close to you. Isn't that He desires fellowship, he desires closeness. In fact, the uh in scripture the word translated heart uh or of or affection Sometimes uh and by the way, we're what we're thinking about is how this uh girdle would go around the midsection. And that to the in Jewish thinking is the place of a Affection because many times in the Bible the word heart or affection is translated the literal Hebrew word is intestines or stomach or liver or kidney. If you translated that literally sometimes in the Hebrew, it would be it would literally be the word kidney. Now what they were talking about was the midsection, and why did they believe that the midsection was the place place of emotion because when you feel deep emotion there's something about it rising up in your midsection. The emotion was felt there in your stomach or your kidney And so those words were used to talk about great affection. Now obviously today we use the word heart. I love you with all my heart. The same idea. I'm glad we use the word heart because it sounds a lot better than I love you with all my stomach, or I love you with all my liver, or love you with all my kidney. It just sounds a lot better to say I love you with all my heart, but it's the same idea. It's the place And God wants to be in the place of affection. He wants us to be. He we are in the place of his affections. And he wants us to cleave to him. In fact, that's was God God's design. That was God's design for the nation of Israel from the very first moment that God took covenant with Israel on Mount Sinai. He wanted a peculiar people, a a a kingdom of priests. A royal priesthood unto his name that would show forth his praise, the Bible says in Deuteronomy, for what nation is there so great who hath God so near unto them. By the way, what Israel was in the Old Testament, you are in the New. You are now, did you know this? You are now God's chosen people. You are now God's Royal priesthood, the church, you individually. You are God's peculiar treasure, the Bible says. And so therefore God wants this. Fellowship with him. Spurkin said this I invite you, beloved of the Lord, to consider your choice privilege in thus being, as it were, girt about the loins of God. It is a wonderful metaphor. An infinite Condescension, the Lord has put it so. The believer's place is near his God, an intimate, continuous, open fellowship. Sash and who can be nearer to the living God than his living people? And that is so true. That was God's design. God's disappointment. And the disappointment is that the people would not draw near. That's the people that Jeremiah is writing to. In fact in chapter one, God lamented and said, What iniquity have they found in me that your fathers have gone far from me? God says to those people back then. Why have you uh gone away? Why have you withdrawn? What sin have you found in me? God might Well asked that same question today to some people who have walked away from God, who are backslidden just like these people in this Passage. How close is your relationship to God? Did you know what James says? Draw nigh to God and he will what? Draw nigh to you. Every time a person makes any movement to get close to God, God will get close to you. You're as close to God as you want to be. Intimate fellowship is available. And you know, normally Normally, there are four kinds of people, I find, that are those that they're first of all, there are those who are unconcerned about being close to God, and that's very sad. Jesus is willing to die for us. We should be willing to walk with him Secondly, there are some people that want to be close to God, but only so close. They don't want too much of God in their life after all. You know, they're willing to have God on the list, maybe not in first on the list. But he's there somewhere. And they only want to be so close. And then there are some ple people that want God to be the closest. They want God to be first on the list, but only sometime, not all the time. When there's a crisis Or a tragedy or something that hits their life, then they want God to be the closest to them at that moment. Or if there's some challenge that you have to go through Through some great prayer that you want to answer, then at those moments you want to be close to God, but at other moments that's not really a concern. And then there are those who want to be close to God All the time. And that's what God's desire is. He wants people that desire closeness with him. So there's number one, the closeness God designed. That's one lesson we learned From this, but secondly, I want you to think about the cleanliness God demands. This story also teaches us that God wants his people to be clean because you remember in verse number uh two uh Jeremiah or verse one he was not to put it in water why did God say don't W uh put this in water. Why did he command this? Because God commanded Jeremiah to uh to do this because he wanted to picture sin and the life of Sin will do, sin will dull you, sin will ruin you if you allow it to. And what dirt is to the body, we could say sin is to the soul. This was a spiritual message. And God was saying to the people, your sins are having an effect on your life. God saw the sins of the people In fact, in Jeremiah sixteen, he says, For mine eyes are upon their ways, they are not hid from my face. And as God's people were living in idolatry and immorality and All those other things. God saw those sins, and those sins were piling up. They were soiling those people, so to speak. And that's a message for us. You know, God wants us to deal thoroughly with our Our own sins. He wants us to walk clean. And the major sin that these people committed was the sin of pride. Look at verse 9. Thus saith the Lord: after this manner will I mar the pride of Judah. And the great pride of Jerusalem. Pride was their deal. No wonder they were not walking close to God. That's what pride does. Pride is the parent sin of Jerusalem. And pride says, I don't really need God. I can do things on my own. I can do my own way. I have my own way. Ten decevil people which refuse to hear my words, which walk in the imagination of their heart, they walk after other gods. They were just doing their own thing. Pride will cause a person not to listen, to stop up their ears. Pride will keep a person from thinking they need God. They think they have everything covered on their own And this was what was happening here. But what was happening was sins were contaminating them. Think about with me daily contamination. This girdle became dirty through daily use. It was impossible. For Jeremiah to keep this thing clean using it every day. And it is true also in the life of God's people. You know, we have to walk this sinful world all the time, and you know what? We're going to get contaminated You remember what Jesus said to him when he when he washed the disciples' feet? Remember what Peter said, Lord, you're not going to wash my feet. And then Jesus said, Well then Peter, you have no And Peter said, Well, if that's the case, then just force my head and my hands. In other words, just go ahead and give me a whole bath. And Jesus said, He that is washed doesn't need a whole bath. You already had a bath, Peter, spiritually speaking You don't need it again. You just need to have your feet washed. You see, when you got saved as a Christian, you got a spiritual bath. Did you know that? You were cleansed by the precious blood of Christ. Spiritually speaking, you were cleansed, but you know what? Your feet still get sturdy walking in this world. And you need to wash your feet. That's the idea here. We need daily cleansing in our life. And how do we do that? There are two There's confession, and we were studying first John for several months here. We know first John one nine. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive That's the cla uh the cleansing that we need. There's the cleansing of confession, but also the cleansing of the Word of God You know, one great tool that God uses to keep his people clean is his word. Jesus said, now you are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. God's word cleanses us from within. Some people say, well, that's why I come to church on Sunday. I want to get my cleansing. Well it's not enough. That's like taking out Say I take a bath once a week. It's not enough. You need more than that. That's why you have to get in God's Word daily. It is the thing that cleanses you. There's the confession, and then there is the word of God that we need daily. And so there's the cleansing that God desires. Well let me give you the third thing quickly. There's number three, the consequences God described. You say, Well what if I don't deal thoroughly with my own sins and I don't practice the discipline of scripture reading and prayer and confession of my sins before God. Well what will happen is the same thing will happen to you that happened to that linen sash. What happened to it? What are the consequences? Well, here's the first one. We force we forfeit God's fellowship. Look again in verse 4. Take the girdle that thou hast got, which is upon thy loins, arise and go to Euphrates Hide it there in a hole of a rock. So I went and hid it. God says, take the girdle away Take it not just a short distance, but take it a long way away. It was no accident that God told Jeremiah, take it to the Euphrates in Babylon. Because prophetically what would happen They would be carried away in exile. Where would they land? In Babylon. By the Euphrates. God was going to carry But here's the idea. Sin that you don't confess, if you don't walk clean, what will it ultimately do between you and God? Separate you. A long distance away. God doesn't want that. God wants to be in your life, He wants to bless you. But if you allow sin to contaminate your life Life, you will be separated from God. You will lose fellowship. The Bible says your iniquities have separated between you and your God. And he will not be able to answer your prayers. Longs to bless you. But here's the next thing. We will lose our usefulness to God. Look at verse number 7. When Jeremiah went to dig it up, then I went to Euphrates and dig And looked at the girdle from the place where I'd hid it, and behold, the girdle was marred. It was profitable for nothing. Good for nothing. You can't use a ruined garment. It's good for nothing. What's the point? God can't use contaminated believers. He can't use dirty Christians. He wants to use you. In fact, that was his design that you would be for his glory. But he can't use a dirty vessel. Paul warned Timothy about this. He said, Flee, youthful lusts. He said, Let everyone who names the name of Christ What depart from iniquity. He said, then you'll be a vessel fit for the master's use. But if you don't, then you will never be useful to Almighty God. They saw Again represented the priestly service. Did you know that you're a priest before God? You bring sacrifices when you come, you bring the the gift of worship when you come to church. Church when you sing, when you surrender, when you listen, but none of that will be acceptable to God if you're living a contaminated Christian life and you're not walking a clean Christian life. We'll lose our fellowship. But then here's the third thing. We will be dominated by our sin if we don't deal thoroughly with it. That's the message that God was giving through his prophet. Jeremiah. Now think about this with me. First the girdle was stained by dirt, and then eventually it was buried in the dirt. It was overcome, we could say. It goes from being Stained with dirt to being consumed, to being, we could say one with the dirt. You put a garment in the dirt and leave it there long enough, it actually becomes dirt And that's the idea here. Sins that you don't deal with, that you allow to go in your life, will ultimately consume you. They will dominate you. And you'll be sorry afterwards. Give you an illustration of you know, one time years ago uh I was down in Florida, I was actually visiting Pastor Earl when he lived down there. And one night after church on a Sunday night, we decided to go out on the Florida Everglades. There was a man in his church who had an airboat. And so we went out on the Everglades one Sunday night. It was obviously very dark And uh you can look down with a spotlight and see the alligators looking at you with those amber like eyes. And this guy did something that was totally unexpected. He stopped the boat, then he jumped into the water. It was w Waist deep, he jumped into the water, grabbed an alligator by the neck and the tail, threw it in the boat. Pastor Earl and I jumped up on our seats. We uh we were kind of helping each other Stay out of that alligator's way. Uh I I don't understand why the guy would do something like that. And then he said, I just thought you'd like to see an alligator up close and personal I said, well, I really appreciate that. Thank you very much. You can put it back in the water whenever you're ready. I've seen enough of them. And then he said to me, he said, you know, you can catch one of these and I started thinking about that. You know, I thought, you know, Carolyn would be very impressed if I told her that I went down to Florida and actually caught an alligator with my bare hands. So I said, well let's let's try it and so we began to look and we finally found an alligator that I was comfortable enough with and it was this big it was Just a little guy. He was a baby. All right. Yeah, I I admit it. I of course when I told the story to Caroline, I didn't tell her how big the alligator was. Just told her I caught one And uh I just remember we had a lot of fun, you know, catching those little guys, but then in a few minutes we came up upon an alligator that was mammoth. He was huge, fifteen feet long. And you know what? We kept our distance. We stayed well away from him, you know. And I was thinking as we went home uh that night, uh a thought came to me, and that is, you know, sometimes people are like that. They you know they treat sin the way we were playing with those alligators You know, people will play with the little sins, but they will not dare go near the big sins. But we forget that sins, little sins, can grow Little sins can get big. Jerry Bridges wrote a interesting book called Respectable Sins. And in it he talks about the so-called sins that we overlook, the respect. He talks about what we do is we look at great sins and then we compare our little sins, and somehow we feel respectable just committing our little sins, and they never appear to be that bad. But he says this all sin No matter how subtle it may be, is malignant. It wages war against our souls. It is uh an assault on God's majesty See, there are no little sins when you think of it that way. But here's the point: the Bible teaches that these so-called little, unconfessed, unrepented of sins will add up and add up, and eventually they will dominate Your life. Can you imagine Jeremiah walking back into the city of Jerusalem? He has that garment holding it out, and the people are thinking What are you doing? What is that? Well, this was the sash that I was wearing. And I want you to look at it. Because this is what your sins will do Do to you, is what he would say to the people. That was a sign. Surely they understood that. This is what your sins will do to you. They will ruin you This thing is good for nothing, and just as this garment was carried away down to Babylon, you who have hard-heartedly rejected the Word of God, you will be carried away into captivity But the message for us today is that sins not dealt with will do the same to us. It will carry us away into bondage and will Dominate us. The sin that you enjoy today, you will endure tomorrow. And the message of this is deal thoroughly with your sins. Here's the last consequence. We fail to live up to our purpose. Look again in verse eleven. For as the girdle cleaveth to the loins of a man, so have I cleaved To cleave unto me the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah, saith the Lord, that they might be unto me a people for a name, for a praise, for a glory. And again, that's your purpose. That's your calling. Are you saved? Do you know the Lord? Then you are a people for his name. You were saved that you might glorify him. That the world might look at you and say, you know what, there's something different Different about this person and their sh they their character, their their words, their demeanor. There's something different. And you know what? John says, Well, this is what Jesus Christ has done in my life. And you are a people under his name, unto his praise, and under his glory. But beloved, we can't be that if we allow Sin to ruin us. And that's the message that Jeremiah had for his people. Don't allow sin to dominate you. Walk clean. Be clean, ye that bear the vessels of the Lord. Be clean, ye that bear the name of the Lord. Do it unto his glory. Let me just say this and I I will close. Did you know that one day when Jesus comes back he will be wearing a sash? He'll be wearing a girdle, as it were. If you read Revelation 1 19, when John was on the Isle of Patmos and he said Saw the glorified Lord. He saw Jesus gird about his midsection with a golden girdle, the Bible says, a golden sash. Why? Because he's the great high priest. The great high priest gave a perfect sacrifice. And what was that perfect sacrifice? That was his own self. His sacrifice on the cross. Why? Because he You see, salvation is taking off dirty garments and putting on clean ones. You know what happens when you get saved? When you come to the great high priest and you recognize that You're a sinner and you accept his perfect sacrifice for your sins, you know what happens? There's a transaction. He takes your filthy robes and he gives you a robe of righteousness. That's what happens when he saves you. And our job is to maintain the cleanliness that God has given us. To walk close To him, but he wants to clean you today. He wants you to be his own people for his own glory. Let him cleanse you today. Let's bow for prayer together. So Father, we thank you for the warning that through your prophet this sign that you gave to your And if we're not careful, that contamination can rub off on us. And so, Lord, we need to constantly come to you. We need a c the constant cleansing that comes Through your word and through walking with you in confession. Lord, help us to deal thoroughly with sin in our own life. But not anything, Lord Cleave unto us any any filth or contamination in the world. Cleave unto our soul that would cause you, Lord, to separate us from your presence. Because Lord, our desire is to be close to you. May that be such a passion, Lord, that it motivates us to spiritual cleansing every day of our life as we seek your presence. So Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. And let me just ask with heads bowed and eyes closed, do you need the cleansing today that comes only from Calvary? He wants to wash you. Some of you here, you're already saved, you've already repented and come to Jesus. You've already been cleansed, spiritually speaking, but you need to keep your feet clean And if you have dirty feet, you need to cleanse them before God and walk in fellowship with Him. And if you're here today and you've never come to the cross for cleansing, I'm inviting you today, even more than myself. I'm just a voice Christ Himself is inviting you to come unto Him and to find cleansing from your sins at the cross. You say, what must I do? It's very simple Right there where you are, you can find it. This word has been preached right to you, right where you are. And all you have to do is right where you are, pray and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me. Cleanse me, Lord Jesus. Jesus for my sin. Give me a spiritual bath. I realize that I can do nothing on my own to earn salvation. I ask you to save me today, cleanse me. And friend, he will do that. And if that's your decision to do that, friend, would you let me know after the service? Let one of our pastors know, that Pastor Earl, our founding pastor, Pastor Johnson, or Pastor John John Gorman, any one of these men, just let us know. Because we want to help you. We want you to grow in your relationship to Christ. Father, bless these words to our heart. And we thank you in Jesus' precious name. Amen.