You take your Bibles this morning, and would you open to the Book of Psalms? I want you to go to chapter 122 of the book of Psalms. I thought this would be a good chapter to preach on this morning. Psalm 122, and I'm uh preaching today about uh let us go to the house of the Lord. Um look in Psalm 122 and look down at verse number one. I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together, and whither the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the Lord For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall prosper that love thee. Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces. For my brethren and companions' sake, I will now say, Peace be within thee, and because of the house of the Lord our God, I will seek thy good. And so uh this is a psalm that celebrates public worship. I thought again this would be appropriate because how many of you have missed being in God's house? I know I have. There's a certain thing that takes place here when we gather together in the Lord's house that can't be done anywhere else. You can't uh substitute anything for it. Uh we are grateful for live stream and that sort of thing during times like this. very unusual time that we've been living in. But there's a dynamic. There's a there's a there's something that takes place when God's people are together in the house of the Lord. There's a joy that comes with it. That's why This psalm here is really a pilgrim psalm. It was written out of the desire to go to Jerusalem to worship at God's house. You see, in the Old Testament, uh God commanded the nation of Israel three times a year. You were to drop everything, no matter where you were, no matter what you were doing, you drop it and you take the the trip, the pilgrimage, up to Jerusalem. And I say up to Jerusalem because Jerusalem geographically was located in a very elevated place. So normally if you were traveling to Jerusalem, you were traveling upward to go into that city And this psalm here expresses the joy of the worshiper to go to the house of the Lord. Now you say, well, what does that have to do with us? We live here today in the New Testament. Well, we can look at Jerusalem in three ways in the scripture First of all, we can we can think of it literally. There is the literal city of Jerusalem. It is still there. I've been to it. You can actually go to that ancient city. I remember uh on the several trips that I've taken to Israel to do archaeological digs We say in a hotel that's just outside the ancient city, and you can literally walk to the gates or through the gates. of the ancient city and go into the old city of Jerusalem that is still there. We can think of this literally. And by the way, Jerusalem, if you if you love Bible prophecy, keep your eye on Jerusalem because Some people say that Jerusalem is God's alarm clock. Keep one eye on the Bible, one eye on Jerusalem, because its figures uh pr uh predominantly in the end time prophecy. This was a city that was conquered by David from the Canaanites David brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem. He made it the political capital and the spiritual capital. This was the place where God put his name on, the Bible says Solomon. built a temple on a prominent hill there in the city of Jerusalem called Mount Zion. That's why the city of Jerusalem sometimes is also called Mount Zion. But that was a place where God put his name on. The Bible says this in Psalm 27:4, talking about a man going to Jerusalem, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord to to to seek him in his temple. So there's a literal city. But then secondly, we can think of Jerusalem metaphorically. Did you know that Jerusalem speaks about the New Jerusalem in heaven? That's what the Bible says about heaven. It's a city. It's called the New Jerusalem. John said this in Revelation. I, John, saw the holy city. New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven. I was reading where a German Christian was going to be martyred And when he was told the news, he began to sing Psalm 122, verse 1. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go to the house of the Lord Because Jerusalem speaks about heaven, that New Jerusalem. And then thirdly, we can look at it spiritually We can think of it as the now Jerusalem. That is to say that it represents the church. So the writer of Hebrews used this analogy to speak about the church as the new Jerusalem. And so there's a sense in which all of us that are gathered here together, in a sense, we are, we could say the now Jerusalem. We are the place where Wh where God meets with us. We are all the temples of the Holy Spirit of God. And when we come together, God meets with us here spiritually in a very special way. And so Jerusalem speaks to us of the house of God, the place where people come to worship together, and it's a very special place. And that's why there was a sense of anticipation with the worshipers back in the Old Testament. That was where God dwelt. Did you know that when we come together in God's house, there's a sense in which God is with us in a special way? Now I know that God is with us all the time. How many of you believe that? God is omnipresent. Wherever you go, He's with us And we know that and we agree with that, but when we come together in God's house, there's a sense in which God meets with us in a very special way. God is here among us when we come. And that in itself should fill us with joy. It should fill us with excitement and a desire to be together in God's house. Now let me give you several reasons that I see here in Psalm 122 why we're glad to come to the house of God. And the first reason is this. God's house is a place where we celebrate. We celebrate. Look again in verse number one. I was glad. When they said unto me, Let us go to the house of the Lord. Look at the word glad there. That is a word that is a word that's used in a sense of celebration. He knew that he was going to a celebration And uh and in a sense, that's exactly what we do when we come to God's house. Someone said the Christian life is not a famine or a funeral, it is a feast. And when we come to God's house, we come to celebrate. You say, what do we celebrate? That's the first question. Well, we celebrate the fact that we are citizens of, even this is our now Jerusalem. We are citizens of the new Jerusalem. And we all together we celebrate the fact that we know that one day we're all going to be together there in heaven. How many of you know for sure if you die today you're going to go to heaven? You know what? Then you should be rejoicing because that means there's a place set aside for you in the new Jerusalem. And there's a sense in which when we're together here at God's house, we are a colony of heaven. Now, if you don't like the now Jerusalem, you're not going to like the new Jerusalem. Because we we're going to be celebrating, we're going to be in the presence of God in heaven. We're going to be with the saints of God there in heaven. And your citizenship is there in heaven. Write down Philippians 3. 20. But our citizenship is in heaven. And from it we await the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we're citizens of heaven. Now Paul is writing to the Philippians. And the Philippians, even though they were eight hundred miles away from Rome, they were citizens of Rome. And they were very proud of their citizenship. And the reason we know that is because uh they dress like Romans, they wore the white Roman toga, they talked like Romans, they use the expressions that Romans would use. They lived like Romans. They followed Roman laws. So here is this city of Philippi in Macedonia, 800 miles away from Rome. But if a person in that day went into that city of Philippi, they would it feel like they were in the city of Rome just because of the citizens and because of the way they looked and the way they talked and the way they lived. They were a colony of Rome away from Rome. You know what the church is? The church is a colony of heaven away from heaven And when people come to God's house, you know what they should see? They should see a little bit of heaven in the people of God You see, you can tell a person's citizenship by the way they dress, by the way they talk, by the way they live. And when people look at the church, they should see a little bit of heaven here in the now Jerusalem that we'll see in the new Jerusalem in the New Jerusalem. And so that's why we celebrate. And then there's another question, what do we celebrate? Well, just to put it in one word, you know what we celebrate? We celebrate Jesus. Every time we come to God's house, you know who we're celebrating? We're celebrating the Lord Jesus Christ. It is all about Him We celebrate the redeeming, risen, reigning, and returning Lord. You know, when a f in the Old Testament, when a pilgrim traveled to Jerusalem, They would go there on one of the various feast days. Did you know that in the Old Testament, in the book of Leviticus, God prescribed seven feast days for the children of Israel to enter into? And they would go and anticipate these wonderful occasions. Did you know, however, that all of those feast days pointed to the saving work of Jesus Christ? For example, there's the feast of the Passover, and that pointed to the Messiah as our Passover lamb, whose blood would be shed. Then there's the feast of the unleavened bread. This pointed to the Messiah's sinless life Leaven is a picture of sin, and Jesus was the sinless Savior. And then there's the feast of the first fruits, and this points to the resurrection. Jesus would come out of the grave, he was the first fruits of the resurrection. We were the main harvest. This points to the fact that we also will have a resurrection. Then there was the Feast of Weeks or Pentecost. And this pointed to the great harvest of souls, the gift of the Holy Spirit that would come upon the church. Then there's the feast of the trumpets. And a lot of scholars believe this points to the rapture when the trumpet will sound and will be taken out of this world. And then there's the Day of Atonement. Many believe this points to the second coming of Christ, when the Jews will, the Bible says, look upon him whom they've pierced, and they will repent of their sins. And then finally there's the Feast of the Tabernacles. Where this is the fulfillment of the promise where God will tabernacle among his people that you know in heaven one day God will be among us and we'll be with him He will tabernacle among us. And so all these feast days pointed prophetically to the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now someone asked the question, why don't we celebrate the feast days now? We do. Do you realize every time we come to church we're celebrating these feasts? But they are fulfilled in Jesus Christ. They are the shadow. Jesus is the substance. You see, the Passover and the unleavened bread points to Jesus as the redeeming Lord. And the feast of the first fruits and Pentecost tells us he is the risen Lord. And the Feast of the Trumpets and the Day of Atonement tell us that Christ is the returning Lord. And the Feast of Tabernacles tells us that Christ is the reigning Lord. It's all about Christ. So there's a sense in which we come to God's house, we celebrate Jesus. Christ, the fulfillment of all of these things. This is why we love God's house, because this is where we celebrate. But then secondly, there's another reason we also love God's house because this is where we congregate. Look at verse number two, where it says, Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. That is, they will come together. They will worship there in that place at the appointed time. And I want you, this is what I call the commitment to worship. I love the you can see the commitment in that verse, can't you? Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. And here the uh the pilgrim worshipper was uh was expressing his absolute commitment. to be in God's house, to worship God publicly, because again, there was nothing like that that time. And he's basically saying there's nothing that's going to keep me from God's house. I'm going to be there at the appointed time. Now again, I know we live in a very unique situation now with this virus out. And I know a lot of folks have wanted to come to God's house, but we've been prevented from doing it. And now We're having this opportunity to gather together again. I hope that your commitment to public worship uh uh is is not interrupted, that you'll be as committed after all of this as you were before to be in the house of the Lord. Sometimes we let the least little thing keep us from God's house. I heard about a man who wrote a letter to the pastor, and it said this, dear pastor, you often stress attendance at worship as being very important for a Christian. But I think a person has a right to miss now and then. I think every person ought to be excused for the following reasons. And then he gives a list of reasons. Christmas holidays, we should be excused for two Sundays. New Year's one Sunday because the party lasts too long. Easter, two Sundays to get away. July 4th, one Sunday. Labor Day, two Sundays. We need to get away again. Memorial Day, folks come to visit. School closing one Sunday. School reopens one Sunday. Family reunions three, sleeping late. He allows himself nine Sundays for that. Death in the Family 2, Anniversary 1, Sickness 5, Business Trip 1, Vacation 6, 3 to 4 weeks Bad weather to ball games two races to unexpected company two time changes to specials on TV like the Super Bowl, you know, three. And then he says his pastor, that days two Sundays per year So you can count on us being in church on the fourth Sunday in February and the third Sunday in August unless we're providentially hindered. Say what's the point? We need to make sure that we don't get into bad habits of putting things ahead of the house of the Lord. And so you say, well, there's times where I don't feel like I need it, but we need you, and you, other people need you in God's house. Did you know that? Because your presence will bless other people. I remember when I was preaching in Cameroon, Africa, had this the wonderful occasion to preach over there. One evening I was preaching in a service of the packed house. and the infrastructure there is not all that good and and the electricity just totally went out. Well when that happened, what I noticed is that everyone in the pew began one at a time to light a candle. And candles were lit all over the place. I was unprepared, but they were prepared. Evidently they had gone through that before. And so hundreds of candles were lit. So much so that pretty soon there was light enough for everyone to see in that place because each person brought their own light. to that service. And when I thought about that, I thought about, you know, in a spiritual way, that's what happens when God's people come to God's house. There's a sense in which your light will light someone else. Your light will warm someone else. That's why it's so important for God's people to be together in God's house. There's the commitment to worship, but also the closeness. Look again in verse three. Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together What does that mean? Well, when the pilgrim worshipper got close to Jerusalem and went into the city, you know what he noticed? That the city was very crowded. In fact, the streets were very narrow. You could go to Jerusalem today, to the literal city, and walk in the gates, and I've done it many times, and walk down the street, and you know what you'll find? That the streets are very, very narrow. And the houses are compact together. They're so very close together there in the city. Remember what Jesus said one time? He was warning them about the abomination of desolation And Jesus said, if you happen to be in the city and you hear of the Antichrist going into the temple and proclaiming himself to be God, he said that if you're on the housetop, don't come down. What did Jesus mean by that? What he was saying is you better escape. You better get out of the city if you see that happening. Well, how can you escape and get out of the city if you're on the housetop and you don't come down? What Jesus meant was the s the houses were so close together in the city that you could literally jump from one rooftop to another to another and you can escape the city of Jerusalem Via the rooftops. Why is that possible? Because the city was so close together And you see, what does this stand for? This closeness. Why does the writer here draw attention to that? That's no accident This is the way God designed the city. He designed it with closeness in mind. You see, the very layout of the city communicated closeness and warmth and love And the message here spiritually is: when we come together as God's people, we are unified. We are compact together. You know what the church does? The church unifies us in Christ. It brings us all together in God's house. This is the closeness that we experience in worshiping together. You know the nation of Israel When you think about it and you read through the Bible, they were divided constantly. There was always division. When David became the king, there was a division between the tribe of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, which was Saul's tribe. And so there were constantly strife and fighting among the twelve tribes of Israel. But what he was saying is when you come to Jerusalem The worship of God has a unifying effect. And it has a strengthening effect. It brings us all together. It makes us all one. And we draw our strength. from our closeness being together in God's house. And so that is so necessary, the closeness of worship And then I want you to see the third thing, the company of worship. Look down in verse number four again. Whither the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord. unto the testimony of Israel to give thanks unto the name of the Lord. Now it's interesting to me that the psalmist points out the tribes Because here what he's focusing on, again, is the diversity of people. And the previous verse, he was really focusing on the unity of worship, but here he's focusing on the diversity of the people. And and basically when you think about it, the tribes of Israel, they were very diverse. There were the coastal dwellers of Zebulon, there were the highlanders of Din, there were the farmers of Ephraim. There were the desert dwellers of Reuben. And you know, if you would have been there in Jerusalem back in this day, you would be fascinated to observe the diversity of people, people from all over that came together in unity to worship at the house of the Lord. And again, this is what the writer is pointing out. You know what I think will unite our world? I know we live in a very divided nation right now, beloved. We live in a very divided nation, but I believe with all my heart the answer is in the Word of God. The answer is in Jesus Christ. And he is the one who will bring us all together, who will unite us together. We all become one in the Lord Jesus Christ. We worship as one I believe again that this is the answer to our world today. And you know, right now, it's more important than ever that we be the church. And you know what the church is? The church are people from every different type of background, racial background, social background, whatever background, who have been saved and forgiven by the Lord Jesus Christ and who come together in true love and unity. And true love, and we worship the same Savior. And there's a love that they should see here that we have among one another. And you know what? It should be attractive to the world. The world should look at the Christian. They should look at the church and say, behold how they love one another. And that should cause them to ask about Jesus. And again, I think it's more important right now that we show this unity and love for one another than in any other time. In the midst of a divided world, in the midst of a divided nation, that we show the love of Christ to one another. There's diversity. But there's love and unity in that diversity. In fact, you know what heaven is going to be a very diverse place. Did you know that Listen to Revelation chapter 7. After this I looked and behold, a great multitude that no one could number. Listen to this, from every nation from all tribes and peoples and languages standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands Crying with a loud voice, saying, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. From all over. God loves diversity. Derek Thomas wrote this. He said, sameness and total uniformity is something only the cults have sought after. Within the community of God's people, there's always been a recognition of the value of diversity. And that's so true. But then I want you to see not only the company of worship, but then the command. Look again in verse 4 where he says, Whither the tribes grow, the tribes of the Lord, under the testimony of Israel To give thanks unto the name of the Lord. And why do we come together? We come together for that purpose. God commands us, again, three times in the Old Testament, God commanded the people, come together And worship together. This is what the writer is referring to in this verse. This command of God to come together and to worship. And to give thanks to the name of the Lord. And again, that's what we do when we come to God's house. We come out of a heart of gratitude, out of thanksgiving to the Lord. And when people see you leave your house on Sunday morning and they see you get into the car and they they know where you're going. They know that you're going to God's house. They know that you are a person that worships the Lord, that gives thanks to God, and that glorifies the name of the Lord. The psalmist said, we come that we might give thanks to the Lord in his name. Now let me give you the last thing quickly. The reason we love to come to God's house is because this is the place we celebrate. We celebrate Jesus. This is the place we congregate. From all over, we come and we love one another and we worship together, and the world sees our unity and our love and our thanksgiving to God. But number three, this is the place where we communicate Where we communicate. Look at verse number five. For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David. What is that referring to? And then notice the next verse, pray for the peace of Jerusalem. What we see in these last five verses are the two means of communication in God's house, the word of God and prayer. The Word of God is how God speaks to us, how He speaks to our heart. Prayer is how we speak to God. When the psalmist mentions the thrones of judgment or the thrones of the house of God, he was referring to the ancient uh The city gates where if a person were walking into Jerusalem, they would see a little platform there next to the gate and a judge sitting on that platform. And if a person had an issue, a matter that needed to be resolved, they would go to the judges. And those judges would render a judgment. And you know what they would use to render their judgment? They would use the word of God. And this judgment went all the way to the king. Sometimes a matter was so great that the king himself, who sat on the throne of David, would have to hear that matter. But again, you know what he used to judge that matter? He used the word of God. You know how this speaks to us today? When we come to God's house, we come. That we might be judged. Now I know this the world doesn't like to be judged. The favorite verse of people is, judge not that you be not judged, right? But people often misquote that verse. When Jesus used that verse, he was talking about the hyperjudgmental Pharisees. Don't be like them. However, You know, we constantly have to judge. We ha in order to live and survive, we have to make judgments, right? I gotta know when's the right time to put on the accelerator and put on the brakes. That takes judgment, right? I gotta know, you know, when you go to the supermarket and you pick out fruit or vegetables, how many of you, you pick up the first piece of fruit and just throw it in the basket, or do you use a little bit of judgment? Okay? You know what Jesus said? By their fruits ye shall know them. So we have to use judgment And when we come to God's house, you know, in a sense, what we're doing? We are bringing ourselves under the judgment of God. In what way? Well, when the word of God is preached, we should be judging our own heart. Not judging others. You know, some people say, boy, that was a good sermon. Brother so-and-so really needed that. That's not the kind of judgment you need to be judging The better expression would be, that was a good sermon. I really needed that. I needed to be brought under this judgment. And by the way, let me just say, that's the first place judgment begins. We judge ourselves. Let me tell you something, beloved, when I'm preparing these sermons, I'm judging myself. I have to bring myself under judgment. I have to ask the question, is there a sin in my life? That I need to confess? Is there some promise I need to claim? Is there something I need to do Something I need of her sake. I'm constantly judging myself. The Apostle Paul said, if you would judge yourself, you wouldn't need to be judged by God. So we come and we hear the word of God and we allow God to speak to our hearts that God may judge us. That we might get our hearts right before God, that we may leave better than when we came, as we come under the judgment of God's word. But then there's prayer in verse 6 where he says, Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Now again, why was he concerned really about the literal city? Was he concerned about the architecture, the history of the city? No, what was his concern? Look down at verse 8, for my brethren and companions' sake I will now say peace be within thee. He was concerned about the people. He was concerned about the spiritual condition of the people. And we should have the same kind of concern. We should pray. We should seek God's face. You know what we should pray for? For the conversion of people, that people would come to know Jesus Christ. For the commitment and consecration of believers, people who already know Christ, but they're walking far away from him in fellowship. We should be praying constantly for these things, for the people that come together. Right now is a time when we need to pray more than ever. We need to pray for peace in Jerusalem. In our not only the place where we worship, but the place outside these walls where people live, we need to pray for their souls. Pray that they know they come to know Jesus Christ. Pray for peace. And this is what we do when we come to the house of the Lord. And so it's the word of God in prayer. The Word of God and prayer. These are the two things that are important to us. It is the source of our wisdom. The Bible says that when believers wanted to select a new Missionary, they would pray, they would go to the Word of God in prayer. It's the success of our witness. We need to preach the word, but we need to pray. Also for God to use his word. It's the secret of our warfare after the church was threatened by the Jerusalem Council The Bible says they gathered together, they read Psalm 2, and they prayed, and the Spirit of the Lord fell upon them. It's the supply of our workers. When there's a need for more workers, they were they read the word of God, they prayed, and God supplied more. It's the strength of our walk. The Bible says this in Ephesians, and now, brethren, I commend you to the God in prayer and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up. And give you an inheritance among them that are sanctified. And so This is where we communicate these things. And this is why we love God's house together. Now let me just close with this one thing. Look again in verse number two. Look at verse 2. Our feet Shall stand within thy gates. Again, I love that verse. Our feet shall stand within thy gates. His worshipper knew beyond any shadow of doubt that his feet We're going to be standing inside that city, that place, that national Jerusalem. But I want to ask you this question. Can you say with this much commitment and assurance? That my feet shall stand within that place, the gates of heaven, the new Jerusalem. Do you know that? Can I ask you, are you absolutely sure that if you died today you would go to heaven? Can you say with the psalmist, my feet shall stand within those gates? I know I'm going to heaven And if you don't know that, you need to get that matter resolved. And the Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. Would you give your heart to Jesus Christ? Ask him to be your Lord and your Savior. So you can say with the psalmist, my feet Shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. Let's bow together for prayer. Shall we bow together for prayer? And with heads bowed and eyes closed, can I ask you, friend, do you have that absolute assurance that if you died today, you'd go to heaven? Do you know that? And if you're not sure, would you like to be sure? Would you pray right where you are? You don't have to pray out loud. God can hear your thoughts. But would you just say this prayer in your heart and mean it? Lord Jesus, I know that you are the Son of God. Who came to die for my sin on Calvary. To pay my sin debt. And today, Jesus, I'm turning to you as my Savior, my Lord. Forgive me and save me, Jesus. Make me your child and give me eternal life Friend, if you reach out in faith and pray that prayer, he will save you. Because the Bible says, Him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. If you truly come to Jesus asking for salvation, friend, he'll grant it. If you're thirsty, he'll give you a drink. If you're hungry, he'll feed you the bread of life. Would you come to him? Would you pray that prayer? Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. Thank you, Lord, for these. You're people that Rejoice to be in God's house together. Thank you for those, Lord, that are watching and listening. Many who desire to come, but are being very cautious. Lord, I commend them for their caution. But I pray, Lord, that in the days to come you'll bring us all together again in your house. And we thank you and praise you for what you're doing in hearts and lives. In Jesus' name, amen.