I want you to, we're going to read scripture this morning. I want you to open your Bibles in Mark chapter 2, and let's all stand together for the reading of Scripture. Mark chapter 2. And if you could just follow along as I read this passage, Mark 2, verses 1 to 12, this morning. We'll stand in honor of the reading of God's Word. Mark chapter 2, verse 1. And again he entered into Capernaum after some days, and it was noise that he was in the house. And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive them, no, not so much as about the door. And he preached the word unto them, and they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was born of four And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was, and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, Why does this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Whether it is easier to say to the sick or the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take up thy bed and walk. But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, he saith to the sick with a palsy, I say unto thee, arise and take up thy bed and go thy way into thy house. And immediately he arose and took the bed and went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying We never saw it on this fashion. This is God's word. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for your inspired and inerrant word. And it is your word, Lord, that we've come to hear. We know that, Lord, when we hear your word, you speak to your people. This is your church. You are Lord of your church. So speak to hearts today, Father. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen. All right, you may be seated. The title of my sermon today is Let's Raise the Roof. That's really what this story is about. I heard about a disastrous church fire and a beautiful painting of Christ was endangered. Two men went inside and they rescued it and people came and watched the fire, but they stayed much longer to see the painting. And the church leaders were amazed because no one had ever been interested in that painting before. And finally one man explained and he said that when the church caught fire and moved Christ into the streets, people were interested What a parable for the church today, right? The church needs to catch fire. We need to move Christ into the streets. Now I think the greatest privilege we have as believers is to point other people to Jesus Christ. Jesus is the answer to this world today. He's the answer to this broken and bruised city that we live in. There are many people that have many needs, but Christ is sufficient for all those things. And what a privilege it is to be used of God to bring men and women to Jesus Christ. It was Charles Fergent who said, I would rather bring one soul to Jesus Christ than to uncover all the mysteries of the divine word. That's a passion for evangelism there. I would rather bring one soul to Christ than to know all the mysteries of Scripture. This is the greatest joy that we have. It's the greatest privilege. It's the greatest joy. It's the greatest responsibility that we have as believers. John Wesley said, you have but one business on earth, to bring people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And you're here today because somebody cared for you. Because someone pointed to Jesus Christ. That's why you're here. That's why you're saved. And now it's our turn, it's your turn. We have to point others to the Lord Jesus. And that's what we see here in this story. Now let me just say that I think one of the main ideas in this story, Mark is continuing along with the idea of the authority of Jesus. And if you you've been with us last time, you saw that the people were amazed at Jesus' authority. He had authority over disease. He had authority over demons. They were amazed at the way he taught doctrine He didn't teach like the other rabbis. He taught with one who had authority. He had a godlike authority. And March's going to continue that here today because we're going to see that Jesus has again authority. This time it's authority to forgive sin. But what I want you to see here in this are six essentials to bringing people to Jesus, because I think highlighted in this story is how these men were able to bring a person to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think it's a great example for all of us to follow. You know, we're emphasizing that, we're emphasizing you to reach out to others. If we can just get our all of us to be focused on outreach, reaching out That's part of our job as sharing the gospel and evangelism and fulfilling the Great Commission. We have to have an outward focus. So we can learn from these four men First of all, let me give you these six essentials. Here's number one. There has to be care. We have to be ready to take advantage of every God-given opportunity. Look at verse 1. And again he entered into Capernaum Now, Mark doesn't really give us a lot of detail about where Jesus was. But if you look in Matthew's gospel, a lot of times when you go through these gospels, if you compare You can put together certain events and fill in some blanks, but Matthew says that Jesus took a trip to a region called the Decapolis. And he was there for a very short time. He didn't stay very long. And why did he return so soon? Because you might remember that while Jesus was there, the story of him casting a demon out of the maniac of Gadera You might remember that story where he cast a demon out of the man and the demons were afraid of Jesus and uh basically uh Jesus cast the demons or he allowed the demons to go into the pigs, thousands of pigs And they ran down the hill and they jumped into the uh ocean. And one country preacher preacher said they committed suicide by doing that. They jumped into the water Remember that story. Now the problem is that many of the people there in that city were offended Because that was a big loss of money. That was a big chunk of money that they lost. These are Jews in the Decapolis. One would ask, what are Jews doing farming pigs anyway? Isn't that something that should they shouldn't be doing. But they weren't really concerned about following God's word. They were only concerned about money and economics. And if you read that story you remember that everyone in the town came out. And you know what they said to Jesus? They said, please leave. Leave our coasts. And Luke says they all agreed in one heart in total agreement. Please depart. Go away. This is shocking for any group to ask Jesus to leave. They did that, and when they did that, they missed the day of God's visitation. And Jesus, without a word, got into the boat and he left And he went back to uh Matthew calls it his own city. Now that wasn't Nazareth. Jesus did grow up in Nazareth, but you remember when he went back to Nazareth, he preached his first sermon there. And what did they try to do to him? They tried to push him off a cliff. What a response to a first sermon. In your home church. By the way, I always want to thank you for not doing that to me. Here in my church, you've all been so very receptive. Thank you for not trying to push me off a cliff or anything else But that's how Jesus' hometown received him. And that's when Jesus said, a prophet is not without honor except in his own country. So Jesus made Capernaum his new home or town, we could say. So when Matthew says his own city, he's really talking about Capernaum. That's where he set up his headquarters. So Jesus leaves the decapolis, having been told by the people to flee his lead. He gets back into the boat, he goes back into Capernaum, and this is where we pick it up in chapter two, verse one. And again he entered into Capernaum after some days, and it was noise that he was in the house. It got around. Jesus is back. Now, this is the one who had healed. You remember previously, everyone in Capernaum were healed by Jesus. Peter's mother-in-law got sick, and Jesus immediately healed her, picked her up and rebuked the fever and went away. And then other people came in evening time, you remember, and the Bible says that Jesus healed them all. To the point there was no sick left in Capernaum. And now here he is again, back into the house. And notice where it says in verse 1, not a house, but the house. I think this is Peter's house, there where Jesus stayed with him in Capernaum. And so here is another opportunity. Christ is in the house. And an opportunity for more people to learn. And and learn about Jesus and learn what he says. And so in verse two it says, And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch as there was no room to receive them. They were all jammed in, they were all hearing this amazing one named. Jesus. Again, this is an opportunity. Somehow the four men hear about this who want to bring this paralyzed man to the Lord Jesus. And they take advantage of this opportunity. But I think the first thing that we can learn from this is that, do you know, I believe that God will give us along the way divine appointments. Opportunities and we have to be careful, we have to care enough to be conscientious to see those opportunities. When we can point somebody to the Lord Jesus Christ. And a lot of times these opportunities they come, and if we don't seize them at that moment and take advantage of those opportunities, we may not ever get that opportunity again. So we have to care about that. And his autobiography, Just As I Am, Billy Graham, tells about a conversation that he had with John F. Kennedy shortly after he was elected. On the way back to the Kennedy House, he was in the car, and they were talking about the second coming, and uh Billy Graham says that the president was very interested about that And he said, we'll have to talk more about it later. And then he says several years later the two met again in 1963 at the national prayer breakfast. And Billy Graham remembers in his autobiography, he said, I had the flu and I gave my short talk. He said we walked out of the hotel together and he said that at the curb, the president, Kennedy, he turned to Billy and said, Would you ride back with me to the White House? I really want to talk to you. And Billy Graham says, I remember not feeling well. And he said, I said to the President at that time, Mr. President, I got a fever and I'm very weak and I don't want to give you what I have. Can we do this some other time? He said it was a cold and snowy day, and he said I was freezing as I stood there without my overcoat. And he said the president looked and he said, of course, we can do this at another time. And Billy Graham goes on to say in that autobiography, that next time never came. Because if you know the history, shortly after that in 1963, the president was shot dead. by the bullet of an assassin. And Billy Graham would later write, he hesitated at the car door. And his request haunts me still. What was on his mind? Should I have gone with him? He said it was a moment I could never recover. And when I read that, I'm reminded that God does give us divine appointments. He gives us opportunities to share Christ. It might be with a family member, a son or a daughter. It might be with some other relative. It might be with a neighbor. Beloved, when God gives you that opportunity, seize it. We have to care. But here's the second thing, not only care, but commitment. We have to be willing to overcome every obstacle. It wasn't easy to get this man to Jesus. I mean there were obstacles here And look again in verse number three, and they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy which was born of the four, in verse four, and when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof. Rest assured, Satan will not allow you an easy time if you're determined to bring someone to Jesus. These four men came carrying this man who was sick. These are unusual men I would suggest to you. We don't know their names. Heaven knows who they are. But these men were willing to break through barriers. They had faith to overcome any difficulty or obstacle that was before them. There are several factors here. First of all, there's what I call the crowd factor. The crowd was so jammed into the house, there was no way they could get this guy to Jesus. The crowd was right there in the way. Jesus, the Bible says in verse 2, was preaching the word to them and the power of the Spirit. And there was no way to get this man in there. And so really there were just hearers. And by the way, not everyone that came and heard Jesus were really interested in his doctrine. In fact, Jesus offended a lot of people if you read the gospel. A lot of them were interested in miracle mania. They wanted to see another miracle. Which is why on many occasions Jesus would heal someone and say, look, don't tell anyone, just be quiet about it. He didn't want the mania to keep him from being able to preach. And you'll find out in Mark that in some places he went, he couldn't get into the city because of the mobs. His first goal was to preach to them the gospel, the word of God. And sometimes some of the people were just in the way They weren't really there because they wanted to repent or hear the gospel. In fact, despite the fact that Jesus healed everyone in Capernaum, did you know later on Jesus would pronounce a curse on that town? And do you know why? Because even though they were ready to receive his miracles, they didn't repent. And that's why Jesus would later say, Woe unto you, Capernaum, you have been exalted to heaven. But you'll be brought down to hell because they would not really believe. So there's a sense in which the crowd that was there, they were a hindrance. to getting this man to Jesus because they weren't really there for the right reason. You know, we have to be careful that people, we don't block people from coming to Christ. Because they watch our life. Everyone is watching our life. They see you. They see me. Do we make Christ attractive? Do we adorn the doctrine of God the way Paul told Titus to do, to make the Word of God easy for people to receive because they see Christ in us? I read one time where Gandhi was studied all the religions of the world and he decided that Christianity was the right religion for his people, and he tried to go into a church, and when he was met at the door by ushers who said, This church is for Europeans only. And Gandhi later said, I would be a Christian if it were not for Christians. They hindered people from coming And there's a sense in which these folks are doing this. But notice that these guys, they didn't let that stop them. They were working together. This is what I call the cooperation factor. All of them, all the four work together To bring this man to the Lord Jesus. Now think about this. This guy was not local. You say, how do we know that? Because we already learned, the Bible makes it very clear, that Jesus healed all the sick that were in Capernaum. In fact, Matthew 8. 16 says that all that were in Capernaum were healed. So this guy had to come somewhere from the outside. And this means that these four men had to carry this guy perhaps a long distance. Think about that. It may have started just with one guy trying to get them there It was too much for one guy. It was too much for two. Too long a distance, perhaps. But for these men, they worked together, they cooperated together. They each took the end of this pallet And they were able to get this man to the Lord Jesus Christ. It was a united effort, it was a team effort of them working together. And by the way, that's what it's going to take for us to reach people for Christ. It's a team effort. We all have to work together. Satan what he wants he loves to do is he loves to divide the body of Christ He loves to divide God's people because he knows if he can divide God's people, then he can win a major victory and will never really win anybody to Christ that way. But when the church is working all together In cooperation, in unity, then great things can happen. And we see these men, these four men, they're working together. And they're bringing this man to the Lord Jesus, whatever the distance is, they carry him to this house when they hear that Jesus is there. I read the story of a on a wet on the western plains of Canada in the early fall of the year during the wheat harvest, a three-year-old girl wandered from her yard, from her farm home And she was lost in the tall grain. No one could find her. They were trying to get to her before the cold winter night with freezer, surely And people scattered all out looking through that field, and they had no success. Finally, one man said, Let's join hands and we'll sweep through the field. And when they joined hands and began to sweep through those wheat fields, finally the cry went up. They found her, but it was too late. They found the lifeless body of this little child. And someone said, Only, if we had only joined hands sooner That's the cry sometimes the churches have. If we could only join hands sooner, if we'd only unite it together sooner. And that's what we see out of these men. Their commitment to overcome any obstacle To bring people to Jesus that we see care, we see commitment, there was compassion. They had to be willing to go to this man because again in verse 3 he was sick of the palsy, and that word palsy there is a Greek word where we get our word paralyzed. This is some type of paralysis that where he couldn't move, all he could do is lay on that bed. This is a bed perhaps supported by a thin wooden frame. There was nothing he could do to get to Jesus himself. He was absolutely helpless. And may I suggest to you, dear friend, that sinners aren't going to be able to make their way to Jesus unless we help them. No one's going to find Jesus on their own. They have to be helped along. We have to go out and get them. We have to go out and find them. And bring them to the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, we also see, I think, perhaps a theological idea here. Did you know that the heart of man, the lost man, he has really no desire for the things of God and of himself? There has to be a work of God in that heart to even make them interested. There has to be a grace that God gives. And here, this man, he wants to come to Jesus. It's very obvious. He just needed some help. You know, there are some people out there whose hearts God has touched. They just need someone to point them in the right direction. Just to say, hey, let me tell you the right way. Let me introduce you to the right person. And so they have a compassion for this man who could not find Christ on his own. He needed someone to help him. And friend, that's why we go. But when we leave, we scatter to witness. We scatter to share Christ wherever we go. That's what the Bible says. God gives to the church pastors, pastor teachers who give the word of God that builds you up, that edifies you, so that you can do the work of the ministry. We can all work together in cooperation to do that work of the ministry. I was reading a statistic this week. Did you know, according to the church growth experts, how people start coming to church? Let me read you what they said. They said 2% of people come as a result of advertising. 2%. 6% of people come as a result of organized visitation. 6% of people come as a result of the pastor inviting them to come. 86% of people come because a friend in the church invited them. 86%. Think about that People will come if you invite them to come, if you reach out to them. The gospel is not something we we come to church to hear, it's really something that we go from the church to tell and to share with others. Someone says, oh, we need another Billy Graham died. We need another great evangelist like Billy Graham. Friend, thank God for Billy Graham. And thank God for great evangelists. But in the early church, you know how the church was able to take over that Mediterranean world? They didn't have a Billy Graham back then. It was the witness of individual believers. That's what did it. Thank God for great preachers. But committed Christians who are working together get more done than than any Billy Graham can get done If we'll go out and we'll share the word of God. But the problem is a lot of people think it's not my responsibility, but beloved, it is your responsibility. 53% of people that go to church that are born again do not feel the sense of responsibility to share Christ with others. And that's sad because the Bible, again, is very clear. We're to fulfill the Great Commission. We're to share the gospel with every creature. What's unclear about that? We're to go into all the world. Luke 14, 23, and the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and the hedges and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. So it takes care, it takes commitment, it takes compassion, also it takes creativity. This these guys they developed a strategy in verse five and says, and when they saw when Jesus saw their faith He saw what they were doing. And again, Mark doesn't give a lot of detail. But what he means is he saw what they were trying to do. And when the men could not get uh this paralyzed man to Jesus because of the crowd, they came up with a strategy on how to do it. They were very confident if they could just get this man to Jesus, Jesus would help them. And so their their decision was, we'll take them up to the roof. Well how did they get up there? Well, the homes in Palestine back then they normally had a staircase along the side of the house that went up to the top of the roof, and the rooftops were like, you know, our porch where people would go and sit and spend time and relax. Every house had a ha a rooftop like this. Um you remember Peter was on the rooftop When he fell asleep and had a vision that God gave him. He was up there perhaps praying. And like a lot of good Christians, he fell asleep while he was praying, you know. They're on the rooftop. Remember Jesus said that, you know, if you see these things happen, if you see the abomination of desolation, he was talking in Matthew 24. the Mount Olive Discord. So if you see the abomination of desolation, you see that. If you're on the housetop, don't come down. You know, literally the houses are so closed you can jump from one housetop to another and escape out of a town. And a lot of people would go to the house tops in the evening time. And Jesus says, Don't come down, just get out of town And so here, these men, you can just picture them. They decide they're going to go up the side staircase. They go up to the top of the roof. And this takes some calculation because, you know, they didn't just start digging anywhere through the top. And by the way, the the the The rooftop was pretty easy. They had these solid timber beams and then they had other smaller beams laid across and normally there was dirt. About two feet of dirt that they would pack around those beans along with some palm leaves. And it says here in Mark that they literally began to break through. Look or they uncovered. Look at verse four. When they could not come nigh unto him for the fresh, they uncovered the roof where he was. Now again I I say this takes some calculation because They didn't start digging just anywhere. They had to calculate exactly where Jesus would be, so that when they lowered him down, the guy would be right in front of Jesus. And they were pretty successful because that's exactly what happened They kind of calculated, I think we need to start right here. And they just started digging and breaking through, the Bible says. And can you imagine if you're sitting there listening to Jesus and all of a sudden dirt's falling on your head Things are falling down. And I imagine those Pharisees in their fine clothes were not happy about that. They were there. They're getting all dirty. What in the world is happening here? Talk about destruction to a service And they finally broke through and they lowered the man down right there in front of Jesus. There may have been some people there saying, you you're you're you're wasting a lot of money by doing this. You're damaging our house here. You know what Buildings are really not that important. Buildings are to reach people for Christ. Some churches are too clean. It's a sign they don't have a lot of people coming through. These are nothing but just tools to reach people for Christ. And so here these guys break through the roof. They put this man right there in front of the Lord Jesus. What a strategy. They were determined they were going to get this man to Christ. It took some work, it took some creativity, but they did it. Did you know if you look throughout the New Testament, what you'll find are different strategies of evangelism. There's presentational evangelism. That's where Philip meets the Ethiopian eunuch and he simply shares the Word of God with them. That's one way there's invitational evangelism where Jesus won this woman at the well and she went out and what did she do? She invited all her friends and said, Boy, you have to come and listen to this guy You have to come and hear this man. Then there's relational evangelism. We see this in Luke 5, where Matthew, who just started to follow Christ, hosts a party and he invites all of his friends to that party In order to share Christ with them. That's another strategy that was used. And then there's testimonial evangelism, where the blind man that was healed, he just went out and started telling everyone, I was blind, but now I see When people see the change in your life, that's a great powerful testimony. That's a great way to introduce people to Christ. And then there's apologetic evangelism, Paul on Mars Hill, where he defends the gospel. And preaches the resurrected Christ. Then there's congregational evangelism in Acts 13, where the church in Jerusalem sent out missionaries. And they engage in evangelism as a congregation. There's many ways that you can do this, but here's the key thing. You have to want to. You have to desire it. You have to say, Lord, I want to be used by you to bring others to Christ. And if you have that desire, you know what? You'll figure out a way to do it. Just like these people here in the scripture did. There has to be care There has to be commitment, there has to be compassion, creativity, and then confidence. These men were confident in the power of Christ They were confident in the power of the gospel. And beloved, I believe the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. If we plant the seed of the gospel in hearts It will produce results. It just will. That's the power of the gospel itself. And these men believed in the power of Christ. That's what it means when it says, when and Jesus saw their faith He saw that they believed in him so much that they were willing to do all these things to get this man to the Lord Jesus. And Jesus rewards them because look at verse 5. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son Thy sins be forgiven thee. Literally the Greek says, My child. Jesus doesn't just heal this man, he makes him a part of the family of God. And I think Jesus smiled when he saw this man before him. And i I I think he sees his faith. And he says, Thy sins be forgiven thee. Now, at that moment there were some people that didn't really like that, but let me just say this: Jesus has the power to forgive sins. This is the theme here, this whole idea. His authority. Remember, he has authority to teach, authority to confront Satan, authority to uh uh cast out devils. Authority to rebuke sickness and heal. But one of the greatest things is his authority to forgive sin. Because let me tell you, that's the greatest problem of man today. You may be sick physically, but it's even worse to be sick spiritually. What damns souls to hell is unforgiven sin before God And to have the ability to forgive sins, that's the authority of God. Notice the reaction of the Scribes. Look at verse six. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts. Why does this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? They understood the implication of what Jesus was saying. They knew that with reference to forgiving sin completely, only God can forgive sin. Because every sin that you and I commit, it's against a holy God. And the most important thing is, has God forgiven your sins? Because if He hasn't, beloved, you'll be you'll be punished in eternity for unforgiven sin. And so only God can forgive sin. And so when they heard Jesus say, Thy sins forgiven thee, they were angry. In fact, it says Why does this man, actually in the Greek the word man is not there, why does this it was kind of a kind of a uh derogatory way to refer to him, this one here. Who does this guy think he is How can this one say, your sins be forgiven? But Jesus knew what they were thinking. Look in verse number eight. And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit That they were so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your heart? Whether it is easy to say of the sick or the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise, take up thy bed and walk. In other words, he kind of poses a test before them. You don't think I have the power, the authority? By the way, here is Jesus making a declaration. What is he declaring about himself here? That he is God. I do have the authority to forgive sins. It would always irritate me when I was reading books sometimes from New Testament scholars who say Jesus never claimed to be God. I wonder, what are they reading? Here Jesus is very clear. Yeah, I do have this authority. He's claiming to be God right here. And they all knew it. And Jesus said, Here's a test for you to see if I have this authority. What's easier? Is it easier to say to someone, your sins are blotted out, your sins are forgiven, or to say, You, you sick person, you paralyzed person, get up off your bed and walk? It's much easier to say to someone, your sins are forgiven. You know why? Because there's no way really to affirm whether that's really happened or not I can't know whether God really forgave those sins. You know, there has to be some way of affirming that. And by the way People who go to a Catholic priest and get into a confessional booth and confess their sins to a priest and he says absolvo that's that how do you know that he doesn't have that power? Only God can forgive your sins. You don't need any priest. There's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And here, so Jesus is saying, look, what's easier to to for you to for me to say? Well it's very obvious it's easier to say your sins be forgiven because that can't be verified. But if you say to someone who's paralyzed, get up off your bed and walk, now that is verified immediately. And so this is what Jesus says. Just to show you that I have authority to forgive sins, I'm going to say to this man, get up and walk. That will prove I have authority. And look what happens. Look in verse 10. But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth. To forgive sins. He saith to the sick of the palsy, I say unto thee, arise, take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house. And immediately he arose and took up the bed and went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all what? Amazed. Again, this is the theme of Mark, isn't it? The amazement, the astonishment of the people, they were amazed and they glorified God saying, We never saw it on this fashion. This is incredible. And Jesus is able to support his claim that he is God. Now, beloved, at that moment, everyone there should have believed at that very moment that this is not just a normal man, this is God. He has the authority to forgive sins. Why did they doubt after that? Such is the hardness of man's heart But this is incredible here, that Jesus would have this voice of authority to do this. And so they were confident But here's the last thing, conviction. We have to be motivated by the glory that God receives, because here God is glorified in verse number twelve. They were all amazed And they glorified God. You see, that's the reason why we want people to come to Christ. Not so that we can boast and brag. We love the lost. We want people to know Jesus. You know why? Because there is a real heaven, there is a real hell I know nowadays no one wants to believe about the wrath of God and eternal punishment, but I want to tell you something, beloved. This book has not changed. We don't want to see anyone go there. That horrible place. But also, friend, we want God to be glorified. Do you know that when a person receives Jesus? God is glorified. And another voice is added to the choir of people singing praise to God for his grace, for his forgiveness of sin. And that's why we want to bring people to the Lord Jesus Christ. And again, they were all amazed at what Jesus was able to do. May that be the testimony of our church as well. People are amazed at what Christ is doing, what Christ has done. There was a historic church in Rome called the Pantheon. It was built in 126 A. D. by the Emperor Hadrian. And the church was built with a 30-foot hole in the roof. They couldn't figure out why. And scholars finally got together and they they determined that the reason that the hole was there is so that the sunlight could come in and illuminate the emperor when he walked in He wanted to be illuminated. So he put a hole in the roof. Well friend, may our church be a place where Christ is illuminated. Because of us. Because we're pointing people to him. And people are forgiven of their sin. And we're amazed at how he's changing hearts and lives. Let's bow together for prayer. And so, Lord, we are amazed again. To see your authority, your power on display. That you have the authority to forgive sin. That you can determine eternal destinies For those who come and repent, they receive heaven and a home in heaven. For those who refuse, there's eternal judgment. I pray, Lord, that there's no one here that will leave today without knowing with absolute certainty that their sins are forgiven. By the only one who can forgive, that's you, Lord Jesus. And I thank you, Lord, that you've told us in your word that all that come to me I will in no wise cast out. That if anyone wants to receive this, forgiveness they can receive it. And I pray, Lord, that no one will leave here today without knowing that. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, can I ask you, I don't want to embarrass you, but how many of you can say with an uplaised up raised hand, I know that my sins have been forgiven by Jesus. And I pray Praise him this morning with all my heart. Would you raise your hand and say, That's my testimony? I praise him with all my heart that he has forgiven my sins. You may put your hands down. And friend, if you couldn't raise your hand just that minute with certainty, I want to pray for you. I want you to know that your sins are forgiven, that Jesus is your Savior. And would you be willing right now, right there where you are? To call unto him and say, Lord, forgive me, cleanse me. I believe you are the Lord Jesus Christ. And I believe that you took my sins on you on the cross. Paid my sin debt. Save me, Lord Jesus. Forgive me. Would you be willing to pray that, friend In fact, if you pray that prayer, can I pray for you? Would you just lift your hand? I don't want to embarrass you, but I want to I want to help you out. Anyone here? And if you have any question about what you're standing before God, we're here. We want to help you. My next charge would be, would you help us to bring others to Jesus, friend? Would you make that commitment before God? So, Father, bless these words. Use them in the hearts and lives of your people. Thank you, Lord, for what you've done for us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.