Well, it is good to be in God's house, isn't it? And especially this week when we enter into our a celebration of thanksgiving to the Lord. With that in mind, I want you to take your Bibles this morning. Open to the Old Testament book of Leviticus. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus. This is the book of the Bible that causes you to stumble every year as you're reading through the Bible in a year. You go through Genesis and everything is all okay. You go through Exodus and it's okay. When you get to Leviticus, that's when you get bogged down. And you're reading your Bible through the year because it seems like that this uh you know, maybe to the superficial reading of it, a reader, it looks like it's a lot of r rituals and ceremonies and things that really don't have anything to do with the believer today. But if that's your idea of Leviticus, I want to graciously disagree. There's a lot of wonderful truth here in the book of Leviticus. And I think it's especially as we think about this time of year of Thanksgiving. The title of my sermon today is What the Levitical Offerings Can Teach Us About Thanksgiving. And so I think we can learn some things here that will help us to value the celebration of Thanksgiving all the more. At least that's my hope. I think that uh the holiday that we celebrate this coming week is a very spiritual holiday. I think it's the most spiritual holiday perhaps that we celebrate all year. And I think that this holiday of Thanksgiving had its origin in the Old Testament scripture, most specifically here in this book of Leviticus. The Puritans that came over to America, did you know I said this in the Sunday school hour Uh they were people who took the Old Testament scripture seriously. They took all of the Bible seriously, but especially the Old Testament. Did you know that William Bradford the govern the governor of the Plymouth colony did you know he studied Hebrew over on the Mayflower on the way over? I was surprised to learn that when I was going through seminary. He did Hebrew exercises on the ship as they traveled to America. Did you know that when uh he got to America, he considered making Hebrew the language of the new colony? Had he done that, we might be speaking Hebrew this morning. He was that serious about it. One writer said this about the Puritans. He said that they uh That they were the new Israelites. They fancied themselves to be the new Israelites. England was Egypt. The king was Pharaoh. The Atlantic Ocean was the Red Sea. America was the land of Israel. And the Indians were the Canaanites. That's the way they looked at it. Most of the early legislation of the colonies of New England was determined by scripture. In fact, one man wrote this, uh, Max uh Diamond, he in his book on uh Jews, the God in history, the Puritans, most of whom had Hebrew names, regarded themselves as the spiritual heirs of the Old Testament. In fact, there was even a proposal that Hebrew be made the official language of the colonies. And John Cotton wanted to adopt the Mosaic Code as the basis for the laws of Massachusetts. That's all according to some historians. But what I want you to see and what I believe is that when they had that first Thanksgiving, it was because of what they understood in the scripture. about the spiritual value of giving God thanks through a meal together. And that's what I want us to see. I think we see this in the book of Leviticus. I think we see it here in the uh burnt in the offerings that are given, prescribed by God in the book of Leviticus. And so I want us to kind of take a trip and just look at a few verses. And just see this whole concept of thanksgiving throughout these offerings that are given here in the Old Testament. And my hope and prayer is that it will impart to you a more uh spiritual appreciation for this concept of Thanksgiving and even the Thanksgiving meal that you'll celebrate together with family. Do you understand that that is a spiritual event? It is a spiritual act of worship when you come together as a family to give God thanks. So I want us to look at these five sacrifices. Can we do that? Together. Look at Leviticus chapter 1, the very first chapter, and I want you to see how these five sacrifices can teach us some things about thanksgiving. Look in verse number three. And if his offering be a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a male without blemish. He shall offer it of his own voluntary will at the door Now this f first offering is the burnt offering, and what I want you to see that we learn from this is that we learn to give thanks for the life and death of Jesus our Savior. Now this first burnt offering, this first offering of the burnt offering was the most frequently offered. The priest would offer this every morning to start the day and they would offer it every evening to end each day. But the Israelite could bring a burnt offering to the altar as they desired. And what set this offering apart from all the other offerings, the five of the offerings, the one thing that set this offering apart was that it was totally consumed upon the altar. It included all of the animal. In other sacrifices, parts of the animal might be offered, but not so with the burnt offering With the birth offering, it was the whole animal. And the purpose of this offering was atonement. Look in verse number four of chapter one. And he shall put his head upon the or put excuse me his hand upon the head of the burnt offering, and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him. Notice the word atonement there. That carries the idea of propitiation or the idea of wrath being satisfied. You must appease the wrath of the person to whom you are bringing the offering to. And of course, this is God. And so the idea is you appease the wrath of Almighty God His holy wrath must be satisfied over sin. And so this offering is a propitiation designed to satisfy God's wrath. for sin. This of course is a picture of the gospel, right? It all points to Jesus Christ, right? Because Jesus is that sacrificial offering on the cross that appeased the holy wrath of God for all of our sins. And notice that what would happen here is you would bring your animal, and then you would lay your hands upon the head of that animal. stressing identification with that animal. And the idea is, is you're saying, I lay my sins upon this Animal, just like I lay my hands on this animal, and you would confess your sins upon this animal. This animal dies as your substitute. Look at verse number four, and he shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt offering. and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him. So your sins are laid upon this animal The animal dies as your substitute. Right there in your presence, the animal is slaughtered. This is a reminder of what it takes to come into the presence of God Blood must be shed. And what makes this offering unique is again the whole animal is put on the altar. Nothing was laid back. Look in verse number nine. But his inwards and his legs shall be washed in water, and the priest shall burn. Notice this next phrase, all on the altar. It was totally consumed. And again, friend, this points to Jesus Christ because Jesus gave his awe on the altar the altar of sacrifice. Jesus held nothing back. He gave himself completely, holy. All of Him. was given there on the cross that we might be accepted by God. And I'll tell you what else this does. This points us to Romans 12, 1. You remember that verse, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God That you present your bodies as what? A living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God. This really is what Paul is referring to. He's referring to the burnt offering in the Old Testament. Now We are to lay our all on the altar. We're not, however, a dead sacrifice. We're a living sacrifice, just like Jesus gave his all. For us, we are to give our all for him. But the burnt offering reminds us to give thanks for the life and the death of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Notice the next offering, the grain offering. Look in chapter 2, look in verse number 1. And when any will bring offer a meat offering unto the Lord, His offering shall be a fine flour, and he shall pour oil upon it, and and put frankincense thereon. Now this is the grain offering. I know that the word the KJV uses the word meat here, but this is when meat simply meant food. And so the King James translators use this word here, meat, but it's not meat the way we think of meat because there's no real meat connected with this. It's just grain. It's really grain. And many times a grain offering would accompany a burnt offering, and the main ingredient of a grain offering is you fine flour mixed with oil Actually the Hebrew word here is mincha, and the term is meant to express allegiance, it's meant to express gratitude, reverence. In covenant terms, it's what a vassal king would bring to his superior suzerain king. It was a tribute to express devotion and dedication to the king. So this offering here, the mincha offering, is a gift given to God in honor of him and allegiance to him It's what you're doing there the offer would do. And the grain offering, think about that, the grain offering was a product of a person's labor, right? And we in order to get that grain you had to plow the field and plant the seed and nurture the the the the plant until it grew up and then of course you would harvest the grain and all of this was an expression of human labor This offer was giving an expression of his dedication to the Lord, to the work of uh really it would be our work, the work of our hands to God. We dedicate the fruit of our hands to God. And so really what a person did with that grain emphasizes that it's a special offering to the Lord. It was a special gift given to him to the Lord. You see, you use that grain in a different way than you would use it in your kitchen. Look in chapter two, look in verse fifteen. Notice how they were to do it in verse fifteen. And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon. It is a meat offering. In other words, you know, you would add frankincense to the grain. Now, frankincense was a very uh expensive spice You wouldn't normally do this to your own food and eat it. You certainly wouldn't do that. Normally you would bring you would take your grain and you would add honey to it. or leaven to the grain. Honey was the main sweetener back then. But you wouldn't do this with your grain offering to the Lord. This was a special gift to God. And so what you would do is you would offer in it this expensive spice frankincense and mix it together and you would offer it to the Lord as a special gift. Um and so uh basically you're saying by offering this is that all that I have God, all of the crops belongs to you. I'm simply giving a portion of it to you and Realizing that I am totally dependent on you, and really it all belongs to you. And also salt was added to this. Look at verse 13. And every oblation of thy meat offering thou shalt season with salt. Salt was the preservative. And so it was a symbol of your enduring relationship to the Lord, a permanent enduring dedication to God. And again, this relates to how we worship God. We give thanks to our God. We don't bring grain to God today, but we still bring what? fruit of our hands, the labor of our hands, right? That means that whenever we put something in the offering plate, it's kind of like this grain offering. We're giving thanks to God. And we're saying, Lord, all that I have, really it all belongs to you anyway. And this is just a portion that I'm giving to you And so we bring our offering to the Lord. That's what the parallel is. And when we bring a gift, it should be mixed with frankincense. What does that mean? It should be somewhat of an expense. What did David say in the Old Testament? I'm not going to offer anything to God that doesn't cost me something. After all, giving to the Lord is an expression of my worship. So I want it to cost me something. All worship is costly. It should cost the worshiper something. And so it should be our best. We should give our best to the Lord Every time the offering plate comes by and you put something in, please don't just give God a little tip. Please make sure that you give him your best and that it expresses your true heartfelt worship to the Lord. So there is the burnt offering. That reminds me of giving thanks for the life and death of Christ. There's the grain offering. That reminds me to give thanks to God for his wonderful provision. Then there is the sin offering. Look at chapter four. Look at verse number one. This is a kind of offering for a sin offering. It's also called a purification offering. Look in verse one. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a soul shall sin through ignorance against any of the commandments of the Lord concerning things which ought not to be done, and shall do against any of them And uh it says in verse 3, and if the priest that is anointed do sin according to the sin of the people, then let them bring for his sin, which he has sinned, a young bullock without blemish Now this sin offering is brought by an individual because he has committed a specific sin And these are unintentional sins. You say, what does it mean unintentional sins? It is a sin that you commit without realizing you've committed that sin. You might do it accidentally. You might do it through neglect. We see the phrase repeated through ignorance. We see this in chapter 4. Verse number two, we saw that if a soul sin through ignorance, we see the same thing in verse thirteen. And if the whole congregation of Israel sin through ignorance, we see it again in verse twenty-two Where it says, when a ruler has sinned and done somewhat through ignorance, and on we go. This does not mean that the sinners were ignorant of the law, but that they were ignorant of having violated the law They have become defiled and disobedient and they didn't realize it. But this ignorance doesn't cancel out the guilt So when you come to realize, if you were there in the Old Testament, when you had come to realize what you had done, what the person would do is they would bring a sin offering to the Lord. Once their sin was known, it had to be confessed, it had to be dealt with, they had to bring this offering to the Lord. David was referring to this kind of offering when he said, Cleanse thou me from secret faults. I don't want to Have secret sins. But when I do, I want to be cleansed from those sins. And what does this teach us about sin? How pervasive sin really is. Sometimes we sin without even realizing it Why? Because we're sinners by nature. We're sinners by birth. And Leviticus 5 gives us examples of some of these kinds of sins. And the sin offering emphasizes the offender's guilt before God and the priest would examine the offender, he would determine which sacrifice was needed and the sin offering was brought to the Lord in this case And by the way, the the higher the position of the person, the greater the offering, because the greater the sin, the more expensive the sacrifice, you see, the greater the privilege, the Greater the responsibility and the greater the consequences. The sins of the leaders had far greater consequences than the sin of the people. But notice that when they brought this, I want you to see one thing in particular. Look at verse number eight And he shall take off from it of all the fat of the bullock for the sin offering, and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, and the two kidneys and the fat that is upon them which is by the flanks and the cob of the liver and the kidneys, it shall he take away. And it was taken off from the bullock of the sacrifice of peace offering, and the priest shall burn them upon the altar of the burnt offering. And the skin of the bullock and all his flesh with his head and with his legs and his inwards, verse 12, even the whole bullock shall he carry forth without the camp unto a clean place. Now what I want you to see here is that while the fat of the sacrifice was burned on the altar, the actual body of the sacrifice was burned in a clean place outside the camp And here's the imagery that it's giving. Why would they do this? Well, for one thing, it made a distinction between the burnt offering. This was a distinction between the burnt offering and this sin offering. A per a worshipper would see the difference. But the other thing is that inside the camp was too unholy for the sacrifice to be given, for a holy sacrifice to be given, they would take the sacrifice outside the camp to a clean place, and then they would offer it. What does that remind us about? Remember what the writer of Hebrews said that when Jesus Christ died, he died outside the camp. He was too holy to be offered inside the camp. And so he died outside the camp. He died outside of the city of Jerusalem. And the writer points to this. And the results was what? Forgiveness. Look in chapter four. Look in verse number twenty. And he shall do with the bullock as he did with the with the bullock for a sin offering, so shall he do with this. And the priest shall make an atonement for them. And notice the last phrase, and it shall be what? Forgiven. And we see this again. In verse 26, notice the last phrase in verse 26, and it shall be forgiven him. Again in verse 31, the last phrase, and it shall be forgiven him. And on we could go. And so this sin offering reminds us to give thanks to God for His continual forgiveness of our sins. I'm so grateful that God is a God of forgiveness. And that he forgives us continually over and over and over again. He forgives us for our sin. Look at the fourth one, the guilt offering. Go to Leviticus, look in chapter 6. This is also called the trespass offering. In Leviticus chapter 6, verses 1 to 6. And what sets the guilt or trespass offering apart from the others is this whole idea of restitution. Look in verse number one. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, If a soul sin and commit a trespass against the Lord, and lie unto his neighbor in that which was delivered him, to keep uh or in fellowship, or in a thing taken away by violence, or hath deceived his neighbor, or if he found that which was lost, and lieth concerning it, and sweareth falsely in any or all these that a man doeth sinning therein, then it shall be because he has sinned and is guilty, that he shall restore that which he took violently away, or the thing which he has deceitfully gotten Or that which was delivered him to keep or the lost thing which he found, or all that about which he has sworn falsely He shall restore it in the principle and add the fifth part more thereunto. And look at verse 6. And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the Lord. So the offender had to make restitution. That's the thing here. It involves the payment of the penalty, and it includes the restoration of what was taken in full plus 20%. There are different aspects to the guilt offering. Leviticus 5 deals with the violations of this. Leviticus 6 Deals with the violations against your neighbor, whereas Leviticus 5 deals with violation of the Lord's holy things. These are things against your neighbor, like lying and robbery. Let me let me illustrate this to you. Let's just say Sunday morning after church, I see a $20 bill that someone left, and I take that $20 bill and I put it in my pocket And later someone comes in and says, Does anyone see a $20 bill? And I don't say anything. I keep it. By doing that, what do I do? By the way, I've never done that, just for clarity, right? Let's just say I keep it, I don't say anything, and by doing that I commit two sins. I lied. You can lie by not saying anything. And I committed robbery there. Later on, God convicts me of my sin. And so I pray and I say, God, forgive me of what I did. Thank you, God, for forgiving me, and the matter ends there, right? No. I have to make restitution for that. I have to make it right with my neighbor. So in the Old Testament context, on the very day I would bring my sacrifice to God, I would have to make it right with my neighbor. I would have to go to my brother. I would have to give him the $20 plus 20%, which is $24. I have to bring out four extra dollars. I can't just say, oh God, forgive me for my sin and then forget my neighbor. I can't just do that. What did Jesus say in Matthew 5? Leave your gift at the altar and go make it right with your neighbor? Go make the restitution that you need to make You leave your gift at the altar, you be reconciled. Restitution was the sign of true repentance, right? Zacchaeus, when he repented, say, I'm going to restore fourfold. And so I need to tell myself, God convicted me, and I need to get this right, and I need to go to the altar, and I need to make this offering, but I need to make restitution You see, and by the way, this is still true today. Is it not true for us? Once we offend someone, we need to go and we need to make it right. And so, by the way, write down Isaiah 53:10. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. That phrase offering for sin is the same word used in Leviticus for guilt offering. And so here's the point. Jesus became our guilt offering. Not only did he pay for our sin, but he paid all the restitution for us. He was our guilt offering. In other words, complete payment. There's a sense in which Jesus paid the complete sin debt and he made restitution for us. Remember that story in the New Testament? The story in the book of Philemon? Philemon had a slave named Wesimus, and he stole something from Philemon and ran away. And later on he met Paul in Rome, and Paul led him to Jesus. And then Paul writes a letter to Philemon and he said, listen, whatever he owes you, put that on my account. I'll make the restitution for him. That's exactly what Jesus did for you and me. He paid our sin debt. And Jesus said God to the Father, God, I'll pay Jerry's restitution. Not only will I pay his sin debt, I'll pay all his restitution. And Jesus did that for all of us. This offering reminds us to give thanks to our Savior, who made a full and complete payment for our sin, but also He made restitution. on our behalf. Let me give you the last and final offering, the peace offering. And this teaches us that we should never cease to bring an offering of thanks to God. Look in chapter 7, look at verse number 11. And this is the law of the offering of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he shall offer unto the Lord, if he offer it for a thanksgiving. Then he shall offer with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and so on. And so what is this? Some call this the fellowship offering. It's called the peace offering from the Hebrew word shalom for peace. And it's called a fellowship offering because this offering, what's unique about it, this is the idea of sharing a meal with people after you make this offering. Everybody gets a portion of the animal in this offering And so when the offerer comes and brings his offering to the altar, part of the animal is put on the altar before God as a burnt offering Especially the fat portion, because that represented the best of the animal. The Bible talks about in Genesis the fat of the land. It's actually talking about the best of the land. And so the priest will get a portion of the animal. God gets the best. A priest will get a portion of it. The worshiper will get a portion of it. And then you know what the worshiper would do with that portion of it? He would take his portion and he would share it with his family and friends in a meal He would invite family and friends to come over and take that portion, and they would have a feast, a worshipful feast, a thanksgiving meal together And that's why he does it for a thanksgiving to the Lord. Look at verse number 12. And if he offer it for a what? A thanksgiving. It would be a declaration of praise and thanksgiving to the Lord. So whenever a worshiper in the Old Testament wanted to express his thanks to God, he would bring this peace offering to the Lord. Maybe it was in response to a blessing that God had given him. And he wanted to thank the Lord. Maybe it was because This person was sick, and God healed them and delivered them from a very serious sickness. Then they would give a thanksgiving offering, this peace offering, and they would have a Thanksgiving meal. Maybe it was because the harvest was big. Maybe it was because of just some incredible blessing that God gave Whatever the occasion, if you were living in that day, if you just wanted to give a peace offering and have a time of thanksgiving, you would invite all your friends around and you would have this wonderful meal. And it was a sacred spiritual thing. To have this Thanksgiving meal to the Lord. And so, by the way, you know the only problem I have with Thanksgiving? It's only one day. Let me show you something real quick. Look in 1 Kings chapter 8. Just flip there real quick. I want to show you a Thanksgiving meal in the Old Testament. Look in chapter 8. Look down in verse number 62. Here's Solomon, and Solomon is going to bring a peace offering. to the Lord. Look in 1 Kings chapter 8. Look at verse 62. And the king and all Israel with him offered sacrifice before the Lord. Look at verse 63. And Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace offerings. There it is. He's bringing a peace offering, which he offered unto the Lord. Watch this, two and twenty thousand oxen and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of the Lord, and the same day did the king hallow the middle of the court that was before the house of the Lord, for there he offered burnt offerings and meat offerings. And the fat of peace offerings, because the brazen altar that was before the Lord was too little to receive the burnt offerings and the meat offerings and the fat of the peace offerings. Look at verse 65. And at that time Solomon held a feast, and all Israel with him a great congregation from the entering in of Hamath under the river of Egypt before the Lord our God. Seven days and seven days, even fourteen days. Friend, this is a serious Thanksgiving meal here. I mean look at this. I mean this is uh hundred and forty-two thousand peace offerings, and the Bible says the people feasted for two weeks, a Thanksgiving dinner that lasted for two weeks. Oh yes. The only problem I have is we only have one day. And so you see, the greater the sacrifice, the greater the expression of thanksgiving, right? 142,000 peace offerings? Because they were just thanking the Lord. Listen, when you buy a turkey, make it a 20-pounder. Just really thank God. Thank Him. They would do it for just a Thanksgiving meal to the Lord. Look what it says in verse 66, on the eighth day he sent the people away and they blessed the king. And went unto their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that the Lord has done for David his servant, for Israel his people. So sometimes it was just for thanksgiving. You just wanted to thank the Lord. Sometimes it was for a vow that you made. Go back to Leviticus 7, look at verse 16. Again it says, But if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow If you made a vow to the Lord, you would bring a peace offering. Remember Jonah, when he was thrown overboard? He prayed and said, I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving, I will pay you my vow. God, I'll give you the vow that I paid. The Bible says if you do make a vow to the Lord, you better make sure you pay it and you do it. with a thanksgiving offering, a peace offering before the Lord. When Hannah made a vow and said, God, if you give me a son, I'll give him back to you. And of course you know the story, God gave her a son She took them to the tabernacle, she gave them back to the Lord, and then she had a peace offering to the Lord, a thanksgiving. feast with her family to thank the Lord. And sometimes it was just a free will offering in verse 16, just to say, again, of your own voluntary choice, Lord, I just want to Thank you. And so all of these offerings here remind us of being thankful to the Lord. This is our default mode as Christians. We give thanks for the life and death of Jesus. We give thanks to God for his wonderful provision. We give thanks that God is constantly forgiving us of our sins. We give thanks that not only did he pay our sin debt, he paid our restitution. We give thanks. Continually in a peace offering. And I believe that when the Puritans originated this first Thanksgiving meal, it was because of their study of Leviticus and they understood That a Thanksgiving meal was an act of worship to God, worshiping Him and thanking Him for His incredible goodness. And by the way, I was teaching on the Lord's Supper this morning in Sunday school. This is exactly what the Lord's Supper is. It's a Thanksgiving celebration. We're saying to God the Father, thank you for Jesus. And here's what I want you to leave with. I think the Thanksgiving holiday is getting too secular. It's getting too secular. This is a spiritual act. This is worship before God. And we need to remind ourselves of that, that we worship the Lord. And again, it points us to the ultimate worship one day. Do you know that one day we're going to have a Thanksgiving feast in heaven? It's called the the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. And the Bible says, Blessed are they which are called to the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. I know some of you here you might be celebrating your first Thanksgiving without maybe some loved ones. My friend, don't worry, they're in heaven having a good time. And one day we're all going to be together up there. And we're going to have a wonderful feast together up there. A Thanksgiving feast in heaven. And by the way, heaven is not that far away. It's just right up there. You remember the story of Jacob's flatter? When he fell asleep just outside the city gates of Lus, and he saw a ladder that went up to the heaven, he could look up and he could see God the Father. He could see actually the word for ladder is the Hebrew word for staircase, and the staircase came down right where he was. It was a spiritual dimension. And it was a staircase that went up to God. He saw angels ascending and descending, and there was God the Father. Friend, that's how close heaven is. It's another dimension, but it's right upstairs. When we die, we're going to go upstairs. We're going to be together with our family. We'll have a wonderful Thanksgiving meal there together. And there'll be no more goodbyes then. And all of this points to that, that wonderful celebration of thanksgiving to God that we'll have together one day. And I hope that you'll understand that, and I hope that you'll value that. And when you have the Thanksgiving meal this week together with your family, that it will indeed be a spiritual time of worship. of thankfulness to God. Let's bow together for prayer. And so Father, we thank you for all the blessings we do have in Christ. Thank you, Lord, for this wonderful holiday. And Lord, these are things that you have instituted for us, for our enjoyment. for our blessing. And Lord, the truth of the matter is, we are blessed more in giving thanks than Lord than it blesses you. The blessing really is ours. Even in the worship that we give to you, it does more for us. It blesses our heart. And so Lord help us to truly be thankful. And when we celebrate this together, may we understand That this is a spiritual act of worship to you because of all that you've done for us, all the blessings that you have poured out onto us. And we thank you for it and we praise you for it. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask this one question. You know, all these offerings point to Jesus, who was our sin offering. Because of our own sin, that we might have salvation. And friend, I want to ask you, it may be that you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus as your Lord and Savior. Friend, he did all that for you. All these offerings point to the fact that God sent his son Jesus to this earth to bear your sin and my sin. To satisfy the wrath of God that you might have salvation. And friend, if you've never trusted him, I'm encouraging you, do it today. Don't put it off. This will be the greatest thanksgiving you could ever have once you know Jesus as your Savior. Would you just pray and mean it and say, Lord Jesus, I know that That you died for me, that you all these offerings do point to you, your death on the cross for my sin. And today, Lord, I acknowledge that. And I call upon you in faith. And I ask you to save me, Lord Jesus, save me. Pray that, friend, and mean it, and he will save you. And if you prayed that, please let us know. We want to encourage you in your Christian way. walk. Father, bless again these words to hearing hearts, and may we truly celebrate with hearts filled with true praise and adoration and thanksgiving for all of who you are. And we pray in Jesus' precious name, Amen