You have triplets. He said, Oh, wonderful. I work for 3M Corporation and I have triplets. And then the nurse came in a few minutes later and said, Is Mr. Monroe here? And there was no answer. And someone said, he left The nurse said, Well why did he leave? So I don't know. I just heard when he left he said, Oh my Lord, I work for seven eleven. It's a weighty responsibility to be a parent, isn't it? And so um think about that. You know, as as parents we're responsible, as fathers specifically, we're responsible to provide for our family with our work. You know, the way the financial climate is, it takes families everything they can to make it nowadays, doesn't it? That's why I I feel sorry for young couples nowadays. I don't know about you. Carol and I were talking the other day and she said, you know, if I just see a young couple in church, I'm grateful for them. Because I remember it just takes so much nowadays for to get your family ready, to come to church. Because you've been working all week long, both mom and dad it seems like have to work now in order to make ends meet So we're responsible to provide physically with our work, but we're responsible to provide emotionally with our warmth. Our families need our love That's especially true with uh uh fathers, I think. Fathers have to love their children. Uh grandfathers have to love their grand children. Someone said one father's love is worth more than a hundred schoolmasters. But also we're responsible to provide spiritually with our worship. We have to set the pace in our families, don't we? We have to be the leader, the spiritual leader, and we have to worship God And that should start in our own personal life. And so let me just ask you, how are you doing in your own personal life? Are you personally worshiping God in your own private life. Worship is something that we bring with us to church. Not something to church that we get. It's something that we bring with us. And she started our home. We must worship God personally. We must worship God corporately. We must worship God as a family. And so this is a great challenge. Thank God we have a guidebook. Aren't you glad God didn't leave us alone without a guide? Because God has given us a guidebook that can help us. It gives us principles to learn The Bible is filled with principles about rearing your children. You know, I have one thing I want to challenge you to do, maybe one day, go through the book of Proverbs. Every time you see a A principle about rearing a child, maybe uh put a little mark there. Maybe he put a little straw man next to that, a little child And let it remind you that there are principles in the scripture that help us with respect to our children. But the Bible itself is a tool, isn't it? Because this is what converts our children. This is what brings conviction. This is what turns their heart And so the Bible itself is the tool. Paul said of Timothy that from a child thou hast known what? The holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. And so the Bible itself is a tool. But also another way the Bible helps us is it gives us examples to follow. Both good and bad examples. Do you ever notice that? You know, you can learn from a bad example as well as you can a good one. Did you know that? You can learn what not to do from a bad example. And the Bible gives us the honest record of its characters, of its heroes even. It records their faults, it records their failures. Why does the Bible do this? Well, Paul said this in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. You might want to jot that verse down, 1 Corinthians chapter 10, where Paul is kind of pointing to the Jews in the wilderness And he's basically saying, look, just don't do what they did. Remember what Paul wrote there in 1 Corinthians 10? The Bible says that God said of them, but with many of them God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Look, and verse 6 says this, but now these things are our examples To the intent that you we should not lust after evil things as they lusted. And so God basically said, look at the Jews in the wilderness, look at the mistakes they made And this is written down to be an example to you. Obviously, not an example for you to follow, but a warning for you to avoid. Don't lust the way they lusted. And then later on in verse eleven it says, Now all these things happen unto them for examples, and they are written for our admonition upon whom the ends of the world are come. Just in case you're tempted to think, well, you know, those stories in the Old Testament, they really don't relate to us in this age today. Oh yes, they do. Something about the human heart, it doesn't really change The same mistakes that people made in the Old Testament, people are making today. And God said all these things are written down as examples so that you don't make the same mistake yourself. And so with that in mind. We want to talk about this thing of being a father. And really we can apply it to just being parents. And really what I want to do is I want to focus on things that we should avoid. that we should avoid. You know, a lot of times just parenting is just not not making the mistakes, not doing the wrong things. You know, sometimes I'll hear a football coach say about his quarterback, he doesn't have to win the game for us. He just we just don't want him to fumble the ball. There's a sense in the Christian life where We we just don't want to fumble the ball. And parenting is like that. And a few key areas, we don't want to make some mistakes. We don't want to fumble the ball. And so the Bible has the record of men who made some mistakes. We want to make sure that we want to avoid those mistakes. So I want to look at a few fathers here. We can look at a lot. I have a lot listed. We're not going to be able to do a lot. I don't like to jump around too much. But we're going to look at several passages of scripture and look at some mistakes that we need to avoid. And here's the first person I want to look at is Jacob. Jacob. And that is, the mistake he made was favoritism. And so here's the thing that we want to avoid. Don't show favoritism And we're going to see this here in Genesis 37. Now, if you study Genesis, you're going to find that Jacob is not the world's greatest father. He failed in a lot of areas. But you know what? God was still with him and God helped him. Aren't you glad for that? The Bible says the God of Jacob is our refuge. And so the if God can help Jacob, he can help me But I want you to see some things that Jacob did. Now, he made a lot of mistakes. He allowed at one point his wives to engage in this war over who would have the most children. I know you might remember that in the story between Rachel and Leah. They were kind of at a contest of who can have the most kids and give their husband the most children. And so it kind of created a climate of rivalry in the family And then on one occasion he had a daughter named Dinah, and he really was kind of loose with her, didn't really give her a lot of guidelines or standards and allow her to go out and mingle with the pagans. And at one point there's a sad story where she was raised. It's just a terrible story. And the brothers got angry at uh this young man who did it and basically went in and slew all that family. In fact they they they did beyond that and they really you might say even committed genocide in a way wiping out this town of people uh because they were pagans. And so it's just a terrible story. But it kind of started with the fact that Jacob didn't really um give a lot of guidelines and standards for his daughter. But here's a specific mistake I want to focus on in Genesis 37. Look at verse number one. Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger in the land of Canaan And these are the generations of Jacob, Joseph being seventeen years old and feeding the flock with his brethren, and the lad was with the sons of Bilha and With the sons of Zilf Zilpath, his father's wives, and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report Look at verse 3. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was a son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colors. Well, this is the mistake. The Bible says very clearly, this wasn't a secret, that Joseph loved, or excuse me, Jacob loved Joseph more than all of his other sons. And this was something that was that was very well known. Well, how did they know that? Well, he made Joseph a coat of many colors. And uh that was really a symbol of him anointing Joseph, so to speak, to be the firstborn. He was actually the firstborn son of Rachel, who was Jacob's favored wife over Leah. So in Jac in Jacob's mind, Joseph then became the uh like the firstborn. You know, Reuben was actually the firstborn. He should have inherited all of the blessings of the firstborn, but he kind of forfeited that by his flagrant sin, and the Bible records that in Genesis 35, verse 22. But Joseph was the first son of Rachel. And Jacob put Joseph in charge of all the other sons. How do you think that would go over in a family? You make the youngest child in charge? of the older siblings, especially if they're a lot older. Okay, the youngest son here, he's gonna tell you what to do. Now make sure you listen to him. That's a problem in a family. And why did Jacob do that? Again, because he favored Joseph. And the Bible says in verse 2, Joseph Uh he kind of was the in charge and he brought back in verse 2 an evil report about his brothers to their father. You might say, you know, he was a he kind of set up Joseph to be a tattletale here Because Joseph starts bringing these evil reports. Now, I'm sure it was evil because if you read anything about Joseph's brothers, what you're going to find is that these guys were pretty brutal. They're pretty mean. I mean, if they're willing to kill people and do what they did and revenge it for their sister Dinah, I mean this is a brutal group of brothers here And Joseph brings back an evil report because basically Jacob sends Joseph to go and check on his brothers. And what's kind of crazy here in this story is that it seems like Jacob is blind to what he's doing here. It's like he doesn't get it. He doesn't get the fact that he's causing resentment and his family by loving one son above the rest, and it's very well known. And here's the mistake we need to avoid: do not favor one child above the others. You say, well, you know, in my heart, I kind of have a favorite, but I don't ever tell any of the kids, oh, believe me, they know. They're not stupid. They can see that. If you have a favorite among your children or grandchildren, that's going to become very obvious in the eyes of your children. And what it does here, what it did for uh this family was it created a rivalry, it created strife, it created bitterness And discontentment in the home. Look again at verse 4. When his brethren saw that Jacob didn't say anything. He didn't say, hey guys, I just want you to know I love Jacob more than or Joseph more than you guys. He didn't say anything. They saw it. They saw it by how he acted. Verse 4. When this brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they what? They hated him. And they could not speak peaceably unto him. And so this was a problem that created great strife. Great rivalry, great bitterness in the home is when here's a father who is loving one child above the rest, and it's very evident by the way he's acting. And we just need to avoid that mistake. We need to make sure that we don't make that mistake. Now why did it why did he Do that. Why did he favor him? Well again in verse 3 there's the key. It says Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children because he was the son of his what his old age. It was kind of the season of life when he had Joseph. He was kind of older I don't know, maybe it's me, but I think the older you get uh the more uh I don't know you value your children. Is that is that fair to say that? Any any old timers in here with me would say that? You know, to me now when I see uh you know with Abby having um you know her children and and it just seems like when I I'm kinda reliving children through her having children, you know. And it just is so precious. And I remember thinking, you know, did I really feel this way when Carolyn was having children? There was just something about it where you just I was young and stupid back then. I didn't realize everything that was at stake there, you know. But as you grow older, you kind of think, you know what, this is so special. This is so precious. And I think that the fact that Jacob is older now. And he has a son in his old age, and there's a sense in which Jacob is reliving his whole life through Joseph. And besides the fact that he's the son of Rachel, uh Rachel, that he loves so very much, that there's a this is really kind of, in a way, again, he's living his life through Joseph, and it really is a form of self-love when you think about it He's really loving himself by loving Joseph because perhaps he sees so much of himself in there. And it's kind of a selfish thing to do. It's an insecure thing to do. And so this is this again, this is something that we need to look at and we need to avoid as parents and as grandparents because it created a rivalry in the home. Now, you say, what's the solution to this? I think the solution is very easy, and that is that we look at each child as a gift from God. We have to value each child as a specific gift from Almighty God, right? We have to see that. Learn to love each child for who they are. Uniquely gifted. And don't fall into the trap of comparing children. Oh well so-and-so can do this. What about you, you know? Don't compare them. Just value each child for who they are, right? And God because God created them different. Isn't it amazing how that kids can be from the same parents and yet be so different? Just so incredibly different. As different as night is from day. And you know why? It's because God created them uniquely, specifically, individually. Turn to Psalm 127, just to look at this Psalm real quick, because I think again it gives us some insight. We want to recognize each child as a gift from God. It says in Psalm 130, 127, verse 3: Lo, children are a heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. And the word heritage here is the idea of a gift that's bestowed, something bestowed upon you. You know, I know with feminism today they say children are a bondage, they cramp your style, they, you know Take away your freedom, that sort of thing. Um they're too they're so expensive. But you know what the world today, some people in the world, they just got it backwards. Children don't make a rich man poor, they make a poor man rich. God says they're a gift from me. Anytime we see a baby born, we know that that's a special gift from God And we need to recognize that gift, that specific individual gift that God gave. And every child we should be reminded of that. It's not hard for me to think this way. My daughter Abby, she was born on my birthday. My first child born on my birthday. I haven't had a birthday ever since. She has taken over that day herself. It's her day now. It was my day. Now it's her day. But it's a reminder to me that, you know, she's a gift from God. And every child is a special gift. Every grandchild is a special gift. We should want children We should desire them and again look at them as a unique treasure and just appreciate their differences from the other children, appreciate who they are. And don't try to live your life through them. Let them be who they are. Let them be who God created them to be. And so in Psalm 127 it says, children are a heritage of the Lord. In verse 4 it says, as arrows are in the hand of a mighty man, so are children of the youth. Not only is it the desirability of children, but the directability of children. You know, they're compared to arrows. You know, an arrow is uh Something that is directed. An arrow goes where the warrior can't go. And so there's a sense in which when God entrusts these children to us, we are to direct them. to to the place where God wants them to be. You know, arrows have to be polished, they have to be pointed, and they have to be propelled. to the place where they are useful. And the Bible says in verse 5, happy is a man that hath his quiver full of them. And this is what God says. It's a blessing to have a lot of children. I mean, it's it's wonderful to have, and if God's given you a quiver full then that's that's wonderful because again this is a picture of a beautiful family a family that's blessed by God and you have to remember that back in the Old Testament culture when this was written, children were so valuable, you know why Because you had an extra work worker in your house. Extra people out there. Yeah, I mean look, uh look, okay, don't call child labor services on me, okay? But back in that rural community, that agricultural community, they needed children that could help Do the work. But but the other thing that the psalmist is referring to here is that when an enemy comes to the gate, you don't want to be there by yourself. When an enemy comes to the gate of the city and maybe tries to intimidate you, hopefully when he comes to the gate, it's not just me that's going to answer him. But I'll have behind me standing a bunch of burly red-headed boys where the enemy says, you know what, I don't have to deal with just this guy. I've got to deal with all those other guys too. You know, that's what it means in verse number uh four or five rather when it says, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. You're not going to be ashamed You know, that you didn't ha that you had a lot of kids then because when the enemy comes, you're going to need their backup. You're going to need them behind you. And so what the picture here is in the scripture is just the blessing of children the the desirability of children, the directability of children, the dependability of children. Look at each child that God has given you as a unique gift. Don't compare them Don't love one above another. Value and love each one of them for who they are, for who God created. And you know what? We should verbalize that to them We should tell them that. That this is your you're very special to me. And let me tell you why that you're special to me. Let me tell you why I value you so much. And then tell them, you know, the the way God created them. And again, I I think of my own kids. I think about the uniqueness of each child and how each one is very, very special to me, and how God created them differently with different strengths of character and different weaknesses of course too. But but they are who they are, and and I want to value each one of them. I don't want to place one above another. Now let me go to another mistake that was made. Now go to 1 Samuel chapter 2. So we learn from Jacob that we We don't want to favor one child above another. But go to 1 Samuel chapter 2, and let me tell you about another mistake that was made that we want to avoid. And this story here, and this mistake is putting your children ahead of God. This is the mistake that Eli made. He put his children ahead of God in this story here. I don't know if you know this story here of Eli. Eli was the high priest. And I think he was a godly man in a lot of ways. He was there at Shiloh. Some of you know every summer I'm going out there and doing archaeology. We're digging at Shiloh. uh the approximate area of where the tabernacle was. It's really cool to think that at that place, at one point there was Eli the high priest. And people would come from all over Israel into that area, Ephraim, and they would bring their sacrifices and they would worship. And Eli was there, and he was the high priest, and he had two sons. And the Bible tells us the name of those sons was Hophni and Phineas. But I want you to notice in 1 Samuel chapter 2, look down in verse number 12, what it says. Now the sons of Eli were sons of Belial. It's not a good thing. Sons of Belial, we would say it today, sons of the devil. They were really not good guys. And the Bible says in verse twelve, they knew not the Lord. Verse thirteen, and the priest's custom with people was that when any man offered sacrifice The priest servant came while the flesh was in season, and with a flesh hook of three teeth in his hand, he struck it into the pan or kettle or cauldron or pot, and all that the flesh hook brought up The priest took for himself. So did they and so did they did in Shiloh unto all Israel Israelites that came thither. In verse 15, also before they burnt the fat, the priest's servants came and said to the man the sacrifice, Give flesh to roast of the priest, for he will not have sodden flesh. of thee but raw. And if any man said unto him, Let them not fail to burn the fat presently, and then take as much as thy soul desireth, he was answer and say, Nay, but thou shalt give it to me now, and if not I'll take it by force. Verse 17, wherefore the sin of the young man was very great before the Lord, for men abhorred the offering of the Lord. Now what was going on here? Well, Eli the High Priest had two sons, they were working as well as priests there in the tabernacle And when people would bring their sacrifice to the Lord, one of the things they would do is they would take the flesh, the meat of the sacrifice, and they would cut it into pieces and they would put it into a big pot with hot water and it was boiling. And what they would do is they had this kind of three-pronged instrument where they would stick it down into the pot and pull it back up. And whatever was on the end of that fork The priest got to keep for himself. This was kind of a way to support the priests that were working there. You know, in the church today, we support ministers with our tithes and offerings. Well, back in the tabernacle, this was one way they supported the priests, was they got a portion of the sacrifice for themselves. But Eli's two sons said to the people that brought their sacrifice, look, don't put the meat into the pot. We want to choose what portions of the meat, what cuts for ourselves before you put it in the pot. And the people didn't like that. That was not the way it was got that God had ordained it. And if the people tried to refuse to say, no, we wanna we wanna do it the right way, we wanna put it into the pot, whatever the the flesh hook brings up then you can keep and the rest we sacrifice to the Lord. And if they refused, the young men would do it by force. They've made the people do it. And so what was happening was these two sons were kind of having a profitable business on the side, you might say Little meat market there where they were taking the best cuts of meat and then you can imagine they would go out and sell it and put money in their pocket. And when people saw this, what did it cause them to do? They didn't want to come to worship. They didn't want to sacrifice. And that's why the Bible says, wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord. For men abhorred the offering of the Lord there in verse 17. This was a terrible, terrible sin that was going on here. And what did Eli do? What was his response? Well, it really wasn't an appropriate response. He was kind of passive. Because look at verse 22 of chapter 2. Now, Eli was very old and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel. And how that they lay with women that assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation to make matters worse, they were committing a horrible sin of immorality. with with peop women that came to the tabernacle. And so this was this was terrible. Verse 23, and he said unto them, why Do ye such things, for I hear of your evil dealings by all these people. Nay, my sons, there is no good report that I hear. You make the Lord's people to transgress. So it's kind of a passive response. He should have just said, you guys are done. You're no longer priests. You're out of here. I don't want you near the tabernacle. You're not gonna, you're not, I'm not gonna let you dishonor the Lord. That was not his response. It's kind of a passive response. And so God does something. God sends a prophet. To Eli to give him a message. And look at verse 27. And there came a man of God unto Eli and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord. Did I plainly appear unto the house of thy father when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house? And did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest to wear or to wear an Ephod before me. And did I give the house of thy father all the offerings made by fire of the children of Israel? Verse 29, wherefore kick ye at my sacrifice and at mine offering which I commanded in my habitation. And watch this next phrase here. And honor honorest thy sons what Above me. Eli, you put your sons above me. You honor your sons above me. Now, how did he do that How did he do that? Well the Bible later says that, and look in chapter 3, look in verse 13. It kind of tells us how he did that. It says, and for I For I have told him that I will judge his house forever for the iniquity which he knoweth, because his sons made themselves vile, and he what? He restrained them not. Didn't restrain them God said, you put your children above me. How? Well, you didn't correct them. You failed to restrain them. You see, God has given us as parents this responsibility to correct our children, to discipline our children. And and God holds us accountable to do that. And so Eli wasn't doing that. Now, again, I can show you many Proverbs. I think we all know this. The Bible is very clear on it. I know we live in a society today That says, you know, you shouldn't spank your children. Uh and you're kind of kind of looked down upon, you know. But what does the Bible say? Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. But the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. And that Hebrew word for rod really means the end of a branch. You know what it was? It was a switch. I thought my mother invented the switch. But she didn't. It's in the Bible. The rod of correction will drive it far from them. How many of you had mothers or grandmothers that made you go out and find your own switch? Okay, all those hands up. You know what, you all turned out really good, didn't you? You had to go out and find your own switch, and if it wasn't good enough, you had to go out and look again. My father got tired of sending me out because I'd bring back these little twigs. So finally he just started using his belt. I know today you know they would call that abuse, but listen, a loving parent who generally loves their children and wants to correct them. and and punishes them in a very um loving, measured way And uses that place on the human body, the human anatomy, where no bones can be broken. There's nothing wrong with that. Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction will drive it far from again. I know this is not popular in this day But friend, we've gotten away from spankings and loving a loving parent correcting their children. And the Bible said a child left to himself is going to bring his father and mother a shame. Amen. Here Eli, he's not really really correcting his children, and God says, You put your children above me. And this is just one way he did it. What he was basically saying, what Eli was saying is, you know You guys are more important to me than God. I know God said this, but I'm going to go ahead and do what you guys want rather than what God wants. And when we do that in our home, we're putting our children ahead of God. And we're not showing a high view of God in our home. Our children and grandchildren should know that Jesus is first place in our home. He is number one. He is preeminent. I'm not gonna put you know if I have to choose between giving a tithe and buying you those new under armor shoes. We're gonna lay we're gonna wait on those shoes. I'm not gonna rob God to give you what you want. I'm not gonna put you ahead of the Lord God is first place in our home. That's just a general principle. And we live that out in many ways and many contexts We live out whether or not God is first place in our life. And children can see that. They know whether you're honoring God above them or putting them above God. They can see that. Moses said it like this in Deuteronomy 6. Thou shalt love the Lord with all thy heart, all thy soul. All thy might, you portray a high view of God in your home. That's what God expects. What happens if we don't do that? What happens if we put our children ahead of God? Well, there's some judgments here that are very fearful that God pronounced against the household of Eli. Look in chapter 2, verse 30. And number one, you forfeit future blessings on your family. God said, Wherefore the Lord God of Israel saith, I said indeed that thy house and the house of thy father should walk before me forever. But now the Lord saith, Be it far from me. For them that honor me I will honor, and them that despise me shall be lightly esteemed. God says, you know what, I had a plan that I was going to honor you and your family for years But not now. Not if you don't honor me. You forfeited some blessings there. Number two, you reduce the life expectancy of your children and grandchildren. Look at verse 31. Behold, the days come that I will cut off thine arm and the arm of thy father's house. There shall not be an old man in thy house. This is fearful. Verse 32, and thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation. Actually, we drop down to verse 33, and the man of thine whom I shall not cut off from mine altar shall be to consume thine eyes and to grieve thy heart And all the increase of thine house shall die in the flower of their age. Boy, God was serious with Eli. God said, Eli said, You failed to honor me. Then all of your descendants, they're gonna die in the flower of their age. Not gonna give them long life. That's that's that's harsh. But this is what God said. You guarantee them defeat in the hands of the enemy. Verse 32 says, an enemy is going to come in your habitation. Going to take over. And by the way, uh I was telling you I was digging at Shiloh, I can bear witness to that in archaeology. We see the burnt stones because in this case the enemy was the Philistines who came in and overthrew Shiloh and burned that place up. Enemy kiss came in, and by the way, later on you'll find out that Half Nai and Then as they died because the Philistines attacked, and so on. Basically what God is saying is, I'm not going to protect you from your enemies. You're not going to honor me. I'm not going to protect you from the enemies that are out there. How many of you know there's a lot of enemies against us today? Against our home and our family. And we need God's protection. But here's the fourth thing. You are guaranteed grief and sorrow, verse 33, where it says, Whoever is not cut off early, I'm going to leave alive, but only to grieve thine heart. There's going to be grief and sorrow in your in your household because of this. And then finally, number five, you bring financial ruin to your family because it says in verse 36. That those who are left, in verse 36, it shall come to pass that everyone that is left in thine house shall come and crouch to him for a piece of silver. and a morsel of bread, and shall say, put me, I pray thee, into one of the priest's offices that I may eat a piece of bread. Your descendants, they're going to become beggars. They're going to be just begging for bread. It's going to be financial ruin. Simply because you did not honor me. You did not put me first I don't know about you, but this scares me to death when I read this. I don't want this to happen in my home. So I want to make sure that I honor God above all and never put my children ahead of the Lord. And by the way, this all did come to pass. All these judgments, follow with me. Let me show you. Look in 1 Samuel chapter 4. Look at verse number 19. Just follow along here and look at this. 1 Samuel 4, 19. Well basically we see that Phineas had a son, Ichabod, and his daughter-in-law, Phineas' wife, was with a child near to be delivered. And when she heard the tidings that the Ark of God was taken, that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself in travail, and her pains came upon her. And Later on you'll find in verse 21, and she named the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed. So Phineas has a son named Ichabod. Look at 1 Samuel chapter 14, look at verse number 3. It says that Ahidab is Ichabod's brother, chapter 14, verse 3. I'm just kind of stringing out the family line here. Chapter 14, verse 3. And Ahiah, the son of Ahitab, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phineas. And then look in 1 Samuel 22, verse number 9. Again, we're just kind of following the line here. 1 Samuel 22, verse number 9, where it says, and then answered Daog Uh do uh Doeg, excuse me, the Edomite, which was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob to Ahimelech, the son of Ahitab. So here Ahimelech is another son in Eli's family, we could say grandson, Ahidav's son. So we would say that all the priests that are at Nob in chapter twenty-two here are descendants of Eli. They're all descendants of Eli there. And so what happens here in chapter 22? Well, all these priests are killed. They're all killed. Look in chapter 22, look at verse 17. And the king said unto the footmen that stood with him, Turn and slay the priests of the Lord. Because their hand is all is with David, and because they knew when he fled and did not show it to me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priest of the Lord. Verse 18, And the king said to Doah Turn thou and fall upon the priest. And Doeg the Edomite turned, and he fell upon the priest, and slew on that day fourscore and five persons that did wear the linen Ephot. Eighty-five Of Eli's descendants, right there, one day, they were just wiped out. They were slaughtered. Terrible thing here. This was uh a judgment that came upon the house of Eli because he didn't honor the Lord. He put his children ahead of God. It didn't show a high view of God that was worthy of his calling that God had given him. And so this is a very fearful judgment. that comes upon this household. May God help us never to make the same mistake. Let me show you one other one. Colossians. Go to Colossians chapter 3, verse 21. We only have a few minutes here left, but just in closing, I want to give you just a few things here. that we can learn. But there's a verse here in Colossians 3, verse 21, where it says, provoke not your children to wrath. The little guy looks pretty angry, doesn't he? There in the picture. Colossians chapter three verse twenty-one. He's writing, he said, Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, to anger, lest they be discouraged. Now the word for fathers here is uh could we could really translate this parents so it's not specifically just talking to fathers, but just parents in general. Provoke means to stir up, we could say it like this, stop nagging your children, stop being overbearing, lest they become discouraged. This is the idea of breaking their spirit. Now as parents, we want to break their will. We don't want to break their spirit. Because if we break their spirit, they become discouraged. They become despairing, frustrated. We can cause them to lose heart. And how do we do this? How do we how do we provoke them to wrath? And I just have a few things that I wrote down here that I think could do it. Uh excessive discipline, if you're overly uh excessive by overcorrecting them you can cause them to be discouraged. You know you don't need a sledgehammer to kill a gnat, okay? You don't want to overpunish children because if you do that, it's going to have a bad consequence for them. You're actually not really helping. You're creating more problems if you overpunish. So we don't want to do that. We want to be careful about our excessive discipline with our children. Let me give you a story about that because I was guilty of this. Now I'm I'm a really nice father, but at one point I was a bit overbaried sometimes. You know, I remember Abby, my daughter Abby. I might just be able to tell you this story But Abby uh was one of my challenging children. She challenged every parental skill I had. Maybe it was me because she was our first child. She's kind of a strong-willed kid But just remember she went through those teen years where you know she kind of she kind of rebelled a little bit, and uh it just seemed like she she always lied to me. Whenever I would ask her to do something, she would just always lie. I find out later she was lying to me. And it just became excessive. And finally I just said I sat her down one day. I said, Abby Uh you you you just always lie to me. And I want to know why you're always lying to me. And she said, Dad, because it's just easier to deal with you if I just lie to you That's what she said. She said, you're I said, what do you mean? She said, well you're so overbearing. She said, if I tell you the truth, you go ballistic. And she said, you know, it's just easier to lie to you so I don't have to deal with you. And you know what? She was right. Boy, you talk about being convicted. I got a sermon right there from her. How many know your children know they they can really preach to you sometimes So she said, Dad, you're just overbearing. If I tell you the truth about something, you'll just, you know, you just go crazy, and I just, I don't want to deal with you. And you know what? I recognized that she was right. And I said, you know what, Abby, you're right. And you know what, I'm wrong in doing that. And let me tell you why sometimes I over-punish Or I might become a little bit overbearing because I have a fear in me. And you know what my fear is? My fear is that you won't turn out right. I'm really insecure about that. I'm very fearful of that. And that fear that I have has caused me to be overbearing. And so I want you to know that that's wrong for me because what that shows in me is that I'm not trusting in the Lord in this area. So I'm going to make a deal with you. I'm going to promise you that I'm not going to be overbearing with you. And I'm not going to get angry at me at you if you tell me the truth If you tell me the truth, I'm not going to get angry. I'm not going to be overbearing. I'm not going to say I'm not going to punish you. But I just won't be overbearing. I won't get angry For I won't go ballistic And if I start to get a little angry, you can remind me, Daddy, remember what you said. And I said, you just tell me the truth, and I I promise I won't get angry. And um and by the way, you know what? She never ever lied to me again. She and you know, I think that that was a point in our relationship between father and daughter that we we grew really close together from that point on. We had a meeting of the minds. I was able to to communicate with her some of my insecurities, what I'm afraid of, and she understood that. And then we made an agreement that, you know, we're not going to get angry with each other. Let's talk things out. And I'm telling you, she never lied to me again. And our relationship took on a new dimension. And I can honestly tell you that Abby and I are so very close today. But I had to recognize that what I was doing is I was provoking her to wrath And I wasn't doing it intentionally, mind you. I just had a normal parental concern that became an area where I wasn't really trusting the Lord with that I needed to learn to trust God with. And that weakness was causing a problem with us. And so I had to recognize that about myself. And by the way, you know why We always want to teach our children to always tell the truth. You know why that's so important? Because truth acts as a defensive wall around our children against sin. If we teach our children to always tell the truth, that causes temptation to lose its power. Because think about it. If I say I'm always going to tell the truth, I'm never going to lie, then if I'm tempted to do something When that temptation comes, at that moment of temptation, I'm reasoning in my mind and I'll say, you know what, I'm not going to do that. You know why? Because if somebody asked me if I did this, I'm going to have to tell the truth And since I know that I'm never going to lie and I always got to tell the truth, if someone asks me if I did this, I don't want to say yes. So guess what? I'm just not going to do it. You see, if a person will get into a pattern of lying, what they've done is they've thrown down all the defenses and they've opened themselves up to sin all over. So that's why to me it was very important that Abby not get into that pattern of of lying, but always speaking the truth. But inadvertently I was kind of pushing her on to lie because of what I was doing as a parent And not trusting the Lord. And so I had to learn that about myself. And I think in this thing of parenting, we have to come face to face with our own weaknesses and failures and be honest with ourselves about those things. Not be too proud to admit when we've made a mistake. And you know what? Kids are very forgiving. I notice that about children. They will forgive you. You know, there are three phrases we ought to learn. I'm sorry, I was wrong, please forgive me. I always tell young couples, learn those three phrases. It'll save you a lot of argument. Just say, look, I'm sorry I was wrong, please forgive me. And I've had to say that to my children. You know, there's been times when I've been wrong and they know it. And uh I've had to go and apologize. Look, I'm sorry I was wrong here. Please forgive me. I'm going to try to do better. But this is one way. And then another one is just being overly critical of our children. We don't want to be overly critical of them. You know, some parents are so much a perfectionist that their children can never do enough to make them proud. And that discourages a child. Because if you have these high standards that they could never live up to, look, recognize that, you know, they have limitations Not your child, I know this is hard for you to accept, they're not the next Albert Einstein. Alright? Now I'm not saying they're not smart, but don't put those standards up there so high. That they just never can meet up to your standards. You know, accept the fact, look, if you see them trying and they're doing their best, you know, that's where you praise them in that. It might not be as high as somebody else, but don't again don't compare them with anyone else. Just let them be who they are. Stop being a perfectionist. And really that's more about us as parents than it is our children. We want our children to make us look good. You know, we need to get off our high horse there and let our children be who they are and stop being overly critical And uh praise them when we see them trying hard because praise is a character builder. Did you know that? When you praise your children or grandchildren, you know what it does? It strengthens their character. Write down Proverbs 27, verse 21, as the finding pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold, so is a man to his praise. Think about that principle. As the fining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, so is a mandalus praise. What does a furnace do to gold? When you heat that furnace up and the gold melts, all the impurities come to the top And you skim them away. And the Bible says, so is a man to his praise. When you see your child or grandchild really trying hard and they're really doing something in an area of their kid That's really where they're working hard and it's it's really a character issue and you praise them in that area. Man, I I noticed this about you and I just want to tell you, man, I really admire what you're doing here. You know what you do? You strengthen that area of them. They become more purified. They'll try even harder. You're strengthening their character. So find things about your children to praise. Don't be critical. Don't be negative with them. Encourage them, teach them, but don't criticize and praise them in areas. because that praise will strengthen their character. You know what? We're out of time. We'll pick this up the next time on Wednesday night. I'm going to have a few more things to say. But let's have a word of prayer. Let's all stand together now and we're going to pray and we're going to get into our main service here today. So Father, we thank you that we do have a guidebook, your word, that teaches us on this thing of being a parent. Lord, it's not easy. And every parent and grandparent in here, Lord, we all have our challenges. And Lord, we need your help. We need your mercy. Lord, just help us not to fumble the ball. Help us, Lord, to avoid these mistakes that we see that are recorded in Scripture as examples to us so that we can learn from them and so that we can be better. At what you've called us to do. Lord bless our service to follow, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.