Good evening. Good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the Old Testament book of Psalm 119? As you know on Wednesday night we're going through this The longest chapter in the Bible. It has 22 stanzas of eight verses each after the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet. And it's almost like the writer saying, From A to Z, God's word is what you need to live by. And so we want to look at each of these stanzas because they really they're poetic uh masterpieces, we could say. And it points us again over and over again to the Word of God. Tonight, look at verse 105. We're in this next stanza, the noon section, the Hebrew letter noon, which is equivalent to our letter n. And verse 105, thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. A missionary couple once brought a uh a group of African pastors to the United States for a big meeting And during their free time, these pastors wanted to go shopping. And even though they were in a small town, the missionary knew that it was very possible for them to get lost, and so he gave them his phone number and said, If you get lost, please call me Well sure enough, about an hour later he received a call from one of the a the pastors and uh he said, I'm lost. And uh the missionary said, Well look, go to the street near a street corner and look up and read the signs on the corner and tell me where you are. A few minutes later the African pastor returned and he said, I'm at the corner of walk and don't walk. Yeah, we we laugh at that, but if we're honest, we've all been at that corner before in our life, right? Where we're not really sure where to go, where we are, what is our direction. Life is full of twists and turns and unexpected detours and there are times when we're confused and we need more than a phone call. We need light. And this is what this stands of Psalm 119 is all about. It's how God's word gives us light. Whenever you reach a crossroads, whenever you're not sure about which way to go, The good news is God gives you his word as a source of light that will help you in making those decisions. So I want us to talk about the wonderful gift that God has given us in God's Word as a light That whatever path that we travel, God's word gives us light for that path. And I want you to see seven powerful ways in which God's word gives us light for whatever path that we travel. Here's number one. God's word gives light for a dark path. Again, look at verse 105. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. This is perhaps the best-known verse in all of Psalm 119, isn't it? We all know this verse. We've heard it quoted a lot What does he mean when he says a lamp to my feet and a light to my path? Well in the ancient world they didn't have uh flashlights like we have today, the modern lights that we use or lamps that we use They would use um what was pretty basic. They would ha they would hold into the palm of their hand a clay dish, and inside that dish there was olive oil and a wick that would float around And they would light that wick and it would be the candle and of course the olive oil provided the fuel for the light. And it was just a a pretty much a basic uh lamp And what it would do is it would shine just uh just a light right out in the general path. It wasn't a bright light, it wasn't a big light, it was really a light just enough to show you, if it's on a dark night, how to make the next step without stumbling. It wasn't again uh a big light, it didn't flood the horizon, but just simply enough light for the very next step that you needed to take. Charles Bridges wrote this. He said it's not a blazing sun to show us all at once, but a lamp that guides the traveler step by step step. And God's Word works the same way. A lot of times God work God's word doesn't give us the whole panorama of our path or the life. that we have or what God's going to do in front of us. But what God wants us to do is He wants us to trust Him for the next step that we're going to take And God's Word gives us enough light to show us the next step for the journey. It doesn't show us the entire journey, but just enough light for the next step. Think of Abraham who obeyed God and the Bible says he went out not knowing whither that he went. Day by day he had to trust in God. He had to trust in the Word of God, the promises of God, the revelation of God Charles Spurgeon again wrote this, We are walkers through the city of this world, and we are often called to go out into its darkness. Let us never venture there without the light-giving word, lest we slip So God's Word gives us light for the dark path. God wants us to trust Him to take the next step. And He says He'll give us guidance from the Word of God for the next step that we should take. But here's number two. God's word gives light for a determined path. Look in verse number 106. I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments. Now it's one thing to desire to live for God, but it's another thing to have the direction to live for God. Desire without direction can get you lost. It's healed without knowledge When I first got saved, I knew one thing. I knew I wanted to live for Christ. I knew I wanted to do his will, but I wasn't really sure what that was. I was determined to live for the Lord, but I needed direction And so God gave me a hunger for the Word of God, and I began to read Scripture, and sure enough, God would lead me through His Word on how to live the kind of life that God wanted me to live. And so with the desire to live for God, we also have the direction, and we get that through the Word of God. Now notice, notice his commitment in verse 106. I have sworn and I will perform it. This is a an oath. He was taking an oath before God. He was making a promise. This is not a light matter. To swear an oath before God is a very serious thing, or to make a vow before God The Bible speaks about this. There's sometimes people will make a a vow or give God an oath and they're not very serious about it. And that's that's a cause for concern. But listen to what Ecclesiastes says in Ecclesiastes 5, verse 4. When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it, for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay which thou hast vowed. Better it is that thou shouldest not vow than that thou shouldest vow and not pay. And so the Bible doesn't forbid us making an oath to the Lord, but the Bible does say that when you make a vow, you better make sure that you pay it That vow before God. It's a very serious thing. And here the psalmist is making an oath. He's making a vow. He says, I have sworn and I will perform it. I will keep your God's righteous judgments. This reminds me of the life of Martin Luther. His whole life was changed by a vow, you could say, that he made to God. You might know the story that he was really a Catholic priest And um, or before he became a Catholic priest, I should say, there was one night in July in fifteen oh five When he was walking down a parched road on a summer evening and one of those summer thunderstorms come came blowing in. And the and the thunderstorm was so violent that There was a lightning bolt that that that hit right next to him and knocked him down. He thought that he was going to die. He was so afraid of his life that he made a vow instantly. And he made a vow that said that it if if I get delivered from this storm, I will become a monk Well, he lived through the storm and he determined that he was going to pay that vow, much to the uh displeasure of his father. who uh tried to talk him out of it, saying that was a foolish thing to do. You're being you you're studying to be a lawyer at the university, you need to stay in that path. But Martin Luther told his father, I made a vow to the Lord and I need to perform. And so Martin Luther became a Catholic priest, an Augustinian monk, really, and and uh he wanted to do what was right before God, but he wasn't sure how to do it. And his soul was really tormented because he knew that God was holy and he knew that he was a sinner, but he could not find peace. He could not get his soul right before the Lord. And his superiors one day said, We're going to give you an assignment. We're going to let you study and lecture from the book of Romans. And that was kind of a a turning point. Because Martin Luther began to study the book of Romans and he w he went back to the original Greek language to study the book. He had a good knowledge of Greek. And he came upon that verse, and some of you know the story in Romans 117, the just shall live by faith. And when he saw that, he realized that the only way to be right with God is by putting faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. And he wrote this, he described the moment he says, There I began to understand that it th that the righteousness of God is that by which the righteous l a li lives a by a gift of God, namely by faith. And here I felt that I was altogether born again and it entered paradise itself through the open gates. That changed everything. For Martin Luther. And we could say that his life mirrors Psalm 119-106. He made a vow unto God. He was determined to keep that vow. And God, through his word, gave him light. And he was able to understand the doctrine of justification by faith alone, faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. God's word gives light for a dark path. God's word gives life for a determined path. But here's number three. God's word gives light for a difficult path. Look at verse 107. I am afflicted very much. Quicken me, O Lord, according unto thy word. Now, the path of life often gets difficult. We go through adversity, we go through trials. Even on an illuminated path, affliction will come to us. He says, I am afflicted very much. And we've seen, if you've been with us in our study, you have seen how the psalmist often will refer to his afflictions over and over again. He speaks of his sufferings and his persecutions. and his afflictions. But he continually turns to the Word of God as his source of help, as his source of strength You see, when suffering clouds our minds and our emotions, Scripture will function as a steady light for us during that time. A lighthouse doesn't stop the storm, but a lighthouse does save the ship by providing the light through the storm. And that's what God's word is to us. God's word doesn't prevent affliction, but it does help us to persevere through affliction. It preserves us through it Look at the word quicken there in verse 107. I am afflicted very much. Quicken me, O Lord, according unto thy word. If you've been with us again, this is a word that is used often in Psalm 119, and the word means to give life or to revive. So, in this context, God's word gives life and strength in the midst of great affliction and suffering for the believer. Are you in a season of suffering? Let Scripture breathe life reviving life into you. In 2010, 33 miners in Chile were trapped underground after the mine collapsed They were buried uh about a a mile below the surface underground. And for 17 days they were there in total darkness. They weren't sure if they anyone knew where they were or how they were going to be rescued until finally after seventeen days uh a tiny drill bit broke through the ceiling of where they were. And light began to shine in after seventeen days of darkness. And they were able eventually to give them food and to and to give them other uh water and other things that they needed to survive. But one miner said this. He said, the moment that the light came down, we knew that we were not forgotten. That light was life to us. And of course eventually all of them were rescued, but they said that really it was the light that gave them hope. It was the light that revived their spirits. And that's really what the psalmist is saying right here. It is in the midst of darkness, in the midst of trials and affliction, it is God's word that quickens us, that gives us life in the midst of our trials. And so God's word revives us in seasons of afflictions. God's Word gives life for a dark path, for a determined path, for a difficult path. But here's the next thing: God's word gives life for a devoted path. Look at verse number 108. Except I beseech thee the free will offerings of my mouth, O Lord. Now when he says free will offerings, these were offerings in the Old Testament that were voluntary offerings. There were offerings given out of gratitude and devotion. Normally it was an animal. Really it was according to your ability to bring a sacrifice. For some it might be an animal, for some it would be maybe a a bird. Uh for some it might even be a handful of grain. But nevertheless, whatever it was according to what you could give, people would bring that gift to God as a free will offering, and it was always an expression of praise, an expression of thanksgiving to the Lord. But the psalmist here is saying that the free will offering that he's going to give is not an animal. What is it? It is the free will offering of his what? Of his mouth. Of my mouth, O Lord. And that reminds us that in this time, when we bring an offering to the Lord, we don't bring animals. We bring our words of praise and of prayers. And so, but then he also is very careful to say that it needs to be according to God's word. It needs to be according to God's judgments. He says, and teach me thy judgments. And so true worship is word-fed, not only spirit-led. Matthew Henry wrote this: those that will give or offer praise to God must learn his judgments, that they might offer it aright. The Bible says that God looks for worshipers who will worship him in what? Spirit and in truth. A lot of people have a lot of spirit. But there's no truth. It's strange fire. There's all kind of things that go on in churches that is supposed to be real worship, but it's not according to the way God prescribed worship to be done. So worship has to be done in spirit and according to the truth It has to be spirit-led and word-fed. This reveals a fundamental principle. God's word is essential for guiding us in what is acceptable and true worship before God. God's word then gives us light. For our devotion, for our personal devotion to God. It leads us on how to worship and how to pray. We see many examples in Scripture of people that brought worship and offerings to the Lord that were unacceptable. That God simply refused. For example, Cain's offering. You remember this in Genesis 4, verse 3. Brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. But unto Cain and his offering, the Bible says, the Lord did not have respect. God had given him instruction on how to offer. God had given him a certain day. It says at the pr in the process of time really in the Hebrew it reads at the end of the days. I was thinking it was talking about really at the end of the week God had prescribed a certain day. He prescribed a certain place. It was a somewhere where you had to bring your offering. And God had prescribed a certain manner. God was very clear about what he wanted. And if we study that, we don't have time to look at all of it in the context. But God wanted an offering of shed blood. Because that offering would point to the ultimate shedding of blood, which would be Jesus Christ, the Messiah that was to come. But Cain ignored all of God's instructions for worship and he brought his own offering. And it was rejected by God because he did not follow God's word on how he was to worship But also there is also Nadab and Abihu in the Old Testament in Leviticus chapter ten, the Bible says they offered strange fire before the Lord, which he commanded them not, and there went out a fire from the Lord and devoured them Did you know in the Old Testament, whenever a priest would offer fire on the altar of incense, or take a coal and put it on the altar of incense, it had to be taken from the brazen altar. He couldn't just take uh his own fire. He couldn't just light a stick on fire and bring it to the altar of incense and light it up and that where it way the smoke could go up to God. That would be strange fire. The source of the fire had to come from the brazen altar. And the Bible says in Nadab and Abihu, they decided to cut corners and they brought their own fire to the altar of incense. And it angered the Lord. And the Bible says that they were struck dead before the Lord. It's a serious thing that we offer worship the way God prescribes it. And there are other illustrations in the Old Testament. King Saul's sacrifice was rejected by God. But even beyond that, there are prayers that are unacceptable to God. Did you know that our prayers can be a sin before God in the way that we do it? If it's not done in the way that God prescribes? Some examples Prayers that come from unrepentant hearts. The Bible says in Psalm 66, verse 18, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. You can't cherish sin on one hand and then pray on the other. What did Jesus teach us? Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. You can't get answered prayer. You can't go to God if you have unforgiveness in your heart and expect God to hear your prayers. Unforgiveness is a hindrance. God says, I won't take those prayers. Or prayers without compassion. Proverbs 21, verse 13. Whoso stops his ears at the cry of the poor, he also himself shall not be heard. God said if you see a poor person they ask you for help and you have the ability to help them and you don't help them, you stop your ears to the poor. God says that when you come before me, I'm not going to listen to you either. It's pretty serious, isn't it? And so we need to understand that God has certain standards on how we are to pray. So the psalmist here is Wants to offer before the Lord acceptable offerings out of praise and prayer to God And we need to be guided by God's word. God's word is the light that teaches us how to live a life that is devoted, that is pleasing, even in our worship and our offerings before the Lord. But here's the next thing. God's Word gives light for a dark path, a determined path, a difficult path, a devoted path. But here's number five. God's word gives light for a dangerous path. Look at verse 109. My soul is continually in my hand, yet do I not forget thy law. This is an interesting verse here. My soul is in my hand. Now so is the Hebrew word nafesh, meaning whole being or whole life. And so we could say it like this: my whole life is continually in, literally the Hebrew word is in my palm. In my palm. So this can be a a Hebrew idiom that that actually has the idea of of uh of being in danger. You know, uh my life is in constant danger, we could say, or I'm always at risk. It's as if I'm holding my own life in my hand through the things that I do. And there are many commentators that support that type of interpretation, like Spurgeon and Matthew Henry. They interpret it, my soul is in my hand, referring to mortal danger. But I would just like to suggest the possibility that maybe the psalmist might be alluding to that lamp again when he talks about holding something in your hand. And this might be a poetic echo, we could say. I I don't I I do believe he is referring to the danger that he's in, but in a way he's also referring to the fact that He realizes that his life is in his hand, inasmuch as he has God's word, the light in his hand that is guiding him through the time of danger in his life. And so I think uh I have the I was I was when I studied this and I thought about this, it came to my mind, I thought, I wonder if he's making an illusion And I was just out of curiosity thinking, was there any other commentator out there that agreed with me? Or in other words, was right. No, I'm just kidding. And I found that there was one, Alex Moiteer, he wrote uh the same idea here. I was pleased to see at least there's one other guy that kind of sees what I see a little bit in here that that he's really building on this imagery of holding a lamp in your hand. And so in that case, we could basically say it something like this, my very life is in my hand, fragile and endangered, but I do not drop the word that sustains it. Just as I hold my soul, I hold your word as a lamp to guide me and preserve me. God's word will get us through the dangerous times. that we might face in our life. I think about this, I think about the story of Corey Tinboom. And I know you you have heard that name and you've probably read the story. A Dutch Christian watchmaker. She and her family hid Jewish people from the Nazis during World War II. At great risk to their own life. And eventually they were arrested because of that and they were sent to concentration camps in nineteen forty four. And throughout this whole ordeal, Corey Tinboom clung tightly to the Word of God. Before her arrest, She relied heavily on scripture to discern what action to take, what to do in the circumstances that she was in. But even after her arrest She still held tightly to God's word. And one passage she wrote that became particularly dear to her was Psalm 119. She said she grabbed hold of Psalm 119. And when she was taken to Ravensbrook camp, she managed to smuggle a small Bible past multiple inspections. She later said, God's angels must have blinded the eyes of the guards, allowing her to keep the word of God hidden. And in the darkness of that concentration camp, we're talking a literal darkness, also a moral darkness. Corey Tinboom used the Word of God to bring light to others. She led secret Bible studies, offering hope and giving spiritual survival in a place that was designed really just for death. She led many people to faith in Jesus Christ. On one incident, Corey was moved to pray after reading Psalm 91. She and her sister Betsy narrowly avoided a brutal selection for extermination. But it was through the Word of God that guided her. And she says that she believed that her obedience to the promptings of Scripture and her constant meditation on God's promises preserved her life more than once. Those snares were constantly laid by the wicked. Corey Tinboom testified that she didn't stray from God's word. God's word became her light in that dangerous dark place. God's word is a light for a dark path, for a determined path, for a difficult path, for a devoted path, for a dangerous path. But here's number six. God's word gives light for a descendant. You say, what do you mean by that? Look at verse 111. Thy testimonies have I taken as a heritage forever, for they are the rejoicing of my heart. Now the word heritage here refers to something that is passed down to the next generation, something you leave to your descendants, to those that follow you. In the Old Testament, a heritage sometimes would be a portion of land that God gave to Israel. They would pass that land down to their descendants. But here the psalmist is referring to God's word as his inheritance. the most treasured possession that anyone could have. It was a heritage that was passed down, a heritage that was passed down. to him, handed down to him by his forefathers. It became for him a source of great rejoicing It reminds me of the story of Josiah the king who wanted to remodel the temple and they they as they began to remodel they found the word of God. The word of God that every king should have had with him. He should have copied his own handwritten copy of the Bible according to Deuteronomy. But somewhere in all of that, God's word got lost. And Josiah and the people that remodeled the temple found God's word in God's house. Jeremiah, who was a contemporary of Josiah, would later write, Thy words were found. And I did eat them, and thy word was unto me the joy and the rejoicing of my heart. Jeremiah was given a spiritual heritage in God's word. And that's what God's Word is. The greatest thing that we could pass down to our children is the Word of God. A love for God's Word, the teaching of God's Word. I uh had the privilege of baptizing my brother Jay last Sunday evening and I'm so grateful for the work that God's doing in his heart. And he's constantly telling me that he's got Dad's Bible, his my father's Bible. I'm a little jealous that he was through the years, things that he wrote down in the notes, and how that is ministering to him right now. There's a great heritage that has been passed down. his father's Bible. That's the greatest thing that we could hand to our children. Spurgeon wrote this, he who would be safe in his path and happy in his heart must walk according to the Word of God and treasure it as his choicest heritage Martin Lloyd Jones wrote, the Bible is not just a book to be revered, but to be lived by. It is light for your road, food for your soul, and wealth for your inheritance. It was the great missionary John Taton who once said that when that when he received or when he inherited his father's Bible, he felt like he had received the greatest treasure on earth. And that is so true. Hand down God's word. That is our heritage that we can hand down to our children. But then here's number seven. God's word is laid for a discipline path. A disciplined path. Look at verse 112. I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes, always, even unto the end. The word inclined here has the idea of a deliberate act of turning or bending or stretching. And it's really uh it involves effort The psalmist is bending his heart to obedience to God. He resolves to follow God's statutes all the way to the finish line This word invokes images of a runner leaning forward in the final stretch, finishing the race well. And so the believer, we must lean in our heart towards obedience, refusing to veer off the path. I I want to finish well. It's one of the prayers that I pray, Lord, help me to be faithful until the end. Help me not to stumble. Help me not to veer off the path. Help me to finish well. Help me to finish with this kind of devotion that we read here from the psalmist. That I will keep your statues always, even unto the end. All the way to the end So how do we discipline our heart to finish well? Let me just give you a few things here as we close. First of all, train your heart daily. Just as an athlete trains his body, so the believer must train their soul through scripture, through prayer, through obedience. Don't let a day go by where you're not in God's word, where you're not praying, where you're not meditating. We have to constantly discipline ourselves. soul. But also resist spiritual laziness. You know, the flesh always wants to coast. The disciplined heart says with Paul, forgetting those things which are behind, I'm reaching, I'm pressing towards that which is before me, towards the mark. And again, so this the the Christian life involves diligent effort But then also live with the end in view. Again, the psalmist said, even unto the end. And so the Christian should live in light of eternity, asking, you know, Will this matter when I stand before Christ? Will this matter in the end? I want to be able to say, and I know you do too, like the Apostle Paul, who said, I fought a good flight, I've finished my course, I've kept the faith But then also build habits that shape desire. You know, discipline shapes desire. And as you constantly incline your heart towards God's word, you your love for Him will deepen. Spiritual discipline leads to spiritual delight. And so don't drift. D. A. Carson wrote this: people do not drift towards holiness. Apart from grace-driven effort, people do not gravitate towards godliness. We drift towards compromise, and we call it tolerance. And he's right. If we allow ourselves to drift, we will not drift into holiness, we'll drift away from it. So we have to continue to discipline ourselves. We have to have the heart of this psalmist who said that I've inclined my heart. To perform thy statutes. Richard Baxter said, keep up your watch and your discipline, for the decay of discipline is the decay of godliness. And so the psalmist has God's word is a light that will guide him onto this disciplined path that he has chosen. And so we need to make the same determination in our own heart. God's word is that light. Let me just close with this. During World War II, a team of Allied soldiers was sent to an enemy territory for dangerous nighttime rescue. And their task was to retrieve a captured comrade before dawn. The terrain was rough and the woods were thick and the enemy was patrolling all around. As they neared the rendezvous point, the soldier who was leading this whole team pulled out a small flashlight. But instead of shining it ahead, he kind of cupped the flashlight in his hand and he pointed it downward And he only gave enough light for that group of soldiers to take the next step. And one of the soldiers said, we need more light. And the leader said, if I shine it farther, the enemy will see it. But this is enough for us to take the next step, and this is all we need. And so step by step and little by little, the light led them forward through the trees, over the ridge, past the enemy, and at last to their friend. And they made it home by following the light just one step at a time. And that's how God leads us. He might not reveal the whole plan. God might not light up the whole horizon in our life, but he gives us Jesus. the light of the world. And he gives us his word. And he tells us just follow this one step at a time. Just one step at a time. So are you walking in a dark path or on a dangerous path or a difficult path? Has your heart grown dull in your devotion? Has your steps wavered in your discipline? Then return to the lamp. Return to the Word of God. But above all, run to Christ. Christ is our light. And He will guide us. The light that never dims. And may we say with the psalmist, thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes even unto the end. Even unto the end. Let us walk in that light. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you for again this beautiful psalm and how rich it is. Each stanza presents a new facet of our dependence on your word for life. We remember the words of our Lord that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. So, Father, help us to live according to the light of your word. Give us the same heart as this psalmist here, a heart to walk, whatever path that we have in front of us, by the light that you give us from your word, one step at a time. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name