Would you take God's word this morning, please? I invite you to open to the book of First Thessalonians, chapter five. We're in a study in First Thessalonians, and we are in chapter five this morning this morning, and I want you to Look in verse number one, and we'll be reading some of these verses together. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word today? 1 Thessalonians 5, verse number 1. But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you, for yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night For when they shall say peace and safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them as travail upon a woman with child, and they shall not escape But ye brethren are not in darkness that you should that they should overtake you as a thief. Ye are all the children of light. and the children of the day. We are not of the night, nor of darkness. Therefore let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober. For they that sleep sleep in the night, and they that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and a helmet For a helmet of the hope of salvation, for God has not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our hearts. This is his authoritative inspired word, and may he open our eyes to seek truth. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the joy of worship and for what we've already experienced. And Lord, as we come now to this part of worship where we listen to the Word of God, Lord, give us ears to hear, and Lord help me as your servant to correctly, accurately preach and teach the Word of God. May Christ be exalted, may souls be saved, and may Christians be strengthened. We pray in His holy name. Amen. I heard of a man who parked his car out in front of his house for just a few minutes. He had he had forgotten something and wanted to run back inside his house quickly to get it, so he did something that you should never do. He left the car running with the keys and the ignition and on that uh his keys had all of his keys, his house keys, everything. Went in the house and when he came back out, his car was gone. He couldn't believe it. He had did something so foolish. And uh he he made a report to the police. Uh they were unable to find it that day. But the next morning when he woke up and went outside, there was his car in his driveway. And it was completely washed. There was a note inside the car that said, I'm sorry that yesterday I had an emergency. I had to take your car to for this emergency, but it has a full tank of gas now. It's completely cleaned up on the inside, washed on the outside. It was pristine clean. He said, as for your trouble, here are two tickets to the Dallas Cowboy football game. Please please go and have a good time and again I'm sorry. Well the man thought, well, you know, uh you shouldn't uh steal a car, but maybe this guy isn't all that bad, and so he went with his wife That night to the Dallas Cowboys football game and when he and his wife returned, his house was cleaned out. Yeah. Yeah. The moral of the story is you shouldn't be a Dallas Cowboy fan, but actually it it goes a little bit deeper than that. I want to talk tonight or today, whatever time of day it is, about this topic, A Thief in the Night. Now, this title, of course, is based on the passage of Scripture that we just read, verse number two of chapter 5, where it says that the day of the Lord cometh as a thief in the night. Now the purpose I have for this sermon is the same purpose that Paul had when he wrote this letter, and that is to prepare you for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I believe, just as Paul believed and wrote to the Thessalonians, that Jesus Christ is coming again. And we are living in exciting times. Uh we are really living between two mountain peaks. There's Mount Calvary, the blood-soaked hills of Mount Calvary, and the sun-lit hills of Mount Zion. We are living between His crucifixion and his coronation. And uh along with Paul, I want you to be com ready when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back and completes the redemption that he started for us. Like the song says, When he shall come with trumpet sound, oh may I then in him be found, dressed in his righteousness alone, and faultless to stand before the throne. Now, here in 1 Thessalonians 5, Paul is writing again about the second coming, but he changes his focus. You remember last week he was talking about the events that would take place when the Lord comes. But here he's going to talk about the when of Christ's coming. This is the big question that people have asked about the second coming of Christ. When is Christ coming? People want to know specifically about when he's going to come. Evidently Paul had already uh talk to the Thessalonians about this because he's gonna again refer to that, but they wanted to know more. They wanted to know specifically when the Lord Jesus Christ was going to come back. So in answer to this question, I want you to see in our passage today three crucial aspects about the second coming of Christ. First of all, here's the thir first thing I want you to see is the secrecy of his coming. The secrecy of his coming. Paul answers them by reinforcing what he already said to them. Again, evidently he had taught them about this subject, but the Thessalonians wanted to know more They wanted to know a specific time. So look in verse number one. But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you. The word for times here is kranos in the Greek. That is clock time or calendar time. They were saying, you know, what what day, what time? uh is Christ going to come back. Also the word seasons, you might want to circle that. That's Kairos. That's a season of the year. What season of the year will it be? What what day? What time will it be when uh the Lord is going to return. They were like many people who wanted to set a date about the second coming of Christ. And we've read about people who have set dates about the coming of Christ. Many people who do this or have done this are from false religions And we talked about this a little bit in our 945 Sunday school class. William Miller, Ellen White, founders of the Seventh-day Adventist Church They prophesied that Jesus would return in in 1843. And of course that didn't happen. And when that didn't happen, they changed the date to 1844. And again they uh it didn't happen. And so rather than saying we were wrong, they actually created another doctrine and said, Oh, in 1844 he actually came, but he entered into his heavenly sanctuary to begin a second work of atonement. Which of course is blasphemy because Christ uh settled our atonement on the cross and said it is finished And then also you have the Mormons down there, Joseph Smith, who prophesied Jesus would return in 1891 and that didn't happen. And then you have Jehovah's Witnesses in the Watchtower Society. That said Christ will come back in nineteen fourteen. That didn't happen. They changed it to nineteen fifteen and then nineteen twenty-five and then nineteen thirty-five and nineteen fifty-one and nineteen seventy-five. eight uh 1986 and then they changed it to the year 2000. None of those dates of course worked. So now the date is 2033 when they say he's going to come back. Hal Lindsay wrote the best-selling book, The Late Great Planet Earth. Some of you might remember that book, but in that book, when he wrote it, he said, he wrote this some time ago, he said that Jesus would return in 1988. Thousands of people got excited about that, but of course it didn't happen. And today, uh Lindsey, as far as I remember, he still has a TV show and still does Bible prophecy on it. Then there was the man Edgar Wisnet, who was a former NASA engineer. He sold four and a half million copies of a book that he wrote. The title of the book was 88 Reasons Why Jesus Would Come in 1988. And he said that Jesus was going to return on September the 1st, 1988. Well, of course that didn't happen. And and by the way, um when he s made that announcement, the Trinity Broadcasting Network, they interrupted their program to tell people how to get ready for the rapture. And of course nothing happened. They just went right back into their regular programming, no apology or anything. But that didn't deter wisnet. He wrote a second book, 89 Reasons Why Jesus Will Return in 1989. And the amazing thing about that is that 30,000 copies were sold. People actually bought that book and read it again And of course when he was wrong there, uh he said his response was, Well, all I can do is just stand in front of the Lord and say, I gave it my best shot. Well, I don't think God asked you to try to do that. But nevertheless, and then of course Harold Camping predicted the end of the world would take place in 1994. And of course he was wrong. And then he predicted on May twenty-first, twenty eleven, at exactly six o'clock P. M. , sunset in Jerusalem, that the world was going to end. And of course, it didn't. happen. But it's not just Christians who are interested in setting apocalyptic dates. Do you remember why it's okay? Yeah, so don't raise your hand, but how many of you stored up food in your basement when that was announcing that at Y2K everything was coming to an N or the apocalypse was going to happen. And you probably also heard about the Mayan calendar. Remember back at before twenty twelve they were saying that on December thirty first, you know, um uh when it it switched over to twenty twelve. December thirty-first would be the last day before the end of the world, you know. I remember I was actually down in Honduras and uh I was speaking down there, but I w I I I took a trip where I was in a place called Copan Ruinous, the ruins of Copan. There was a huge Mayan, ancient Mayan civilization that I was walking through and the guy who was there uh knew I was a preacher and was trying to convince me that we only had a few months left. This was in twenty eleven. And he took a stick and he drew in the dirt the circular calendar of the Mayans and why December thirty first. 2011 will be the last day when it turns to 2012. We're all in big trouble. Preacher, enjoy your last few months, you know. And of course none of that happens. Why is it that there seems to be something inside the heart of man that wants to know a date when the end will come? Well this is nothing new. The Thessalonians they wanted specifics about When Jesus was going to come again. And what does Paul say about the when of the return of Christ? Well, he gives us two things that we can know for sure. First of all, he will come secretly. No one knows. He will come secretly like a thief in the night. Look at verse 2. For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. It's a secret. Paul is basically saying, look, I'm not about to set a date or a time. of when Jesus Christ is going to return. And so he uses this image of a thief in the night. You know what about something about a thief? A thief does not announce his coming. You know, one time we had someone break into our house and rob us, and you know what? He did not give us a warning. He did not leave a note and say, Dear Dr. Harmon, I just want you to know That we're going to be gone on this certain day. I'm going to come in and help myself with a first few items in your house, sincerely, the thief. Something about thieves are very inconsiderate And they're very secret. And Paul here is emphasizing the secrecy of the second coming. No one knows when the Lord is going to come. We don't know the date and the hour. Jesus' disciples wanted to know in Matthew 24, 3, the disciples said, what shall be the sign of thy coming and when will the end be, end of the world be? And some of the things Jesus prophesied were fulfilled in 70 A. D. , but there were some that were yet future. Yet Jesus said this in Matthew 24, verse 36. But concerning the day and hour, no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only So Jesus tells the disciples that he didn't even know. This was something that only the Father knows. Not even the Son. Now, some people, when they read this, they say, how can Jesus not know? when the second coming is going to be. I mean, isn't he God incarnate? Surely as God incarnate he knows, because he knows all things. This dilemma perplexed the brilliant thirteenth century theologian Thomas Aquinas, and he formulated what he called the accommodation theory. And basically the theory is this that when the disciples Ask him, you know, when's the end going to be? And Jesus said, you know, no man knows, not even the Son. That Aquinas said that, you know, Jesus had to know, because he was God incarnate. And uh that Jesus chose not to tell the disciples because the answer to that question would be too mysterious for them to even grasp. It was too theologically difficult for them to comp comprehend. And so he made the accommodation and just told them he didn't know. But with all due respect to Thomas Aquinas, if Jesus knew the date and did not tell the disciples and said that he didn't know, friend, that would be a lie. And one lie would be enough to disqualify Jesus from being the Savior of the world. We have to take it seriously when Jesus said he didn't know. He didn't know. Now some of you say, well, now wait a minute, I thought he was God. He is. But he was fully God, truly God, and truly man. And we see doing his earthly ministry things that uh only a man can suffer. God wouldn't suffer that The Bible says God never sleeps, but Jesus slept. God never gets tired, and yet Jesus got tired. Both of those natures were concurrent and one person And we know that there were times during Jesus' earthly ministry when the divine mind communicated omniscience to his human mind because Jesus would say things that only God would know. But on not every occasion did the divine mind communicate things to Jesus' human mind. You see, the divine mind did not swallow up Jesus' human mind to where he had some kind of a deified human mind, no He was still full truly God, fully God, and fully man. And there were times when the divine mind did not communicate to his human mind certain things. That's why Luke said Jesus grew in wisdom. As he grew up as a young man, he grew in wisdom on his own. There are certain times when the divine mind chose not to communicate to the human mind certain things. And so when Jesus said he didn't know We have to take them seriously when he said that. And beloved, if God the Father chose not to tell the Son the day, it's very arrogant for anyone to say, well, God told me today. That's monstrous arrogance, if you ask me. That they would know the day. The fact of the matter is we don't know Yet that hasn't stopped people. There have been 242 occasions when people have set dates for the second coming of Jesus Christ. And yet God in his infinite wisdom chose not to tell us. And think about that. God knows what he's doing. Can you imagine if God told us the day and the time? I read about, in 1992, a Korean prophet asserted that the rapture was set for midnight October 20th or 28th. What was the result? Well, 20,000 Christians believe him and they left school or quit their jobs and went to wait for the return. of Christ. You know what? God doesn't want us being lazy, waiting. He wants us to be busy. He doesn't want us on mountaintops and bed sheets looking for the coming of Christ. No, we are to be busy doing the Lord's work. Remember in Acts chapter 1, verse 6, the disciples said, they asked him, saying, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times. or seasons which the father, notice the emphasis on the father, the father has put in his own authority. Instead, what does Jesus tell them? He shifts their focus. He says this, but you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you shall be what? Witnesses of me in Judea and Samaria unto the othermost parts of the earth. You know why God gave us the Holy Spirit not so that we can sit around with our calculations and try to figure out every little detail of prophecy that God chose not to reveal, so that we can pat ourselves on the back and say, I know the answer No, God gave us the Holy Spirit so we can go and share the gospel with other people to share Jesus with others. That's what we are to be busy doing right now He did not tell us when he's going to come back. We know that he is, but the when is secret with Almighty God. He wants us living godly lives. He wants us pointing people to the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. He will come secretly. Like a thief in the night. He will come suddenly, like birth pains on a woman. Look at verse number three. For when they shall say, peace and safety Then sudden destruction cometh upon them as travail upon a woman with child, and they shall not Escape. The Paul's point here is that it will happen suddenly. We don't know when it's going to happen, but when it does happen, it's going to happen suddenly. I mean, when people think peace and safety, all's going well, it's quiet, then sudden destruction. The whole idea here is that it'll come at a time when you least expect it or least. think it like think about in history like the attack on Pearl Harbor or like the tsunami that hit in December of I think it was two thousand and six somewhere in that area. But like the attack At 9-11, suddenly it will come when you don't expect it. Like labor pains upon a woman with child. On Saturday, October 21st, 1989, my wife began to have labor pains. And on October the 22nd, my birthday. She gave birth to a beautiful little red-headed girl, my first daughter, Abby. I I I could have never predicted that it would happen just like it did. But this is Paul's point. You know, we don't know when I'll tell you this though, we didn't know when that baby was coming, but you know what? When she came, we were ready. We had our room ready, we had everything set aside, we were prepared for that unexpected And that's the way we are to live here as Christians. It will happen secretly. We don't know the day and the hour. It'll happen suddenly. We don't know When to expect it, but we just need to be prepared for this time. We need to be living godly lives. But notice another thing in verse number three. Notice the last phrase. And they shall not escape. When Jesus Christ comes. What does that mean? They shall not escape. Escape what? After Jesus comes again, God will unleash his wrath upon this earth. It'll be a time of Tribulation. Unbelievers will not escape the wrath and the judgment of Almighty God Believers can be comforted to know that they will be taken out of this world before God pours his wrath upon the earth. The rapture begins what the Bible calls the day of the Lord, and on this day of the Lord, God pours out his wrath. But here this leads to the second point I want you to see here, not only the secrecy of his coming, but write down number two the separation of his coming, because what Paul does now in these verses is he makes a contrast between believers and non-believers. Between those who are prepared And between those who are not prepared for his coming. Notice the first contrast between light and darkness. Look at verse four. But ye brethren are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief Paul tells us that as believers we should always be ready. We shouldn't be overtaken by a thief. We don't live in darkness, Paul says. And I think when Paul says darkness here, this is a metaphor. for ignorance or just not knowing or spiritual blindness. That is the sphere where people who do not know Christ live They're unaware of what the Bible says. They're unaware of these things. And when you tell them about the second coming, they kind of just turn away and say, That's ridiculous. They live in darkness. And Paul says, But that's not you. If you're a believer, that's not where you are. You don't live in darkness. You've been delivered from the kingdom of darkness. You've been placed in the light of salvation, in the light of God's Son. And we have the Word of God Which tells us that this is going to happen. Again, we don't know exactly when, but we know it is going to happen. So therefore we don't we're not going to be overtaken like Look at verse number five. Ye are all the children of light and the children of the day. We are not of the night, nor of Darkness. We are children of the day, Paul says. And God has given us the light of the knowledge of His Word. We're not ignorant about the second coming. We live in readiness. of his coming. If I knew sometime in 2024 a thief was going to come to my house, I didn't know when, but I knew he was going to come. Maybe in the next year or two. You know what? I would make preparation for that. I think I would get extra security on my bolts on my door and and windows and I would have cameras installed everywhere. I would be ready when that thief came. This is the idea. We don't know when But we're not ignorant of the fact that we know He's coming, and so therefore we have to be ready. We have to be prepared for it. How does a Christian prepare for the second coming of Christ? Well, you love him with all your heart. You serve him faithfully. You live for him. Don't let your love for Christ go. Grow cold. Don't become unfaithful and apathetic in your spiritual disciplines and the things of God. Don't allow yourself to be lulled to sleep by the things of this world where you lose your eternal focus. It was Dr. Adrian Rogers who said, We ought to live as if Jesus Christ died yesterday, rose today, and is coming back tomorrow. We should always have that zeal and that excitement in our heart and life so that when others see us, they know that we are Christians. But there's a contrast between being awake and asleep, between light and darkness. There's a contrast between being awake and asleep. Look at verse number six. Therefore, let us not sleep. As to others, but let us watch and be sober. Paul is warning believers, don't be like others who are asleep. And I think by this, Paul is saying it's possible for believers to be lulled into sleep, to be apathetic, to be entangled with the things of this world. Drowsiness sets in on spiritual things. You're not faithful in your church attendance. You stop reading your Bible. You uh, you know, those are the first signs of spiritual sleep. You you begin to be more excited about the things of the world. And if you if you're not careful, you'll drift off into the world. Your prayer drops off. You really don't care much about spiritual things. And I want to tell you something, friend, if that's your state, you either need to get saved or you need to wake up. One or the other. Ask God to revive your heart. Ask God to renew you. We have to be awake and alert. Again, verse 6 to that part where it says, but let us watch and be sober. The word watch here means to stay awake. It is the Greek word Gregorio. It's where we get the name Gregory. And it means to be awake, to be watchful. Sober means to be in self-control. There's a contrast between light and darkness. There's a contrast between being awake and being asleep. We want to be awake. We are children of the day. There's a contrast between soberness and drunkenness. Look in verse 7, the latter part uh where it says, for they that sleep, sleep in the night, and watch this latter part of the verse, and they that be drunken Are drunken in the night. And again, Paul is drawing a sharp distinction between believers and unbelievers. Unbelievers are compared to night people living in darkness and drunkenness. They're spiritually asleep. But we're people of the day. Look at verse 8. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love. Now you know I'll confess to you that I'm not a morning person by nature. My wife is a morning person. She jumps bounds out of bed. She's gets she gets more done in the first hour Then it it take me, I wake up in stages slowly. I'm not a morning person by nature, you know. But you know what? God is calling upon all of us spiritually to be morning people, not night people, not night owls. But spiritually to be mourning people. And here Paul now is going to use one of his favorite metaphors, I think, in Scripture, that of a Roman soldier in his armor. This calls to our mind when we read this verse, verse 8, of Ephesians 6. Look again in verse 8. But let us who are the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. And again, this is the idea of a Roman soldier who is dressed for battle. And so this is the idea. You're up, you've got your armor on. You're putting on the breastplate of faith and love. The breastplate, which is kind of like a bulletproof vest today, it protects your heart and the vital organs. Spiritually, your heart is protected with faith and love. You have the helmet of salvation. A helmet protects the mind, the brain. It's the hope of salvation. The word hope here means the absolute certainty. Whenever you see the word of hope in the New Testament, it's not a wish or a maybe like we think of a hope today. It is an absolute certainty You know the best way to be prepared for the second coming of Christ is to be absolutely certain that you've trusted Jesus and Jesus alone. That you put on the helmet of salvation, the hope of salvation, the certainty of salvation. You need to know that you're saved. You need to know that you're walking in the light, not darkness. You need to be sober. You need to be awake in a sleeping world and to have that certainty. But then let me give you the last thing here. Not only the secrecy of his coming, And the separation of his coming. But number three, think about the salvation of his coming. Look in verse number nine. This is a great verse. For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. Now there are many views about the second coming, how it will happen. And some believe Jesus will come before the tribulation and take his church out. Some believe that Jesus will rec return into rapture in the middle of the tribulation and then take his church out. Some people believe that Jesus will come at the end of the tribulation period. And all of it will happen at one moment where he'll take his people out, and then uh judgment will come uh on the world, or a uh or God will at Armageddon defeat all the armies of the earth that come against him. But If he comes at the end of the tribulation, then the church will have to go through that time. Now, friend, I don't know about you, but I don't believe the church is appointed to wrath. Just like this verse here tells us. I don't believe the church will go through the tribulation or will go through God's wrath because of this one verse right here. For God has not appointed us to wrath. What has God appointed us, His people, to, His church? Salvation. This is the purpose of salvation. What is the whole purpose of salvation? It's to deliver you and me from wrath. Whose wrath? The wrath of God the Father, who is a holy God and must judge sin. But yet at the same time loves people and he doesn't want to judge you. He doesn't want to judge me. And so that's why Jesus came to bear our sin, to be our substitute, and all the wrath, the holy wrath. of God that should have fallen upon me, fell on Christ on the cross as my substitute. He took my sins upon himself. He took your sins upon himself. And he bore the wrath of God. You know what that means? Therefore, we, the church, his bride, does not have to bear the wrath of God. And so that's why I believe that's the whole purpose of salvation. That's why I believe the church will not suffer God's wrath Now, if you're one of those that say, I believe the church will go through the tribulation period, then what you're basically saying is that the church will not suffer God's eternal wrath But they will suffer God's eschatological wrath at the end. And beloved, I don't believe that. I don't believe that God saves a person and says, Oh, you're still going to have to suffer my wrath like everybody else. That I'm going to pour out upon the ungodly in this world. No. Paul says God has not appointed us to wrath. Go back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. Look at verse number 10. Just look at that verse real quick. Chapter 1 verse 10, and to wait for his son from heaven, who raised, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. God's wrath is God's wrath. Whether it's eschatological wrath or eternal wrath or whatever, we are delivered from the wrath of God. Believers can suffer God's chastisement. Believers can be persecuted by the world and have been persecuted by the world. Believers can suffer the wrath of ungodly people in this world. But believers will not suffer the wrath of God. We are delivered from that wrath. That is the promise that God gave us in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The day of the Lord is the day of God's wrath when he pours it out on this world. Notice not only the purpose of salvation, but the plan. Look at verse number 10. Who died for us? That whether we wake or sleep, now when he says wake or sleep, he's going back to chapter 4 when he said when Jesus returns, some will be awake at his coming, some will be asleep that is those who have died in Jesus But whether you're awake or we're asleep, we should live together with him. That is God's plan. Jesus is coming to take his bride, the church, to be with him. That is God's plan in salvation. You know why God saved you? So that he can take you to be with him. To be with him in heaven, to live in eternal joy, to have you know our hearts filled with his presence and joy in heaven. And Paul says that's his plan. And notice finally the product of salvation. Look at verse 11. Final verse, and we're done. Wherefore, comfort yourselves together. And edify one another, even as also ye do. Paul says, Let this comfort you, let this encourage you, let this edify you, build one another up. How can this be encourag an encouragement and a comfort if What brings comfort is this Jesus is coming to take us to be with him. That's the comfort. That's the encouragement. That's what brings comfort. And this and the fact that we will meet our loved ones again there forever when Jesus comes, we'll there'll be a great reunion like we talked about last week where all of our loved ones who died in Christ will be reunited with them. The fact that we will not endure God's wrath, all these things bring us comfort And it should cause us to live a godly life, to faithfully do whatever He has assigned us or called us to do. It should strengthen us in the difficulties that we have in life. It should motivate us To win people to Jesus Christ. To tell others about Jesus Christ. Get your head out of the clouds of prophecy. Get your feet on the pavement of soul winning Tell other people. Stop trying to figure out when he's going to come back. Go tell somebody about Christ. Share Jesus with someone so that they can pray and trust Jesus and be saved. Just be ready. Just be ready. That's the whole message here of this. In Chicago, there is a well-known hotel called the Drake Hotel. And in July of 1959, Queen Elizabeth was visiting Chicago. And so elaborate preparations were being made for her visit to that city. And the and the government called out to the hotels in the area and said, look, just be ready because Queen Elizabeth is coming. And when they called the manager of the Drake Hotel And said to be ready. His response was, we're making no plans for the Queen. Our rooms are always ready for royalty. Always ready for royalty. And that should be how we live as Christians. We're always ready for royalty. We're always ready for the king to return. If Jesus were to come today, would you be ready? Would you be ready? Do you know? Do you have the helmet of the hope of salvation on? Do you have on your breastplate of faith and love? Are you alert, ready, living in the light, sober? Ready when Christ comes. That's what Paul said to these Thessalonians, and that's for us today. Let's bow for prayer together. And Father, again, we thank you for the wonderful hope of salvation that we have in Christ. We thank you for the truth of the Word of God. We know that our Savior Jesus Christ is coming again. We don't know when, but we know it's going to happen. And Father, you've called upon us just to be ready, to be ready for His return. That could happen at any time. In an hour that we think not, when they say peace and safety, then cometh sudden destruction. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that we are recipients of your mercy because of our faith and what you did for us on the cross. And I pray, Father, if there's someone here that has never been to the cross of Christ by faith, if they've never put their full faith in Jesus as Savior, that Lord, they would They would take very seriously to heart what the Word of God says. And that they would come to Christ this very moment. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to challenge you here today. I want to invite you, if you're not a believer, if you've never reached out in faith and asked Jesus to save you, I plead with you As a pastor, someone who loves your soul, don't put that decision off. Reach out in faith. You say, how do I do it? The Bible says, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You have to believe that Jesus is the Son of God, the virgin-born Son of God. You have to believe that he lived a sinless life. You have to believe that he died on the cross and he took all of your sins upon himself. And you have to believe that he bore God's wrath for you. And you have to believe that after three days he came out of that grave. He ascended to heaven and he's coming back again. And friend, if you believe that, you can reach out in faith and say, Jesus, save me. I want to be saved. I want you to forgive me for my sin. Save me. I repent. I turn from sin. I turn to you today, Jesus. Save me. Would you pray that right there? If you have never done that, right there the Lord will meet you right where you are. Right where you are, he'll meet you there. Would you pray that right now if you've never done that? And friend, it If you if that's your heart's desire and that's your prayer, would you just lift your hand? Because I want to pray for you. I want to know who you are. We want to encourage you in the faith. Anyone here say, Yeah, that's me. That's me. I'm putting my full faith and trust. in Christ. Alright, friends, just know this that even after we dismiss this service, we have ministers that are here that will talk to you, that will help you to affirm and know that you're a child of God. We want you to get this settled. Father, take your word and use it to every hearing heart today. We pray in Jesus' name