It's our privilege tonight to study God's Word, and I want you to go to Romans chapter fourteen. We continue our study in Romans. Romans chapter fourteen. And I want you to look at verse 12. We're going to be dealing with verses 12 down to verse 23 tonight And as we get into the subject here, I just want to remind you that we are now in the section of the book of Romans that is very practical. As you know, the first section was very doctrinal, and Paul described our great salvation. But now he is going to, which is the custom of Paul, after he's very doctrinal, he becomes very practical in how to apply all of salvation to our life. And in chapter 13, he kind of establishes a principle in chapter 13, verse 8, where he said, Owe no man anything but to love one another. For he that loveth another has fulfilled the law. And this is really the dominant principle that Paul is going to, that's really kind of taken over the rest of chapter 13 and really all of chapter 14, and we also could say chapter 15. It's learning how to practice love that we have one for another. One of the blessings of being is Christ is the Bible says that the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. And we don't really have to uh get love for one another. That's already given to us, right? It's a blessing to be in Christ, to be in God's house, and to have that supernatural love that God gives us to each other. It's a blessing But we have to learn how to practice it. We have to learn how to put it into daily life. And this is what Paul is going to uh is talking about really here in chapter 14. Because the church is made up of all kinds of people with all different types of background, uh different uh s social standings. uh different uh belief, a belief system. And a lot of times when we get saved, we bring that belief system into the church, some of the presuppositions perhaps that we held, we now bring all of that into the church. And while there is unity and love in the church, there's also incredible diversity. And sometimes the very thing that makes us strong could also, if we're not careful, create conflict in the church. The fact that we are so different in so many ways, even though we're unified, we have that oneness in Christ. And this is what Paul's dealing with here in the Church at Rome. Jewish believers and also Gentile believers, totally different cultural backgrounds. And yet they come together and now they're learning to live together in Christ. And he's and he's talking about really how to practice love with each other And the whole point of this section is that we as believers must be committed to loving each other and building each other up in Christ. And one of the ways that we do that is by limiting our liberty. Learning how to limit the liberty that we have in Christ. Now, I think you'll agree that as believers, we all have great liberty in Christ, right? Under the New Covenant, we are free from the outward requirements of the Old Testament law and the Old Covenant. We don't have those legalistic demands to contend with We are free to enjoy all of God's good gifts that He gives us. However, we're never free to sin As recipients of the blessings of the new covenant, we're free to enjoy all that God has provided without any restrictions in terms of non-moral issues. But as we enjoy this liberty, this freedom that we have in Christ, we have to be sure that we don't overstep that liberty, that we don't abuse that liberty, and for the sake of unity, we must be careful how we exercise it. We have to be careful about that. And we have to be willing, and here's the whole point of chapter 14. Even though we have all this great liberty now in Christ in the new covenant. We have to be willing to set aside that liberty for the purpose of the church, for the purpose of the kingdom, and just out of love that we have for other believers. Out of love, there are times when we should choose to abstain from certain things that we have the liberty to do. One commentator wrote it like this: He said, Our freedom has been given to us by God. Whether we exercise it is another matter. I'm free to do many things I would never do because I need to demonstrate my love for those who are weak. My liberty is vertical. I can enjoy my liberty in my heart before the Lord. But the exercise of my liberty is horizontal between myself and and another person, and that is limited by my love. And really in that one statement there, he kind of summarizes everything that Paul's trying to teach us here in Romans chapter 14. There's times when even though we have liberty, we want to limit that liberty. In other words, I don't want to do anything that's going to offend another believer, even though I might have the liberty to do it If that if what I do is going to offend you, then I'm not going to do it. I don't want to do it. I don't want to offend you. And and so I don't want to use the liberty I have to be an offense to anyone. Now, we know that in the church there's a broad array of opinions and beliefs and personal convictions that certain believers have that maybe other believers might not share. For example, there are some believers that think it's wrong to eat in a restaurant where they serve alcoholic beverages. And that's their conviction. They choose not to do that. Uh and there are other believers that feel like, you know, uh try to find a restaurant where they don't serve alcoholic beverages. Uh it's just kind of hard to find. You may as well not eat in any restaurant at all if that's your practice there But if a believer has that conviction, I'm not going and if they're offended at me by going to a restaurant like that, if I know that I'm offending them by doing that, then I'm going to want to limit my liberty because I don't want to be an offense to them And there's all kinds of things in the Christian life with respect to that. You know, some believers believe it's wrong to do any work on Sunday. They believe that you should treat Sunday. It is the new Sabbath, even though in Christ we fulfilled all the Sabbath. Christ is the fulfillment of it Yet there are some believers that think on Sunday it's a special day. You shouldn't play games, you shouldn't work. There are some believers believe you shouldn't watch television, you should just absolutely stare at the wall I'm just kidding. I don't mean to make fun. If I offended you by that, I'm sorry. That you just shouldn't do anything on Sunday, you should just rest. And then there are other things. You know, I remember when I was over in England, I was at a church and the pastor after the church said, I want to take you to my place and I want us to have some refreshments together. And he took me there and he gave me bread and cheese and he poured some wine. And I said, Alas, brother, I cannot. He said, Oh that's right, you're an American You're one of those American Christians. Where American Christians don't believe in uh partaking in alcoholic beverages. Um so I'm a teetotaler, I told him, I said, that's exactly right. Now believers over there. in Europe and London, they believe there's they have the liberty to do that as long as they uh drink in moderation, they feel the liberty to do that. Whereas perhaps believers here on this side of the Atlantic uh believe that abstinence is what God would require of us. And so these are just different areas in the Christian life. Where we have differences. And again, there are some believers that say, I believe I have the liberty to do all these things. And you may well have. But you might want to be careful how you exercise that liberty. You never want to abuse your liberty or use your liberty in a way that will cause hurt or harm to anyone else or the body of Christ. And that's what Paul teaches us. In fact, look at 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Look at verse number 12. When we think about this issue, we have to compare what Paul says to the Corinthians. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 12, where it says, All things are lawful unto me. But all things were not expedient. All things are lawful unto me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Now in the church of Corinth there were a group of believers that believed they had liberty. To do whatever they wanted as long as it was not crossing the line as this was a non moral issue, they had the liberty to do it Of course you don't have the liberty to sin, we know that. But within that, you know, having said that, there's a lot of leeway, there's a lot of liberty in the Christian life, and these believers at Corinth believed they had a lot of liberty. And so they kind of went around with this slogan, and they like to flaunt their liberty, all things are lawful. That was the slogan they loved to quote. In fact, this is not original with Paul. I think this is actually a slogan that came out of Greek philosophy All things are lawful. And Paul would come back with the yes but argument. Yeah, he said, but all things are not expedient. You might have a lot of liberty But not everything that you have the liberty to do is expedient for you or somebody else. You might want to limit that liberty a little bit Again in verse 12, all things are lawful for me, but I would not be brought under the power of any. You might have a lot of liberty, but you don't want any of these things to enslave you To control you. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Look down at verse number 23 and verse 24. Again, the same idea. All things are lawful for me. And again, but Paul says, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but all things edify not. And again, he's dealing with that slogan. You might like to tout and flaunt your liberty and say All things are lawful. Yeah, but not everything edifies. Not everything builds up. And as a Christian, I want to make sure That when I exercise my liberty, I'm doing it in a way when it doesn't tear anyone or anybody down, but on the rather it is building people up. And that's all part of loving Christians. It's part of part of loving the body of Christ. And they have may perhaps this little issue that really bothers them and maybe I'm doing you mean to tell me that I need to stop doing that? Well, yes. You are your brother's keeper. And if what you or I do causes another brother pain or in any way can hurt somebody else in the body of Christ, then we need not to do that thing. I can exercise my liber liberty vertically when it's just me and God, but publicly, horizontally when I'm around others, I want to be careful how I exercise the liberty I have in Christ. Again, I don't want to I don't want to abuse it. I don't want to hurt anyone in exercising my liberty. So chapter 14 is where in Romans is Paul talking about this issue of learning how to limit your liberty out of love for others. And what I want you to see here are just several principles on how to limit our liberty. Principles that we need to put to practice. And so here's the first one. Very simply, we need to determine not to be a source of stumbling I don't want to cause anyone else to stumble over me. So look down in verse number 12. So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God Verse 13, let us not therefore judge one another anymore, but judge this rather that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in his brother's way. And so when I do something, I want to ask the question, how will this affect my brother if he sees me doing this? Is it going to cause him harm? Is it going to cause him pain? Is it going to cause him to conflict with his own conscience? Is it going to set a bad example for him whereby he might disobey his own conscience about something and cause destruction later on in his Christian walk? I need to be careful about that. And again, Paul uh uh go back to 1 Corinthians. I uh we're kind of flipping back and forth, but go to 1 Corinthians chapter 8 because Paul kind of illustrates it even more in 1 Corinthians chapter 8. He gives an illustration of how this works. Look at chapter 8 verse 1. Now, as touching things offered to idols, we know that we all have knowledge, and knowledge puffs up, but charity edifies. And again, I think he's referring to a group in the church that believed they had liberty to eat meat sacrificed to idols, and this was the issue There were some believers that would go to the marketplace and they would buy this meat sacrificed to idols, and they they thought there was nothing wrong with it. In fact, this meat sacrifice to idols may be reduced in price. And so they thought they were being a good steward of God's resources and paying a reduced price for the meat. Now, the reason that was sacrificed to idols is because in Greek pagan belief, they believed that a demon spirit could attach itself to an animal or meat or something like that. And so for them, they believe that in order to have that meat cleansed of that spirit, they would have to sacrifice that meat unto their God, their idol, and that God would therefore cleanse the meat of any foul spirits that might be in it Now as a Christian, you're saved out of that, and you believe that none of that is any uh has any relevance to it. As a Christian, now you understand that there's only one God These false gods are not real. You have knowledge. This is what Paul says. I know there are some of you in the church of Corinth, and you have this knowledge. But look at verse number two. He kind of rebukes him. He said, If any man think that he knows anything, he knows nothing yet as he ought to know. But if any man love God, the same is known of him. And as concerning therefore the eating of these those things that are offered and sacrificed unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world. And that there is none other God but one, for though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or earth, or there be gods many and lords many, but to us there is one God, the Father, of whom are all things And we in him in one Lord Jesus Christ by whom are all things, and we by him. Paul says, you know, I know we all have this knowledge. Now I'm thinking he's talking to perhaps the mature believers in the church, and he says, I know there's a group of you there in the church at Corinth, and you have this knowledge. I know that you understand that these false gods are not real. I know that you believe that there's only one God, the one God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ, and you have this knowledge. And you know there's nothing to this meat sacrifice to idols. And so you are free in your conscience to go ahead and buy that meat at perhaps a reduced price and go ahead and eat that meat because you have knowledge. And by the way, they were probably flaunting that. There were probably believers in the church that's saying you're buying meat sacrificed items. Oh yeah, but we have knowledge. We know certain things. That's why it doesn't bother us. But Paul says, you know, knowledge does what? It puffs up. Charity, on the other hand, what? Edifies. Charity builds up. You may have knowledge, you might be mature, you may have gone past this, and your conscience feels free to go ahead and buy that meat But there are some that don't feel that way. Look at verse 7. Howbeit there is not in every man that what? That knowledge. For some with conscience of the idol, unto this hour, eat it as a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience being weak is what? It's defiled So if a a younger believer, just saved out of that pagan background, still believes that there's something to all of that, and for him it would be an issue of his conscience, he believes that he needs to stay away from all of that. And for him to eat meat sacrificed to an idol, he believes it's wrong. He believes that's a sin. So to him it is a sin. And for him to eat meat sacrificed idols, if he did that, he would defile, he would hurt his own conscience. And you don't want a believer to do that. So, as a believer stronger in the Lord that knows there's nothing to that, I don't want him to see me doing it and for him to follow my example. And go against his conscience. And by doing that, I'm teaching him to ignore his conscience. That conscience, by the way, is a tool that God uses in our fight against sin, in our sanctification process, if your conscience isn't working correctly, it could upset this whole process. of sanctification in your life. And if I do anything to cause a younger believer to go against their conscience, I'm not helping them. I'm not edifying them. So I don't want to set a bad example. And this is what Paul is saying It might not be anything wrong to you, but to this other brother, there's something wrong. Look at verse number 10. For if any man see thee which has knowledge, Sit at meat in the idol's temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols? And verse 11, and through thy knowledge, I think Paul's a little sarcastic there. Those of you that have this knowledge, those of you that are so smart, so mature. Through your knowledge shall the weaker brother perish for whom Christ died? Are you willing in all of your scholarly knowledge to allow Your freedom to be used in a way that would cause a weaker brother in Christ to ignore their conscience and then thereby perish? Would you be willing to sin so against your brother in that way? And of course, you would say, no, I don't want to do that. If you truly love your brother, you don't want to exercise your liberty in a way that would hurt anyone in the church And so this is what Paul's saying, determine not to be a source of stumbling. I don't want to cause anyone to stumble over me. It was once said of Charles Spurgeon at the height of his fame. He believed it was okay for him to smoke cigars. Again, this is over in Victorian, England. eighteenth uh 19th century there in Victorian England and uh he believed that there was nothing wrong with uh smoking a cigar And uh in fact he said at one point, I like to cultivate my flowers and burn my weeds. And that was what he said to someone that said to us something about it to him. And then Spurgeon one day when he was on a carriage riding through London saw a billboard sign that said, we sell the cigar that Spurgeon smokes. And when he read that, he was pricked in his heart and realized that his liberty could be a stumbling block to someone else. And so he stopped it. He said, I can't do this. You see, he came to see that what was freedom for him might cause others to stumble. And the same is true as us. We need to be careful about this. So number one Determined not to be a source of stumbling. But here's number two. Determined to maintain your liberty, but don't grieve your brother. Go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 14. This doesn't mean we have to give up our liberty Look at verse number 14. I know and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself, but to him that esteemeth anything to be unclean, to him it's unclean. Verse 15, but if thy brother be greed with thy meat, now walkest thou not charitably? Destroy not him with thy meat for whom Christ died. Now, Paul says, look, I know. I'm persuaded of the Lord Jesus there's nothing unclean with eating this meat that may be sacrificed to idols. I know that there's nothing wrong with that. And I think Paul emphasizes that he learned this from the Lord Himself. He was pretty persuaded about what he could do, his freedom in Christ. And he knew knew that, you know, his un he understood his freedom and he knew that he could enjoy this liberty at the right time and at the right place. But again, while he could maintain his liberty on the one hand He was very careful not to grieve his brother on the other hand. And so there's a balance really that we have to walk in the Christian life. On one hand, we can maintain our liberty and practice things that we don't feel bound to. We have the freedom to practice on one hand, but on the other hand Again, I don't want to grieve anyone else. R. Ken Hughes says exercising Christian liberty is very much like walking a tightrope. As you walk the type robe he says with a balancing pole in one hand and at what at the on what one end there of the pole there's love for others, and on the other end of the pole he says there is Christian liberty, and we're balancing these two out I have liberty, but I also have love for others, and I want to balance those two things out as I practice the Christian life Martin Luther had it right when he said on the freedom of the Christian man, he said this A Christian man is the most free Lord of all, subject to none. And then he said, a Christian man is a most dutiful servant of all, subject to all. And that's so true. So Paul says, you know, we don't want to grieve your brother. or our brother with our actions. Look at verse 15. He says something very strong in verse 15 where he says, destroy not him with thy meat. Very strong statement there. The word destroy is a word that means to ruin, a very serious word. It's translated in scripture to be pi to mean perish sometimes. It can have several meanings. It can mean damnation or hell. Obviously that's not what Paul's talking about here. It can mean death I don't think that's what Paul means here either, but it could also mean spiritual loss. And I think this is the idea of how Paul is using it. Another believer can, by watching you and beginning to follow that example and go against their own conscience, they can experience a loss of reward, a spiritual loss. He could perhaps defile his conscience and suffer guilt. And then there's a lack of peace. He would lose his joy They might even lose their effectiveness in the Christian life because they're now in this pattern of living that is not good for them. They could leave the church. They could harden their own conscience because they've learned to ignore it. And by doing that, Paul says you can cause your brother to perish. So here's a third principle. Not only is that determined to maintain your liberty, but don't grieve your brother, but also number three, determine to maintain a good testimony. And Paul says this, look at verse 16. Let not then your good be what? Be evil spoken of. You don't want whatever you do that is good to be evil spoken of. And then verse 17, For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. For he that in these things serveth Christ is acceptable to God and approved of men. And in verse 18, when he says that the church is to be approved of men, that's a reference to people in general, not just to believers. In other words, here's the point. Did you know that the world is watching us, the church? And what are they looking at? They're looking at how we treat each other, how we love each other, or how we do not love each other. If we love each other, it's a great testimony. If we don't practice love for each other, it is a stain on the church. And we're not approved of men, is the way Paul put it here. Just write down 1 Peter 2. 15. So is the will of God that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Peter is talking about unbelievers that are prone to criticize the body of Christ. prone to criticize the church and Peter says, You want to put them to silence. How? By your well doing, by doing good And how do you do that? He says in verse 16, as free, listen, not using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness. You don't want to abuse your liberty. The world is watching you. If you want to silence the critics by your life, don't abuse your freedom. Don't use it as an excuse to indulge or cover your own sin. And so he says, let not your good The evil spoken of. What's the good that he's referring to? I think he has all that salvation provides. All the blessings, the goodness of enjoying everything that God has given us. That's all good But you don't want the enjoying of all those blessings and all that good in any way to be evil spoken of. And so here's the thing. You want the world to see you being your brother's keeper. You want the world to see you loving. other brothers and sisters in Christ, even to the point that you're willing to put aside your own rights, your own privileges, your own liberties. You're even willing to make sacrifices For your brother or sister in Christ, because when the world sees that, that's a good testimony. That's something that glorifies God. And again, this is a principle that Paul gave. Again, go back to 1 Corinthians. You know, we're kind of going back and forth, aren't we? Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 10 because Paul illustrates it here again. I want you to see it Actually, chapter 10, verse 27. Now he's talking about the same thing, but he's going to illustrate it here. Notice what he says in verse 27. If any of them that believe not bid you to a feast Here you are, you're a believer, and an unbeliever invites you to their house to a feast. And then he says in verse 27, and ye be disposed to go. I want to go to this. I want to go And so here you are being invited to an unbeliever's house. They invite you in. And verse 27, whatever is set before you, eat, asking no question for conscience' sake. So here it is. They said whatever they set in front of you, this is a biblical exhortation. You eat it. Don't ask any questions. Just eat it. Alright? No problem here. I normally don't have a problem with that. Don't ask any questions for conscience sake. You know, in other words, you don't need to ask where did you get this meat? Where'd it come from? Uh you didn't happen to get it at the Agora, did you? The meat market. Was it sacrificed to an idol? No, you don't ask any questions. If you're at an unbeliever's home, they've invited you in. Whatever they set in front of you, you just eat it. You want to make a connection with them, obviously. You want to befriend them so that you can do what? You can share Christ with them, right? You want them to come to Christ. So you're there. They set something in front of you, meat in front of you. You're going to eat it. There's no question in your mind. But look at verse 28. But if any man said unto you, now here you have another believer perhaps with you in the house, maybe it's a weaker brother, but if any man said to you, this is offered in sacrifice unto idols So here you're at the house, you're getting ready to indulge. This is uh mission barbecue, man. This is this is good stuff. This is uh this is really good barbecue here. You're getting ready to jump in and uh A weaker brother next to you kind of elbows you. It kind of says kind of out of the side of his mouth, this is meat has been sacrificed to idols. We can't eat this. So now you're in a dilemma. What are you going to do? You can either offend the unbeliever or you can offend the weaker brother So which one do you choose? Who do you want to offend in this situation? Now some of you might say, well, I would just offend a weaker brother and tell him no, you know, wise up. You know, stop being such a prude But that would be the wrong choice. Because look what Paul says in verse 28. If any man say unto you, this is offered in sacrifice unto idols, eat not for his sake that showed it. And for conscience' sake, for the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. Conscience I say, not thine own, but of the other, for why is my liberty judged of another man's conscience? And so he says, you know, if he points this out to you, you don't eat it. You don't eat it. You offend the unbeliever rather than the weaker brother. You say, why? Why would you do that Because here's the thing that you want to show this unbeliever. That love overrules everything. That in Christ I love my brother so much. That if doing this causes me an offense to him, I'm not going to do it. And I want that unbeliever to show the love that we have in Christ. I want him to show that love. And I don't want to forfeit my witness. If that unbeliever sees me, say to my brother, oh man, you know, would you would you stop it? Would you just relax? Shame on you. Well then that other uh that unbeliever is seeing me treat a brother in Christ in a manner that is unworthy. And we forfeit our witness by overdoing our liberty. And we offend our brother and we give the unbeliever a wrong idea of Christianity. That unbeliever needs to see your love. The world doesn't need to see how free we are. The world needs to see how much we love one another. That's the point. And so this is what Paul's saying. Go back to Romans 14. That's why he says in verse 18, for he That in these things serveth Christ is acceptable to God and approved of men. And again, this is men in general. If people see you willing to limit your liberty out of love. They not only does it please God, not only is it approved of Christ, accepted of God, but it is approved of men. Even the world will look and say Behold how they love one another. See that love that is there in Christ. And then Paul goes on to say, back up to verse 17, for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink. It's not all about what you eat and what you drink. That's not what the kingdom is about. What's it about? It's about righteousness. It's about holy living. It's about obeying the Lord. It's about peace. It's about having peace with God. And peace with your fellow believer. It's about joy. And someone who's right with God and at peace with his brothers will have joy. And we want the watching world to see Christians as those who are righteous, those who are at peace with one another, those who are filled with joy. And that way they will be drawn to the beauty of this love that we have for one another in Christ. That's Paul's whole point there And by the way, the Apostle Paul many times he practiced this very thing. You think Paul didn't limit his liberty? Okay, go back to 1 Corinthians. This will be the last time, I promise you. Go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. Because Paul's going to use himself as an example. Paul's not preaching something and then practicing something else. Because look what he says in chapter 9, verse 1. Am I not an apostle? Of course you are, Paul. Am I not free? He's absolutely free. Have I not seen Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? All that is true And if I be not an apostle unto others, yet doubtless I am to you, for the seal of mine apostleship is that you're in the Lord. You want to know whether I'm really an apostle? You guys are safe. You're walking in the Lord And my answer to them that examine me is this have we not power to eat and to drink? Have we not power to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as others, apostles, and as for brethren of the Lord and Cephas Or I only, and Barnabas, have not we power to forbear working. Who goeth a warfare at any time at his own charge? Who plants a vineyard and eateth not the fruit thereof? And who feedeth a flock and eateth not the milk of the flock? In other words, what was Paul doing? He was answering a criticism that they were labeling against him. What was the criticism? Well, Paul doesn't take our money. He's too uppity to take our money. And Paul says, you know, my answer is this: I have the freedom to do what I want. I have the freedom to take your money. I have the freedom to do a lot of things. But I don't do them. I don't do everything I have the freedom to do. Don't I have the freedom to marry a wife and bring her with me? Just like Peter? Of course you do. Do I have the freedom to not work and take money from you instead of working with my hands, building tents, fixing tents and everything like that? Can I forbear working and take money from you? Do I have the freedom to do that Of course you do, Paul. After all, he gives some illustration. Who goes to war at any time at his own charge? When a soldier goes to war, who pays his fare? Is it the government or does he have to pay his own way? The government pays for him To war. Who plants a vineyard and doesn't eat the fruit thereof? Any farmer ever plant a vineyard and never eat any of the grapes himself And he goes on to continue along this way. In other words, Paul is saying, look, I have the freedom to do all of these things. I have the freedom to take your money. I have the freedom to do a lot of these things, but I choose to limit My freedom. I don't always do all the things that I'm free to do. Why, Paul? Because I want to preach the gospel in a way That in no way gives the wrong impression. Paul didn't want to take money because he didn't want the people at Corinth to confuse him with one of those teachers of wisdom that go out and spout rhetoric for sordid gain. Paul said, I don't want to associate with that group. So I'll go ahead and work on my own. I don't want you to feel like the gospel is chargeable. Look at verse 19 what he says. For though I be free from all men Yet I have made myself what? Servant unto all. Why? That I might gain the more. And the word for servant there is the Greek word doulos. And it's always translated slave. Paul says, I'm free. I'm free from all men. I have the liberty to do what I want, but I've made myself the slave of all men. I've limited my liberty so much that I'm a slave to all. Why? That I might gain the more. So I can win on the Christ, that's why. And verse 20, and unto the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews. To them that are under the law is under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law. To them that are without the law, as without the law, not being without the laws of God, but under the laws of Christ, that I might gain them that are without the law. To the weak I became as weak, that I might gain the weak. I've made I have made all things to all men that I might by all means what? Save some. And so whatever context Paul is in He will choose to fit himself in that cultural context and limit his liberties so not to as to offend anyone so that he can give them the gospel. And he can win them. So Paul says, I'm limiting my liberties all the time. I do it all the time out of love for others. I'm not asking you to do something that I don't already do. And so let me go back to Romans fifteen. We only have a few minutes left. Let me give you the the fourth fifth one real quick We said, determine not to be a source of stumbling. Verse 13. Determine to maintain your liberty, but not grieve your brother. Verse 14 and 15. Determine to maintain a good conscience. Verses 16 to 19. Or good testimony, rather. Number four, determined to never do anything that would hurt the work of God. The work of God. Look at verse 20. For meat destroyeth not the work of God. For meat destroy not the work of God. And meet here could just stand for anything that you feel like you have the liberty to do. And what is the work of God? He's not talking about the church building. You know what the work of God is? It's an individual believer. When a person is saved, they are the workmanship of God. They're the work of God. And you by abusing your liberty, you can't hurt the building. But you hurt the believer. That believer is the work of God. You don't want to do anything to hurt that work of God, Paul said. Look at verse 21. It is good neither to eat flesh nor drink wine nor anything whereby thy brother stumbleth or is offended or is made weak. You don't want to do that. Let me go on the number five quickly. Determine never to flaunt your liberty. Never flaunt it. Look at verse 22. He says really this is a word for the stronger believer. Hast thou faith? He's talking to the more mature. You have faith, you mature believers? Have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth not him in that thing which he alloweth. In other words, if you have faith, you have liberty, you can practice that yourself before God. In your own personal and private life, you have that liberty. Go ahead and practice that liberty without feeling self-condemned or guilty. But then he gives a word for the weaker brother. Look at verse 23. And he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth not of faith, and whatsoever is not of faith is sin. If there is a weaker brother that feels by doing this thing of eating meat It will it's wrong. You can't do it in faith. You can't do it with a conviction that it's good, it's okay, it's right. And if you can't do it with that conviction, if you can't do it in faith, then don't do it. Because if you do do that, you're doing the wrong thing. Because whatever is not of faith is sin. For you to do that and defile your conscience, to disobey your conscience in that matter, then you are sinning. You don't want to get into that pattern of living. And so this is Paul's instruction to us on how to limit our liberty, our liberty. The weaker brother might limit their liberty just out of obeying their conscience. And by the way, the conscience might later be informed. You know, the conscience doesn't provide its own light. It has to be given light. I like to compare the component the conscience to a judge. You know, a judge on the inside of us. The judge will either declare us guilty or not guilty But the judge can only make a proper judgment if they're given the proper information. And a conscience can declare you guilty about something to which you may not be guilty, but the conscience is only acting on the information or the values that you have Given it. And the way a weaker brother learns to be free on things that perhaps previously in their Christian life they didn't feel free about is by simply studying the Word of God and growing in Christ. And as you study God's word and grow in Christ, and as a stronger brothers and sisters in the Lord, disciple perhaps a newer weaker believer and teach them lovingly the word of God, that weaker brother might grow more to the point to where they see that perhaps something previously they thought to be wrong is actually there's nothing wrong with it That they have the liberty in Christ to do it. As long as they can do it in a way that doesn't tear down somebody else, they can glorify God by doing that. And so this is what Paul teaches us. And let me just end with the words of the great church theologian Augustine, who said, he really summed it up like this: He said, in essentials, unity. In the essentials of the faith, we need to have unity together. In non-essentials, liberty. In the non-essentials, we need to practice liberty with one another, but in all things, charity, in all things, love. Let love trump everything. And I have my love for someone else, that's going to control what I do and what I don't do. And that's that's the point. Let the world see our love, our radical love for one another. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, help us to practice these things. I thank you, Lord, that grace is a church of loving believers. Where love is practiced. And Lord, I see it. It's a blessing. I see the love of Christ on display. Every time we're together, every service, I see the interaction and the love, and it's a wonderful thing. And I pray, Lord, that we'll continue to do that. And I pray that we will learn these principles that will only enhance the love that we have for one another, that we'll love each other more. And that, Lord, the world will see it and they'll be drawn to Christ when they see our love. We live in a world that is so divisive. And if we're not careful, we can allow some of that divisive spirit to enter in the church. Lord, guard us from that. Let that not be in this place. Keep your hand a blessing on us. And may we practice this love. May we owe no man anything but to love. One another. And we pray all of this in Jesus' name, Amen