Would you take God's word this morning and open please to 1 Peter chapter 4? We've been doing selected passages in 1 Peter, but come to chapter 4, and I want you to look at verse 7. And I want to read verse 7 down to verse 11 with you. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please? 1 Peter 4, verse 7 down to verse 11. But the end of all things is at hand. Be therefore sober and watch unto prayer And above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without grudging. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. And if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Thank you, you may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, we uh thank you for your word. And we thank you that Lord, we we do have an ancient book that gives us truth. And may we hear it, may we be submissive to it, may we apply it to our life and be blessed. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. According to an article written by Time magazine, astrophysicists say that now they can finally tell us uh the approximate time when everything will come to an end and how how this universe will end. Of course they according to science it started with a big bang and now they talk about the big burnout Things are going to end, according to this article, in about ten thousand trillion, trillion, trillion, trillion, trillion, trillion, trillion, trillion years. So, since none of us are going to be here at that time, they tell us that between the Big Bang and the Big Burnout, there's time unimaginable to enjoy life. Well, there is another opinion, however, about the N, and uh I think it's more reliable than science. It comes from the Scripture. And it comes from Peter. He's not an astrophysicist, but he's a simple fisherman, turned apostle. And he writes under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. And he says in verse number seven, but the end of all things is at hand. The Greek word here at hand, uh a gezo, which simply means it's it's coming near, it's approaching. It's very close. It's not going to be trillions and trillions of years away. Peter said, no, it's very near. It is at hand. This is a perfect tense verb in the Greek, which simply means it was something that was settled in the past. with continuing results in the presence. And so we can think of it like this. God in has already settled in the in the past when the end is going to be. God knows when that is going to be. It's already been settled. And we are getting closer and closer to that day, to that time, when he knows what he says when the end of all things, that's to say the end of human history. God's already determined it. We're getting closer to it. It's not far off. Today we're closer than we were yesterday. Tomorrow will be closer still. Each day that passes by, we get closer and closer to the end of all things. And Peter says in his day, it's at hand. Now if it was close in Peter's day, how much closer is it today? It's later than it's ever been. It's like the farmer who had an old grandfather clock and one night it malfunctioned and it chimed thirteen times, fourteen times, and he sat up in bed and he said to his wife, It's later than it's ever been We can honestly say as we look out in the world today, it's later than it has ever been. Peter is telling us that we're living in the last days. In fact, the last days were inaugurated at the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ on this side of the cross. That began the time that the Scripture calls the last days. The Apostle Paul, when he was writing to Corinthians, said this, now all things happen unto them for examples are written unto us. Listen to this, upon whom the ends of the world are come. Paul says, we here in this era, on this side of the cross, we are living in an era that he calls the ends of the world. John said this, little children, it's the last time. As you have heard, Antichrist shall come. Even now there are many Antichrists whereby we know it's the last. John in his day was saying, it's the last days, and there are Antichrists all around us. And John was perhaps remembering the words of the Lord Jesus that he spoke. There on the Mount of Olives just before he uh would be crucified later that week when he gathered the disciples together there on the Mount of Olives. And they asked him the question, Lord, how do how do we know when the end is going to be? And Jesus gave them certain signs. And you remember as we were going through the Gospel of Mark, we pointed out some of these signs, but One of the signs that Jesus gave was deception. Jesus said, Many are going to come in my name and say, I am Christ. Are we seeing that happen in our world today? Many, many people coming forward saying deceiving others, claiming to be Christ. Jesus also said there will be division. You'll hear wars and rumors of wars. Certainly we've seen that in the 21st century. We've already seen many, many wars, and they keep coming with greater frequency as we are in these days. And he also said there's going to be famines Have we seen that? Yes, in the twenty-first century I read w already we have had more families in the first part of this century than in any part of the the the human history uh in the time frame that in which we've lived in the first part of this century. Then disease, pestilence. Jesus said there'll be the rise of diseases. And the World Health Organization has borne witness to that. They say that there are constantly new diseases that science, the community there, the scientific community is detecting, recognizing. All the the viruses and the bacteria and so on. And then Jesus also said there will be earthquakes in diverse places. And we've seen that as well. These are all the signs That Jesus said were going to happen. Now, friend, I look around, I I I see the signs. I'm not uh like one preacher said, I'm not uh looking for the signs anymore, I'm listening for the shout The shout that says, Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him. But the question is, knowing that we're in these last days, how are we to live? And this is really what Peter is speaking to here. What are we to do that we're now that we're living in these days? And what we see in our passage today are Three basic commands that Peter's going to give us that will help us as we live in these last days. And I want you to notice the first one is be focused in prayer. Notice what he says again in verse 7, but the end of all things As it is at hand, be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. Two commands here. First of all, be sober. And then watch under prayer. The words be sober here, one word in the Greek, which means be of sound mind, be reasonable. Guard your mind, we could say. It's this idea of not being swayed by uh emotion, not be driven out of hand by your emotion as we think about these last days. We have to admit that as we look around, uh there has been that tendency for some who when they think about the last days and we're living in the last days, people are given to all kind of fads. We've heard about that in history, right? We heard about people that quit their job and they go out and they live in a mountain so they can be closer when the Lord comes, when the rapture comes, they can be closer to heaven, as if it's going to be a problem for the Lord, you know. To to pull them out of a valley or off the plane, you know. They want to help the Lord out and be closer. I was reading about a certain group of people that followed the evangelist William Miller who predicted that the world would come to an end, Jesus would come back on April the third in eighteen forty-three. And back then the reporters had a field day. Many of the followers of Miller called Millerites, they waited on the tops of mountains Others were in graveyards planning to ascend with their loved ones. They waited by the graveside of their loved ones. And uh when April 4th came and nothing happened, they were disillusioned. This is not what God wants us to do. That's not what we're to do. The Bible in the New Testament tells us don't set dates Don't sit around and do nothing and wait. Don't be filled with headline hysteria, running around like glorified chicken little, saying, you know, the sky is falling, the end of the world is coming. Knowing that the Lord is going to come back should not cause us to be to lose control and to do crazy things and to be part of these kind of fads. In fact, Peter said, knowing this That the all the end of all things is at hand, we should be sober. We should be in control. In fact, the Bible is very clear How we are to live knowing that we are living in the last days and that Jesus is going to come. Write down a few verses. Romans 13, 11. saying this knowing the time that is now it is high time to awake out of sleep for now is our salvation nearer than when we first believed The night is far spent, the day is at hand, let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering Here's the Apostle Paul, and he's saying the sa exact same thing, knowing that we're closer now To the coming of the Lord, what should our response be? We cast off the works of darkness. That is, we are to live a godly, holy life, we put on the Lord Jesus Christ trying. You better make sure you know Jesus as your Savior. You better make sure you put on Jesus Christ, that He's your salvation, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. We don't say we're going to get all the gusto we can because we know the world is coming to an end. No. As believers, what we say is we're going to live as holy, as godly a life as we can, knowing that our Lord is going to come. And knowing that when he comes, we should not be ashamed of the way that we're living when the Lord comes. shall be dissolved. He's talking about when the Lord recreates this world. Did you know that God's going to take this old world and it's all going to burn with fire? You talk about global warming. Wait till God's done with it. Peter said, all these things are going to dissolve. This is what's going to happen when the Lord returns. What manner of person ought ye to be? Knowing that the world will end one day, Jesus will come back, he will wrap up his redemptive plan. Human history will come to an end. There'll be a new creation. All this that we have that we hold dear is going to be burned with fire. It's going to dissolve. Knowing that this is going to happen, he asks this question, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness, that is a holy lifestyle, living a godly life. That's the answer there. He says we live according to his promise. We look for new heavens and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Wherefore, my beloved, seeing that you look for such things, be diligent that you be found in of him in peace, without spot and blemish. So this is this is the answer Peter says here that knowing this, we are to live peaceful lives. We're to live righteous lives without spot, without blemish. We just live for Christ We live a an exemplary life before the watching world. One time they came to Martin Luther and asked him, What would you do if you knew that the end was today? And Martin Luther said, I would plant a tree and I would pay my taxes. And what he meant simply by that statement is you just we should live every day as if it was the last day, but we should live exemplary lives. As God's people in this world. And so Peter is telling us, be sober, therefore. And then he says, this: watch in verse 7 unto prayer. Watch means be alert, pray. He used a similar expression when he said, gird up the loins of your mind. Get serious here about prayer. You know one thing, knowing that the Lord is going to come, you know one thing it should do for us, it should cause us to want to pray more And to pray fervently, you say, pray for what? Well I'll tell you one thing, I want to pray for my loved ones that don't know Jesus. I want them to come to Christ. And I want to pray for their soul. I want all my family on board the ark when this flood of judgment comes. So we should be praying for them. We should be praying for the lost. And Peter says you need to get serious about this matter of prayer when you come before God. You know, so many times when we pray, Uh uh maybe it's just you, but sometimes I feel like that I'm so weak in my prayers that even my prayers sometimes are a shame and a sin in the manner in which I do it. And I need the help of the Holy Spirit of God When I pray. Sometimes when we pray our minds are cluttered. That ever happened to you? Every time I get out my prayer list, the devil reminds me of my to-do list. He doesn't want me praying. He wants he doesn't want you praying either, by the way. When you get on your knees, you start praying, all of a sudden your mind is, oh you know, I gotta do this. I gotta do this. The devil is good at reminding me of things I have to do. I forgot. What I'm praying. My mind is cluttered, or perhaps careless. One man wrote this: He said, I throw myself down in my chamber and I call in and invite God and his angels thither. And when they are there I neglect God and his angels for the noise of a fly or the whining of a door. Aren't we that way? The least little thing distracts us, or sometimes our hearts are cold, and we've lost our passion and our desire for prayer to really seek the Lord. Well, Peter says here, you need to be serious and be focused in prayer. But here's the second thing. Living in the last days, not only should we be focused in prayer, but we should be fervent with respect to our love. Look in verse number 8. And above all things, have fervent charity among yourselves For charity shall cover a multitude of sins. Now, 1 Peter talks about our vertical relationship with God. We should be focused in prayer. Now he's talking about our horizontal relationship with other believers. If we're living in the last days, there's something that we need to do, and that is we need to be fervent in loving one another Now you have to remember that Peter was writing to a group of believers that were going through severe persecution under Rome, and part of that persecution was dividing believers there in the church. Rome was throwing out all kinds of lies about Christianity and Christians and some were believing those lies and it was causing division among God's people. In the church. And by the way, let me just say this. You know, the world would love to divide the church. The world would love to see the church at naught. Arguing, disputing one another. They glory in that sort of thing. Don't let the world tear the church apart. Don't let the world divide the church. That's what Rome was doing. And Peter said, look, you need to have fervent love one for another. You know, the Bible tells us that in the end of the age love will grow cold. Love will be at an all-time low. Jesus said this in Matthew 24, 12. It's one of the signs, and because of the of iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. There will be a lack of love. Paul said this, knowing this, he said in 2 Timothy 1 3 1 that in the last days perilous times shall come, for men shall be lovers of their own selves. There will be this narcissistic self-love. But there will be not love for others without natural affection towards others. And so therefore Peter says we need to stoke the fires of love. For one another. In fact, I call this the priority of love. Look again in verse 8 where he says, and above all things, that's a big priority. Peter says, above all things, love. one another. So he puts it right there at the top. Have fervent charity. Above all. The Bible tells us in 1 Corinthians 16, 14, Let all that you do be done in love. There's no replacement for love in the church. Right? Theology is good, but it that's not a substitute for loving one another. And by the way, if your theology is right, you will love one another. Religious works are no substitute. Nothing is a substitute for love. We have no excuse for not loving each other. Because when we got saved, you know what happened? The Bible says the Holy Spirit shed the love of God abroad in our hearts. And yet there's also a sense where the New Testament teaches, even though this is a natural Byproduct, I should say supernatural byproduct of being in Christ. We just have a love for one another. There's also a sense in which the Bible tells us it's our duty to guard that love and to continue to work for that love. So we're told to pursue love, 1 Corinthians 4. 1. We are to put on love, Colossians 3. 14, to increase and abound in love, 1 Thessalonians 3. 12. To be sincere in love, 2 Corinthians 8. 8, to be unified in love, Philippians 2-2, be fervent in love, 1 Peter 4-8 To stimulate one another to love, Hebrews 10, 24. And the word for fervent here is an athletic term, which means to stretch out, to give all You know, we used to say playing sports, you know, leave it all in the field, give it all you got. That's the idea behind this word here. Give everything you have, make all effort. to love because of what's going on in the world. Now how how do we Do this, have what does it look like? We w we see the priority of love, but notice the practice of love. Peter tells us in verse Eight, above all things have fervent charity for yourselves. Watch this for charity, right? That is love shall cover the multitude of sins. You know how Love is exemplified, and one way it's exemplified is just by forgiving. Forgiving others. Forgiving people, for love shall cover a multitude of sins. You know, it's easy to love people when they don't sin against you. But when people uh uh sin against you or they insult you or whatever, that's when it becomes a little bit harder And Peter here says, look, real biblical love is demonstrated by the willingness to forgive those who have wronged us or who have sinned against us. And Peter here is quoting from an Old Testament proverb, Proverbs 10, 12. And it just simply means I freely forgive others when they offend me, when they sin against me, when they when they hurt me. I respond not by holding a grudge, but I forgive them unconditionally. I just let that go Now, you've heard me speak about forgiveness before. There are times when the scripture makes clear that sometimes our forgiveness has to be conditional. And in those cases, it's when a person is committing a sin against me, but that sin is actually hurting them. And they are on a destructive pattern of of things that they're doing in their own life, which will ultimately either disgrace the name of Christ or hurt them. And in those cases, I have to confront that person in love I have to be conditional because I want them to break off from that pattern. I don't want them to hurt their self. I don't want them to hurt Others, I don't want them to hurt the name of Christ. And in certain cases, then my love has to be conditional. And the Bible speaks about those specific cases. But other than that When it's against me, you know what my response is? I just forgive unconditionally. That's the biblical pattern. I call this the default mode. Unconditional, unilateral, free, forgiveness, love covers a multitude of sins. So if someone insults me, I just automatically forgive it. If someone does something to make me angry, I just overlook it. Just forget it. I love you and I'm going to overlook that And that's the way we are to be to one another, Peter says. Love covers a multitude of sins because let's face it, in a church where you get to know people, there's going to be someone who does something at some point to offend you. Because we're all sinners. And sometimes it's it's it's unintentional. Look, I I know at times I've offended people, but it's not been my intention to do that Um if you're mad at me for something, just forgive me. I'm at some point going to do something to irritate you or make you mad. I'm a sinner. I wish I could say that I'm perfect, I'm close, but Actually, I'm not close. That that statement just revealed how far away I was from it. But somewhere along the line I'm going to do something to to offend you. Please forgive me. And by the way, don't come up to me and say, You know what, you really made me angry because you sinned against me. I just want you to know I forgive you. Please don't do that Just forgive me. I don't want you to put that in my mind. So now I'm wondering what did I do? And now I'm mad at you for saying that to me. Just forgive me. That's what it means when it says love covers a multitude of sins. It overlooks it. We are living in a world today where society is telling us don't forgive. Hold a grudge. Be vengeful. That's not the Christian way. That's not the biblical way. Peter says as believers, we forgive We have love for one another, so love overcomes those multitude of sins. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 13, 5. That love thinketh no evil. What that means, the Greek word there logisomi actually means to take in account. It's the word that means to place on a ledger Because sometimes when people do s does something uh against us to offend us or hurt us, w our tendency is to put it in a ledger book in our heart And we take account of it with the idea that, you know what, we're gonna get back, we're gonna we're gonna get revenge. And so we add up all the ledger of our heart, of all the people that have offended us, in some way we calculate how we're going to make them pay. You're going to pay for what you did to me. You're going to pay for what you said to me. And there's aggressive ways to take revenge. There could be gossip, criticism, condemnation, angry harsh words, physical attacks sometimes Dishonesty, stealing, lying, using our resources to hurt someone. Then there are passive ways that we take revenge, ignoring them, feeling proud or self-righteous, withholding love But the Bible says love doesn't act that way. Not for believers. What does the Bible say? Love bears all things? Love endures all things. In fact, there's a word in the New Testament, sometimes we pass over it when Paul's giving a list of virtues, but it's the word forbearance. You know what forbearance means? It means we put up with each other. We put up with each other. We overlook things. Colossians 3. 13, forbearing one another. Forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do Ye, this is unconditional forgiveness. It means that the leisure book in our heart, we constantly keep it empty. We erase those offenses. We don't live in bitterness. We live with forgiveness and love. So one way that we demonstrate love is just by our forgiving. But another way is by giving. Look in verse number Where he says, use hospitality one to another without grudging. That's the other way we demonstrate love. We were hospitable to one another. That is, we see another in need and we help. In fact, the word here comes from two Greek words, Phileo, love, xenos, stranger, love of a stranger, to love a stranger. And it's the idea of seeing someone with a need and you want to meet that need. You want to help them in that need. Hospitality in the early church was very important. In fact, it was so important, Paul said to Timothy, Look, these widows that you want to take care of, make sure that these are ones that are worthy of the church's investment. If they entertain strangers, that is, if they're hospitable to other people. They're on the list. In fact, in the New Testament, if a pastor wasn't hospitable, he he was not qualified to be a pastor. That's how important it was. Paul said And so hospitality was so very important. Now you have to remember back in this day when uh the the gospel was being spread, Rome had built these wonderful paved roads all throughout the Roman Empire And missionaries and traveling evangelists took advantage of these Roman roads. In fact, if you look through the Book of Acts, you'll notice that the churches that were planted there And the early church were alongside these major trade routes all throughout the Roman Empire, right alongside those Roman roads where missionaries would travel And as they were getting the gospel out, there were not places for them to stay. Now there were some ends back then, but they were not places where Christians wanted to stay. A lot of them were just brothels. They were places that were filthy, filled with disease Christians didn't want to stay there, and so they were dependent upon the hospitality of other believers at that time to help them. And so what you see in the New Testament is a whole vocabulary of words that are in reference to this hospitality and traveling preachers. There's a word lambano, receive, or propento, send them out, and sometimes there are even letters of recommendation If I were a traveling missionary back then and I wanted you to receive me, I would carry with me letters of recommendation from some well-known person to show that I was not a false prophet. I was an authentic preacher. So here are my letters from the Apostle Paul himself recommending me. And this is what was going on. Hospitality was needful for the spread of the gospel. It was needful for worship services because sometimes Churches met in homes. They didn't have buildings like we have today. And it was also needful in times of persecution, just like we find in the context here, where believers were scattered abroad, running for their life because Nero was on the throne persecuting Christians. And if you were going to run, you had to have help, you had to have places to stay, and you were dependent upon the love and hospitality of other believers during that time. And so Peter says, look, use hospitality one with another without grudging. Don't do it grudgingly. Do it freely. You know, when a missionary or God's some of some of God's people come, help them. I I really need to at this point commend grace, because you know I can't tell you uh I see this, you may not see it, but the missionaries that come through here and we have and you all we take up an offering and you all have just completely been so generous and and we've had missionaries come through and they were blown away with how much m money that you gave to them as they were coming through and it shows your love for the gospel and your love For God's servants. And Peter says, look, do it without grudging. Do it cheerfully. Don't be like the lady who took her husband to the doctor. And the doctor examined her husband and said, I need to talk to you, ma'am, and sir, will you please wait out in the waiting room? And he said to the wife, look, your husband, his heart is not in good condition You need to be careful. A stress-free home is what you need to give him. If you get into an argument, you let him win that argument. In fact, he's always right on everything now. And you have to serve him, you have to bend over backwards, you have to just do whatever he says. And on the way home in the car, the husband asks the wife, What did the doctor say? She said the doctor said you're gonna die. Don't be like that Don't be grudging, especially if their life is on the line, right? So be focused in prayer. Be fervent in love, but here's the last thing be faithful in service. Look in verse ten. And as every man has received a gift, even so minister the same one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it with the ability which God giveth, that God in all things might be glorified through Jesus Christ to whom he praise. Now here he's saying look You have been given a spiritual gift. Now use it. Be faithful in that. Don't just wait through nothing, living in the last days, waiting for the Lord to come. No, be busy. And you've been given a gift. I call this the sovereignty of the gift. God gives you a spiritual gift in verse 10, as every man has received the gift. It's something that God gives, and he does it for his glory. If you're saved here today, God has given you a spiritual gift. You don't get to choose which gifts you have. God does that. That's God's sovereign choice, you see. The word giveth here is a word that speaks of in that day they would have these big dramas. And there was always someone who bankrolled all the expense of these Greek dramas they love to have in the theater. And that's the word that's used here. It's the idea that God is the one giving all the resources to the church And in this drama of salvation and redemption, God gives to the church people who have gifts so that you can use those gifts. According to whatever gift God's giving, according to whatever the need that the church may have. There are different gifts, there are different ministries that God gives. This is in 1 Corinthians 12. We don't have time to get into all of it, but God is the one who gives the gift. God is the one who opens the door to ministry. God is the one who gives you the energy and the Holy Spirit to do that gift. And again, there are different gifts. There's prophesying, preaching, there's the gift of ministering That is serving, teaching those who have the skill of teaching the truth, exhorting that someone who is an encourager. We certainly need that in the church. There's the gift of giving people who are have the ability to have great resources and give it to the benefit of the church. Ruling, which is basically administration mercy, and on we can go. There are many gifts. Now Peter here doesn't list the gifts. He does list the categories. He says there are speaking gifts, verse eleven. If you have the gift to speak, which would be teaching or or preaching, then do that. But make sure you preach the oracles of God. That is the word of God. If you have a serving gift, then you go ahead and you serve for the glory of God. Then there's another category that Peter doesn't mention. We could add as sign gifts. A lot of those gifts, the church no longer needs They were gifts of the apostles, speaking gifts, serving gifts, sign gifts. But here's the thing. God is the one who sovereignly gives those gifts. And the other thing is the singularity of the gift. Notice where it says the gift singular. And you know what God does? He takes these various gifts and he kind of brings them together and mingles them together. And you what that what you have is a unique gift from God that's unlike any other gift. God might Give you a little bit of teaching. He might give you a little bit of the gift of mercy. He might give you a little bit of the gift of exhortation. A little bit of the gift of administration. And he'll mingle it all together. And he'll give you a unique gift. There's no other gift just like it, just like snowflakes. They say there's no two snowflakes alike I think that there's a sense in which there's no two spiritual gifts that are exactly alike. God takes these things, he mingles them together, he gives you this spiritual gift. And Paul says it like this in 1 Corinthians 12, 11 He gives to each man severally, and the Greek word there is idios, which means unique, no duplicate. He gives them severally as he will. You've heard of Uh the word idiot comes from this Greek word idiots. And what it means is there's no one just like you. When you call somebody an idiot, and really what you're saying is there's no one just like you. All that time we thought we were insulting people. But it's true. God says, I've given you this unique gift. It's yours to use. And this leads to the stewardship of the gift, where it says here, if you do this, use this gift. In verse 10, where he says, as good stewards of the manifold, the multifaceted, this wonderful gift, the manifold grace of God, the spiritual gift that God has given you is a revelation of his incredible grace in your life. And you're to be a steward of that gift. You're to be busy using it. You know, we saw this video of BPS. We could never do this without people jumping in and using their gift. And that's true of anything that happens in the church. People have to be involved. This is part of your service to the Lord. You say we're living in the last days. That's right. We need to be busy. We need don't need to sit around and wait on mountaintops. We need to be busy in the church using our gift. For the glory of God. The gift is not for you. The gift is for the benefit of others. It's for the benefit of the church. If you're not using your gift. I'm not being benefited by it. You're not being benefited by it. The church suffers for it. You say, well, I have this gift, but I don't see a ministry in the church. Well then make one. Create one. If God puts you in this church and you have this gift to do this, then just start using it. Trust me, God will bless you in that. He'll help you in that. The gifts are for the purpose of the church, for the blessing of the church, for the edification of other believers, so that we're not robbed. And I'll close with this illustration. This is not original with me. This is actually from Bill Gothard. He gives this illustration of how gifts profit the church and he uses the illustration of uh a fellowship where we're all at the fellowship and and I'll I'll be the person in the illustration. Here I am at the fellowship and I I have a piece of cake on a paper plate. And the cake falls off the plate, onto the ground. Now a person with a gift of mercy is going to come up and say, please don't feel bad. I know you're embarrassed, but that happens to me. I I I I I'm going to go through this with you. That's a person with a gift of mercy. Now a person with the gift of prophecy who likes to talk about right and wrong says, well that's what happens when you eat too much cake. You need to go on a low carb diet. Now a person with the gift of exhortation is going to come up to me and say, go get another piece. Don't don't be discouraged. Go get another piece. Make it bigger. A person with a gift of teaching is going to come up and say, Well, you know why that fell, right? Or it's because it was too big. And you had it on the side of the plate instead of in the middle of the plate. Or you should have double stacked your plate, you should have had two paper plates instead of one. It couldn't sustain the weight. And he's giving me a lesson on cake. And a person with a gift of Giving will say, I'll pay for that. I'll buy a new cake, no problem. A person with the gift of administration will say J John, you go get the go get the broom and the dustpan. Uh Mary, you go over here, you get the mop, mop it up, and they're administrating And so this is how we benefit one another in the church. It's saying we have to all be busy. We know it's the last days, but you know what? That should make us be focused in our prayers. We should be fervent in our love. Just keep loving one another. Don't let anything divide us. And then be faithful and serving the Lord, using our gift for his glory. That's the instruction. Let's pray together today. Father, may we be faithful to what you teach us here. We know we're living in the last days. We look around, we see what's going on in the world. We see the stage being set. We see your providential hand at work. And Lord We know your word teaches us that when we see these things happen, it shouldn't surprise us because everything is on schedule. And we shouldn't be running around losing control. But what the world should see are people that are sober, watchful in prayer, loving one another. Serving, knowing that it could be any day when our Lord comes, any day. And may Lord you find us faithful doing these very things. May we all be ready. May we know that we know Jesus, that we have put on the Lord Jesus Christ. We know that we're saved. And if there's someone here today that doesn't have that absolute assurance, I pray that you'll speak to them. This very moment, Lord, their need to repent and turn to Christ as their only means of salvation. And if you're here today with heads abowed, I would just ask you that one question. Would you examine your heart? Would you ask yourself, do I know Jesus as my Savior? Am I absolutely certain? Do I see the evidences of faith in my life? Put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, friend. We know that the day is far spent. He's coming. And when he comes, may he find you in him saved, standing in Christ. If you're not certain of that, would you be willing to pray right now? Reach out in faith. The Bible says, Him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. Say, Lord Jesus, I know that you died for my sin. Save me. I turn to you today with all my heart. Save me, Lord Jesus. Help me. And give me that assurance that I am your child. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Father, bless these words to hear your hearts in Jesus' name. Amen.