And pursuing the enemy and calling upon God for miraculous intervention, driving out Canaanites and possessing our inheritance Now remember the theme of the book of Joshua is the victorious Christian life. That is the key concept. And really it's illustrated in the New Testament verse, 1 John 5. 4. This is the victory that overcomes the world, even our faith. So Joshua is the Old Testament book that illustrates New Testament victory. And like Joshua had a, and Israel had a Canaan to conquer, even so we have an inheritance that we must claim And it's called victory. Now, let me just review with you a little bit. Remember what Canaan represents? First of all, Canaan for us as believers here today represents release. Remember, up until this time, the children of Israel had been a nation of slaves, and now they were going to live a life of freedom. So when you claim victory in your life You're not a slave to anyone or anything except the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Bible says, if the Son therefore shall make you free, you shall be free indeed. So Canaan represents to us release. Canaan represents refreshment Remember the children of Israel up until this time they had been on a desert diet. They had been eating manna three times a day, seven days a week, fifty-two weeks a year for 40 years And now as they enter into the land of Canaan, Canaan was a land of grapes, it was a land of pomegranates, figs, milk and honey. And so it was a time of refreshing. Let me ask you a question. Aren't you sometimes Tired of the same old diet. Don't you want a refreshing from the Lord for God to give you something new? Someone said some people have just enough religion to make them miserable And they they need a little bit more. Uh but like a man uh the pastor visited a man and the pastor said, I missed you at church. And the man said, Well it's been raining, Pastor. And the pastor said, Well it's dry at church and the man said, Well that's another reason I haven't been coming. We need something fresh from the Lord, right, when we come to God's house. So there's release, and it represents refreshment, but also rest. Canaan represents rest. Hebrews 4 calls Canaan a place of rest. Now rest is not in activity. Rest is not rest from work, but it's rest while you work. It's the difference between burning the wick and burning the oil. And you learn to rest in the Lord as you serve the Lord. But also Canaan represented reality. Up until this time they only heard stories about the land of Canaan, and they heard stories about what it was like But now they were experiencing it for themselves. Now I don't know about you, but I don't want to just hear stories about the power of God and what God has done with his spirit. I don't want to just hear stories about victory. I want to experience that victory myself. I want to experience that power, the power of the Holy Spirit. And so really As we study the book of Joshua, the key is to learn to claim the victory that the Lord has given us. What a shame it would be to study this book and still not experience the victory that God wants us to have. Now, look in Joshua chapter 17 and look down at verse number 12. Yet the children of Manasseh could not drive out the inhabitants of those cities. But the Canaanites would dwell in that land. Yet it came to pass when the children of Israel were waxing strong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute, but did not utterly drive them out And the children of Joseph spake unto Joshua, saying, Why hast thou given me but one lot and one portion to inherit, seeing I am a great people? For as much as the Lord has blessed me hitherto. And Joshua answered them, If thou be a great people, then get thee up to the wood country, and cut down for thyself there in the land of the Perizzites and of the giants. If Mount Ephraim be too narrow for thee. And the children of Joseph said, The hill is not enough for us. And all the Canaanites that dwell in the land of the valley have chariots of iron, both they who are of Besheim and her towns. And they who are of the valley of Jezreel. And Joshua spake unto the house of Joseph, even to Ephraim and to Manasseh, saying, Thou art a great people. And hast great power. And thou shalt not have one lot only, but the mountain shall be thine, for it is a wood And thou shalt cut it down, and the outgoings of it shall be thine, for thou shalt drive out the Canaanites, though they have iron chariots, and though they be strong. Now tonight as you sit there and you listen to me, I want you to know that there are three people sitting where you are right now. I mean that's that to what I mean to say is there is sitting where you are, the person you are this very moment, what you are before God. And secondly, there is the person that you can be for evil if you get your eyes off the Lord and you begin to walk in the flesh. None of us probably realize how evil we can become if we take our eyes off the Lord and we begin to walk in the flesh. There is no sin of the flesh that I cannot commit. or you cannot commit if we get our eyes off of the Lord and we begin to walk in the flesh. The Bible says the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked who can know it. And that which is born of flesh is flesh There's a story in the Old Testament in 2 Kings 8. 13 about a man named Hazel, and Elisha the prophet prophesied of the evil things this man would do. And when this man heard it, he said, Am I a dog? that would do these things? And then you know what? And then he went out and he did them. Because the heart is deceitful. If we get our eyes off the Lord and walk in the flesh, we can do bad things. But now thirdly, not only is it the person you are right now, it's the there is the person you can be for evil if you walk in the flesh. But thirdly, there is the person that you can be for good and for God. If you walk in the spirit And you yield yourself to God, you don't realize the potential you have for God when you yield to the Lord. What great things you can do for God, the love that you can show, the faith that you can manifest, the great works that you can do, the goals that you can achieve. Jesus said this in John 14, 12, Verily I say unto you, he that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also And then he said this, and greater works than these shall he do, because I go to my Father. Do you know that because Jesus is in heaven praying for you and you have the Holy Spirit, that you can do great works for God If you yield yourself to the Lord. Now, I don't know about you, but I want to be that third person. And I want you to be that third person. And more importantly, God wants you to be that third person. And so tonight I'm preaching on living up to your potential. Now here in Joshua 17 is the story of the people of Manasseh and the tribe of Joseph. They are an illustration of people who failed to reach their full potential. And we can learn some lessons from studying Manasseh and Ephraim and Joseph, these tribes here who failed to reach their potential. Now remember that when it comes to conquering the land of Canaan, at this part in the book of Joshua, Joshua has already done his part He's done what the Lord wanted him to do. And remember I told you when you study the book of Joshua, you have to understand this distinction. There is what Joshua was supposed to do, his duty And then there's what the children of Israel were supposed to do. Joshua with the army was to conquer the mighty kings, was to break the back of the military, was to open up the way for the children of Israel to take their inheritance and then further drive out the Canaanites. Joshua was to win the major victories and the children of Israel was to come in and they were to do the mopping up operation. And now as we come here to this section of Joshua, as I told you before, Joshua has done his part. Look in chapter 18 and look in verse number one. And when the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled together at Shiloh, And set up the tabernacle, the congregation there. And watch this next phrase. And the land was subdued before them. That is, Joshua set up the tabernacle in Shiloh. Now Shiloh was in the tribe of Ephraim. Guess who was from Ephraim? Joshua. And that area of Shiloh is right in the center of the promised land and the tabernacle was set up there. When I went over to Israel, I had the opportunity to go to this place of Shiloh. right there in the center of the promised land. That way it's centrally located and everyone uh all the tribes could come and worship there The tabernacle would stay there in this spot for 369 years of Israel's history. This was the worship center. Before there was Jerusalem, there was Shiloh And so Joshua sets up Shiloh there because the Bible says the land was subdued That is, now all that was left to be done was for the children of Israel, the various tribes, to take their inheritance and further drive out the Canaanites. Now again, we can apply this same principle to us in a spiritual way. What was a military reality to the children of Israel? Is a spiritual reality to us the children of God. You say, what do you mean? Well Jesus won for us the victory at Calvary He won the major battle. But again, that doesn't mean we don't have battles to fight. He did his part at Calvary. He defeated the evil kings of sin and Satan and death. Now it's up to us in our individual lives, to claim the victory, to live in that victory, to walk in that victory. Jesus did his part. Now it's up to us to do our part and to drive out the remaining Canaanites. that are in our life that hinder us from reaching our full potential for God. Now what we see here in Joshua 17 is that some of the tribes of Israel failed to drive out the Canaanites. and to fully possess the land. And so the question that we have to ask is this: why did they fail? Why didn't they fully drive out the Canaanites? Let me give you four problems they face. And these are problems that we face as we try to reach our full potential. Here's the first one. Number one, there's the problem of partial possession. Just write down the problem of partial possession. Look again in verse number 12. Yet the children of Manasseh could not drive out the inhabitants of those cities. But the Canaanites would dwell in that land. Yet it came to pass when the children of Israel were waxing strong that they put the Canaanites to tribute, but did not utterly drive them out. So we find here in these verses that the children of Manasseh were keeping company with the Canaanites. Now again, the Canaanites might represent to us the power of Satan and sin. Remember, the Canaanites were devil worshipers. Remember, they were great sinners before the Lord. And God said that you are to utterly drive them out of the land. In fact, Joshua later on in Joshua chapter 23, you might want to read this sometime, where Joshua warns the children of Israel, this is just before he's about to die. He tells them If you fail to drive out the Canaanites, then they will be a snare to you. They will be thorns in your side. You will always be in trouble if you keep company with the wrong crowd. If you keep company with the Canaanites. You see, friend, whoever you keep company with is going to influence you. I heard about a pastor who found a drunk and he took the man home and the drunk said to the pastor, Come on in with me. I want my wife to see who I've been keeping company with. You know. That was supposed to be a joke. You might get it later. Some Christians are keeping company with Canaanites. They are uh we I could say it like this, maybe their sins in the in your life, or in in some Christians' lives, that you might consider, they might consider acceptable sins, pet sins, sins that we ought to drive out Sins that keep us from having full victory. But a Christian might choose not to drive those sins out or to get rid of those sins. You know what? Those sins will end up being a snare to you. Because what we see here is God's plan for Manasseh was total victory. However They did not have it instead. They had a substitute for victory. They just decided to live with the Canaanites that were around us. And some Christians are the same way. Rather than claiming the full victory that God wants you to have, there are some Christians who have lost their drive and they have decided just to live just as they are, and accept the Canaanites that are around them. They live with less than the victory that God has given them. General Douglas MacArthur said, In war there is no substitute for victory. And that's the same with the Christian life. Now notice the Canaanites that they accepted. First there were the Canaanites that they favored. Look again in verse 13, where it says that they put the Canaanites to tribute, but did not utterly drive them out. Now, they had grown strong enough to drive them out, but they chose not to drive them out. Instead, they decided to make them slaves. And to make them pay taxes. I wonder if they're remembering the story of Gibeon in Joshua chapter 9. Remember the Gibeonites when they came and they deceived Joshua? Joshua then made them slaves. And here, that's what they're doing here. They're saying, you know what? These Canaanites, we're better off with them. They might become handy. And so they go against the counsel of Joshua. And they go against the plan of God and the command of God to drive them out. And they say, instead, we'll just keep them around and they can pay us taxes. Peterson wrote this, motivated by a materialistic attitude, they chose to put the Canaanites under tribute, exacting payments from them on an annual basis in order to gain additional wealth. And that proved to be a fatal mistake in later centuries. Why did he say that? Because did you know, as you come to the book of Judges, you're going to find out that these Canaanites who were their slaves rose up and became their masters and made the Israelites slaves. And so the point is this are there Canaanites in your life that you favor? Are there pet sins that you refuse to drive out? things that you perhaps don't want to get rid of. Let me tell you something. The sin that you enjoy today, you will endure tomorrow. That will rise up and master you. Deal thoroughly with your sins, or your sins will deal thoroughly with you. I read an article a while back. Of a family in Texas that found a little lion cub and they decided they were going to raise it as a pet. And they kept this lion cub in their apartment. And one night they stepped across the hall to visit a friend, and when they stepped back into their apartment, they heard something strange going on in the nursery where their baby was kept. And when they went in the nursery, they found that that lion tub had eaten several of the fingers of the baby. Just a terrible, terrible thing Can you imagine how they felt? Here is this line, it rose up to devour their child. And when I read that I thought about that's the way sin is. Whatever pet sin that you have It's going to rise up and devour you one day. And maybe it won't devour you, but it might devour somebody in your family. If you don't deal with it Like one country preacher said, sin will take you farther than you want to go, sin will keep you longer than you want to stay. Sin will charge you more than you're willing to pay. And friend, that is always true. So there were the Canaanites that they favored. But then secondly, write this down, there were the Canaanites that they feared. Look in verse number 16, chapter 17. And the children of Joseph said, the hill is not enough for us. And all the Canaanites that dwell in the land of the valley have chariots of iron, both they who are of Besheon and her towns, and they who are of the valley of Jezreel. Now, these are the Canaanites they thought they couldn't overcome. So since they thought they couldn't overcome them, they didn't even try to drive them out. You know why they said, well, these Canaanites, they have Chariots of iron. We'll never be able to drive them out. They're just too hard. You know, there may be in the life of some Christian a sin that perhaps maybe you might think, or some other Christian might think, man, this sin is too hard for me to drive out. I'll never be able to get victory over this sin in my life. It's like a chariot of iron that I just can't get victory over. And so a Christian may decide I'm just going to have to live with this thing. And you might say, well I've I've tried, I've confessed, I've asked for forgiveness. I've admitted my wrong. But friend, there's a difference between admitting a sin and quitting a sin And let me just tell you this, if you're a Christian and the Holy Spirit of God lives inside of you, there is no sin in your life that you cannot overcome. With the power of the Holy Spirit. Write down Galatians 5:16. This I say then, walk in the Spirit, and you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. You want to have victory in your life? Simply walk in the Spirit. Let the Spirit of God have control of your life. And you know what? You'll find that the Holy Spirit of God will lift you up to have victory over any sin in your life. You know, sometimes I get tired of hearing Some preachers say, if you quit doing this and quit doing that, then you'll have the fullness of the power of the Holy Spirit. Let me tell you something, friend. If I could quit doing those things, I wouldn't need the Holy Spirit. I can't quit doing those things. It's the Holy Spirit that gives me the power to rise up above sin in my life. You see, the Holy Spirit is not a reward for our faithfulness. The Holy Spirit is a gift for our weakness. And so the Bible says, if you walk in the Spirit, you'll not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And also, stop blaming the devil for your sins. You say, well the devil made me do it. Let me tell you something, friend. The devil can't make you do anything if you're a child of God. Because you belong to him. Write down 1 John 5. 18. And we know that whosoever is born of God Sinneth not, that we could say doesn't continue to practice sin, but because he's begotten of God, and God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not. If you're walking with the Lord, if you're a child of God Satan can't touch you, he can't make you do anything that you don't want to do. And so friend, you can't say the devil made me do it The Apostle Paul teaches us a very simple principle in Romans chapter 16, and that principle is this. You are a slave. As a child of God, you are a slave to whomever or whatever you yield yourself to. If you yield yourself to Christ, Then you are a slave to righteousness in Christ. But if you yield yourself to sin, you become the servant or the slave of sin. It's your choice. Whatever or whoever you yield yourself to. So there's a problem of partial possession. There were the Canaanites that they favored, there were the Canaanites that they feared But then write down number two. Here's another problem they face. There's the problem of paralyzing pride. Look again in verse 14. And the children of Joseph spake unto Joshua, saying, Why hast thou given me but one lot and one portion to inherit, seeing I am a great people? For as much as the Lord has blessed me hitherto. Now, see what's going on here? Here are these same people who couldn't drive out the Canaanites, who failed to possess the land they already had. And here they are now asking for more land. They hadn't even taken care of the land that they had been given. They hadn't even been utilizing the land that they had been given But you know here's what they said. They said, why are we only getting this? We are great people. In other words, you know what they thought? Their problem was pride. They thought that they deserved more. They thought that they deserved better. And let me tell you something, friend, the moment you think that you deserve more than what God has given you, that's the moment that you're in trouble. You need to take whatever the Lord has given you and use that. Take full advantage of what God has already entrusted you with. But yet here are these people, they haven't even conquered the land, and they're asking for more, and their problem was their pride. We are great people. We deserve more than this. Someone said pride is the only disease known to man that makes everyone else sick except the one who has it. And it's the sin, or it's the ground, I should say, on which all other sins gr grow in the life of a person. Their pride was no doubt due to their past. You know why? Because they were descendants of who? They were descendants of Joseph. Joseph, who was second to Pharaoh And also they increased in their number from 72,700 to 85,200. And so they're one of the larger of the tribes, and so they're thinking, we're we're greater, we're better than any of the other tribes. And by the way, if you trace these people throughout the Old Testament, you know what they'll find, you'll find? They were given to pride and criticism. They were given to complaining. Later on, they're going to cause problems in the nation of Israel. In fact, in the book of Judges, they criticize Gideon and give him trouble. They criticize Jephthah and give him trouble. And if you read 2 Samuel chapter 20, you'll find out these same people criticized David and gave David trouble. Their problem was their pride. And the Bible says only by pride comes contention. And so these were a contentious people. They said, we deserve more. Let me tell you something, friend, pride is a devilish sin. You're never more like the devil than when we walk in pride. And so we have to be careful of that. Remember in Joshua 15, Caleb had to drive out the giants. Shishai, which means who am I? Ahime, which means what I am. And Taumai means which means what I can do. These are the prides of ego and pride and self-reliance. And before we have victory, we have to drive out those same giants in our life. Pride is a devilish sin. Pride is a deceitful sin. You know, the thing about pride is it's so deceptive. Proud people don't think they're proud. They don't realize they're proud. They're in fact they're proud of their humility. I heard about a preacher who prepared a sermon on humility, but he hadn't found a crowd large enough to preach it to. Pride, said Oswald Sanders, is a sin of whose presence its victim is least conscious. But I want to tell you something, friend, God hates pride. The Bible says that he giveth more grace, but God resists the proud. He'll give grace to the humble, but he will resist the proud. And we come into the kingdom. You don't come into the salvation by it with pride. You come in humbly. We come to Christ poor in spirit. And we continue to walk the Christian life in humility and dependence upon Almighty God. And so there was the problem of partial possession, there was a problem of paralyzing pride. But then right down here's the third problem they face. There's a problem of perverted priorities. Look in verse 17 again. And Joshua spake unto the house of Joshua, even to Ephraim and to Manasseh, saying, Thou art a great people, and hast great power. Thou shalt not have only one lot, but the mountain shall be thine, for it is a wood, and thou shalt cut it down, and the outgoings of it shall be thine, for thou shalt drive out the Canaanites Though they have iron chariots, and though they be strong. So here's Joshua, and he answers these people. And I think there's a strong note of irony in Joshua's words. I think even sarcasm is in j Joshua's reply. And Joshua is basically saying this, since you are such a great people, then you already have the mountain You already have the mountain which has a big forest there. And what he's saying is if you want more land, then clear the forest. Cut down the trees. If you're such a great people, then take care of business Clear the forest, clear the wood, and you'll have all the land that you need. Take care of what you have. Before asking for more land. Take care of what you already have been given. In essence, he's saying, get your priorities right. Do what Caleb did. Remember what Caleb did? He defeated the giants. He claimed the mountain. That's what you need to do. Now, again, as I read this and study this, I think, you know, sometimes we act like this at times in our Christian life if we're not careful. We might be asking God to give us more, but we haven't really been faithful to what He's already given us And we have to check our life. You know, some people say, Oh, I wish I understood the Bible more. I wish I could learn more about the Bible, but the truth of the matter is We have to look at our life and ask ourselves, have we been faithful with what God has already revealed to us? Have we already put into practice? What God has taught us, remember in Matthew 13, Jesus said this, For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance, but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even what he hath. And he was speaking of that and r and in relationship to the parables he was going to teach. He was going to teach in parables because some uh had rejected what Jesus had already said, and so he taught in parables. So that some would understand and those who had rejected truth, they wouldn't get any more truth. And that's God's principle. If God has revealed truth to you, then you need to be faithful with that truth. You need to be responsible as stewards of the truth But if you haven't done anything with the truth that God's given you, he's not going to reveal any more to you. And so we have to check our own life in that. Sometimes People say, well, I want a better job, or I want more money, or I want a better ministry. Or some people are looking for bigger opportunities. And God's response is, you be faithful with what I've given you. And then I'll entrust more to you when you're ready. And so Joshua says, Remove the clutter. Look again in verse fifteen. And Joshua answered them, If thou be a great people, then get thee up to the wood country and cut it down for thyself. Joshua's saying you'll have plenty of room if you remove the trees. Cut down the trees. You know, sometimes in our life, what we have to do is remove the clutter in our life That's keeping us from inheriting all that God wants us to have. The Old Testament scholar James Smith wrote this. He said, Joshua did not argue with them. He challenged them to carve out a settlement in the forest for themselves. You see, we don't need more opportunity or a bigger opportunity. We just need to get the clutter out of our life right now. And take full advantage of the opportunity that God has already given us. Sometimes people say, I still don't have enough time. That's an insult to God. You have enough time to graciously do what God wants you to do. You know what the problem is? Get the clutter out of your life. Get the non-essential things out of your life. The Bible in the book of Hebrews says, lay aside the weights and the things which so easily besets us. So there were things that cluttered their life, but also the things that corrupt our lives. Look at verse 18. Look at the second part of verse 18. For thou shalt drive out the Canaanites, though they have iron chariots, and though they be strong. And so Joshua says, clear out a spot, then drive out the Canaanites. Now some po someone might think, well, isn't that reverse? Shouldn't we drive out the Canaanites first and then clear out the spot? Shouldn't we get rid of the things that corrupt us and then the things that clutter our life? Well here's Joshua's logic. Before you can drive out the Canaanites, first you have to clear off a spot to fight. You see, there may be Canaanites hiding in trees. So clear off a spot and then fight and then drive out the Canaanites. You know what I get from this? As Christians, you know what? It will be a great day in our life when we realize that worship has to come before warfare. Worship has to come first. We need to remove from our lives anything, any of the clutter that keeps us from spending time with God the way we should We need to remove from our life anything that keeps us from a faithful walk with God, anything that keeps us from reading the Word of God and spending time in prayer. Those little things, we need to get them out of our life. And we need to worship God and walk with God. And friend, when you worship God and you walk with God, then you're ready for warfare. Remove the clutter, and then you can remove the things that corrupt your life. You see, we need to establish a beachhead, then drive out the Canaanites. That's the principle that Joshua is giving us here. Now let me give you the last thing and we'll be done. Number one, there's the problem of partial possession, paralyzing pride, perverted priorities, but here's the final thing tonight. There is the problem of pathetic procrastination. Look in chapter 18 and look in verse 1 again. And the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled together at Shiloh and set up the tabernacle of the congregation there, and the land was subdued before them. And there remained among the children of Israel seven tribes, watch this, which had not yet received their inheritance. And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, How long are ye slack to go to possess the land which the Lord God of your fathers has given you. You say, what's going on here? Here are some of these tribes That still had not gone out to take possession of the land that they had been given. Now, they had already been allotted to them When it says they had not yet received it, it just simply means they had not yet gone out and faced the Canaanites to drive them out to fully receive their inheritance. And so Joshua looks at them and he says, why are you waiting? Why are you hesitating? How long is it going to be before you go? To take possession of what God has given you. You say, what's the problem? They were just procrastinating They just didn't do what they were supposed to do. You know, uh Joshua chides them. He says, go out, do what you go possess your land. Take possession of it. But they just waited. You see, you know, it was easier just to wait around. You know, they just got accustomed to that nomadic lifestyle and they weren't anxious to go. They had no zeal, no desire, no drive To go and fully possess. And so they procrastinated. You know, I was thinking about this. Why do we procrastinate? Why do we not do what God tells us to do? I wrote down a few reasons. Number one, fear. Maybe they were afraid. Maybe there were some that just didn't want to get involved in the battle. Or maybe it was number two, here's another reason we procrastinate. Laziness We're just plain lazy. We'll say, Oh, we'll do it tomorrow. And then the tomorrow comes and guess what we say? Oh we'll do it we'll do it tomorrow. We just keep pushing it back. Well, here's another reason for procrastination. Just plain pure disobedience. They just weren't obeying the Lord. The Lord says, go get your land. They're still sitting around. Or here's another one, lack of organization. They just weren't organized, perhaps. They weren't ready. Someone said if it weren't for the last minute, nothing would get done. I heard about a man named Arnold who was cleaning out the attic with his wife, and he came across a claim ticket from a local shoe repair shop, and the date stamped on the ticket showed that it was 11 years old. And so he asked his wife, he said, You think the shoes are still in the shop? She said, It's not likely, but it's worth a try. And so Arnold went down to the repair shop. And with a straight face he handed the man the ticket. And the man looked at the ticket. He said, Just a minute, I'm gonna have to go look for these. So he went back in the shop. And two minutes later he came out and he said, Here they are. And the man Arnold said, no kidding, really? That's terrific. Who'd have thought that after all these time the shoes would still be here? And the man behind the counter said, Yeah, they'll be ready on Thursday What are you waiting for? Get to work. Someone wrote this procrastination is my sin. It brings me naught but sorrow. I know that I should stop it. In fact, I will tomorrow How long before some of you will do what you know God wants you to do? What you're supposed to do to claim that victory? The Bible says to him that knoweth to do good And doeth it not to him it has sinned. So there's the problem of partial possession, there's the problem of paralyzing pride, perverted priorities. Pathetic procrastination, these were the things that were hindering these people from fully possessing their inheritance from reaching their full potential. Now, what about me? What about you? As we look at our life, can we say, I want to reach my full potential? I don't want to wait. I don't want to procrastinate. I don't want to put things off. I want to, this day, this very moment. I want to reach my full potential. I want to fully inherit all that God has for me. I want to possess it. Let me just close. We're talking about procrastination. I remember the story of George Shruett. When he was a child he got saved. And when he was a uh just a teenager, he began to invite his friends to come to church. And his church was having a revival meeting and George had a close friend and he said I'm going to invite my friend. And so he did. He said, Hey, I want you to come to this revival meeting. You know what his friend said? His friend said, Not today, George. Come back tomorrow. And the next day, George went to him, went to his house. And he said, come to this revival meeting. He said, not today, George, come back tomorrow. And George Truett went back to his house the next day. And he said, George, I'm not feeling really well. Not today. Come back later. And George came back the next day. And his mother answered the door. And she said, he's very, very sick. Come back tomorrow. So he came back the next day. And and his mother again answered the door and she said, if you're going to talk to him, you better go see him. Because he has pneumonia and the report is not good. So George Truett went into his friend's room. His friend was laying there on the bed. And he could see him mouthing something, but he couldn't hear. And so George got real close. He put his ear down to his friend's mouth to hear what his friend was saying. And his friend was saying, not today, George. Come back tomorrow. Come back tomorrow. But you know what? That next day he was no longer there. He had died. Friend, I want to tell you something. The most dangerous thing that you can do is procrastinate, making a decision for Christ, and doing his will for your life. Make it your highest priority to humbly come to Christ, to give your life to Him. I'm going to tell you something. The gospel is not just an invitation. The gospel is a command. The Bible commands all men everywhere to repent. And that's a decision that no one needs to put off You need to do it today. You need to follow Christ today. You need to obey the Lord today. You need to do today what you know the Lord wants you to do. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, help us to reach our full potential for you. Help us to fully possess. What you had won for us. Help us to walk in the victory that you gained for us. Help us to lay aside our pride. Help us, Lord, to remove the clutter from our life that hinders us from doing what you want us to do. And Lord, may we never put off obeying you. Help us, Lord, to reach our full potential for your glory With heads bowed and eyes closed. You know what I want to see as a result of God's word being presented to you tonight? I want people to determine it. Right now in your heart that by the grace of God I'm gonna reach my full potential for Christ and I'm gonna do what God wants me to do. Maybe there's some people here tonight and God's been speaking to your heart. You've been putting off things. You've been pushing back things in your life. And God says, now is the time. Right now, stop making excuses. Remove the clutter. Do what I've called you to do Is there someone here that says that's my prayer tonight, but I'll reach my full potential by the grace of God? Would you pray for me tonight? God bless you. Anyone else say that's me God bless you. I want to reach my full potential. I want all that God has for me. God sees your hand, He knows your heart. Father, bless again these words to our heart. And may we lead with a determination to be all that you want us to be. And may we not live with the Canaanites in our life. May we fully drive them out. And take full possession of the victory you have for us. We pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.