Take your Bibles tonight. Open to the book of Joshua, chapter 7. The book of Joshua, chapter 7. I'm really continuing tonight a study that we've been doing on living for the glory of God. And I want to just continue it tonight. And what we're doing is just looking through the scripture at the ways that the Bible tells us that we glorify God. How do we glorify God? The Bible tells us that. And remember, this all began with the idea of spiritual growth. God commands all of us to grow spiritually, the Bible says, but grow in grace. And in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior, that's not just a suggestion from God, that's a command. He wants us all to grow in grace. And we look about uh what spiritual growth was about. We remember we talked about it, what it's not and what it is. It's not a matter of our position, it's not a matter of God's love or time or accumulated knowledge or a matter of activity or prosperity. All those things have their place. We said spiritual growth is really bringing our practice up to our position. Our position is complete in Christ, and now we have to uh live that out. We've been declared righteous in Christ, and now we have to live out that practical righteousness. And we said the master key to all of this is focusing on the glory of God. We look at certain scriptures that tell us that when we focus on God's glory, we focus on glorifying Him, that the Lord, through the Holy Spirit, lifts us to new levels of glory, to new levels of spiritual growth. And remember, we say that this is really the ultimate end of all things. We're here to glorify God. We're here to give him glory. We're here to live for his glory. And we want the world to see God in us And remember, we kind of defined the glory of God. We said, really, in a way, it's making God look good to this world. Not that God needs our help. God is already, as we heard in the song tonight, the beautiful song, God is holy. He's awesome. He's filled with wonder. All of his attributes are exceedingly just majestic and mysterious, really, in some ways. And yet we are to bear to the world some of those wonderful attributes, those communicable attributes that God has shared with us so that the world can see in us the character of God. And we bring God to the world. We show how the world how great God is by living out that greatness of God in our own life. And that's what we're called to do as Christians. And so we were looking at some practical steps on how do we do that? What does the Bible say we do? Well, number one, we looked at confessing Christ as Lord. The Bible says when we do that, we do it through the glory of God the Father. Secondly, we look at aiming our lives to obey His will. And when we aim our lives to obey His will, it honors the Lord, it gives Him glory. And also when we do that, we're willing to sacrifice No matter what it costs us, we're willing to obey the Lord and do what he wants. It also illustr it's also illustrated in our life by sensitivity. David said, the reproaches of them that reproach thee have fallen upon me. Lord, whatever hurts you, hurts me. And uh so we're sensitive to the things that God is sensitive to. We're like the church at Ephesus where it says that thou canst not bear them which are evil. And so there's not only a sacrifice in our life, there's a sensitivity in our life, and then a selflessness in our life. And we looked at this in in the life of the Apostle Paul, who when he was in prison in Rome and others were criticizing him and on one hand preaching Christ and criticizing him on the other. What did Paul say? He said so what? As long as Christ is preached, it really doesn't matter what people think about me. He wasn't concerned about who gets the credit. He was only concerned that Christ get the glory. And so there'll be a selflessness about our life. And then also we said that we will willing we will willingly bear up under suffering. We will accept su suffering. And 1 Peter says that if you're approached for the name of Christ, happier ye, for the spirit of glory and of God rests on you. And then he went on to say that on your part he is So when we suffer well, and really what that's part of what we were talking about this morning in the book of James, when we endure suffering patiently, like our Lord Jesus did, it gives glory to God. Now I want to go to another way the Bible tells us that we glorify God, and that's this. If you're taking notes right down, also number three, confessing sin. By confessing sin. And we see this here in the book of Joshua, chapter 7. We're going to look at this passage here. But the greatest expression of humility is confessing our sins. But many times, however, I'm afraid the Christians gloss over sin. We were we're either too busy to acknowledge it or we think perhaps that We don't need to do it or we perhaps when we do fail, we blame it on our circumstances, we blame it on the environment, we blame it on people around us. Rather than taking responsibility for it. So we're prone to avoid confessing sin, and thus we fail to glorify God when we do that. Now, in this story here in Joshua chapter 7, I'm sure it's one that all of us know The children of Israel had entered into the promised land. You remember that story? Under the leadership of Joshua, they went to the city of Jericho and they marched around the city walls according to the orders of God and the walls fell. But God remember what he said to uh Joshua and the men, he said, that you're not to take any of the spoils out of Jericho, you're to leave it all there. You're just to march around the walls and then burn the city down. And look in chap chapter 6. Go to chapter 6 verse 18. And remember it says, And ye in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing Lest ye make yourselves accursed, when you take of the accursed thing, and make the camp of Israel accursed, and trouble it And all the silver and gold vessels of brass and iron are consecrated unto the Lord, and they shall come into the treasure of the Lord. In other words, all that's in the city will belong to the Lord This is the first city you'll conquer and then the silver and the gold put it in the treasure of the Lord and the rest of it you just burn. But don't keep anything for yourself. Normally soldiers were allowed to spoil a conquered city and and get uh some of that for themselves, but God said, Not in this case. And God said if you do that, you'll bring down a curse upon yourself. Well you know the story. Look in chapter 7 verse 1 But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the accursed thing, for Achan the son of Karmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zarah, of the tribe of Judah, took of the accursed thing, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against the children of Israel. Now you know the rest of the story, they went out to to to go against the city of Ai, which was just a little military outpost, and they really didn't pray about it. They said, you know, this isn't going to take much. It's just a small city. Just send a few men up, not everyone And they were defeated and humiliated. And Joshua falls on his face before the Lord, and he's crying out and kind of in a way he's complaining, Lord, did you bring us here to be defeated by our enemies? And look at chapter 7, verse 10. And the Lord said unto Joshua, Get thee up, wherefore liest thou upon thy face? Verse 11, Israel hath sinned. Verse 13, Upsanctify the people and say, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow, for thus saith the Lord God of Israel, there is a cursed thing in the midst of thee, O Israel. Thou canst not stand before thine enemies until you take away the accursed thing from among you. And so God says someone sinned, and when he he sinned, all of Israel sinned. This is the principle of corporate solidarity. They were all you united together. God viewed them as one. When Achan sinned, Israel sinned. And God said, You're going to have to deal with this, Joshua And you're going to have to, you know, go through the camp and figure out who it is. And uh I think the method that they used was simply to cast lots. They would cast lots and they would single out a tribe and then a clan and then a family And then a household until it got down to the very individual. And that's how they found out it was Achan. So look in chapter 7, verse 13. And they narrow it down to Achan as they're casting lots, and it's narrowing it down in verse 19. And Joshua said unto Achan, my son, watch this, give, I pray thee, glory to the Lord God of Israel. And make confession unto him. And tell me now what thou hast done. Hide it not from me. What did he say? Give glory to God. Achan? How? By confessing this sin. Now, Achan does confess in verse 20, and Achan answered Joshua and said, Indeed, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel. And thus and thus have I done when I saw among the spoils of goodly Babylonian garments and two hundred two hundred shekels of silver. And a wedge of gold and fifty shekels weight, then I coveted them and took them, and behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the silver under it And so what happens after that? After he confesses, there's chastisement in verse 24 and verse 25. They take him out to the valley of Acor, the Bible says. And they stone him, and Joshua says, Why hast thou troubled us? Look in verse twenty five, and Joshua said, Why hast thou troubled us? The Lord shall trouble thee this day. And all Israel stoned him with stones And they burned them with fire after they had stoned them with stones. And the word acor means trouble, and there's kind of a play on words here. You have troubled us And God's going to trouble you. Even though Achan confessed his sin, his judgment was still forthcoming. Confession does not preclude chastisement When David confessed his sin in Psalm 32 and Psalm 51, God forgave him and then punished him. The fact of forgiveness does not mean that there won't be any Chastisement. You see what doesn't seem fair. I mean he he confessed. Yeah, but he kind of confessed after the fact, after he was kind of found out To give you an illustration, I remember I did something when I was a child and no one in the family knew that I had done it and I wasn't going to confess and my mother got us all after and she said, All right, which one of you I know one of you did this, who did this Now we're gonna find out and I just I held it in, no way, you know. And I remember, you know, finally through a process of deductive reasoning and investigation Uh they were able to find out and my my dad got home and I can hear my mother down so in my room. I can hear my mother downstairs telling my dad, you know, I know Jerry did this and blah blah blah blah. So I hear these footsteps coming up the steps I hear him walking down the hall. I look, I see the door he knows ready to open. I got up, I opened the door and I said, Dad, there's something I want to confess to you After the fact, you still get judgment. And this is what happens with Achan here. God was going to judge him for what he did. And the Bible says they do stone him with stones. But again, the question is, why did Joshua want Achan to confess his sin? Because God would have appeared to be evil Had he taken the life of this man and by the way his family, so somehow his family was complicit in this sin And so, without anyone knowing why this would happen, then it would have kind of looked bad on God's character. But by Joshua, but by excuse me, Achan coming forward and saying, Yes, I have sinned. I have done this. There's nothing wrong with the character of God. God is holy And I, in a sense, deserve what I have received. By confessing sin, we are basically saying that God is a holy God and he cannot tolerate sin. And that he will always deal with sin. And so by Achan confessing that sin, God was free to deal with that and to punish him without there being any uh thought on the part of God as being unfair or unjust in any way. God must deal with sin. And he will appear unjust in the eyes of people if you and I do not admit that when God chastises us, we deserve it That God is always fair, He's always righteous, He's always holy, and so we see Achan saying, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel. He didn't blame the circumstance He didn't blame his influences. He accepted the full responsibility for what he had done when he confessed his sin. And that's why God is glorified. When we say that we are the ones, it's not God's fault in any way. Remember the thief on the cross when he hung there on the cross at the last moment? Remember what he said when one was scoffing, the other thief said to his friend, We indeed suffer what? Justly We're getting what we deserve. This one, Jesus, he doesn't deserve any of this. We're getting exactly what we want. He said to his friend, what are you complaining about? We're getting exactly what we deserve. You cannot dishonor God. The heart of someone who wants to excuse their sin is a heart really that wants to blame God rather than dealing with it and can and and admitting it and taking responsibility for it. You remember Adam in the Garden of Eden? Remember this after the sin, Genesis 3, 6, then God said to Adam, what did you do? And Adam said, the woman that you gave me Now a lot of people think that Adam was blaming the woman, but actually he was blaming God. He was actually pushing it on to God. And uh he wasn't willing to take responsibility himself. He wasn't willing to say, yes, it was me. He impugned God. You know, Lord, I was fine in this garden until you brought her in here. And this wasn't my idea, however. I mean this was your idea. You brought her here. And so of course he did in a way indicate or uh and directly blame Eve and the serpent, but ultimately he was saying God, you know, this was your deal, not me. And that's what people do sometimes. Rather than taking full responsibility and dealing with sin in their life, they try to push it off. They try to blame it on God. But when you confess your sin, you're taking full responsibility. And you're saying, you know, whatever the Lord does as a result of what I have done, He's righteous. And he's just. You can't say to God, you know, Satan made me do it. Or this person, Lord, you put in my path. You're in sovereign control, and you brought this person in my path, God, and this is why all this happened. Excusing sin impugns God. And we have to get to the point in our life where we say, it's my responsibility, mine and mine alone. And I believe that when you get to that place in your life where you take full responsibility and you confess your sin to God and you deal with your sin to God, I believe that you grow another degree in your Christian walk When you're constantly dealing with sin. The Bible teaches us that we are to deal with our sin, we are to acknowledge it specifically. And unless we do that, if we continue to make excuses Instead of dealing with our sins thoroughly, then we're never really going to grow the way God wants us to grow. We'll never be what the Lord wants us to be. So don't blame anyone else. Don't blame the devil, don't blame the circumstances, don't indirectly blame God. Say no, Lord, it's me. Nehemiah 9. 33 says this about God. Thou art just in all that is brought upon us. God, you're just in everything you do. We've got to have the attitude kind of like the prodigal son. Remember when he returned home? He had a spirit of true repentance and concession, and he said to his father, Look, I don't even deserve anything. I don't deserve anything that you give me because I've sinned greatly. And that's the attitude of true Confession. David also demonstrates this in Psalm 51:4. Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. So we have to acknowledge our sin. Go to 1 John chapter 1 real quick. Let's leave Joshua. Go to 1 John chapter 1. And let's just look at uh this passage here. I know it's very familiar, but it's along with what we're saying about glorifying God through confessing our sin. And in chapter 1, down in verse number 7, but if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Verse 8. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. And I think what John is doing here, he's contrasting a true believer versus one who just claims to be a believer, and that's not a real Remember that's the thing that John is dealing with, right? In first John, those who went out, they went out from us because they were not of us. Had they been of us, they would have continued with us, but they went out. That it might be made manifest they were not of us. And those that went out, they had no sense of sin in their life. And they s and John and John says this: if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. There are some people that they walk around, they never confess sin, there's never any sense of sin in their life, and yet they claim to be Christians. Let me tell you something. One thing that is characteristic of a true Christian, you are constantly confessing and dealing with sin. That's no end. In fact, the word for confess is present, indicative, active. You're continually confessing sin. You say, when's the last time you confess sin this afternoon? We're constantly dealing with things in our heart and our life. And so he says in verse 8, if we say we have no sin We deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. And when you see that expression, the truth is not in us, that's equal to saying that you're not a Christian. There's no truth in you. A Christian is someone who has truth in them You may profess to be a Christian, but you don't have the truth in you if you say you don't have any sin. But in contrast to that, look in verse 9. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The person who is constantly confessing their sin, manifests a true faith, that is something that is part of the Christian life. And by the way, the word confess is from two very graphic Greek words, homologeo, logeo meaning to speak, is where we get our word logic. And it has the idea of the discussion of principles. Homo is you know, when we say something is um homogenous, it is the same That's what the word the prefix here at Homo means the same. And so homo legea means to speak the same And so what do we do when we confess our sins? We are saying the same thing about our sin that God says about it. And what does God say about our sin? This is your sin. This is not my fault. This is your sin. God is too holy to impugn him. And this is a great evil and sin against the holy nature of God. And we acknowledge that and we say the same thing. There's an agreement with me and God about my sin when I come and I confess it. And that's what happens in the Christian life. And by the way, you say, well someone says, well, you know, when we were saved, I thought all of our sins were forgiven. That's right. You're not under condemnation. However, we have to deal with sin daily in our life. You know why? Because although we will never lose our salvation and those sins judicially have been judged on the cross. And there is we have been declared not guilty. There's a sense in which practically we have to deal with our sins because sins, daily sins in our life, have to be rooted out and confessed and cleansed. Why? Because they interrupt our fellowship with God. And they cause us to live in defeat. Sin brings defeat and a lack of joy, and it depresses the heart, and all those things. And so we have to deal thoroughly with our sins. And and deal with them in a way where we're confessing those sins and when we do that, we are giving glory to God. We're basically saying, God, you're holy, and I want to reflect your righteousness in my life, and I want to deal with sin. I want to get it out because I want to have fellowship with you in my life. And so we glorify the Lord when we confess our sins and we deal thoroughly with them. Let me give you another one. We give glory to God when we confess Jesus as Lord, when we aim our lives to obey His will, when we confess our sin, but also here's number four, by trusting Him. Go to Romans chapter four now. Go back to Romans chapter four. Let me show you another passage that tells us how we glorify the Lord. Now in Romans chapter 4, the Apostle Paul is discussing Abraham and his relationship to faith. Remember that in chapter 3 The Apostle Paul talked about justification as a result of putting our faith. We're justified by his grace and by putting our faith in the Lord, not by any works of any law. And he uses Abraham as an example of that. And so he says in verse chapter 4, what shall we say then? That Abraham our father as per sent pertaining to the flesh hath found For if Abraham were justified by works, he had where of the glory, but not before God. What's the scripture say Abraham believed God, and it was accounted unto him to righteousness. Now to prove his point that you're saved by faith and not by law, Paul says, here's exhibit A, here's Abraham. There was no law around that he obeyed. How is he saying? He believed God. He put faith in God. And the result of his faith, God declared him righteous. And so he's the father of faith, we could say. But notice what he says in chapter 4, verse 19. Let's get straight to the point. Look what it says. And not and being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead when he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. Look at verse 20 And he staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith. Watch this next phrase, giving what? Glory to God There's the other way we glorify God. You say how? By trusting God, by believing his word. Abraham and Sarah could never have children on their own, humanly speaking They were both too old for that, and yet God had made a promise that they would have a son, and sure enough they did have a son. And Abraham believed God when he said that. Now let me just say that Abraham's faith grew to that point. He didn't always have a faith that staggered not. In fact, there were times when he did stagger But he went through one test of faith after another after another, and finally he grew to the point that when God said something, he just believed it. He didn't question, he didn't complain He didn't take matters into his own hands like he was prone to do when God said you're going to have a natural-born son, and that's when, you know, the the episode there of Abraham and his wife Sarah and Hagar and trying to have their own son through Hagar and all of that business there. And God finally came in in Genesis 17 and he said, Look, stop this nonsense. This is the Harmon paraphrase here Stop all this. I am Almighty God. Abraham finally got to the place in his life where He didn't stagger, where he totally trusted God when God said something. You say how how much so was that true in his life? Well, he had gotten to the point where God said to Abraham, Abraham, now I want you to take your son Isaac, your only son, and I want you to take him to Mount Mariah, and I want you to offer him a sacrifice. Now hold on there, God. You told me that through Isaac all the promises would be fulfilled. He is the promised child. He's the one we've been waiting for. How are you going to fulfill those promises If Isaac is dead, he could have reasoned that way, he could have said that. But he didn't. Do you know what the Bible says he did Without complaining, he did exactly what God said. Why? Because he believed God. He trusted God. He knew that God was going to somehow, through Isaac, fulfill his promise. And the Bible says in Hebrews that he believed that God was even able to raise him up from the dead after he put him to death. He got to the point in his life Where he didn't question God at all. He didn't impugn God, he didn't question God's motives. He didn't say, God, what are you doing? Why are you doing it? He obeyed God without hesitation, without complaint, fully and completely. And the Bible says here that he staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving God. Glory. You know what? It glorifies God when we believe His Word. And that's what faith is. Faith is not a wish or believing in the things that I speak, it's believing in the things that God already spoke. It's belief in God's word. And when God says something, you can bank on it. Now, let's be honest, we struggle with this, don't we? We say, oh, God will supply all my needs. We say that while the bank account is really full. But when we go through a poverty cycle and there's nothing there, we get anxious and we start to worry. And we say, oh God, are you going to take care of me? And then we begin to worry, and you know what? We're staggering at the promises of God. Let me tell you something. God is going to take care of you. He just will. He promises that. And when we take God at His word and we believe Him and we stagger not, but trust Him, then God is glorified. Because we say to all those around us that God keeps his word. And my faith is in a God who is good and who will do what he promised. And friend, that's a testimony all around about the character of God. And so believing him brings him glory. By trusting Him. Now let me give you a fifth one. We glorify God by confessing Jesus as Lord, by aiming our lives to obey His will. By confessing sin, by trusting him, but also by bearing fruit. Go back to John chapter 7 or chapter 15. Let me show you this passage. Bearing fruit. John fifteen. Now, Jesus here is speaking to his disciples, and he's talking about a body in him. And in John 15, 5, the Lord says that He's the vine, we're the branches. In other words, His life pulses through us, just like a branch is kind of a channel through which the life of the vine goes through and bears fruit. Even so that's that's the same is true with us. Spiritually, we are one organism with him, with Christ. And the and the flow of his life proceeds through us And as it does proceed through us, you know what happens? We begin to bear fruit. Because we're connected to Christ. Look in chapter 15, look down in verse number 8. Herein is my father what? Glorified that ye bear much fruit What is so what happens here? God has glorified that we bear much fruit. So fruitfulness in our life glorifies God. Because why? Because that means that God's power is working through us. Friend, if you see fruit in my life, I guarantee it's not Jerry Harmon doing it. And if there's fruit in your life, it's not you. It's because we're connected to the vine. And the life of Christ is flowing through us. And so there's a sense in which when we're bearing fruit, the power of God is being put on display in our lives. And so that should be true of all of us. Now, Christians, if you're truly a Christian, you're going to bear some fruit, right? You ever have a tree that just doesn't bear fruit at all? I mean what's that tree good for? Nothing. You cut it down unless you just like the way it looks. Or, you know, some trees, you know, they they they barely give any fruit. You know, and there are some Christians that way, you know, there's there's there's not a whole lot of fruit there. There might be something, but you have to look pretty hard. That doesn't glorify God. Jesus says here, again in verse 8, here it is my Father glorified that she bear just a little fruit, just one little apple. No, that ye bear much fruit. God is glorified when we're bearing much fruit. We're very fruitful for him. Much fruit glorifies God. Because again, it produces the character of Christ in our life. In other words, how can people tell that we're a Christian unless we're bearing fruits? How can I tell a tree is really an apple tree unless I see apples on it? And how can people tell that we're a Christian unless we're bearing the fruit of a Christian? And when we bear that fruit and others see it, then God is being radiated through us. And he's glorified through that. Another way to say this, Titus 2. 10, Paul said, look, adorn the doctrine of God. Let people see you living out that doctrine of God. And when we're not bearing fruit, we're not bringing glory to God. In fact, it could be the opposite thing. We could be shaming the Lord because there's nothing in us that the world can see that bears witness that we're truly the Lord's In Romans 2. 24, the Apostle Paul makes an interesting statement to Israel. He says, this, for the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you. Think about that. God says to Israel, the name of God is being blasphemed by the Gentiles because of you. Now wait a minute. What was Israel to be? They were to be the light, they were to be the glory of God They were to show forth God through the world. But they had gotten to the point where people couldn't see God through them. In fact The Gentiles were blaspheming the name of God because of Israel. Instead of showing the world what God was like, they were giving the world the wrong perspective of him. And God wasn't glorified through that. Jesus said this, Matthew 5, 16, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works, and you know the rest of it and what? And glorify. Your Father, which is in heaven. Jesus is saying the product of your life should be the manifestation of God through you. And again, that's another way of what Jesus is saying here, we're just bearing fruit. God has invested so much into us that he should see fruit in our life. The Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 9 7 uh asked a good question. He said, Who plants a vineyard and eats not the fruit of it? Fair question. God has poured into you and I eternal life. He's made us the recipients of his divine power through Christ. And you don't know what he expects? He expects to see that lived out in our life. He expects to see that fruit in our life. Now, you say, well what is fruit? Let's get a little more practical. What is it? Well there's just a few things here that we could write down. Look in looking Well just jot down Philippians 1. 11. We don't have time to turn to all these verses. Listen to this, being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, under the glory and praise of God What's one area of fruit? Just righteousness. When people see practical righteousness in our life, it brings glory and praise to God. That's what Paul said. When you're filled with these fruits of righteousness, it sure does glorify God And then write down 2 Thessalonians 1, 11, and 12. Wherefore also we pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of his calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness. and the work of faith with power. In other words, he wants to produce all his goodness and power in you. Why? Verse 12, that the name of the Lord Jesus Christ might be glorified in you. He wants to do all that so that Christ is glorified. You know what Jesus said of the church? Christ in you the hope of glory. If the world's going to see the glory of God, that's going to be through us. And so these are a few things. And really we can divide fruit up into two categories. There's action fruit and there's attitude fruit. What's action fruit? Winning souls? Paul said in Romans 1. 13, I want to come there. Why? So that I can have some fruit among you. He was talking about evangelism. When you win others to Christ, you're producing fruit. That action there. Also giving. Paul was thanking the Philippians for their gift. And he said this in chapter four, verse seventeen Not because I desire gift, but I desire fruit that might abound to your account. Giving, not only so winning, and winning others, is an action fruit that glorifies God. But when we give sacrificially, just like the Philippians were to Paul, and Paul said, You know what? Thank you for that. Not because I needed it, but I want to see fruit on your account. So giving is a fruit that glorifies God. And then just thanking God, Hebrews 13, 15, let us therefore offer the sacrifice of praise. That is the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name. And then just doing good Colossians 1 10, that you might work worthy of the Lord on the all-pleasing, being fruitful in every good work. The good works that you're doing, and you do it for the Lord. That's glorifying God. That's bringing Him glory, the good works that you do. That's all action fruit. But then there's attitude fruit. And that's simply Galatians 5, where it talks about the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, and so on. All the attitudes that we have as a believer that are in us. And someone says, well what comes first? Action fruit or attitude fruit? Listen, the attitudes we have lead to the actions. The right attitudes Lead to the right actions. In fact, if we can do things with the wrong attitude and be legalistic in the way we do it and not glorify God But when we have the right attitude, when we're yielded to the Spirit, when the power of the Holy Spirit is working in and through us, and all these things are produced in our life, that's fruit. And you know what? It brings glory to God. Now I have other things here, but I don't have time. I ran out of time tonight. And uh maybe we'll pick this up. But there's so much more that the Bible says about living for the glory of God. I just hope that there's one thing that I can impart if you don't get anything else, that your focus should be that you do this very thing. You should wake up tomorrow and say, what can I do that brings glory to God? And is this thing I'm going to do, is this going to glorify God in my life? Is God going to receive glory through this? And if it doesn't, we shouldn't do it Paul said, whether therefore ye eat or ye drink or whatsoever ye do, do also the glory of God. Let's bow for a prayer tonight. So Father, we thank you again for the instruction we receive from your word. And we pray, Lord, that we will indeed live for this single ultimate wonderful purpose that we would focus on glorifying you in our life. And that Lord, we would, we would just take a spiritual inventory and ask ourselves this one question. Am I, what is my motive? Am I living for the glory of God? Am I willing to simply just confess Christ as Lord and just live to obey his will Am I dealing thoroughly with sin in my life? And am I trusting in his word and bearing fruit for his glory? Father, make this our passion. in life that we live for that one thing to glorify you. And how many of us say that's my prayer tonight, that I live with that one passion. For his glory, his glory alone. Father, bless your church, your people. And Lord, may we, as a result of this, see more fruit produced. Continue, Lord, to grow us spiritually into the likeness of Christ and send us people whose hearts are hungry for truth. Who want to grow in Christ, to bless your people in this word to their heart. We pray in Jesus' precious, wonderful name. Amen.