Thank you all for coming out tonight. It's uh it's it's past nine o'clock. I'm not used to preaching this late. And you're probably not used to listening this late. But I tell you what, I'm not going to keep you long. I know there's food downstairs. I want you to try to think about the sermon for just a few minutes before we go downstairs. I'm a I'll tell you like one lady told her eighth husband, I won't keep you long. Take your Bibles and turn to the book of Hebrews. Look at the book of Hebrews, chapter 13, and look down at verse number 5. Hebrews chapter 13, look down at verse number 5. These are two powerful, powerful verses. And I want to impart these verses onto your heart And I pray that uh the Lord will use this, that you'll grab a hold of the truth of these verses, and it'll carry you through 2016. And by the way, blessings on everyone that's here tonight, on all the families represented, and all who will be here, and I pray the Lord will give you a blessed. 2016. The truth of the matter is we don't know what the future holds, do we? Look at these verses here. Look at chapter 13. Look at verse 5 and verse 6. Let your conversation be without covetousness. And be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee, so that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper. And I will not fear what men shall do unto me. Now most of us are afraid of the unknown. I know that at times I am. And we don't know what this year is going to bring. I heard about some men who were on a years ago they were on an old leaky ship and they were in the middle of a rough stormy sea. And they were actually fearful fearful for their lives. They weren't sure if that ship was going to make it, whether it was going to sink or not. And one of the crewmen went to the captain of the boat and he said, Captain, are we safe? And the captain said, well, I'll put it to you this way. He said, the boilers on this ship are very weak. They might explode any moment. He said, also, this ship is very old and she's taking on water. He said, to be honest with you, we might explode or we might sink. He said, we might go up or we might go down. But the bottom line is we're going on. And when I read that I thought, you know, that's really the way it is with a new year, isn't it? We don't know what the new year holds. We might go up, Jesus might come, that would be okay, right? We might go up Well we may die. Some of us we don't know. I hope you live a long life, but none of us knows when we're going to die. And we could go down and then go up. But the bottom line is no matter what happens, we're all going on. We're moving forward because time does not stand still. So we're all going on and we face a brand new year and we face brand new challenges. And again, there's a certain fearfulness sometimes with some people when you enter into a new year because there's a lot of uncertainty. We don't know what's out there. I heard about some old map makers. Do you know before they had modern instruments they would draw out maps and a lot of their map drawing was based on their own personal exploration and so they would draw down what they knew to be true about the landmass and the sea and they would make their own maps and when they got to the point where they didn't know what was beyond what they had known they would put on the map and you can still see it on some of the ancient maps today, they would write down there, beyond this there be dragons. And that was their way of saying, we don't know what's beyond this. It's probably bad. There'll be dragons. It's probably not good. They were afraid of the unknown, and that was their way of expressing it. Now the truth of the matter is they didn't know what was beyond this. It could be fertile fields. It could be a beautiful land. But as far as they were concerned, beyond this, there were dragons. Now there are some people that feel that way about the future as they try to face the future. And there may be some folks here tonight. I don't know. I don't know your heart, but the Lord knows your heart. And maybe there's a little bit of fear in you because As far as you look into 2016, there may be that same kind of feeling that, you know, beyond this, there might be dragons. But I want to tonight take away any fear that you have of the future. Because God doesn't want his children living in fear, does he? Now a lot of times this fear that we might have, it may be based upon what we've experienced in the past. And I have to admit it as we look over 2015, we did have a lot of challenges, didn't we? There was a lot of things that happened in this world that we didn't like. Murders and shootings and terrorism on the rise and ISIS and their threats and some of those threats about coming to the US and financial instability and riots and and innocent citizens being uh abused by people that should be protecting them and then police officers being assassinated And suicide bombers and on we could go. And perhaps thinking of these things can fill our hearts with fear, and you may have the feeling tonight that beyond this there might be dragons. But friend, I want to give you something from the Word of God that's going to help you face the new year without fear. And that's really what the whole theme of these verses are about. Facing the future without fear. And so I want you to notice with me from these verses that we read just three things to grab hold of that I hope the Lord will use in your heart to help you face the future without fear. If you're taking notes right down, here's the first thing that we need to grab hold of. Number one, be content with his provision. Look again in verse number five. Let your conversation be without covetousness. Now the word conversation is an old English word that simply means a lifestyle. Keep your life free, and the word covetousness here simply means the love of money. It's a combination of two words, pholeo, love. Arguas, which is silver, or money, and it means don't love money. It's got the alpha negatives on it. Without the love of money God's saying, don't be covetous as you face the new year. Don't live for more possessions and beware of Covetousness. What is covetousness? It's just a desire for more than what you already have. It's a desire just to get, just to have. Not being satisfied with what you already have. Someone asked a millionaire, how much more money will it take for you to be satisfied? And he said, just a little bit more. And that's the spirit of covetousness. Emmanuel Kant, the philosopher, was right when he said this: give a man everything he wants, and at that moment everything will not be everything. Because he's always going to want more, and such is the heart of man. And so here the Lord is encouraging us to listen, here's the first thing you need to grab onto is be content. With what you have, with what the Lord has given you already. And if the lesson of history has taught us anything, it has taught us this. If we're not content with what we have, we're not going to be content with what we get. So be content, God says. What is contentment? Let me give you a word here from Jeremiah Burroughs, the Puritan, who said Contentment is that sweet, inward, quiet, gracious frame of spirit which freely submits to and delights in God's wise and fatherly disposal on every condition. And I think that's a wonderful definition. A sweet, inward, quiet, gracious frame of spirit. And I'm submitted, is what he's saying here, I'm submitted to whatever the Lord in his providence And his grace has already given me. You know, all of us we already have more than God can trust us with. We already have what we need. And God has been so faithful, and I think all of us can say, as we look back over 2015, hasn't God been faithful? Hasn't he been good? Hasn't he just taken care of us? And so God says, look, just be content. Godliness with contentment is what? Great gain. And that's so very true. The Bible calls it great gain. And one poor man said to a rich man one time, he said, I'm richer than you are. And he said, How's that? He said, I have everything I want and you don't. Godliness with contentment is great gain. And so God says here, first of all, let your conversation be without covetousness. There's a lot more that we can say about that in scripture, but but we're talking about fear here. And a lot of times when we face the future, part of the fear we might have is I'm not going to have enough to see me through I mean we live in a very unstable world and there's a fear of having enough. But I want to tell you something, friend, if God is your heavenly father, he's always going to make sure you have enough He's just always going to give to you. And so just be content. Stop reaching out. Stop desiring more. Just be content with what the Lord entrusts to you. And that doesn't mean be mediocre. Always work and do the best you can at everything you do. But you know what? God's going to reward your faithfulness, and He's just going to give to you. He's going to take care of you. Contentment is something that we have to cultivate, especially in this world in which we live. You know why Because if you watch TV or you or any kind of media really, you're constantly being bomb being bombarded with Madison Avenue that says, you need to have this or you're not going to be satisfied, right? If you have an iPhone 4, you've got to upgrade to an iPhone 5. And if you have the 5, you gotta have the 6. And if you have the 6, you have to get the 6 plus. And and they're always telling you, you have to have more. This is new and improved, this is better. And we're constantly being bombarded with all these things. You have to have this and you have to have that. And boy, if you don't have this, you're not going to be happy. And so in this world where we have the media telling us that we have to have these things or we're not going to be satisfied against this flow of discontentment that is pushed at us, the Bible tells us that we have to learn to be consistent. You know, that's not something that comes natural. The Apostle Paul said, I have learned. In whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. It didn't come natural for Paul. You see, how did he learn that He learned it through experience. Listen to what Philippians says. I know how to be abase, I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I am instructed, both to be full and to be hungry. You know how he learned it? He learned it through experience You say, well man, sometimes I go through a poverty cycle. Yeah, I know. You know why? God's trying to teach you to learn to be content. And so sometimes he's got to bring us to the basement. I know how to be abase. Financially, I go through a poverty cycle. And even in that poverty cycle, though, the Lord always gives us what we need. But the Lord may cut off the supply a little bit. Why? He's teaching us to be content. Paul said, I had to learn that. Paul said it doesn't matter what state I'm in, I know how to do without. I know how to get a lot. I'm good at getting a lot. I we're all good at that. But Paul said, I know how to be abased, I know how to abound. I can do all things through what? Now, a lot of times when we quote that verse, we're quoting it to in some other context, but the whole context of that verse is learning to be content. And you know why we can learn to be content? Because of Jesus. We have Jesus. Friend, I want to tell you something. If you have Jesus, you focus on him, and you know what you're going to get? Satisfaction. and contentment. Jesus plus a little bit is better than everything without him. And so it's it's through the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, Well I'm afraid that my me my needs might not be met. In 2016. Friend, that's if I hope that you don't have that thought, but if you do, just remember this. The Apostle Paul said this, but my God shall supply all your needs. And sometimes you say, I wonder about my children. You ever wonder about that? Sometimes I do, I'll be honest with you. I look at this world and I look at how much it takes to make it, and I look at my children, I wonder, Lord, how are they going to make it in this world But you know what? There's always a verse that comes to my mind I love the quote and I want to share it with you. It says in the in the in the book of Psalms, it says this, I have never seen the righteous forsaken or his seed begging for bread Never seen that. God's going to take care of you, He's going to take care of yours. Because He's faithful. So the Lord says, just be content. Be content with my provision. By the way, the Hebrew writer is speaking to people who had gone through difficulty. Go back to chapter 10 and look at verse 34 real quick. Let me just show you that they had been uh missing a lot of their goods because someone took them from them. In Hebrews chapter 10 verse 34, the writer says, For ye have compassion of me uh in my bonds and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an enduring sorrow. The word spoiling here has the idea of something that was taken from them. Something happened to them where they lost their possessions. Lost their property, lost their home, lost their lands, lost their possessions. The word is the idea of plundering, robbing. Something happened to these believers who were suffering, where they lost so much, and Paul said, Yet I watched you and you endured this joyfully. Why? Because you had an eternal focus. I want to tell you something, friend, if I lose everything in 2016, I'm still richer than 90% of the people in this world because I have Jesus. And you know what? He's always going to give me more. I would be a fool to doubt him. And then the Apostle Paul said, You took all of this lost joyfully because you had eternal perspective. However, there were some that were a little nervous about what they didn't have, and that spirit of covetousness was rising up in them. And so that's why the writer says, listen Be content with what you have. Let your lifestyle be without covetousness and be content with things that you have. Now let me move on here. First thing, be content with his provision. But here's the second thing. If you want to live in a new year without fear, write this down. Number two, be comforted with his presence. Be comforted with his presence. Look in verse 5 again. Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee Nor forsake thee. I don't know what the year is going to face next, but there's one thing I know he's not going to lead me. And he's not going to forsake me. Isn't that wonderful? In him I have all. And I I I'm all I'll never be alone. He'll always be with me. This is possibly the most encouraging verse in all the Bible. Just a wonderful verse. We don't have to be afraid of what's going on or what's going to happen Because I know that I have him with me. I know there are some people that are lonely. I want to tell you something, friend, if you're here tonight and you're lonely, you need to come to the Lord Jesus Christ and they'll never be lonely again. And if you are a Christian, you need to be reminded that you do have a friend. I was reading about Dr. Abraham Maslow, he's a famed research analysis. And this is what he said. He said, the truth is the average American does not have a real friend in the world. That said, here's what another man said He said all human failures sprang from a lack of love, and then he began to name some of them, alcoholism, workaholism, uh depression, suicide. He said all these things spraying from a lack of love. And the bottom line is people need someone to love and they need someone that will love them. That's one of the greatest needs. And that's why this verse is so comforting because, friend, if you know you know Jesus and if you don't know him, you can know him. Tonight you can turn to him, and you'll have someone that will always love you, and he'll never forsake you You can love him and he'll love you. And there'll be more fullness and satisfaction in that relationship than in any relationship you ever have had. Because he says, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Now let me give you a little bit of Greek here, okay? They say, Greek scholars say, that this is a piling up of negatives And so actually there are really in the Greek here five negatives. So we could say it like this, literally, here's how it reads. I will never, no not ever, no never leave nor forsake you Is that strong enough for you? Let me read that again. I will never, no, not ever, no, never leave you nor forsake you. That's the strongest negative in all the Bible. And it's done that way on purpose. God didn't Now in English to use a double negative is bad grammar, but in Greek it's great. I remember uh some young preacher was visiting this old senior saint, this grandmother, and he was trying to explain this to her, that's five negatives in the Greek. And she said, well, you Greek fellows might need five negatives, but once is enough for me And that's true, once is enough. But I'm speaking here to some people tonight. Maybe someone in 2015 has forsaken. Maybe a a spouse walked out on you. Or maybe, and you're feeling the loneliness of that. Or maybe you had a loved one that's passed on into eternity, and you're feeling the loneliness of that Or maybe something has happened where someone did you wrong and exploited you and left you alone. Friend, this verse applies to you. He will not leave you. He will not forsake you. He will be with you. And friend, you need to take this and receive it into your heart And this will carry you through the most difficult circumstances. I don't know what 2016 holds. There's going to be challenges, there's going to be blessings, there's going to be burdens, we know that. But this verse can carry you through The whole year. David Livingston one time, he was in deepest, darkest Africa, surrounded by hostile natives. Who wanted to kill him. One night he was sitting by his fire and he could hear the drum beats, the war drum beating in the background, and he felt such fear and felt and felt such turmoil in his heart. And He was reminded by the Holy Spirit of what the Bible says. Lo, I am with you always. And when he s reminded himself of that, when the Lord reminded him of that, and that the Bible says, I will not leave you nor forsake you. He's he wrote this down. He said, Why should a man such as I flee? I feel peace now. And that verse carried him through. And the Lord was with them. And so, friend, let this verse pick you up. I love the words of the song, How Firm a Foundation. Listen to the words. That soul that on Jesus has leaned for a prose. I will not, I will not desert to his foes. That soul, though all hell should endeavor to shake, I'll never, no, never, no, never forsake. Friend, let that encourage you. How do we live without fear in a new year? Number one, be content with his provision. Number two, be comforted. With his presence. But here's the third thing I want you to grab hold of. Write down number three: be confident with his promise. Promises. Be confident with his promises. Look again in verse five. Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have. For he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee And then verse 6, so that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what men shall do unto me. Now, I want you to think about the promise. Notice in verse 5 again where it says, For he hath said. I want to focus on that. Because I want you to think about the promises of God, but I want you to think about the character of the promise keeper. Because I want to tell you something, dear friend. A promise is only as good as the character of the one who gives it I mean if the person who gives you that promise has no integrity, that promise is no good. Right? Has someone ever given you a promise and said, Oh, I'm gonna do this? And then you do something based on that promise only to find out later that they say, well, I've changed my mind. I just changed my mind. I don't want to do that. And you just kind of leave like wow. Or maybe someone makes you a promise and and then they really are sincere about that promise And they say, well, you know what? I promised you this, but now I can't deliver. I really promise more than I can give. And so I hope that you'll understand that. I can't keep the promise because I can't deliver. I don't have the strength to deliver Or maybe someone gives you a promise and then they say, Well, you know what I I don't remember it. You come back, you come to claim that promise and they say, Well, you know, I don't remember it just like that. I don't remember saying those words. I mean I remember saying this. I don't remember saying that. Again, what's the point? The point is the promise is only as good as the character and integrity of the one who gives it. Now let me tell you something. You know who's giving you this promise? God. He has said. God has said. I want to tell you something, friend. When God gives a promise You don't have to worry about him changing his mind. All it he he does not change his promises or his purposes. You know why? He is the unchanging God. God says, I change not. And friend, when God says something, he's not going to change his mind on it And you know what else? He's not going to promise too much that he that he can deliver. You know why? Because our God is omnipotent. And when God says I'm going to do something, you know what? He has the power to deliver. And I'll tell you something else, he's not going to forget his promises. Because he is omniscient. He knows all things. And I'll tell you another reason he's not going to forget, because he wrote them all down for us right here. They're all right here. All of God's promises are right here. He's not going to forget. And so, friend, think about the character of the promise keeper. Let me tell you something, friend, when God says something, you can bank on it. You can just bank on it. But then I want to talk to secondly about this, the confession of the promise claimant. Or we could say the confidant. Because notice where it says in verse 6. I love this. In verse 5, it says, he has said, look in verse 6, so that we may boldly say If you know what faith is, faith is simply boldly saying what God has already said. God said this, I can boldly say it. That's really what preaching is. I thank God I don't have to look for a sermon every week. You know that? I just boldly say what he's already said. This is this thing is easy. Now I want to make sure I get it right. Study to make sure I get it right, but friend, I want to tell you I'm called to just boldly say what he's already said. I have no problem boldly saying what God has already said And that's faith. It's faith in the word of God, faith in the promises of God. Now, you know, so many folks out here and they say, well I You know, they they la this name and they claim it with hey, I can name something and then I can claim it. Friend, you can't claim anything unless God names it. You're not the one on the throne, God's the one on the throne. You're not the one doing the naming, God's the one doing the naming But when God names it, you can claim it. He has said that I might boldly say that's the first confession. I can boldly say, but here's the second thing I can boldly say, whatever God says, but notice this. Look at verse 6, so that we may boldly say, listen to this: the Lord is my helper. When I look into 2016, you know what? I don't say there be dragons. You know what I say? The Lord is my helper. The Lord is my helper. I don't know what I'm going to face in 2016. Neither do you. But I can tell you this. I can boldly say this. The Lord's my helper. He's going to help me through. He's going to help you through too. No matter what heartache, no matter what trial. I can say this boldly. He will protect me. Listen to Isaiah 43. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you. Notice the next thing. The Lord is my helper. Looking again at the end of verse 6. And I will not fear what men can do unto me. He has said that we might boldly say, the Lord is my helper. I don't fear what men can do to me I I can look into this year, I can look at it, and not know what's out there and say, I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid. The Lord is with me, and he's with you. Let me just give you this illustration. I love this story. Alexander McLaren is a great Scottish expositor. And in one of his sermons, he tells the story of something that happened to him. And it so illustrates this. He was talking about what happened to him when he was a boy about 16 years of age. And he had a job for the first time. But this job required him to go away from his home. He lived in a farm out in a rural area. And this job required him to go to Glasgow, right into the city. And he didn't have a horse. His family was poor. He couldn't ride a horse and it was about six to eight miles to the job and back And since he didn't have a horse or anything like that, he would have to walk to his job. And it was too much to walk to the job and back every day. So he decided he would walk to the job and just stay there in Glasgow all week The boss had a little room that he could stay in. And at the end of the week, he would walk back home. And one day his father came to him and said, Alexander, he said He said, this will be the first time you're away from home. And he said, uh your mother and I, we're going to miss you. It's going to be a little hard on us. So here's what we want you to do. We want you to ask after work on Friday. We want you to walk back home after work Friday. And Alexander knew that between his farm and the city, there was a deep dark ravine. And that ravine was very foreboding. It was very dangerous. In fact, criminals were known to hide in that ravine. Muggers were known to hide in that ravine. In fact, some people had actually been murdered in that ravine. Here's a 16-year-old boy, and this is what he's thinking in his mind about this deep dark ravine, that he would have to go through that And so he said, Dad, you know what? He said, you know, Friday after work, I'm gonna be tired. He said, uh why don't I just wait and go Saturday morning when it's you know and his father said, Alexander, no, we want you home Friday evening. So he knew in his mind he would have to walk through that deep, dark ravine at nighttime. And it was a scary thought for him. Well, Friday came. He got off work, and sure enough, he began to walk home, and he got to the very edge of that dark ravine. And he was nervous. Here's his 16-year-old mine. He's thinking the worst about what could happen there. And so he starts to whistle, thinking that would help, but it didn't help. And then he starts to walk a little bit and he's he's He begins to talk to an imaginary friend, thinking that would help him. If there was anyone around, maybe they would think that there was someone with him so they wouldn't bother him. And then that didn't help. But suddenly he heard a stirring going on coming ahead of him. And it terrified him. He could hear the walking, the footsteps, the stirring. And he was terrified. He thought, man, this is it. And sure enough, there a figure began to come out of that dark ravine. And he could see the silhouette of that figure until finally that person got so close that finally he recognized who it was. And you know who it was? It was his father. And Alexander's father said, Son, I I thought that I would meet you here and walk and I thought maybe we could walk the w rest of the way home. And Alexander McLaren said, you have no idea what that meant to me. To know that now. You know what? All the fear that I had before was suddenly gone. It was Gone. You know why? He said, because now I was walking through that valley with my father right next to me. He said, all the fear was gone. All the trouble, the anxiety was gone. He said there was nothing but peace. And he said, in fact, I enjoy walking through that valley with my father. And you know what, friend? That's exactly what God is saying to you. Yea, though I walk through the valley. I will fear no evil. Why? For thou art with me. I want to tell you something, friend. I don't know what valley you might have or what valley I might have. In 2016, but I'll tell you this: I got someone who's going to walk through that valley with me. And you know what? So do you. So do you. So I don't look at 2016, I don't say there'll be dragons. I look at 2016 and I say, the Lord is my helper. I will not fear. How do we enter the year without fear? Be content with his provision. Be content with what he gives you. Trust in him. He's going to take care of you. Number two, be comforted with his presence. And friend, be confident. And his promises. He will keep his word. He will be with you in twenty sixteen. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we thank you for this wonderful promise from your word. Lord, we we just claim it tonight. I just claim it. I claim it for all those who are here. Let this be the thing that carries us through this next year. May we enter into the year without fear. Where our heart says, not like others, that there be dragons. Oh no. But the Lord is my helper. I will not fear what men can do unto me. And Fred, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to read this verse again. I want you to grab this verse. I want you to claim it in your own heart before the Lord for 26 years. sixteen. Listen again to these words. Let your conversation be without covetousness. Be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper. I will not fear what men shall do unto me. Father, may we hold on to this through the whole year. Let it be our anchor for the soul. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.