Bibles tonight, open to the book of 2 Peter. And I, a few weeks ago, before I went to London, I started a sermon. And didn't finish it. And I think I'm going to try tonight. Second Peter chapter three, verse eighteen. It was on the subject of living for God's glory and spiritual growth. But look in Second Peter three eighteen. The grow in grace. And in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to Him be glory both now and forever. Now, I introduced the topic about spiritual growth and living for the glory of God because those things are so tied in together. They're so inseparably linked And the things I'm going to tell you tonight are really not original with me. I benefited greatly. Early in my Christian life I read a book by uh Dwight Pentecost on the glory of God. I would uh recommend that book to you. I read that when I was a teenager And it had a profound influence on me. And then later a book Transformed by His Glory by Ryrie and then Keys to Spiritual Growth. And all these principles are really things that I learned in reading from these books. But it's talking about the priority of spiritual growth and what is the thing that motivates spiritual growth in our life. I believe that spiritual growth is a priority. We need to pay attention to that. It's something purposeful in the Christian life. And Peter tells us here, we're to grow in grace. This is a command. God commands us to grow in grace. In fact, in 1 Peter he talks about this in 1 Peter 2, too, as newborn babes, desire the pure milk of the word that you may grow thereby. the sincere milk of the word. And so Peter begins and ends his epistles by talking about spiritual growth. Now you remember if you were here the last time when I started this sermon, That I talked about spiritual growth, but we talked about what it is not, and then we talked about what it is. What is it what uh spiritual growth is not, it's not a matter of our position in Christ Because when you got saved, you became complete in the Lord Jesus Christ. Positionally, you are complete in Him. It's not a matter of God's love. You don't grow into God loving you more. God cannot love you more. He will not love you less. God loves you perfectly, and so you don't grow into God loving you even more. That's not what spiritual growth is because God loves us with a perfect love. It's not a matter of time There are some people that are saved for a long time and they don't seem to really progress spiritually. There are some people saved for a very short time and yet they seem to explode. with growth in their life. It is really commitment to principles that determine that, not necessarily time. However, having said that, it does take time for growth to take place. And it's not a matter of accumulated knowledge. Sometimes we equate spiritual maturity and spiritual growth with how much a person might know. uh uh uh certainly spiritual knowledge is necessary. We have to grow in in knowledge in order to apply those things. But if all you have is a lot of knowledge It doesn't mean that you are spiritually mature or that you're growing spiritually. The Apostle Paul said knowledge puffs up, but charity edifies. And so you can have a whole lot of theology and knowledge about all these things and not really progress spiritually. And it's not a matter of activity. Some people think, well, if I just get busy and I start doing all these things and get all this done, then I am spiritual, I I will grow spiritually, but that's not true. Some of the busiest people in the New Testament were the Pharisees And yet they had no concept of who Jesus was, and they certainly weren't growing spiritually. And Jesus said, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, haven't I done all these things? And Jesus said, I never knew you. And so it's not a matter of activity. It's not a matter of prosperity. Some people think, well, God's prospering me. I'm doing so well. and and and I'm blessed financially and so on, but that doesn't mean that you're spiritual. That doesn't mean that you're growing spiritually. So what is spiritual growth? Spiritual growth is basically making your practice commensurate with your position. Our position is we're complete in Him, and it's bringing our practice up to our position. It's making it match. All that God has declared of you, positionally, we are to try to live out practically. And that's spiritual growth. It is a process. It is something that we learn. And what is the master key to that? And it's introduced to us here in 2 Peter 3. 18. It's kind of implied in verse 18. But grow in the grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory. Both now and forever. And so the key to this, the key to spiritual growth, as I tried to tell you before, is focusing on the glory of God. It is, understand, it is the chief end of our existence. You know why we're here? We're here to glorify God. We live for that. That is the ultimate end. And the Westminster Confession says that. Asks this question. This is the shorter catechism. What is the chief end of man? That's the question. The answer. Man's chief end is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. Question two, what is the rule that God has given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him? Answer the Word of God. It is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him. And so we are here to glorify God. We're here to enjoy God. And how do we know how to do that? From the Word of God God's word is very specific. It teaches us how we might glorify God, how we might accomplish this ultimate end of why we're here, and really it's the ultimate end of all things. And as I told you before, this is why the heavens, the universe was created. The heavens declare the what? The glory of God. The animals glorify God. Isaiah 43. 20 says, the beast of the field shall give me glory. And then angels who praise God and say, Glory to God in the highest, and on we could go. And so our focus is to glorify God. And here's the principle that I introduced to you before. As we focus on this one thing of glorifying God, spiritual growth takes place. The Holy Spirit begins to do things on our heart and in our life. David said this, I have set the Lord always before me. And then he goes on to say, Therefore my heart is glad. Remember I told you that when we set our focus on glorifying God, there's an exchange we seek to glorify God. In return, he fills us with joy. And then he also, very naturally and automatically, he lifts us to new levels of spiritual growth. 2 Corinthians 3 18. You should look at that sometimes. As we focus on the glory of the Lord in the Scripture, we are automatically lifted to new levels of glory from glory to glory. New levels of spiritual growth. Now very specifically, what is it to go to glorify God? And the easiest illustration I can give you of that is just like a parent and a child. Here's a mom and dad. If they had a child That's not living up to their name. Suppose here's a family that has a great name, and this child yet is going out and shaming that name It brings hurt, it brings disgrace, it brings shame to that mother and that father. Isn't that what the book of Proverbs says, Proverbs 10. 1? A wise son makes a what? A glad father. But a foolish son is a heaviness of his mother. Proverbs 17, 25. A foolish son is a grief to his father and bitterness to her that bear him And so if a child goes out and doesn't live up to the expectation of the family name, they are bringing shame. Yet on the other hand, if a child goes out and lives a life that is wise and is Great and is pleasing to the family name. What does that child do for the father? It glorifies the father. Or we could say it makes the father look good And so that's in a way what it means to glorify God. Although that is just kind of a simple definition of it. That is really the concept of it. When we take the name of Christian upon us We are living then with that name, and we better be careful that we live up to that name. Because if we don't live up to that name, we're bringing shame to it. And that's what I think it means to take the Lord's name in his name. If you've taken the name of Christian upon you, then you better make God look good to this world. And how do we make God look good to this world in the manner in which we live? Living out a righteous life, living a life of integrity, living a life like the Lord Jesus Christ, which is what Christian means, right? If we live like Christ Then we bring glory to the Father. Now that's a general understanding, but let me give you some specific things. We talked about this before. I won't belabor because I want to move on. How do we then glorify God? What does the scripture say? And the last time we said by confessing Jesus is Lord, second or Philippians 2 that the Bible says that when we confess Jesus as Lord, we do it to the glory of God the Father. When we come to Jesus Christ and we confess him as Lord. And then the second thing we said, another way we glorify God, is by aiming our lives to obey His will. When we determine in our life that we're going to do the will of God and live for that, that brings glory to God. The great example of this is the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. What did Jesus say? He said, I honor my Father. This is John 8, 49. I honor my Father. And what was he saying? He's saying, I'm here for one reason, not my glory, but the glory of my Father. I'm living for his glory. Jesus said, I seek not my own glory, John 8, verse 50. There is one that Seeketh and judges. Jesus said, I'm not here for my own glory. I'm here for the glory of my Father. I'm not seeking my own honor. I'm seeking the honor of my Father. And so he lived his whole life that way. And friend, that's the way we are to live. He is our great example. Now, what does it mean then? If that's our focus, what is going to be characteristic of our life? What will mark us if that is our true focus? Well, let me just give you a few things here. First of all, sacrifice. We will be willing to sacrifice. If we are to live for God's glory, That means we want to glorify him no matter what the cost might be to us. It might require sacrifice on our part. But that's the essence of what it means to submit to the Lordship of Christ and to live for God's glory. We're willing to make any sacrifice. And again, who do we go to for the example? The Lord Jesus. In John 12, 27, Jesus said, Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this cause came I unto this hour. And he's saying, God, what should be my prayer as I anticipate the cross that you should get me out of this? He said, no, this is the reason I came here. And then he said, This, Father, glorify thy name. And that is, Jesus was saying, I'm willing to make whatever sacrifice I need to make. That it might glorify my Father's name. And that's the pattern that we are to follow. No matter what it costs me, I want to glorify God because that's the great reason that we're here. Now Uh you remember I talked about Peter. Remember Peter? He has failed the Lord in John twenty-one. I mean he really messed uh messed up and actually in John twenty-one is when the Lord comes to him and restores him And you remember he said, I'm going fishing. That is, he's going back into the fishing business. That word, I'm going fish in his present tense. He wasn't going on a one-time fishing trip. He was going back into the fishing business. He went into his boat, went out to go say, you know, I've messed up. I've messed up beyond repair. You ever feel that way? Man, I've messed up so much God could never use me And I think that's the way Peter felt. And Jesus, you know the story, he restores Peter. Three times he asked him the question, Do you love me? And Peter said on the last time, Lord, you know all things. He appeals to the omniscience of the Lord Jesus. Jesus, you know, I don't I I hadn't lived like it here lately. I've denied you, but you know all things. You know that I love you. And here's where Jesus really picks Peter up. He said, Peter When you were young, you did whatever you want. He said, but when you get older, you're going to stretch forth your hands and you're going to glorify me. What was Jesus talking about there? That's actually a word when it says stretch forth your hands, it actually means it was a term that meant crucifixion. Peter, you're going to be crucified. You're going to die for me. Peter, it might look right now look like you're not much for me, but I'm going to tell you something. You're going to grow to the point to where you're going to make the ultimate sacrifice for me. And then the Bible says this, and Jesus spake by what death he would glorify God. He would, Peter, in the end of his life would bring great glory to Jesus. Why? Because he got to the point in his life where he was willing to make the ultimate sacrifice. Why? Because he was focused on the glory of God. He was willing to give his life. I tell you what, we also see this in the life of Paul. Turn to Philippians real quick. Let me just show you this. Look at Philippians chapter 1. Because we see the same attitude in the great Apostle Paul. Remember in Philippians, he's in jail, right? He's going to appear before Caesar to give an account of the gospel. And he could live, he could die He's not sure how it's going to turn out. He kind of has an inkling of how it might turn out. But look in Philippians 1 verse 20. According to my earnest expectation and my hope. That is, he's looking forward to this. He's earnestly looking forward. This has the idea in the Greek of standing on the edge of a boat looking for the arrival as it begins to get to the dock. That's the idea there. What was he saying? I'm looking forward to appearing before Caesar. Do you ever look forward to a court case where you could die? That's what Paul was saying here. Man, I'm looking forward to this. This is my earnest expectation and my hope. Watch this that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. What are you looking forward to, Paul? You could die You could live, but you could die, so what are you looking forward to? This one thing, that Christ will be magnified. That was his whole focus. That was his whole purpose Either way, Paul said, whether I die or whether I live, I'm going to magnify Christ. And that's the one thing that I want to do. I want to bring glory to God. I want to make Jesus look good to this world. I want to glorify him. And so that's the thing that I'm looking forward to, to magnify the Lord. Now, if that means my death, then I'm willing to die That's okay with me. Because for me to live, it's going to be Christ, but if I die what's that? That's even better. That's gain It's far, far better, Paul said. Now I have to abide in the flesh for your sake, but it's better to go and be with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul was saying, you know what? I can't lose here Either way, I'm going to magnify the Lord. If I live, I'm going to live for his glory. It's going to be Christ. If I die, I'm just going to magnify him in my death. And I'm willing to pay the ultimate price, if that is what will best bring glory to God, then here is my life. I'm ready to do it. I'm ready for it. That's the commitment, same commitment that we were Jesus said would be true in Peter. We see it right here again in the Apostle Paul. He's willing to sacrifice, he's willing to do whatever it takes to bring glory to God. Now, that's an incredible thing. And you know where else we see this? We see this throughout the history of the church. Certain men and women, missionaries and preachers, have exhibited the same type of commitment where they are willing to die for Christ. We read about Christian missionaries who go off the foreign fields and go and minister in difficult places, and they know that if they go, they put their life in jeopardy, and yet they're willing to do it. Why? For the glory of God. They're focused on God's glory. We hear of great heroes in the faith. We read of the heroes of the faith in Hebrews 11. The Bible says to them now, and you read that list, some of them were miraculously delivered, but others were not Others suffered martyrdom. And the Bible says the world was not worthy of them. But they died in great anticipation of giving God glory with their life. And in history, I was telling you about Hugh Latimer, the pulpit I saw when I was in England, of this man who was burned at the stake, and he went willingly to glorify the Lord. I read a biography a while back on the life of John Patton, the 19th century missionary from Scotland. who was sent to the New Hebrides Islands, that's what they were called at that time, where there were only cannibals that lived there. And all he knew about those islands was that whoever went there didn't return. That's all he knew. And he was dropped off there on the shore. He had to take her boat to shore because the boat that dropped him off didn't want to get too close. And they dropped him off there on shore, just he and his wife and his child. He didn't know the language, he knew no one there, and he was left there to plant a church for the glory of God. An island filled with cannibals. And after he was there for a little time, his child died. And then he was there, and then the right after that, his wife died. And the and the biography says that John Patton slept on the grave of his wife and his child for three or four nights so that the cannibals would not dig up the graves and eat the bodies. That's where he stayed, and he stayed there for years and years, and you know what? He led eventually the chief of the natives there to Christ. And he led others to Christ. And the chief later testified of a shield of soldiers that surrounded him and his wife the first night they were there. You know what they were, they were angels, right? But here's a man that went to this place, and why was he willing to make all those sacrifices to stay there all those years for the glory of God? Because when you're focused on God's glory, you're willing to make whatever sacrifice you have to make. There's another thing that will be true of you if you're focused totally on the glory of God. The other thing that will be true of you is number two, sensitivity. Sensitivity. You say, what do you mean by that? That means that you're so consumed with the glory of God and glorifying God that when God is dishonored, it hurts you. It bothers you. I want to tell you, I just cannot stand to hear the way the name of Christ is used by some of the blasphemous people that are in this world It should roll us. It should make us angry that that pure and holy name would be used in such a profane manner. But David said this. He said, Lord, the zeal of thine house has eaten me up In other words, he's saying, Lord, I have a tremendous love for you, and I love whatever exalts you, and I hate whatever dishonors you. He later on said in the same verse, the reproaches of those that reproach thee have fallen upon me. Lord, whatever reproaches your name, that bothers me. Whatever bothers you, bothers me. Isn't that true of someone that you love? You know, if you attack me, I'm okay with that, but you attack someone that I love, that really bothers me. You attack my wife, that hurts me. You attack my children, that hurts me. You attack whoever I love, that bothers me. And if you love God and you love his glory, You're going to identify with him to the degree that whenever his name is dishonored, you are dishonored as well You are bothered about that as well. By the way, that's exemplified in the church at Ephesus. In the book of Revelation, chapter 2, verse 2, it says, Thou canst not bear them who are what? Who are evil That is, they couldn't tolerate sin and evil. Why? Because they knew that evil impugned the holiness of God and his will. And so therefore they were justly angry at things that were evil and so on. So there will be a sacrifice that's characteristic of your life if you're focusing on the glory of God. There will be a sensitivity. That is true of your life. You'll be sensitive to the things of God. But then number three, write down selflessness. There's another thing that will be true of us, and that is we'll be selfless. You can usually determine the person who's truly living for the glory of God because they will be willing, they will be content to be outdone by someone else as long as they know that whatever that person is doing is bringing glory to God. You ever notice how sometimes in some churches we don't have this problem here in some churches there seems like there's a competition among singers, you know, who can sing the bass and who can perform the bass and who can get the approval and And sometimes, you know, music is the difficult thing in some churches. Um I think it was J. Vernon McGee that said when Satan fell he landed in the choir loft. Sometimes people want to sing and they want to get the approval of men, they want to get the praise of men. And when someone sings better than someone else, that someone might be jealous because they were outdone by someone else that came along But if you're focused, and by the way, that's not just singers, that could be preachers too. It could be a Sunday school teacher too. It could be anyone that does anything, any service in the church. If they're outdone by someone else, there could be the temptation to get jealous. about that. But if you're truly focused on the glory of God, you're going to be content to be outdone by anyone. Because the issue is not how well you do. You're not worried about who gets the credit. You're only concerned about who gets the glory. And as long as God is being glorified, as long as God is being lifted up That's the main thing. That he receives the honor and the glory. Now again, another great example of this is the Apostle Paul. You're in Philippians. Look in chapter 1 again. Because again, remember, he's in prison. God's great servant, for two years he was in a Roman prison. He was chained to a Roman soldier. People could come and visit with him, but he was chained to the soldier there. And just think about the life of Paul. I mean, uh he was perhaps besides the Lord Jesus, God's greatest servant, he was used to start so many churches and bless so many people. He could probably rightly be called the father of the Gentile church. Because it was through his efforts that the church in the Gentile world began to flourish. And he had many people that loved him. But now here he is, he's in prison. And the church at Philippi, they're very concerned about Paul. And they're concerned about why he would be there in prison. And while he's there, Paul wants to alleviate all of their concerns, so he writes this letter. Look what he says in verse 12 But I would I would that you should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. You Philippians, you're worried about me being here in prison, but I want you to know that because I'm here, the gospel is really advancing. Now that's not the way we would think that God would make the gospel advanced by taking his greatest preacher, putting them in a prison for two years. We would say, Lord, what are you doing? Why do you put your best racehorse in a barn? I mean, if you want to advance the gospel, get them out there preaching, but that was not God's way at this point. You know, God's ways are not our ways, you know that. God is wise. He knows what he's doing. But no, God said, Paul, I'm going to put you in this prison. You're going to stay there for two years. Now what was happening? Paul said, I want you to know that while I'm here, that whatever is happening to me has resulted in the Furtherance of the gospel. And the word furtherance there is an incredible word. It means a pioneer advance. The gospel is making an incredible pioneer advance because I've been here. God knows what he's doing. Why? Verse 13. So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places. What's happening is That because Paul is in prison there, the gospel is spreading in places it could never spread were he not there. I mean the gospel is now spreading into the upper levels of the Roman government. You say, how? Well, there was a soldier that was chained to Paul every six hours. How would you like to be chained to Paul for six hours? Do you think you would let me ask you a question. Do you think Paul witnessed to those guys? Do you think they got theology? That's better than a seminary class You're chained to Paul. And you know what? They're listening to him pray. They're seeing his passion as he prays, and he's talking about Jesus. And they ask him, you know, why are you like this? Why are you here? And let me tell you why. And he's sharing the gospel. You know what's happening? These soldiers are getting saved. And they're going back to the barracks and saying, you know, you'll never believe. I was changing this Jewish guy down here And you know, he's really something else. You know, if you have duty and you have a choice, you ought to you ought to try that duty, you know, you ought to talk to that guy. So now they got all these soldiers that are being chained to Paul and they're rotating and they're getting saved and the gospel is spreading. And not only that, Paul's about to go to trial. This is going to be an official trial before Caesar. And the government had to have some lawyers ready. And so they had to do what? They had to study the case. And what was the issue? The gospel. They had to learn what the gospel is So now they're learning the gospel. And the gospel is spreading in places which it would never have spread were not Paul in that prison. But now notice what else happens. Look in verse 14. And many in the brethren of the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. My friends, those who love me, they are taking great courage by me being in prison. And in essence, what they're saying, if Paul can be in prison for the faith, then what do I have to be afraid of? If Paul can do it, I can do it And if Paul can suffer, then I'm willing to put myself on the line. And because Paul was in there, there were some people that were a little reluctant beforehand that were now filled with boldness. His imprisonment was actually giving courage to other believers to stand firm for Christ. Other believers were being emboldened. And so Paul commends them. Many are becoming confident because of my imprisonment. But now watch this. Verse 15, some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, and some also of goodwill. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely supposing to add affliction to my Now there were those that really liked Paul and they were taking great courage because he was in prison, and there were those who didn't like Paul so much, and they were a bit jealous of Paul. Because Paul was so loved. He was a great senior man of God that had been used in such a great way. And the next generation of preachers coming along thought that they were it. You say, oh, we don't have that problem, do we? Let me tell you something, well, let me be nice here. But it seems like preachers that come out of college or seminary know more And yet they really don't. You know, I'm learning new things all the time. And you know what I'm learning? I'm learning that I don't really know a whole lot. But there's things I need to learn But here's this younger generation, and as the younger generation are prone to do, they don't appreciate sometimes the senior ministers of the Lord, and they're taking shots at Paul. They're criticizing Paul. Can you imagine someone criticizing the Apostle Paul? I can't imagine that. And they're saying, oh, he he deserves to be in there. God's put them on the shelf. God's done with him. And now it's our turn. And he probably did something to offend the the government and and uh he's really not being used greatly now. And so they're they're preaching Christ on one hand, but they're taking shots at Paul on the other. And so in a way, you know, they are not really sincere and purely motivated by the glory of God in what they're doing. Look what he says in verse 17, but the other of love, knowing that I'm set for the defense of the gospel. Look at verse 18. What then? Notwithstanding in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and I therein rejoice, yea, and I will rejoice. What was Paul's response? Paul, what is your response to guys out there preaching Christ on one hand and then criticizing you in the next breath? How do you feel about that? How do you feel that you're being hammered by the same men that are preaching Christ? Paul said, so what? What then? Who cares The only thing I care about is that Christ is preached. And as long as Christ is preached, I rejoice. I rejoice in that. Who's Paul anyway? I'm rejoicing that these guys are preaching Christ. It doesn't matter to me that they're hammering me. Why could how could Paul say that? Because he was totally focused on one thing and one thing alone, and that was the glory of God. When you're focused on the glory of God, there will be a selflessness about You're not a concern about your name, your reputation, your any of that. You're concerned about the glory of Christ. And that's why he could say, I just I'm going to rejoice I'm going to be rejoiced. So if you're focused on the glory of God, what will be true of your life? Sacrifice, sensitivity, selflessness, all those things will mark you if you're focused on his glory. But let me give you one more thing. Suffering. Suffering. You'll be content to suffer. Go to 1 Peter 4. Let me just show you this. Look at 1 Peter chapter 4. Now, Peter, when he writes this, he's writing to believers who are suffering. This is under the vicious persecution. of the Roman government, Nero on the throne, who did all kind of horrible things to Christians. He made them his scapegoat. When things turned against him, he began to blame Christians. And so there was this persecution that was taking place. And Peter writes to these believers, and he writes to them about how to suffer well. How to deal with this unjust government that's that's persecuting them and doing all these wrong things. And by the way, there's one thing in 1 Peter that is very interesting. In 1 Peter, whenever Peter refers to the cross of Christ, he doesn't do it with respect to evangelism. Well in the New Testament, normally when a New Testament writer references the cross, it's normally with respect to evangelism, salvation, winning people to the Lord. But when Peter refers to the cross in 1 Peter, he never has evangelism in mind. You say, why does he reference the cross if he's not referencing the cross for the purpose of evangelism. He references the cross in this letter with respect to how to suffer in a way that glorifies God. You want to know how to suffer in a way that gives glory to God? Look at the life of Jesus. Look at how he was treated at his trial. Look at how he went to the cross. That's what he's saying here. Look in chapter 2. We're in 1 Peter. Look in chapter 2. And look down in verse number, let's just say verse 19. For this is thankworthy if a man for conscience toward God endure grief, suffering wrongfully. Verse 20, for what glory is it if when you be buffeted for your fault you take it patiently? But if when ye do well and suffer for it and ye take it patiently, this is what? Acceptable with God. Peter says, look, don't suffer because of what you've done, because of your faults Because if you're suffering for your faults and you take that injustice painful, you take it patiently, there's no virtue in that. There's no virtue in suffering for your own faults. But if you do well, And you're patient and you take it, then that's acceptable. Or we could say that glorifies God You're suffering. You say, wait a minute, I haven't done anything wrong. I'm suffering because I did what was right. I tried to do the right thing before God, and now I'm suffering for it. And you do it patiently. That's acceptable to God. That's what God likes. Why? Well, who's our example? Look at verse 21. For even hereunto were you called because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow in his steps. You say, how did Christ suffer? Well, he tells us verse 22, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. He didn't say anything reckless at his trial. He didn't say anything to reproach. Anyone out of anger? Look at verse 23. Who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but he committed himself to him that what? Judges righteously, all during his unjust suffering. What did Jesus do? He very patiently endured it. And he committed his soul to the to who? To him who judges righteously. Who's that? That's the God. He said, I'm going to commit myself to God. So Peter points to the cross and says, if you want to glorify God in the way that you suffer, and by the way, you say, man, well, what am I going to get if I suffer here? Listen, the greater the suffering here, the greater the glory one day in heaven. You got that? This is not all there is. The more you suffer here and suffer well, the greater the glory will be one day in heaven. That's the principle. Now go to chapter 4, because Peter is going to apply it to believers. Beloved, think it not strange. Look at verse chapter 4, verse 12. Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you But rejoice, look at verse thirteen, but rejoice, inasmuch as you're partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad with exceeding joy. That is, one day if you suffer well, when he is The glory is revealed. You're also going to share in that glory. You share in the sufferings. You share in the glory one day. And then look at this. Verse 14, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye, for the spirit of glory and of God rests on you. On their part he's evil spoken of, but on your part he is what? He's glorified. If you suffer well, patiently, commit your and commit your soul to God. Look at verse 16 Or actually verse uh fifteen, but let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief or as an evildoer, as a busybody in other man's matters. Don't take things into your own hands. You know The way these Christians were being persecuted, I can imagine someone just saying, I've had enough. I am I'm gonna I'm gonna defend, I am gonna I'm gonna take care of business, and going out and killing In the name of protecting others and doing all these other things. And Peter said, look, don't suffer as someone who does wrong. Look what he says here. Verse 16: If any man suffer as a Christian, Let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf. And look at verse 19. Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit to safe the keeping of their souls in well-doing as unto faithful creator, just like Jesus did. You don't take matters into your own hands. You endure it patiently. And when you do that, you bring glory to the Lord. And you commit your soul to the keeping of the Creator, just like Jesus did. You want to know how to suffer well that brings glory to God? Then you follow the example of Christ. And if you're totally focused on God's glory, then you're willing to endure suffering if it brings glory to the name of Christ. That's the whole point about this whole thing. You're willing to do that as long as it brings glory to the name of God. So what will be true in our life if we are totally focused on This one thing. And I pray that this will be a concept that the Holy Spirit will really get into your heart and into my heart, that we are totally focused on the glory of God. And if that's true, then we'll be willing to make whatever sacrifice we have to make. We're willing to uh be sensitive to the things that that that impugne the name of God, that the the reproaches that re of those things that reproach Him will fall upon us, that we will have a great selflessness in our life And that we will be willing, if called upon, if need be, we'll be willing to suffer patiently, that it might bring glory to God. Because that is the ultimate purpose of our life. Now there's a whole lot more things in the Bible about this, but we are out of time. And I see you getting restless. So I will let you go. And we will maybe we'll continue this on another Sunday night. Let's bow for prayer. Let's bow for prayer together And so, Lord, we thank you for this beautiful concept, this great principle, this monumental principle, really For the believer. Lord, if we can lay hold of this one thing, if we can be so focused on your glory, Lord, it will change us. It will lift us to new levels. And so, Lord, I pray that this will not be something that is just preached and then forgotten. I pray that, Lord, we will lay hold of this with all of our hearts. Lord, that Lord, we will focus on glorifying you in our life. And Lord, watch you do wonderful things as you bring the gospel to others, as you you bless others, as you encourage others as a result of the testimony of your own children. Lord, may we be known as a church that focuses on your glory and yours alone. Help us, Lord, to do these things. And we pray all this in the wonderful, matchless name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.