We study this book. We come to the last few verses in chapter two. We'll finish up this section and go into a part of Colossians that is practical applying what we've learned about the preeminence of Christ in the first two chapters. Now tonight this the title of the sermon is Living by a Do and Don't List. While you're finding that, do you know what a crustacean is? This is not biology class or anything. You probably learned that in science and biology. And let me just refresh you in case you forgot what that is. It's an animal that wears its skeleton on the outside. Kind of like a lobster or a crab. Most animals wear their skeleton on the inside and it supports the muscles and the skin and so on. But not the crustacean. Its form and its strength is on the outside for all to see. And uh when I think about that, I think about uh many people spiritually speaking or what I call crustacean Christians. And what I mean by that is they wear their religion on the outside, and I don't mean in a positive way. All of their strength of their religion comes on the outside. It's they wear it kind of like I call them hard shell religious crabs. Because all of their religion is a list of do's and don'ts. Inwardly, they remain changed. In fact, the whole outside, the whole list of do's and don'ts, really in a lot of ways prevents the inside from being changed. And so that's their whole religion in a nutshell, no pun intended. Do's and don'ts. And that's the difference between man-made religion and true salvation. Man-made religion wears its skeleton on the outside, but true salvation changes a person on the inside. The strength And the backbone of the Christian life comes from within by the life-transforming power of the Lord Jesus Christ and through the Holy Spirit. Now this is the issue that Paul addresses here in chapter 2. In these last four verses that we're going to look at, he really hits upon the issue of man-made religion versus true salvation. And let me uh again refresh you about our study, what the theme of Colossians is, is the sufficiency of Christ. And Paul is attacking the Colossian heresy that essentially taught that Christ was not enough. That you had to add other things to what you had in Christ. In order to be spiritually complete, in order to be spiritually whole, you had to go outside of Christ and find things that would complete you. And Paul is is trying to shatter that whole idea. He's taking aim at it. And you'll remember that he condemned intellectualism or philosophy for those who said you needed to add philosophy to Christ, and Paul said that's not necessary. He condemned ritualism, and then he condemned mysticism. And now here in these verses, Paul is going to take aim at the idea of asceticism. Now, what is asceticism? Asceticism is the religious practice of self-denial and self-mortification, even to the point of self-mutilation. An ascetic believes that in order to nourish the spirit and free the spirit and make the inner man better, they have to punish the body. And this is based upon the old Gnostic and Greek idea that all flesh is evil and all spirit is good. So in order to nourish the spirit, one has to punish the flesh. Killing the flesh is freeing the spirit Now this idea worked its way into the church in the early church history. We've seen traces of that, but really it gained popularity during the Middle Ages. Ascetic practices became a movement And some of you may be aware of this movement which is called the monastic movement in the history of the Christian church, to go and to be a monk. It's living in seclusion, in isolation, wearing hair shirts next to the skin Sleeping on hard beds, whipping oneself, not speaking for days. In some cases, monks took a vow of silence and they didn't speak for years. I was reading about one convent of Trappist monks who took a vow of perpetual silence. They dressed in rough sackcloth, and their heads were shaven and their beards unkept. They slept on hardboards and ate bread and sour milk and vegetables. And that was their whole life. During the fourth century, hundreds of ascetics sought to escape temptation by punishing their bodies and living like hermits. The extremes to which they went to were incredible. I mean to read some of these things, to read how these people live You almost want to say, can that be possible? Let me give you a few examples of what I've read. For example, there was one monk and he wore so many chains that he had to crawl around on his hands and his knees There was another monk that wouldn't give in to his body's desire for restful sleep, so for 40 years he would not lie down while sleeping. There was another monk who sat naked in a swamp for six months until the mosquito bites made him look like he was a victim of leprosy. And then another I read about who spent eleven years in a hollowed-out tree trunk. Others lived in caves, in dens of beasts, in dry wells, some even in tombs. And for them to suffer discomfort was somewhat of a spiritual benefit, a sign of victory over the body. There was another monk that I read about. His name was Simon. He spent 37 years on different pillars, each one loftier and narrower than the last. The last pillar he lived on was 66 feet high And he lived on that pillar for over thirty years. Can you imagine living on a pillar? I mean, you know, it's kind of ironic. You want to humble yourself, but here you are living on a pillar. That seems like it would exalt you if you ask me, but He didn't ask me. Another p a monk who saw that and was impressed by it for some reason tried to do the same You say, well, that's Middle Ages stuff. Well, you would be surprised that there are some people today that are still trying to find favor with God and believe that in some way by punishing their body it's acceptable to God By some way that it is pleasing to the Lord and they are getting victory over the flesh. There was one man, and this is recent days I read about who read about these monks of old who sat on pillars And he couldn't find a pillar, so he decided to put a chair in the middle of the dining room table and and live on that chair. Well his family didn't really like that too much. And it didn't work out real well, and so they basically asked him to leave There was another, I read about another young man who was 19 years old who wanted to find out how Francis of Assisi lived, and so he thought, you know, how would he fare in this world today? And so he adopted the aesthetic lifestyle He begged for food. He washed in melted snow. He slept on boards. He dressed in a simple brown robe. And he went around talking to animals. This is this is recently, 19 years old. How did that how did it work out? Well it didn't work out too well because p people called the police on him and they thought he was some kind of nut. And later he said, I tried to talk to the birds, but they just flew away. What a shock. Most birds I talk to fly away. You say what's the what's the connection? Well there's definitely a relationship between asceticism and legalism. And really it's the idea that in some way our life, our spiritual life, can improve by living under a list of do's and don'ts. The aesthetics life is wrapped up in a system of rules. And again, there are some Christians that feel that this is the way to live. Now let me again be careful to qualify what I'm saying here. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with spiritual discipline. We all need more spiritual discipline in our life And in fact, the Apostle Paul said, but I buffet my body and I keep it under subjection because I don't want to be a castaway Paul practiced spiritual discipline. He practiced physical discipline. He said bodily exercise or physical training profits some. It has some value. And all of us can use more discipline in our life. And so Paul's not throwing discipline out completely. What he is attacking is the idea of asceticism that says you can sanctify your inner man, you can sanctify your soul by punishing the body. And friend, that's the idea, that's the heresy that he is attacking. Just as days and diets have no sanctifying value. Neither does fleshly discipline. And again, it's wrapped up in this idea that the body is evil. But as Christians, we know that the body is not evil. The body is a gift from God. And the Bible says you are the temple of what? The Holy Spirit. And so God has given you this body so that you can use this body for his glory, and the Holy Spirit lives inside of us And he tells us how to live. The same grace that saves us teaches us to deny ungodliness and worldly lust But we don't live by a rule book. Beloved, did you ever realize that the Bible is not a rule book? It's a book of great principles. You see, if it were a rule book that or a law book I could say that covered every uh minute area of life, you realize how thick and how big the Bible would be, you would need a forklift to carry it If it covered everything. You see, the Bible is not a book of minute laws, it is a book of great principles And we find principles of godly living in the scripture that the Holy Spirit shows us, and then he works from within to give us the power to live by his It's an inward work of the Holy Spirit. And that's how sanctification takes place. But If you think that simply conforming outwardly to a list of rules is going to sanctify you, friend Paul attacks this idea here. And what I want you to see in our message tonight are three arguments that the Apostle Paul uses against what I would call rule book religion or living by a list of do's and don'ts or asceticism or legalism, however you want to package it. So what does Paul use to argue against it? Well, here's the first principle I want you to write down. First of all, it forgets a foundational principle. If you're living by a list of do's and don'ts, you're forgetting a foundational principle. And what is it? Look in verse 20. Wherefore, if ye be dead with Christ, from the rudiments of the world, why as though living in the world are you subject to ordinances? Now Paul again is emphasizing a principle that he has taught already in several places He mentions it here. He's going to deal with it again in chapter 3. You say, what principle is it? This is the believer's union with Jesus Christ. Your oneness with Christ. Notice where it says, if ye be dead with Christ. Now in the Greek this is a first-class condition sentence, and in other words, it's a sentence that's talking about something that is real So we could translate it like this, since you are dead with Christ. Not if possibly it may happen. No, it has happened. Since you are dead with Christ. In other words, it is a fact that those of you who know the Lord Jesus Christ, you are dead with Christ. You died with Christ. You see, at salvation, you are united to him, and you are united with his death and his burial and his resurrection. That makes you one with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul says you're forgetting this foundational principle that is so foundational in the Christian life that you are united to Jesus. You're united in his death. And when he died, you died. And when he was buried, you were buried. And when he rose, you rose. And so you're dead with Christ. Dead to what? Looking in verse 20. From the rudiments of the world Now the word rudiments here refers to basic principles. We saw this same phrase in verse A. This is used in 2 Peter 3. 10, talking about the elements. of the universe, the basic building blocks of the physical world. It's used in Hebrews 5. 12 to talk about the elementary truths of Scripture. And so it's talking about anything that is basic Things that are in a row like ABCs or numbers. Things that make up a system. Things that are basic. And Paul is referring then to the basic principles or rules of the world. And what he's saying is, you're still following, even though that you're saved and you're united to Christ, he says to the Colossians, you are still following a system, a basic system of the world. And what does that worldly system teach? It's based on man-made teaching that says you can find acceptability with God by denying your fleshly body. That is a worldly idea. That is a worldly principle. It has nothing to do with true salvation. It has nothing to do with Christianity. So he's saying you're still living by that old rule, that old principle. You forget that you're united to Christ. Now let me give you an illustration of it. When a man and a woman come to get married and they're at the altar, the preacher goes through the ceremony and then he says, I now pronounce you what? Husband and what? Wife. You know that's a legal declaration. At that moment, those two become one. They're one legally now. They're one positionally. They are one in the eyes of the law, but they're one in the eyes of God, because God is the one that unites them together and makes them one. So positionally now they are one. However, for the rest of their days, they have to live out that oneness. They have to live out in practice what they have been declared positionally. The day that I married Carolyn, we were declared one, and now for over 20 years we have been trying to live out that oneness. Now you say, now how do we live out the oneness? Well, the first thing you have to do is you have to throw away the old guidelines that you used to live by. How many of you know that now, men, now that you're married, you can't live by the single man's rule book anymore? You understand that? You can't live like a single man. You've got to throw out those guidelines. You've got to throw out those rudiments. You've got to throw out those principles. You know why? Because they don't work in a marriage That means, I hate to tell this to you, some of you need to learn this, you can't go to the game anytime you want to. You can't just up and leave. You can't just spend things on yourself. You can't think of yourself. And ladies, this also applies to you. You can't just up and do whatever you want. You can't have your own bank account and go wherever you want and hang out with the girls and do all those things you used to do when you were single. Why? You're still living according to the single rule book You know, a lot of times when I'm dealing with married couples, that will be the one problem there. They're married, they're united together now, but they're still living according to the old guidelines And what you have to do is you have to realize that when you got married, that person that you were before no longer exists. You died. Jerry Harmon, when he married Carolyn, that single Jerry Harmon, he's gone. He's been gone for 29 years What you have standing before you here now is a man who has been united and who has been trying to live out that oneness And that's the principle that Paul is reminding the Colossians about. Listen, when you came to Christ, you became united, you became one with Christ, why are you still living according to that old guideline? To the old rule book. Look what he says again in verse 20. Wherefore, if ye be dead with Christ, if you're united with Christ From the rudiments of the world, why, as they're living in the world, are you subject to ordinances? Now the word ordinances here is the word dogmatizer, where we get the word dogma. Why are you living according to that old dogma? Paul is saying. Why are you living according to those old rules and principles. You're forgetting a foundational principle. You're forgetting that in Christ you already have all that you need to overcome the flesh. Do you understand that? When you were united to Christ, now you have all of his resources, you have all of his riches, you have all of his spiritual power, and so therefore you have in you all that you need to overcome this flesh To overcome this body, to overcome fleshly passions that might pull you down. And it's not by Killing the flesh or killing the body is by the power that Jesus Christ gives you when you're united to him. And Paul says you're forgetting that. Do you realize that you have all of the grace that you need to overcome your sin nature? You have all of the power that you need. to live a victorious Christian life. You have all of that through Jesus Christ. Why would you need to conform to any outward legalistic program that does nothing for you in terms of sanctifying you and making you more like the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he says you're forgetting a foundational principle. But now here's the second argument. That's the first argument Paul uses. But here's the second argument against asceticism. Number two, it follows a feudal process. Not only does it forget a foundational principle, but number two, it follows a feudal process. Look in verse 21. Touch not Taste not, handle not, which all are to be perished with the using after the commandments and doctrines of men. Now when Paul uses these words, touch not, taste not, and handle not, Paul is just providing just a sample list of the do's and don'ts that were being given to these Colossian believers by these heretics who are saying this is how you're supposed to live. And don't do this, and don't eat this, and don't touch this. And do this and don't do this. I mean, this was it. Many scholars think that he is actually quoting some of the slogans of the Gnostic false teachers when Paul says, touch not, taste not, handle not. What's Paul saying? This is their whole theology right here. This is it in a microcosm. This is the sum and substance of all that they believe. Don't do this and don't do that And Paul says none of this has any sanctifying power in it. You say, why not? Well, first of all, because none of these rules or these do's and don'ts ever really deal with deeper issues in a person's life. They're all superficial surface issues. Look what he says again in verse 22. Which are all to perish with the using. In other words, these are temporal physical things, and they all deal with things that are perishing. These rules deal with things that have to do with this world, things that are going to come to nothing. What you should eat, what you should touch, what you should not touch, and all these other things. But none of these things, none of these rules and principles ever go deeper to deal with issues of the heart. And so they're superficial. The Christian life is eternal life. We should focus on those things that are eternal, on those things that are that last. And all of our spiritual disciplines should focus on things of the heart And things of the soul and things that make a difference in our life. Not on these surface things, not on these superficial things, but things that really matter to holiness. And so There's another reason he gives, and that is they're all man-made principles. Look again in verse 22, which are all to perish with the using. Watch this, after the commandments and doctrine of who? Of men. They have no sanctifying power because they're man-made. These things don't come from God. God didn't give these regulations. These are all come from men. And do you know what man-made religious rules have a tendency to do? They have a tendency to subvert and replace the Word of God. That's what they have the tendency to do. And by the way, that's exactly what Phariseeism did in Jesus' day. That's exactly what Judaism did You know what the Pharisees hated about Jesus? They hated two things about him most. Number one, they hated the fact that he claimed that he was God, and he was. But the second thing they hated was the fact that he would not obey any of their man-made traditions. When it came to their man-made traditions, you know what Jesus did? He completely ignored them He just passed them by, especially regarding the Sabbath. They were angry every time Jesus ignored laws about the Sabbath You know why Jesus did that? Was because the Jews and the Pharisees in Jesus' day, they never fully understood the real meaning of the Sabbath. And what they did is they began to make up all of these rules and regulations that were not from God about how a person could violate the Sabbath. And they made a chain that they had people wear that was a burden around their neck all of their life. Out of man-made rules and traditions. I'll give you an example. Do you know that the the uh the uh Pharisees had thirty-nine ways that you could breach the Sabbath And then they divided each one of those 39 ways into another 39. And that meant there were 1,521 ways that you could break the Sabbath. That was their man-made rules. For example, if you tried a knot you broke the Sabbath. If you were a scribe, you could not carry a pen on the Sabbath. You know why? Because that would be bearing a burden If a flea was biting you on the Sabbath, you could not kill the flea. Because that was laboring on the Sabbath. So fleas had free rain on the Sabbath day. You could not wear an outer garment on the Sabbath. Why? Because if you got hot, you would be tempted to take off that outer garment, and that would be bearing a burden on the Sabbath. If you were a woman, you could not look in the mirror on the Sabbath. You know why? Because you might be tempted if you saw a gray hair to pluck it out, and that would be reaping on the Sabbath. And so you couldn't do that. Now folks, these are not made up. These were real laws and traditions that were made by The Pharisees. And so they brought it all down to this ridiculous system of how you could break the Sabbath And they put a yoke of bondage around the neck of people, thinking that they were violating the Sabbath. And they couldn't understand why Jesus, when he came along, he just simply ignored all those things. You know why? Because they never really got it. They never understood the purpose of the Sabbath, and Jesus Himself was the Lord of the Sabbath, and He Himself was the fulfillment of the Sabbath. People, you find rest in Jesus Christ. And so when you come to Christ, you are observing the Sabbath. But that was their man-made list of do's and don'ts. And many people began to obey those things, thinking they were more religious, they were more acceptable to God because they followed all of those traditions. And by the way, again, there are still people that live that way today. I was making a hospital visit in a certain hospital, and I went into the elevator. And I pushed the button for the floor, and I noticed a sign there in the elevator, and it said that on the Sabbath day, this you don't need to push the button because this elevator is going to stop on every floor. And the reason for that is because to push a button for that elevator on the Sabbath day was laboring on the Sabbath. And so I've got good news for you. If you visit a certain hospital, you won't have to push any buttons on a Sabbath day. And you know that's really sad because again, people don't really understand the real meaning of what God meant behind all of that That true rest comes in Jesus Christ. And so all the real Word of God, the real teaching of Scripture is lost in all of these man-made rules and regulations and traditions. Let me give you another illustration. Look at Matthew chapter 15. I want to show you this. Just look at Matthew 15. This is a good illustration of what the Apostle Paul is referring to. Matthew 15, look at verse number one. Then came Jesus, then came to Jesus, I should say Scribes and Pharisees which were of Jerusalem. Now here's a delegation of scribes and Pharisees. This was an official delegation. They were the religiously elite. They were coming to make a Jesus, a visit to Jesus. Where was he at the time? He was in Galilee. And this was an official committee of leaders from the Sanhedrin. And so there's a serious issue going on here. They came because they were looking for something to find fault with Jesus and they found it. And notice that it says which came from Jerusalem, verse 1. They came all the way from Jerusalem. They came to this backwater area of Galilee. And so this was specific. They weren't going somewhere else. They were coming to Jesus. Notice it says they came to Jesus. And what's the dispute? Look at verse number two. Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? No greeting here. They came right to the point. You and your disciples are transgressing the tradition of the elders. Now what's the tradition of the elders? These were again oral teachings handed down from generation to generation by one rabbi to another They were based on the law of Moses, but what happened was Pharisees and rabbis would make all of these man-made rules based on these laws so much so that the actual law was lost in all these traditions. And generation after generation, more rabbis would get up and they would give more traditions and more laws, and they were passed down orally But it got to be so many oral laws that finally they had to write them down, and they wrote them down in a book called the Mishnah. And the Mishnah is is simply means that which is spoken, that which is heard. And so They wrote them all down in the Mishnah, and guess what? That Mishnah ended up being about the size of the Encyclopedia Britannica. Volumes and volumes of all of these traditions that were handed down And then there was one special tradition that they had, and it was the tradition of hand washing. In fact, there was one whole section in the Mishnah that was devoted to washing hands. It was called the Yadayim, which means hands. And in that it was filled with all of these little pedantic rules on how you were supposed to wash your hands. It gave rules on what you were supposed to touch, what you were not supposed to touch. And if you did touch these things, how you had to wash your hands. And you couldn't just wash your hands any old way, beloved. They had a certain way. You had to point your hands downward And you had to have a certain amount of water that poured over those hands. And if it wasn't the right amount of water, then your hands weren't ceremonially cleansed. And you have to do it over again. And so they would go through all of these rituals of washing the hands, and they would do this before every meal, and it got to be such a big show and a big display of all of these things that were happening. And so what happened when Jesus came along? Jesus and his disciples just ignored all that. They bypassed all of it. And this made them angry. And so they sent down an official delegation from Jerusalem to Jesus, saying, Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they wash not their hands when they eat bread. Now, how did Jesus respond? Look at verse 3. But he answered, and he said unto them, he asked a question, he answered their question with a question: Why do ye also transgress the commandments of God by your tradition? And what was Jesus saying there? That there's a distinction between your tradition and the word of God. Your tradition is not the word of God. And in fact, your tradition is causing people to transgress the word of God. And that has, and again I say that man-made rules and regulations have that tendency to get people to forget the real meat, the real teaching, the real intention, the real purpose of the scripture, the word of God, when it was originally given to us from God. What was God's purpose behind it? And so Jesus says you're you're making people forget. Look at verse 6. And it uses an example of honoring your father and mother. Let me just give you a real summary of this. Of course, we know we're supposed to honor our parents. But back then what they did was rather than taking care of their parents, they came up with all these traditions why they didn't have to support their parents And so by using these traditions to keep money for themselves instead of taking care of their parents, they are ignoring the law of God which says honor your father and mother And they would say, all our money, it's Corbin. It's devoted to God. We can't use it to take care of our parents. But of course they would dip into that fund to buy whatever they wanted whenever they needed it But they would never use it for their parents. And Jesus gives that one illustration as a tradition of man that violates the Word of God And look at verse 6. And honor not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition. You're violating the scripture. Look down at verse number 17. Notice what he says to the disciples later, do you not yet understand that whatever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly and is cast out into dr into the drawth. But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart And they defile the man. For out of the heart proceedeth evil thoughts and murders and adulteries, fornication, thefts, false witnesses, blasphemies. These are the things which defile a man, but to eat with unwashed hands defiles not a man. So what's Jesus saying there? He's saying, look, you know what really defiles you? It's not eating with unwashed hands. It's not the things that you put in your mouth. That defile you. Because what happens to those things that are put in your mouth? It goes through your digestive tract and it's eliminated and it's gone. That doesn't defile you, Jesus says. What defiles you is what is in your heart. The inner man, because out of the heart proceeds what? And he gives a list, a catalog of certain things. Evil thoughts and murders and adulteries and fornication and so on. What's Jesus saying? The problem is not outward, and you can't sanctify yourself with outward traditions. The problem is the heart And the heart has to be transformed. And outward, man-made rituals are not going to do it. It's just not going to do it. But now again, there are some Christians today that in that same spirit feel like outward rules have some inward sanctifying effect. on them. And again, let me qualify. I'm not saying it's wrong to have standards. We all ha we all have standards whether you realize it or not. Someone says, well I don't have standards. Well that's your standard Your standard is you don't have standards. Everybody has to have them. But there's a difference between thinking those standards actually do you inward good Now it's good for us. You know the reason I put up spiritual disciplines in my life? Because inside me I have the Holy Spirit who is telling me to pursue holiness. And so he teaches me from within to live a godly life. It doesn't work from from the outside from within. It works from within to the outside. That's the difference. And so it's not wrong to have Godly morals and godly standards of the Christian life is not anti-law. It's not anti-nomian. We live with the law, but here's the difference When we got saved, the Holy Spirit comes to live inside of us. And now the law of God is being fulfilled in us, in our heart. How? Through the Holy Spirit. Because we were powerless to fulfill the law of ourselves. Now the Holy Spirit fulfills the law of God in us when we got saved. You say, how does that happen? Easily. He puts in our heart love. And you know what the fulfillment of the law is? Love the Lord your God with all your heart. Love your neighbor as yourself. And friend, if I can love God and love my neighbor, you know what? I will fulfill the law of God. And you know who helps me to love God and love my neighbor? It's the Holy Spirit living inside of me. And so it's the work inwardly that works its way outward in my life. The same grace of God that saves me, Titus 2 says, teaches me to deny ungodliness and worldly lusts. That same grace working mightily in me is teaching me what to say no to. But friend, it's not by living by outward man-made rules. It's by yielding to the power of the Holy Spirit, who ministers to my heart and helps me to obey the law of God automatically without ever seeing the law I just listened to the Holy Spirit. See, that's the difference. And so for anyone to follow a man-made system from without, you're following a feudal process, Paul says. It has no sanctifying power. But now here's the third thing. We said number one, it forgets a foundational principle you're united with Christ. Number two, it follows a feudal process, but number three, here's the third argument that Paul uses. It forms a false perception. It forms a false perception. Look again in Colossians chapter 2 and look down at verse number 23. Which things have indeed a show of wisdom and will-worship and humility and neglecting of the body, not in any honor to the satisfying of the flesh. Now what's Paul's argument? He's saying following these do's and don'ts may look very good on the outside. It looks impressive. But in the end, it's ineffective in restraining the flesh. Notice the phrase in will worship. That's a really long Greek compound word. We could say it like this, a set of religious practices that comes from one's own desires. A set of religious practices or promoting self-made religion. Or humility, that's referring to aesthetic practices, where it says neglecting the body, this is severely denying the body. And Paul is saying that all of this looks very impressive outwardly, but it's all an outward show. It certainly looks impressive when people go through a list of sacrifices that they make. That they think will bring them closer to God, but it's all outward. It's all show. It has no inward Notice what he says in verse 23, not in any honor to the satisfying of the flesh. What does that mean? The word honor here means value. Or we could say it has no value in stopping something. The word satisfying is the word that means indulgence. So we could say it like this, but they have no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. In other words, all of these external performances, all of these external do's and don'ts and regulations, it looks good outwardly, but they have absolutely no value and no power. to restrain or conquer the inward flesh. They can't do it. And friend, I would argue that if anything, it emboldens the flesh Let me tell you something. I hope you're following what I'm saying. If not, I'm sure I'll hear about it later. Let me tell you something. Any system of sanctification that uses the flesh to crucify the flesh is a faulty system of sanctification. Any system of sanctification that depends upon the will and the flesh, the pride of the flesh, following a list of standards What you're doing is you're putting the flesh in the driver's seat, and if you think the flesh is going to crucify the flesh, you're crazy In fact, when I see Christians following that mode or that method of sanctification, what normally happens, and I say this with a broken heart, it's very sad, normally what happens is there's a failure at the end. There's some kind of fall. Outwardly they're following all of these practices and they look good and they look like everything's in order, but later on they succumb to the flesh. That's what happens when you depend upon the flesh to overcome the flesh The flesh is in control. And the flesh is proud. Some people are proud of their self-discipline. They're proud of their list of regulations that they live by. Friend, that is embolding the flesh, that is promoting the flesh, that is not crucifying the flesh. That is not putting it to death. You say, how do we put to death the flesh in us. It is focusing on Jesus Christ. It is meditating on the Word of God. It is allowing the Holy Spirit to work inwardly in us. Each day the flesh has to die more and more inside of us. The sinful desires that are in us have to be put to death inwardly, and that is done, friend, by the power of the Holy Spirit, by walking in the Spirit. The great Scottish expositor, Alexander McLaren, said this, there is only one thing that will put the collar on the neck of the animal within us, and that is the power of the indwelling Christ. And that is so very true. You say, how does he do that? How do you fight bad desires with good desires? With new desires And who gives you those new desires? The Holy Spirit. The moment you get saved, you know what? You find new desires in you. You know why? Because when you get saved, a new nature is planted inside of you, and out of that new nature comes new desires. You now desire godliness, you desire holiness, you desire the things of God. You see, nature determines appetite. And since now I have a new nature, I have a new appetite. And that appetite is for the things of God. And so the Christian life, then, friend, is all about yielding to the Spirit of God inside of us and allowing that Spirit to work mightily in us to put to death All of those things that are the residue of our old sinful nature that is still there. We allow the Holy Spirit and the Word of God and prayer and meditation upon Christ, all of those things put to death inwardly that flesh, that evil that is inside of all of us. And so let me just wrap this up then. So what is Paul saying? Three arguments he gives us. Number one, to follow the do and don't list forgets a foundational principle. It follows a feudal process, it forms a false perception. In short, the answer to asceticism And legalism is learning once again the sufficiency of Jesus Christ, the preeminence of Christ If you make Christ preeminent in your heart and in your life, and you realize that in Christ you have all that you need to overcome our fleshly passions. And if you yield to him, friend, and you give him control, the Bible says they who walk in the Spirit will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. That's what the scripture teaches. And so the answer then, again, is Christ. That's the answer. Your sufficiency is in Christ. He is all that you need. You don't need to add to your religion man-made laws. He is all that you need. He's everything that you need. Now we're ending this section here in chapter 2. And again, what's he warning us about? He's warned us about one thing after another. He warned us about philosophy. He warned us about ritualism. He warned us about mysticism. Now he's warning us about asceticism. And what is the answer answer to each one of these things? Your union with Jesus Christ, your relationship to Christ is all that you need. And I hope, friend, that you understand that. What we need to do as Christians is we need to abide in Christ all the more. That's what we need. And so I want to ask you tonight, is Christ preeminent in your life? Is he preeminent? Are you drawing on his spiritual power? Or are you depending upon some man-made substitute that will do you no good? That's the question. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, we thank you again for the warnings of Scripture, so very clear to our heart. Help us to realize that we need not anything else besides Christ. In our spiritual walk and our spiritual life, Christ is all in all. And we're complete in Him. And Lord, I pray that tonight these verses will cause us to examine our heart, to see to it, Lord, that we're not depending upon anything else Any outward form of religion, any man-made rule, any philosophy or ritual given to us of men, any mystic idea or revelation that people might say we must have. All of these things are superficial, and they do give us nothing. They add nothing. May we, Lord, see our absolute fullness and completeness in Jesus Christ, and may we walk in that fullness. May we claim that sufficiency. May we walk in it. Realize we're united to Christ. And in that union, we have what we need. So Father, bless these words to our heart. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, just before I turn this over to Pastor Earl, and he closes us with a song. I just want to ask, it's possible that you're here tonight. You're visiting and uh you're not absolutely certain about your own standing before Christ. You're not sure that you're united to Him. You're not sure that you're a Christian Friend, this is what you need more than anything else. You need Jesus. In Christ is forgiveness of sins. In Christ is eternal life. In Christ is fullness and satisfaction that you've been looking for out in the world, but it can't deliver. You find that friend in Christ And right here, there's no accident that you're here. It's right here at this very moment, at this very time, the grace of God is reaching out to you and saying, Come unto me Come to me. And friend, if you'll turn from your sin and turn from the world and come to Christ and say, God, forgive me and cleanse me and save me. The Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. Would you be willing to do that? Right there where you are, you can pray. You can ask Jesus to save you. Would you be willing to pray Pray these words, God be merciful to me. Say those words in your heart. God be merciful to me, a sinner Save me. For Christ's sake, save me. Friend, if you'll pray that and you mean it, the Lord Jesus will come into your heart. He'll cleanse your heart. He'll make you a new person. He'll give you new desires. And you'll fulfill all of what God wants through the power of the Holy Spirit living in you as you yield to Him. Father, bless these words to hearts. Use them, we pray, in Jesus' precious name. Amen.