Beautiful song. Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Philippians as we're in a study on Sunday night and this great epistle from Paul. And tonight I want you to find uh chapter three. And look at verse number seventeen. Chapter three, verse seventeen. I want to talk about living as citizens of heaven. This is the theme of these verses that we're going to study tonight when the Apostle Paul wrote to the Philippians. He reminded them several times in this letter that their citizenship is in heaven. And that's true for all of us as believers. If you know the Lord Jesus Christ, our Citizenship is there in heaven. We are not earthly citizens trying to make it to heaven. We are citizens of heaven on a pilgrimage through earth. And we need to understand that perspective and keep it. John Bunyan in the classic Pilgrim's Progress, if you haven't read that book, I would encourage you to read it sometime. He tells the story of a man by the name of Christian. Of course, it's all an allegory that gives truth about our pilgrimage here in this world. He tells a story of a man named Christian who lived in the city of destruction. And when he read in the book that judgment was coming, he left everything behind to make that journey to the celestial city. Along the way he faced ridicule, he faced temptation, he faced hardship, and yet he pressed on because he knew where he truly belonged. His heart was already in another country. And he lived every step on his earthly journey as a citizen of that land there in heaven. Now that's exactly what the Apostle Paul is trying to teach us here in these verses that we're going to look at tonight. He reminds the church at Philippi, and he's reminding us today that while we walk through this world Keep our eyes focused on our citizenship. That citizenship is in heaven. Just like John Bunyan's pilgrim, we are we are strangers here. And we're ambassadors, we could say, of another kingdom. Now the question is, how are we to live in this world knowing that one reality, that we're citizens of heaven? We're we we should live like citizens of heaven. People should see us and know that there's something different about us. So what we're going to look at our passage tonight, what we're going to look at, are three basic guides, uh three principles we could say of how to live like a citizen of heaven. Here's the first one. Number one, there's a pattern to adopt, a pattern to adopt. Look at verse 17 of chapter 3. Brethren, be followers together of me. And mark them which walked, so as ye have us for an example. For many walk, of whom I have told you be often, and now tell you even weeping that they are the enemies of the cross. Now the word walk here will be used several times, and Paul's used it already in the book of Philippians several times. And when we see Paul use this word in the New Testament, you've heard me say this before. Walk always is a word that talks about a pattern of life, a lifestyle. So when you think of that, when you see that word walk, just remember it's a lifestyle. And what he's saying is your your lifestyle should reflect your citizenship. And just let me tell you this. Really, look in verse number 20. Just drop down there, verse 20. Same idea here, for our conversation is in heaven. From whence we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's really the central idea of this whole section. Now the word conversation, if you have a King James Version, this Greek word is translated conversation. But the uh the word actually we could translate it's citizenship. It's from the root Greek word polis, uh, which means citizenship. And we have named cities Annapolis and Minneapolis and Indianapolis. It takes that Greek word that has the idea of a city or a citizen of a city. And that's where we get that that word from here in the Greek. And this is the word that's used here. And so he's saying basically, again, your citizenship is in heaven. And your lifestyle, therefore, should reflect your citizenship. Now, Paul has mentioned this theme before. You remember where he mentioned it before, anyone? You don't have to say it out loud. But back up to chapter one, look at verse 27. Uh remember we went over this a little bit before, such a while back. May not remember, but look in chapter one, verse twenty-seven. Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. Now that word conversation, exact same word. Citizenship. Let your citizenship be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. That is, live out the gospel Live like citizens of heaven and living out the gospel in our life. Now, again, how are we to walk? Well, notice the principle. Go back to chapter 3. Look at verse 17. Brethren, be followers together of me. This is what I call the principle. He says, brethren, Paul's talking to the church. He's talking to believers. Be followers together of me. Again, an interesting combination of Greek words here. Soon, which means with And the Greek word is uh mimic. Have you heard of a mimic or seen a mimic? What's a mimic? Someone who's out there imitating someone, right? So Paul is basically saying, uh, mimic me, be a mimicker with me, is the idea there. Now, who is Paul mimicking? Well, he's mimicking the Lord Jesus Christ. He's trying to follow the pattern of Christ And so he's saying, look, be uh imitators together of me. And we could uh and Paul uses the same word in other places. In other words, he's saying, look, everything that you see in me, I want you to mimic that. I want you to imitate that. Just if you want to know how to live a Christian life, I want you to follow me. I want you to imitate me. You know we all need patterns to follow, right? We all need examples, someone in front of us that teach us how to live and how to walk. You know, I think of my grandchildren, my oldest grandson, when he says something, his brother will repeat the same thing. Uh when he does something, his little brother will do the same thing. Isn't it something about human nature that we want to imitate or mimic someone? And so Paul's giving this principle here to us in the Christian life. Now, Paul has commanded this several times. Write down a few verses. 1 Corinthians 4. 16. He says, I exhort you therefore, be imitators of me. Paul said to the Corinthians the same thing, 1 Corinthians 11, 1. Be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ. Remember we said, you know, it's he's imitating Christ. Paul said, imitate me, mimic with me, because I am Imitating Christ. I am mimicking mimicking Christ. I'm trying to live and walk like Christ in my life. He uses it again in First Thessalonians 1 6. You also became imitators of us. and of the Lord. He's commending the church there. That's Lanica saying, look, I'm hearing about your faith all over, and I commend you because you became imitators of us. You started to live like we live, and he uses it many other places. Now, Paul was not on an ego trip when he said this. Some of you might think, well, if I went around telling people to imitate me, they would think that I was perhaps a little arrogant. But Paul's not on the ego trip here. Remember, Paul called himself the chiefest of sinners. Remember that. And he understood, and he also called himself the least of the apostles. He understood that whatever he was, he was by the grace of God. God. Whatever was happening in his life, he understood it was all the Lord. But what he's doing here is he's simply teaching a principle, and the principle is that of discipleship That's what discipleship is all about. You have a teacher, you have a mentor, and you learn from that teacher, and in fact, you imitate that teacher in their manner of life. In Luke chapter 6, verse 40, the Lord said this, a disciple is not greater than his teacher, but everyone, when fully trained, will be like his teacher. That's the principle there. Everyone, when they're fully trained, they will be like their teacher. And that's the principle that Paul's giving us here. To be a disciple, to learn, to follow, to imitate godliness. Remember how Jesus took twelve men and he lived with them for three years and they ministered together? And then he went to heaven and he unleashed those disciples to go out and to train others. That's discipleship, and that line of discipleship should just continue on. And so Paul is just saying, look, just just follow me, just imitate me. Look in chapter four. Look at verse number nine. We see this principle a little bit more in chapter four, verse nine. He says it's those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me. What's the next word? Do. Do. Whatever you learned of me, whatever you heard, whatever you've seen, whatever you've received. You do that. You practice that. And then he gives the blessing, and the God of peace shall be with you. And we see again the same principle. Go back to chapter three and look in verse number sixteen. We saw this last week, but we'll look at it again. The same principle is there. Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, let us Walk by the same rule. Let us mine the same thing. And the word here, the idea of w walking by the same rule, is the idea of walking in a row Or walking um in a line, we could say, and it we're we're just in a long line. Uh you say, what is it to be a Christian? We're well we're just in a long line of people, and it stretches all the way back to who To the Lord Jesus Himself. Uh people follow Jesus, we follow them, others follow them. We're in one long line of people that stretch all the way from the cross all the way till today, from the life of Jesus till today, and we are just following in that pattern. We're following in those footsteps and we're trying to be faithful And so that's the first thing. That's the principle. But then also the people. Notice what he says again in verse 17 Brethren, be followers together of me, and mark them which walk. So as you have for us an example, and this goes along with the same principle. Mark them which walk. Now I've always made uh made this comment whenever I'm out there shopping, which I don't do a lot lately, how many of you are grateful for Amazon. com? But I don't I don't go out and shop too much lately. Even Walmart, Super Walmart delivers the groceries nowadays. And uh but every time I do go shopping, you can just mark it down. I get in the wrong line Now that just happens. I'm just telling you, it is a rule of life. I will get in the wrong line. When I'm in traffic, heavy traffic, and I'm in a hurry, I get in the wrong lane. That's just a rule, and God has that designed in his creative order for a purpose, and that's to teach me patience. I'm convinced of that That this was decreed from eternity past that I always, always, always get in the wrong line. But now here's the thing As a Christian and you're living out your Christian life, you can't afford to get in the wrong line. In other words, if you're going to imitate someone, you better make sure that they're the right person to imitate. You better make sure that you're standing in the right line. And this is why Paul says here, mark them which walk, so as ye have us for an example. He says you study that person and you mark that one. If you see someone living a godly life and say, man, I want to live like that, I want to be guideline like that, that's the person that you need to be They need to become your the people that you imitate. And the word mark here, scope, where we get our word scope, like in telescope or microscope And it's the idea of to examine, to observe, to contemplate. And Paul is just basically saying here, look, just examine, pay attention, look at their life, contemplate their life, study their life. And if you see Christ like this, you see godliness, that's the line that you want to get into. That's the person that you want to follow after So that's the people mark them, Paul says. And then the pattern. He says again in verse 17, so as ye have us for an example. And again, Paul's using this idea of a pattern and example, Paul said, you have us. Example here is Tupas, where we get the word type. And it uh refers again to a pattern. It's really the word that was used uh by now remember Paul's a tent maker, right? And he would always use uh these hammers with these uh with these awls that had a uh something chiseled in the end. So sometimes a seal would be put on a tent and they would just bang it into the leather and uh and pull it away and that would just leave a mark, a pattern there with that tool. That's what the word is here. It it means to strike with repeated blows and leave an impression. That's the Greek word here. Now, Paul, who is a tent maker, is using a tent maker term here. And that's the word here. You have us for a pattern. You have us for an example. You have us for an imprint. And so make sure that you follow that pattern. That's why I encourage Christians to read biographies. I'm talking about Christian biographies about godly people. That's what is really inspiring. I love biographies, reading biographies. I remember uh in high school Uh before I became uh became uh began to come here to Grace, when Grace had a Christian school, I was a student and came here. But before that I went to a school across town, a public school, and the bus ride in the morning was an hour and a half ride just in the morning and then so in the morning and on the way back I have an hour and a half ride on the bus. And so I just thought, you know what, I'm gonna read. I'm gonna read to make the time go by. And I'm telling you that year in school I must have read about fifty biographies during that year because I would just read on the bus. And of course my favorite biographies and the ones that made a lasting impression on me were the biographies of great Christians, men like William Carey, uh, men like David Livingston and others. And that was, I would say, a very formative time in my life a very uh profitable time when I looked at these Christians and learned about their life and it made an impression on me. And that's the idea. You want to follow after godly Christians. And so there's a pattern to adopt. But here's the second principle Paul gives us. There is a the peril to avoid. Look at verse 18. For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and tell you, even weeping. That they are the enemies of the cross of Christ. So again, it's important that you follow the right examples. There's a lot of bad examples out there, and you certainly don't want to follow that. And so Paul now is giving a strong warning regarding false teachers that have crept into the church. And some people who claim to be spiritual and claim to be religious. They may even claim to name the name of Christ. But their theology betrays the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. A lot of people parading themselves around, claiming to be true believers, but actually they are they're they're they're wolves in sheep's clothing. And so Paul gives a warning here. Now, in our day, if you warn the church about false teachers, you're labeled as an alarmist, or you're labeled as a heresy hunter. Uh you know, instead, you know, most people think that you need to be positive in the pulpit, stop, you know, the negative warnings and talking about false doctrine. And all that sort of thing. Well, the only problem with that is that that's not what Paul did. Paul was constantly warning people. He says it right here. Again in verse 18, for many walk of whom I have told you what Often. You guys with me? I told you again and again, over and over. I have warned you about this. I've warned you of false teachers. I've warned you of deceivers. That makes me feel a whole lot better when I read that. Because I feel like sometimes all I'm doing up here is warning you about false teachers and about false doctrine, about it something that's very insidious. It sounds like the real deal, but if you look down deeper It could lead you away from the Word of God and the sufficiency that you have in Christ and the sufficiency of Scripture. And so Paul is warning them. He says, I tell you often, imperfect tense, indicating again, Paul warned them repeatedly, again and again and again. And then it then he says this, and now I tell you, even weeping in verse 18. Now he wept not for himself, but he wept for the believers at the church. Why does he weep? Well, because he knows firsthand the damage that false doctrine and lies can do to a person. I'm going to tell you the greatest tools that the devil has is a lie. False teaching. I'm talking about lies that are cloaked in truth. Lies that pretend to be truth That's the greatest weapons that the devil has. He would rather sell give you a lie and have you believe it than sell you a keg of whiskey. He would rather capture your mind through a lie. And that's why he has so many messengers out there speaking lies. And so he says, I tell you now, even weeping. Uh again, very emotional here from Paul. And you remember that when Paul left Ephesus in the book of Acts, chapter twenty, when he is departing from that church for the final time, he warned them, he says, You know, after my departure, grievous wolves are going to come in. And even there, he's warning them with tears about some of the false ideas that are going to come because again, he knew the devastating consequences of a lie and what it can do in your mind and in your soul. Lie or error enslaves people. It is lies, it is false teaching that damns souls to hell. Let me tell you something, friend, if you don't get the gospel right, you are in trouble. And there are many people perverting the pure gospel of Jesus Christ. And Paul says they're the enemies of the cross. They may pretend to preach the cross. But they're enemies of the cross, and they're turning the grace of God into a license to sin That seems to be the idea here about these, and we'll look at them. But notice notice uh some distinguishing marks of these enemies. First of all, their fierceness. He calls them enemies of the cross And the idea is they have a hatred for the cross. To be enmity with the gospel of the cross. You say, how can anyone hate the the message of the cross of Christ? Well, because the cross of Christ strips away all of our pride. It strips away all of our human achievement. There are some people out there in the name of religion that want to believe that there's something that they can contribute to their salvation. And men hate the idea that there is absolutely nothing that you can do that can merit you or earn you salvation, it is by grace and grace alone. And what you must do when you come to the cross is realize your absolute inability and sinfulness before a holy God and simply believe on Jesus Christ. Christ. And that's what causes people to hate the cross and the preaching of the cross. And so they're fiercely opposed to it. False teachers again think that you can you have they have something that they can offer God spiritually. But friend, you only get into the kingdom of God when you become poor. When you mourn over your sin and you repent and you turn to the Lord Jesus Christ, the cross humbles their religious pride. But then also their future. Notice what he says in verse 19. Whose end is destruction. That's their future. Paul is referring to eternal punishment, not to some temporal judgment. And destruction here doesn't mean annihilation that these sinners are wiped out by God so that they cease to exist. There's I know some theology out there about God's judgment that teaches a view of of hell as being annihilation, but that's not what Paul's talking about here He's talking about a destruction of eternal judgment in a place called hell. And a lot of people don't like to talk about hell. They don't like to preach about hell. My friend, hell is a reality, and it's a reflection of a holy and just God who will judge all sin. Your sins will either be judged on Jesus Christ, who is your substitute on the cross, who took your sin, or they'll be judged in an eternal hell. And Paul says here about these teachers who do not preach the cross correctly, who are enemies of the cross. that their end, their future is destruction in hell. But then their futility Look at it again in verse 19 where it says, Whose God is their belly and whose glory is their shame. Now the word belly here, this is one word that we could say stands for the whole. Sometimes we see New Testament writers using this literary device where the one word stands for the whole. For example, we do this sometimes. We say, uh, I'm trying to I'm trying to put bread on the table. Well, is bread the only thing that you're trying to put on the table, or does bread, the word bread, talk about all your food food. What it what if you're a carnivore? Can you use the word bread there? Or I guess you could use the word meat in it. But bread just simply means all your food. It's one word that stands for the whole. I'm you know, I I'm trying to put a roof over my head. Was all you want is a roof. Would you like some sides to that house too? I mean, no, the one word roof stands for the whole house, right? And this is what Paul's doing here when he said, Whose God is their belly? And when he says belly here, what he's referring to is all fleshly appetites that come from this body. Fleshly desires, carnal desires. It could refer to all unrestrained, sensual, fleshly, bodily desires. We could say it like this: whose God is their bodily desires And Paul is pointing out one characteristic of false teachers, and that is the inability to restrain their sensual desires. their carnal desires. Jude spoke of this in the book of Jude, verse 4, for there are certain men crept in unawares. Who were before of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness and denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. That is, they take the grace of God and they use it as a license to go out and sin and do whatever they want. too. And so this is a mark, Paul says, of these false teachers. They're in bondage to their fleshly desires. And they're unable through the they don't have the Holy Spirit dwelling in them. And so therefore they're not able to overcome those desires of the flesh and live a godly life the way the Bible teaches us. And so their futility, but also their focus. Look again in verse 19 at the latter phrase, who mind earthly things? who mind earthly things. This is another characteristic about these ones to avoid, these ones that we should be careful of. They, their mind is constantly set on earthly things, temporal things, instead of eternal things, instead of heavenly things. You mark uh mark it down a a preacher or teacher of the gospel whose only concern is you know the temporal things of this world. You know, the uh the riches of this world, if they're so focused on temporary earthly things, you better be careful. Listen, my job is to get you to think about the eternal. We have enough of this world putting your attention fixing you on earthly things. We when we come to church, we have to we're reminding all of us together. We're citizens of heaven. Keep your mind and heart focused on eternal things, on heavenly things. Someone said some Christians are so heavenly minded they're no earthly good. Have you ever heard that expression? Well, it's the exact opposite. Because the more heavenly-minded you are, the more useful you'll be to God here on this earth That's part of being a citizen of heaven, living as a citizen of heaven. Because, and this is what causes us to endure when the trials come, when the heartaches come, when the difficulty comes. What keeps us going? Well we have our focus on the eternal. We know that this is not all there is That there is glory beyond the groans of this present life. And that glory is far greater Paul said, I suppose that the sufferings of this present life are not worthy to be compet compared with the glory that shall be revealed one day. But these These false teachers, these ones that Paul's warning us about, they mine earthly things. They're filled with selfish ambition. They're filled with ways to gratify their own self and their own flesh. And so we need to be careful. So there's the pattern to adopt. There is the peril to avoid, but then here's number three, the place to anticipate. The place to anticipate. This is verse 20 and verse 21. Again, look at verse 20. For our conversation is in heaven. That is, our citizenship is in heaven. From whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vow body, that it might be fashioned like unto his glorious body. According to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. So, again, this is our focus. We are to look to this, our glorification. When he says in verse 20, from whence we look for, or we could say look to the Savior, that's the idea of great anticipation. And these are the things that we are, again, to put our minds on. Our rightful citizenship. Our citizenship is in heaven. And again, I told you about this word here. which means to be a citizen of. Now remember that when Paul wrote to the church at Philippi, That the Macedonian city of Philippi was a colony of Rome. All right. How far away was Rome? 800 miles away And yet, this little colony of Roman citizens lived like they were living in Rome. Now some of you remember we were in Greece about a year ago and we had the privilege of visiting the ancient city of Philippi and looking at some of the ruins. And you know what we saw? We saw the fingerprints of Rome all over it. It looked like you were kind of walking into a little Rome. Uh it was a little Rome away from Rome, basically. Um and all it had all the markings of that. And you know what? The the the citizens of the city of Philippi, they were so very proud. To be citizens of Rome. They basically dressed like Romans. They would wear the Roman toga. They talked like Romans. They used Roman laws and so on. They were proud because back in that day it was a thing of pride to be a citizen of Rome. And we're proud of our citizenship here earthly, aren't we? I mean I know the Ravens lost it. Today, but I'm still proud to be a citizen of Baltimore and uh whatever, praying hard for the Ravens. But uh we're proud of it. And and that's just a normal thing. Uh the people back then, they were proud to be citizens of Rome. But here Paul is saying, look, you need to remember That the source of your greatest joy and boasting should not be in your earthly citizenship, but in your heavenly one. And that should be the thing that occupies your mind. We live here on earth. But our citizenship is in heaven. Now I remind my daughter Abby that she lives in England. But she was born in the USA. And when I go over there, I t I remind her of that. And I tell her, you raise these boys like Americans. I mean I don't want to play in that cricket. I want them playing real baseball. Uh you you get the idea that We have we're we kind of have a dual citizenship. So now uh so now Abby has a dual citizenship. She's kind of a a citizen of the UK, but she's a citizen of the US. And there's a sense in which that's true of us. Yeah, we're citizens here yet There's a greater citizenship. We've been born into God's kingdom. And that's where our loyalty lies. And that's what Paul is teaching us here. So there is our citizenship, our rightful citizenship, we could say, and then there is our returning savior. Notice what he says again in verse twenty, from whence we look for the sa the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And this is the idea of anticipation. We are anticipating the return of Jesus Christ. Just as surely as Jesus came the first time, he promised to come again the second time. And we are looking and longing for that return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we need to remember that, and we need to live as if one day we're going to stand before Him. And we're going to have to give an account to our king on how we lived as citizens of that kingdom. Steve Brown tells a story of a soldier in World War I who was so distraught with the war. That he decided to desert. And uh he tried to find his way to the coast so he could catch a boat and make his way kind of incognito back to England, his homeland. But in the darkness of night he stumbled on a road sign. And it was so pitch black, it was so dark that he couldn't read the sign, he couldn't really see the sign. All he he could do is feel that thick pole and knew that there was a sign up there And so he had no idea what the sign said or where he was. So he decided he was going to climb up that pole and try to get a good look at that sign. And so he began to climb to the pole and he got to what felt like a crossbeam and he held on to that cross beam. And he pulled out a match and he lit it because he wanted to read that sign. And as he lit the match and held it up, he found himself looking right into the face of a crucifix with Jesus there on the cross. Because what he climbed was a was a crucifix. And there he was looking into the face of Christ. Of course we know it's not Christ. But there he was looking in the face of that image there. And when that happened, he was stunned by what he saw. And then he began to think of a verse that he had learned as a young man that his parents had taught him, Hebrews 12, 2, talking about Jesus who endured the cross. Despising the shame. And suddenly he felt shame about what he was doing. And he got down from that pole, that cross, and he the next morning was back in the trenches. with his soldiers. Because he was reminded by that little experience that one day he was going to actually have to look into the face of the real Jesus, the true Savior. And that's true of all of us. We know that one day we're going to have to look into the face of our Lord Jesus Christ, our returning Savior, and give an account to him of what kind of citizens We have been of his kingdom. So there's our rightful citizenship, there's our returning Savior. But notice this next thing: our resurrected body. Look at verse 21. Who shall change our vow body, that it might be fashioned like unto his glorious body. And so this is a part of our salvation, right? This is the final stage of our salvation. Justification is when God declares us righteous, when we put our faith in Christ, we are declared righteous in Christ. Sanctification is the process that all of us are in right now. Some of you say, what's God doing in my life? He's sanctifying you in the image of Christ. All of us are in that process of sanctification. If there is no sanctification going on in your life, then there has been no justification Because sanctification always follows. We put our faith in Christ. We're given the imputed righteousness of Christ. Then we're given the seed of righteousness, the imparted righteousness of The Holy Spirit lives in us and He begins to conform us more into the image of Jesus Christ. And we're in this process of battling sin every day in our life. You say, when's that battle going to be over? That's the third stage of our salvation, glorification. Because when Jesus comes back, you know what he's going to do? He's going to make us exactly like him. We will be glorified. We're going to have a brand new glorified body. And this is what Paul is referring to here. He shall change our vow body, that it might be fashioned like unto his glorious body. That's the final stage of our salvation. The word change here in verse 21, meta schismato. Which literally where we get the word scheme, to change the scheme of or to change the form of. God's going to completely change this body, and we're going to be glorified And by the way, we're not it's not going to be a remodeling. Alright, so get that out of your mind. We're not going to get the same body back. I do not want this body back when I'm finally done with it here I'm not you're not going to get a renewed or remodeled version of the old body. You're going to get a brand new glorified body You need to understand that. Some people don't understand the truth of the resurrection. They think in terms of remodeling or reconstruction. No, get that out of your mind. We're going to get a brand new body. And this is what Paul's referring to here. And it's going to be wonderful. And Paul says more about that in 1 Corinthians 15. If you think this Terrestrial body, this the body that God created for us to live here on the earth is beautiful. Wait till you get your celestial body, that body that's designed to live in the heavens. We're going to be changed. And so then there's the final thing that is our reigning Lord. Look again, look at the last part of verse 21. According to the working whereby he is able to subdue all things. unto himself. Someone might think, well, how can we be sure that we are going to have a resurrection? How can we be sure that that's going to happen? Well, here's how. Again, the verse, according to the working whereby, listen to this, he is able to even to subdue all things. So he's able even to subdue all things unto himself. Everything is under his control He has the power. He has the sovereign authority to do anything that he wants. That's how we know. Paul is just saying that Jesus is powerful enough that he can do whatever he wants to do. And it's because of his power. And there are many proofs of that. We saw glimpses of that in his earthly ministry that's recorded for us in the gospel. He had control over nature. He could say, Peace be still, and the winds cease and the waves cease immediately. He had absolute power over nature. He had control over the animal kingdom. He could control the course of every fish in the sea We see that in the gospel. He had power over demons, but the ultimate token of his power over death was what? The resurrection. He came out of that grave himself. And Paul said his resurrection is the first fruits of our resurrection. The fact that Jesus came out of that grave is the token that we also will have a resurrection and we will get that brand new glorified body. So that's why you want to keep your focus on Christ. Keep your focus on Jesus, keep your focus on what He did. So Christian in Pilgrim's Progress finally made it to the celestial city. And after crossing the river of death, he saw the gates wide open, and he entered into the the land that had always been his true home in his heart. He finally got to that land. And his journey Though filled with trials, was worth every step because he remembered where he belonged. He remembered his citizenship And Paul is reminding us of this same thing here. All of us are on a journey. There's a pattern that we need to follow, a pattern that we need to adopt. There are perils that we have to avoid. But there's a place that we should always anticipate, and that is our heavenly home. That is part of our rightful citizenship. We stay focused on the returning Savior, that new resurrected body that God's going to give all of us, that's part of our salvation. And we know that this is possible because our Lord, our God, reigns. He has all power. And so the question is: are you living as a citizen of heaven? And that's the encouragement. Live as a citizen of heaven. Because very soon our King is going to be coming. Are we ready? Are we prepared for that? Let's bow for prayer. Father, help us to receive this truth that you give us here in your word. Father, help us to lift our eyes beyond this passing world. And to remember that our true passport reads, citizens of heaven. Father, help us to live like it, because we know our King will return. And all of his citizens one day will finally be home. But until that time, Lord, help us to be faithful and true with our heavenly affection. Focused on our Savior Christ, trying to walk in a way that is pleasing in your sight. And help us, Lord, along the way, to share the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ with all those that you put in our path And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name, Amen.