We'll start out in Ephesians and then we'll look at this verse and then we'll go over to another verse. Ephesians chapter 2. Ephesians chapter 2. And I want to talk tonight about living the risen life. We celebrate the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. And rightfully so, we ought to celebrate that every day of our life. But what does that mean for us? We need to live a risen life. Now several years ago I read a story That was a very interesting story, and it's one of those strange but true stories. I want you to know this is factual, and I'm not making this up. There was a man by the name of Larry Waters. He lived in Los Angeles about six or seven miles from the airport there He lived in a little subdivision of row houses where they're all pretty much the same, front yard and backyard and so on. And every Saturday he had a little ritual. He would go out to the the backyard Uh he would take a six pack and drink it, sit in a lawn chair and look around. He decided one Saturday to do something different. He wanted to uh get a different perspective of the neighborhood And so he decided that he was going to uh get some balloons and tie them to his lawn chair so that it would lift him up about a hundred feet above his neighbors. so he could see what was going on in the neighborhood. So he went out and he bought forty-five weather balloons. He took them if he filled them with helium. And then he tied them to his lawn chair while his friends held the the chair down And uh when he was ready he ran inside and grabbed his six pack and then made a peanut butter and jelly sandwich for lunch in case he got hungry while he was up there. And he also got a BB gun to shoot down the blues when he was ready to come down And so he got into the lawn chair and his friends let go and he went up in the air. Sure enough, he went a hundred feet, then he went two hundred feet, then he went three hundred feet, then he went a thousand feet. And then 2,000 feet and then 5,000 feet. And he kept ascending upward till 11,000 feet in the air Now he's holding on for dear life. He's not he doesn't have the BB gun anymore. It fell, so he's holding on so he doesn't fall. And while he's up there Uh he's frozen and a continental jet comes by a DC-10, and the pilot happens to look out and see a guy sitting there in the lawn chair at 11,000 feet in the air So he w he he bars into the tower. You won't believe it, but there's a guy up here in a lawn chair. Can you imagine that flying in a in a plane all of a sudden looking out and saying, hey, there's a guy in a lawn chair over there, eleven thousand feet Well, uh they weren't sure what to do. They they sent up a helicopter, but they couldn't retrieve them. And so after four hours of being up there The helium finally began to uh to cool down and he began to descend gently to the earth where there awaited an ambulance and some police officers ready to arrest him for that little stunt And so you might say that he was seated in heavenly places. When I read that story, I thought about this verse. Look in Ephesians chapter 2 and look down at verse number 5. Even when we were dead in sins hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace are you saved, in verse 6, and has raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ. That is a wonderful, wonderful spiritual truth that is there in verse number 6. Do you realize that now that you're saved? And by the way, do you know what salvation is? It is a resurrection from the dead. You see, the day that you got saved, God called your name and you came forth, and now you have spiritual life, and now not only that, you're raised up together to sit with Christ in heavenly places. Now that's not what I'm talking about when I read this story about Larry Waters. Obviously, this is not a literal sitting in heavenly places But it is a very real spiritual reality for every Christian that now we that now that we're saved Now that we have been resurrected spiritually, we are seated with Christ. And we are to live a resurrected life. Now, friends, we ought to celebrate the resurrection of Christ, but the best way we can celebrate that is to live a risen life. And that's what I want to talk about. So now turn over to Colossians chapter 3. Because this is the same thought, same idea. Someone might say, well what does a risen life look like? Well, we're going to look at this here in Colossians chapter 3, because the Apostle Paul says the same thing here in verse 1 of Colossians 3. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God, set your affections on things above, and not on things on the earth. For ye are dead and your life is hid with Christ in God. And when Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Now, what I want you to see in this wonderful passage are just five marks of a risen life. Five marks. And I don't know about you, but I want to live that kind of life. I want to live a life where the power of the risen Christ is manifest in me. And so if you're taking those right down, here's the first point. The position of the risen life. The position. Now, the whole point that Paul is making here in these first few verses in Colossians is that we are now in Christ. And look again in verse number four. Actually look in verse three, for you are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. Now I want to tell you that when God looks down on humanity today, he only sees two people. He either sees Adam or Christ When he looks down from heaven and he sees humanity, he sees that you are either in Adam or you are in Christ, one or the other. Tonight, the people that are here, you're either in Adam or you're in Christ. Now, the bad thing about being in Adam is the Bible says, in Adam all what? All die. And in Adam is what brought sin and the f and the fallenness. But in Christ, the Bible says all are alive. Before you were saved, you're in Adam, and in Adam all die. Now that you're saved, you're in Christ. And the Bible says if you're in Christ, then you are alive in Christ. Okay? And so that's what he wants you to see. You see, uh, when you got saved, God took you out of Adam and He placed you in Christ. In fact, uh let me just show you one other verse because I want you to see this so very clearly. Look in Romans chapter 6, because Paul talks about the same principle, and I want you to get this And this is a wonderful principle to know in the Christian life if you're going to live the risen life. Look what Paul says in Romans chapter six. Now, let me tell you the argument that he's using here He previously just asked the question, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? In verse number one, and then in verse two, God forbid, how shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Now in chapter 5, he was talking about the superabounding grace of God. Thank God for his grace that forgives us of our sins. Amen. God's grace is so abundant, so forgiving, that it can forgive the deepest and darkest sin. And so this is a natural question then. If God's grace is superabounds, shall we continue to live in sin in order to see God's grace abound? That would be a logical question that someone might ask. If God's grace is so great, can't I just go and live the way I want to, since his grace will forgive me? And here's how Paul answers that question. God forbid, how shall we that are dead to sin Live any longer therein. Now watch this in verse 3. Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death. Look at verse 4. Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death That like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life Now, what is Paul talking about there? He is talking about this incredible principle of a believer's oneness with Jesus Christ. You are so one with Christ. When it says that you were baptized into Jesus Christ, you were baptized into his death. Now when that word baptism is used there, it's not talking about water baptism It's talking about a spiritual reality. Now, water baptism symbolizes this spiritual reality, but what's the reality? Your absolute, total oneness with Jesus Christ. And this is what theologians call the mystical union of the believer. Did you know that in the Bible there are three mystical unions that it's we just can't comprehend? That's why they're called mystical In the sense that it's hard for us to wrap our minds around them. It's hard to reason it all out because it is so deep. It is so hard to pull together For example, the one mystical union is the union within the Trinity. We believe in the Trinity. There is one God, all co-equal, all God. three persons and yet there's one God. And so there's this oneness, this union that exists between the three members of the Godhead. And to be honest with you, you can use all kinds of illustrations about the Trinity, but you know what? They all fall short. Because none of them really describe that incredible union that exists in the Godhead. It is mystical in that it's beyond our rational comprehension, but we believe it and affirm it to be true. And then there's the mystical union. The second mystical union the Bible talks about is the union that exists between the natures of Christ. He is 100% God and 100% man. And those natures dwell concurrently in one person. And again, that is hard for us to even comprehend. How that he's so much God as if he were never man, so much man as if he were never God, those two things are equally true, concurrent in that person And I can't understand that. I can't understand how Jesus was God and he was omniscient and knew all things, yet the Bible says in the book of Luke he grew in wisdom as a man. And so that is a union that is mystical. It's incredible. But here's the third mystical union, and that is the union that exists between Christ and the believer. This is another incredible union that we have. Did you know that when Jesus died, you died with him on the cross? You say, how? In the mind of God, when Jesus, that's why Paul said, I am what? Crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ that liveth in me. What was Paul talking about? He was talking about this incredible oneness and union that he had with Jesus Christ that when Jesus died I died, and when he was buried, I was buried, and when Jesus rose, guess what? I rose. And that is true for you as well. If you know the Lord Jesus Christ, you are so united with him that whatever happened to Christ happened to you. And by the way, where is Jesus today? He's risen and he is seated in heaven. So guess where you are? You say I'm right here at Grace Bible Baptist Church. That's right. But you're also seated with Christ in heavenly places. Isn't that incredible to know? Someone says, I hope that you're going to go to heaven, you can tell them I'm already there. I'm already seated with Christ in heavenly places. And so the Apostle Paul, when he answers this question in Romans 6 about continuing in sin, when you understand the union that you have with Christ, that whole question is just ridiculous to even think about Since I am one with Christ, I'm so united to Christ, I wouldn't think about continuing to live a lifestyle of sin, knowing my union with the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Paul uses this same argument in 1 Corinthians when some of the libertine Christians in Corinth uh were living a life of fornication. And they thought that they would use the slogan, all things are lawful, and Paul would use the yes but argument, yeah, all things are lawful, but all things are not expedient. And then the Apostle Paul said, don't you realize that wherever you go, you take Christ with you? Don't you understand that? So how could you go and live in sin and bring Christ with you? You are so united to Jesus Christ Now, with all that in mind, go back to Colossians now because Paul again is touching on this very idea of the believer's union with Christ in verse 3, for you are dead And your life is hid with Christ and God. And when Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall you also appear with him in glory. You say, what is it like to be to live the risen life? Well, now that you are in Christ, you have a new altitude. You're living higher than The plane of this world and the things of this world. You have a new altitude. You're seated with Christ in heavenly places. You have a new affection. Look at verse 2. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. When you're living the uh living the risen life, your affections are on heavenly things. You ever hear someone say, well, he's so heavenly minded, he's no earthly good? Well, friend, the truth of the matter is The more heavenly-minded you are, the more good you are to God. If you have your mind fixed on heavenly things, you have new affections Heard about two sisters who like to drink and live it up at parties and then they got saved and they were invited to a party and they put back on the RSVP. We're sorry we died. We can't come to your party. And that's true of a believer. We died to this world, we died to sin, and now we're living the risen life. We have a new ambition. And it's a holy ambition. Look in verse 5: Mortify therefore your members, which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness, and ordinate affection, and evil concupiscence, covetousness, which is idolatry. For which things sake the wrath of God came upon the children of disobedience. The word mortify here simply means to put to death. And that is, we're putting to death these fleshly lusts that are part of that a nature that is still so much a part of us. And we put those things to death, we mortify them. Why? Because now we have a desire for holiness and holy things. Friend, you show me someone who says that they're saved, they're not pursuing holiness, I would encourage you to you better make sure of your salvation. Because when you get saved, God puts in you a new heavenly affection for holiness and holy things. And so therefore, since you're seated with Christ, you don't, you've changed your perspective on the things of this world I I heard one time a politician in Washington make his statement. I thought it was very interesting. He said, of course you know in in Washington there in the uh House of Representatives, all of the Republicans sit on the right and all of the Democrats sit on the left. You understand that? And by the way, that's no reflection on where you are tonight where you're seated here. Alright, that's simply political. Alright, we understand that But a politician one time said, he said, here in Washington, how we stand on something is determined by where we sit How we stand on something is determined by where we sit. And I thought, you know, that's interesting, but that's true of the Christian, not in a political sense, but in a spiritual sense. How we stand On the things of this world. It depends on where we sit. And so, since now we are seated with Christ, you know what? Our whole perspective changes on everything The things that we used to value, we don't hold those things in value anymore. And the things we used to desire, we don't desire those things anymore. Why? Because where we stand on those issues is determined by where we sit And we are seated with Christ in heavenly places. And so that's our position. That's the position of the risen life. And again, look, I want to just touch on some of these terms. Paul said, mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth fornication and uncleanness and inordinate affection, and evil concupiscence and covetousness, which is idolatry. You see, friend, uh he he talks about our members, which is the members of our body And the reason he brings up our members is because it is the sinful nature that utilizes these members to accomplish its purpose. You see, you can't get victory over sin by physical amputation. You get it by putting to death the inward sin nature, you see. I read about a man centuries ago in England. He was a pickpocket and he was convicted. And all the way back then, if you were convicted of doing that, they would cut off your hand. So they cut off his right hand. And he continued to rob people in pickpocket, but he learned how to do it with his left hand, and so they cut off his left hand Well, undeterred, they actually discovered that this m this man learned how to steal things with his mouth and his teeth. He still learned how to steal. You see, friend, amputation isn't going to keep a person from living a wicked life. But I want to tell you what will is when you come to know Jesus Christ and you learn to put to death these evil desires, these sinful things that stir, that's still a part of that old man, that old Adam that is in us. And Paul mentioned some of these Fornication, pornea, that's all kind of forms of of sexual activity. That's never a part of the Christian life. We put that to death. Uncleanness, which is just impurity, loose living, all that comes with that, and we don't need to go down the litany of that. We know what that is. And then inward affection, that's a state of mind that excites impurity. And then he mentions evil concupiscence, again base desires, and then covetousness. That's the thing for always wanting more. The Apostle Paul says we put these things to death. We mortify these things. That's our position because we're seated with Christ in heavenly places. Now let me give you number two. Not only the position of the risen life, but number two, the progress. Look what he says in verse 8. But now ye also put off all these anger. Wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth, lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds That is, now, again, you're not doing those same old things, but you're learning to put off and put on. Let's talk about put off here. Because you're going to notice that Paul uses these terms in verse 9, where he says, put off the old man with his deeds, and then in verse 12, put on. You know what he's using there? He's using uh the analogy of clothing. Putting off and putting on. And the idea is that now that we're saved, we put off the filthy rags of the old life. That was so much a part of us. You know, uh my dad we grew up we uh my dad worked on the railroad while we were young and sometimes we watched my father come home, he'd work a hard day. and uh he would be pretty dirty from all the work that he was doing. And I can remember as a kid my mother saying to my father as he came to the porch before he even got into the house, I remember on a few occasions he would say, Stop right where you are. Don't come any closer. And she would have him take off some of those dirty clothes right there where he was. And uh before sh before he came in. There's a sense of which in the Christian life, you know what happens after we get saved? We start tripp uh stripping off those old clothes Those old rags. In fact, you remember the story of Lazarus? You remember that story? In John chapter 11. You talk about resurrection power The Lord Jesus Christ, at that funeral service, he turned it into a time of joy. But you remember the story when Jesus said told the men, roll away the stone. And then he said, Lazarus what? Come forth. Now, like one preacher said, it's a good thing that he mentioned the name of Lazarus. Because had he said, just come forth, all of those graves would have opened up. And it would have been a mass resurrection. That's the power of Christ. But he said, Lazarus come forth. And you know the story. Lazarus, the Bible says, came out of that grave. But now let me ask you a question, was he free? No, he was still wrapped in the grave clothes. So you just picture him just kind of gingerly making his way out of that tomb Still wrapped in grave clothes. And then he said to the men, what did Jesus say? Loose them of the grave clothes. Take off those rotten, filthy, stinking clothes. And you see, that's exactly what happens at salvation. You know what happened at salvation? The Lord Jesus Christ said, Jerry, come forth. And I began to live. And that same thing happened to you. But you know what? When I came out of the the grave of my old life, I was still wrapped in all of the grave clothes of that old life. And you know what's been happening ever since then? I've been by the grace of God taking off those grave clothes and putting on the grace clothes of a new life. You see, it's putting off, taking off the grave clothes, putting on the grace clothes. That's what sanctification is in the Christian life. And by the way, you know what? You can't do that by yourself. You need someone to help you take those grade clothes off. That's why God gives to the church people who disciple you and mentor you and pastors and teachers. And Sunday school leaders and all of that, you know why? They are all gifts from Almighty God to help you take off the grave clothes of your old life and then put on the grace clothes. And that's what the Apostle Paul is talking about here. Now that we're saved, we put off These things. What do we put off again in verse 8? Put off anger and wrath and malice and blasphemy and filthy communication. All of these things are to be Uh taken off these rotten clothes. We take them off. Look at verse 10. And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge, after the image of him that created him Now, the word for knowledge here, epigenosis, that gnosis is knowledge. Epi kind of makes it stronger, superknowledge. Or we could say, knowledge as you grow, knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what growing in grace is, is knowing more about Jesus. And as we learn more about Jesus, we're renewed in our knowledge. And friend, that's how we are conformed to the image of Christ. That's putting on more of the grace clothes in our Christian walk in our Christian life. And so we see then the position of the risen life and then the progress of the risen life. So let me ask you a question. Are you making progress in your resurrected life Are you putting on more grace clothes? Do you see yourself growing in all these things? Growing in these spiritual virtues, these characteristics. That should be a part of us. You say, I I love celebrating the resurrection of Christ. Again, I say to you, friend, the best way to celebrate the living Christ is to walk in newness of life Walk in the grace clothes that He has given you as a new believer. Now let me give you a third thing. We talked about the position and then the progress. But then I want you to write down the partnership of the risen life. Because look at verse number 11. Where there is neither Greek nor Jew. Circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, synthian, bond, nor free, but Christ is all and is in all. You know what he's saying here? That once you're in Christ. And once you're living the risen life, you know what? There are no more man-made barriers that separate us. All those barriers are all ripped down. They're all torn down. I want to tell you, friend, that's the power of the gospel. It tears down all these things. And by the way, there were deep-seated barriers that separated people in this day. We look at the world today and uh you know we think that there are barriers uh uh and and racial issues and all that. You think it's bad today, friend, it was even worse back in that day. But you know what took care of all that? It wasn't a political agenda, it wasn't a social plan, it was the power of the gospel of Christ. Because when you live a risen life, all those barriers are gone. Notice the barriers that he mentions. He says Greek nor Jew, that's racial barriers. Jews refused to enter into Gentile homes. They would not eat food that was cooked by Gentiles. They would not buy meat That was butchered by Gentiles. When they returned to Israel, they showed their disdain for Gentiles by shaking the dust off Gentile dust off before they would cross the border into Israel. Friend, that's deep-seated prejudice. But that's what existed back then. You know, even some of the apostles were reluctant to accept Gentiles at first until they learned from God that that barrier is gone. It's gone And in the gospel, you receive one another, no matter where you're from, who you are, race, face, or place, you're all one. barrier is gone. But not only racial barriers, but religious barriers. Notice what it says in verse again in verse 11. Circumcision and uncircumcision. And then we can go on cultural barriers, barbarians and scinthians. You say, what were they? Scythians were warlike people, notorious for their savagery. In fact, Herodotus wrote about them, they drank the blood of their first enemy killed in battle, and made napkins of their scalps. That's that's that's pretty bad, isn't it? And drinking uh of the of the skulls of the slain. They made bowls from the skulls of the slain. And they had the most filthy habit, he would go on the say. Josephus said this, they delighted in murdering people and are little better than wild beasts. And so Paul's thinking about those that are the worst you can think of. However, when people like that came to Christ, they were transformed. And that barrier was removed. No more cultural barriers. No more social barriers. Slave or free men, he says. You know what? All of these people became one in the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what would happen in the early church? People would come along and they would see the church come together, and they would see Jews and Gentiles loving one another. Circumcision and uncircumcision, they would see even barbarians who got saved, and Scythians who got saved. Loving one another, showing the virtues of Christianity. They saw slaves and freemen Treating each other as equals and loving each other. And you know what people would say when they would see that back in that day? They would say there's something about that gospel. There's something about that church Friend, that's living the risen life right there, where the world sees the power of the gospel in the lives of people. And so let me give you the fourth thing. We talked about the position and the progress and the partnership. Let me talk to you now about the performance. Again, we're talking about putting on in verse 12. We talked about putting off those grave clothes. Now putting on, here are the grace clothes, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercies. Kindness and humbleness of mind, meekness and long-suffering, forbearing one another and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you so also do ye. And so here are some of these garments. Sympathy, when it says vows of mercies, that's just talking about just sympathy for others. And kindness, friendliness to others, humility. Uh you know, back in this day pride was considered admirable. There really wasn't even a a Roman word for uh humility or meekness or any of that because they thought pride was the thing. But In Christ, humility was exalted as a greatest virtue. Humility and meekness and long-suffering and forbearing. All the way down to love. Look in verse number 14. And above all All these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. You know what we talk about there? When we talk about the bond, the the belt. Or we could, you know, they wore a belt, a sash around the middle, and it kind of put ever held everything else in place. As you're putting on these grace clothes All these grace clothes of kindness and humility and meekness and longsuffering and so on, you know the one thing that holds it all together is just love. Just loving one another. Loving the way God wants us to love And so we see that. Now let me show you number five, and we'll be done. The priorities of the risen life. Look in verse number Look at verse 15. And let the peace of God rule in your heart, to which also you're called in one body, and be ye thankful. When you're living the risen life, you know what's going to be a priority to you? The peace of God. You live in that peace. And when it says, let the peace of God rule in your heart, the word rule there, very interesting term. It's talking about an arbitrate uh arbitrator. It was a term that was used in the athletic uh days Paul takes this this word from the athletic world. When they would have all these games, there would be umpires or referees, and if a person got out of line They would let the athlete know about it somehow, some way. Sometimes they even carried a stick or a rod and they could actually whack the athlete. Can you imagine referees trying to do that today? Uh you know, today what happens? Well, if you watch the NFL game, if a player fouls, what does the referee do? He pulls out a yellow flag and throws it down on the field, right? And everybody on the field knows that there was a penalty, there was a foul. And then that referee will stand in the middle of the field and say, here's what is wrong. This is the penalty here There's a sense in which the peace of God is like a referee in our heart. And friend, when we get out of line, when we're not walking the way God wants us to walk, you know what the peace of God does? He in our heart throws over a yellow flag And he says you're out of line and you need to get back in line. And so if you're living the risen life, you're going to walk according to the peace of God in your heart. You're going to let that peace rule in your heart. And dominate your heart. But not only the peace of God, but the word of God. Look in verse 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. In all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your heart to the Lord. This is another characteristic of that life. The word of God will be preeminent in our life. God's word will dwell in us. Don't let a day go by without getting into God's Word and meditating on it, thinking about it, applying it to your life. The Word of God will dwell in you. And then finally the name of God. Look in verse 17. Another priority with us is the name of God. And whatsoever you do in word or indeed, do all in the name. Of our Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. All that we do, we do it in the name of Jesus. We do it for his sake. We do it in His name. Every work that we do, we're not worried about getting the glory for it, because we're doing it in the name of Jesus Christ. To give him praise and to give him glory. Yesterday I was at a gas station, I was filling up. We were traveling back and uh a guy came up to me while I was there at the gas pump. And uh he was a rough looking character, kind of a scruffy guy, and tell he'd been through a hard time. And he he had a big old gas can with him and he said uh Can you help me? He said uh I'm I'm in this minivan over here. He said I I just need gas to get to the next place. And so I said, sure And so I filled up his tank. And as I was filling it up, I said, I just want you to know, sir, that I'm doing this in the name of Jesus Christ. In the name of Christ. This is coming from the Lord Jesus Himself because He loves you so very much. And of course I gave him a gospel tract. I said, I want you to read this. Read this. It's all about someone who loves you and who can save you. Friend, everything we do, we do it in the name of Jesus. And we do it for his sake. That's the priority. of a of the risen life, the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we want to walk this kind of life. Our position We're risen with Christ, our progress, we're putting off the old grave clothes, our partnership. We're one with all those that are in Christ. We're putting on the grace clothes. That's our performance. Our priorities are, the peace of God in our heart. And the word of God in our mind and the name of Christ on our lips, that is living the risen life. And friend, I want to tell you, if we walk in that kind of life, it'll have an impact on the world. God will use that in hearts and lives. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so Father, we thank you for the power of the resurrection. That power that we celebrated today, but Lord, we celebrate it every day. Lord, help us to walk in that power. Let it be not just something we hear about and sing about, but something that is real in us. So very real. May we say like the Apostle Paul, that I might know him and the power of his resurrection. And the fellowship of his suffering. Lord, let this be a part of our walk. And Lord, we we pray for this. We pray all this in the name of Christ and for your glory. Bless those who are here tonight, Lord. Use these words to encourage their hearts, I pray. In Jesus' precious name, we ask this. Amen.