If you look in chapter 30, we've been looking at the life of Jacob, and uh I want to continue looking at this. Lessons that we can learn for our own life, principles for ourselves from the life of this Old Testament patriarch And uh as I study uh this character, I see a lot of Jacob in me. In fact, I see a lot of Jacob in you. Because the Bible says Jacob is really in all of us. We all have a little bit of Jacob in us, and we can learn from him. You know, the Bible says in Jeremiah 17, the heart is Jacob. So proper noun there. The heart is Ya'aqov. The heart is Jacob. And so there's a sense then that all of our hearts we have Jacob in that. And so we need to learn what Jacob learned and learn to walk by faith the way he learned. Look in Genesis chapter 30, and I want you to look down at verse 25 And notice what it says in verse 25. Follow along as I read. And it came to pass when Rachel had borne Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away that I may go unto my own place. into my country. Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee. And let me go, for thou knowest my service which I have done thee. And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I found favor in thine eyes, Tarry. For I have learned by experience that the Lord has blessed me for thy sake. And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it. And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and how thy cattle was with me, and for it was little when thou hast um when thou was hast before I came uh which thou hast before I came, and it is now increased unto a multitude. And the Lord hath blessed thee since my coming. And now one shall I provide for my own house also? And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not give me anything If thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again feed and keep thy flock, and I will pass through all thy flock today, removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle and all the browned cattle from among the sheep and the spotted speckle among the goats, and of such shall be my hire. There was once a young man by the name of William. He had to leave home at 16 years of age. Everything that he owned was put into a little bundle and he had to go on his way. And as he was walking, he happened to go by a neighbor of his who was a boat captain. And he asked William, where are you going? He said, Well, sir, I have to leave home. My father's too poor. He can't take care of me anymore. I have to find my own way in this world. And a neighbor said, William, let's pray together. This man was a Christian. And they prayed together, and this man prayed that the Lord would be with William. And then he said, Let me give you some advice before you go. He said, What can you do? He said, Well really the only thing I know how to do is to make wax and soap, something my father taught me. He said, well young man, here's my advice. Give your heart to Christ. Dedicate your life to Christ and work hard, and the Lord will bless you. And so this young man carried these words in his heart. He went to New York, he found a church, he began to attend, he dedicated his life to the Lord, he set out to do the only thing he knew how to do, and that was to make soap, and he began to do it the best that he could. He worked hard And years went by and God prospered this young man and he began to give so much back to the Lord until finally one day the Lord had prospered him so much that he was able to give his whole entire income back to the Lord. 100% of his income. And that young man's name was a name that perhaps you've heard William Colgate. And that was the beginning of the Colgate Palm Olive. company. Some of you when you got ready for church tonight, you may have brushed your teeth with toothpaste or used soap that began from this young man's company that he started so many years ago. It was a beautiful story of how God prospers a man, any man that will trust in him. And that's really the story that we come to here in the life of Jacob. That's what we see out of this text here today. We're going to find out that God makes Jacob rich and prosperous. Now, if you've been with us in our study, you know that Jacob was forced to leave home. He had to leave all his inheritance behind. He came to Haran, but he only had the shirt on his back. And he began working for his uncle Laban, who was not an easy person to work for. In fact, he was kind of like a Middle Eastern Scrooge He was a d a man who was deceitful, he was manipulative, he was selfish. He managed to place Jacob under his thumb and keep him more as an indentured servant than as a hired employee. And you remember that he deceived Jacob. He Jacob worked seven years for Rachel. Instead of getting Rachel, he got Leah. He could only get Rachel if he agreed to work for seven more years. And so he labored for fourteen years for Lathen. Now after fourteen years he had nothing to show for all of his labor. He had no material gain, no real uh possessions And so what we're going to see here in the rest of this story is how God is about to step in and do something for Jacob. This is the part of Jacob's life where God begins to prosper him. Jacob goes from being a pulper to a prince. And really the key verse in this whole narrative is in verse 43 of chapter 30. Look at it quickly. And the man increased, that's Jacob, increased exceedingly, and had much cattle and maidservants and men servants and camels and asses. And so this man began to prosper greatly. God had blessed him above all that he had ever imagined. Now you remember all the way back when Jacob originally made this journey, he was very fearful, he was afraid. And you remember how the Lord assured him, he gave him a great vision, a ladder that uh descended from heaven to his feet, and it was God's promise that I'm going to be with you. And then God gave him some promises. And Jacob made a vow. In fact, go back to chapter 28 and look in verse 20 and verse 21. Just to remind you of the vow that Jacob made. Chapter twenty eight, verse twenty, saying, If the God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I shall go, and will give me bread to eat and raiment to put on So shall I come again to my father's house in peace, then shall the Lord be my God. And in that vow, Jacob really gives us a glimpse into his heart. There's only two things he really wanted. He wanted, first of all, food to eat, clothes to wear. He wasn't bartering to be rich. He was just saying, God, if you'll just take care of my necessities. That's one thing you wanted. Lord, just take care of me. Give me what I need. And secondly, if I can just be able to go back to my homeland one day, back to my father's house. Now God met all those conditions that Jacob asked for, and as we're going to see, God goes above and beyond that. He does more than that. God blesses Jacob. And as we saw last time, Jacob has now 12 children. We leave off that story from last time. Jacob now has 12 children. And this is the beginning of the fulfillment of the promise that God is going to make the seed of Abraham as numerous as the stars. A nation is beginning to be born here. But then there's something that happens. Look at verse 25 And it came to pass that when Rachel had borne Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away that I may go unto my own place and to my country. Really the birth of Joseph here acts as a marker or a sign pointer for the next narrative. Rachel bears a son named Joseph. And we said the name Joseph means the Lord will add, or may the Lord add. And this is somewhat prophetic. It points to the fact that God is going to add. In fact, God will give Rachel another son, which was her wish, but also God will add more to Jacob. So this prophetically points to the fact of God adding to Jacob and adding to the blessings that he has already given him. Aren't we grateful that we have a God who does more than we ever ask or think? He's constantly adding blessings. He's giving to us abundantly. You know, we have a God who delights in prosperity. I'm talking about your prosperity. He wants to prosper you. He wants to bless you. He wants to bless his people. He delights in doing that. But sometimes before God can bless us the way he wants, is he has to prepare us. And we have to be trustworthy. Many times we say, Lord, bless me. Perhaps our prayer ought to be, Lord, make me blessable. First, God has to make Jacob blessable, and once He can do that, then He can bless Jacob. the way he wants to do it. And so there are several indicators in this narrative we're going to see that teach us that Jacob had grown in his faith. He had gotten to the place where now God can bless him, and God can trust him with more and make him a blessing. And so this is the point that we are in Jacob's life. Now he was still a long way from what God wanted him to be, but he had already come a long way. And he's learning to trust in the Lord. He has been sanctified by being with Laban. Now, there's a few principles that I want you to see here in this story, and really the title of this sermon is God's Way to Prosperity. And if you want to be prosperous, and I know you do, then we we need to follow these principles that we see in the life of Jacob. And here's the first principle. Number one, first of all, notice that Jacob recognized that prosperity comes from God Prosperity comes from God. Again, Jacob's desire is in verse 25 and verse 26. He now wants to move on. Look at verse 26. He says, Give me my wives and my children for whom I have served thee, and let me go, for thou knowest my service which I have done thee. Now after Rachel has Joseph, Jacob feels it's time to go back home. So he comes to Laban and he says, send me on my way. This expresses a desire. It really has the idea here in the Hebrew of an underling being released from a duty. And Jacob feels now that he can be released from any obligation or any duty that he thought he owed to Laban Uh perhaps before this time he was afraid to ask this because Rachel hadn't born any of her own children, and maybe he thought that he wouldn't let Rachel come with him. We're not really sure But with the birth of Joseph, Jacob feels a little bit of freedom, and he feels it's time to be released. And so he says, let me go. Let me go back to my country. Let me have my wives, verse 26. Let me have my children. Now there's something odd when you read that. Why does he have to ask for what is already his? This kind of clues us in on how domineering and overbearing Laban may have been when he has to ask for my wife, give me my wives, give me my children. And later on, in fact, when Laban comes and pursues Jacob, look in chapter 31, look at verse 43, it shows you the attitude of Laban Chapter thirty one verse forty three, after he comes after Jacob, notice what he says, and Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my daughters And these children are my children. And these cattle are my cattle. Does it give you an idea of how Laban felt? It's all mine. And so Jacob comes and he says, Let me go. Give me my wives. Give me my children. Let me go. And verse 26, three times he refers to his service. Thou knowest my servants, which I have done unto thee. And the word service here is a Hebrew word that implies more than just service, it's more slavery He was really kind of in slavery to Laban. Now remember, Moses is writing this to the Israelites. It's a reminder to them of their slavery in Egypt. He's writing this to Israelites who had just been released from Egypt, and he's showing that this is nothing new. Your father Jacob went through much of what you're going through now. Just as they were slaves in Egypt Their father Jacob was a slave to Laban and Haran. Just as Israel was mistreated by Pharaoh, even so Jacob was mistreated by Laban. Just as Pharaoh wouldn't let them go, even so Laban wouldn't let Jacob go. And just as the Israelites left Egypt with riches and wealth, even so Jacob will leave Laban with riches and wealth. And just as Pharaoh Uh went after the Israelites when they departed, Laban will pursue Jacob after he departs. And just as God intervened on the half on behalf of Israel When Pharaoh came after him, God will intervene on behalf of Jacob when Laban pursues him. So there are many parallels here. That are brought out of the story. Now notice what Laban how he responds to Jacob's offer. Look in verse 27. And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favor in thine eyes, Tarry, for I have learned by experience that the Lord has blessed me for thy sake. Now, what's going to happen here? God is about to use Laban's scheme to make Jacob wealthy. And Jacob actually isn't going to leave at this time. In fact, he's not going to leave until six years later. And so Laban comes to him and he says, Oh, if I found favor in your eyes. He's kind of, in a way, a smooth talker. He's acting as if he is beneath Jacob. But really he has more deception in mind. This is he's being courteous, but you remember the last time that Laban and Jacob negotiated, what happened to Jacob? He ended up staying and serving for 14 years. And marrying a woman that he really didn't want to marry. And so Jacob is probably a little bit leery when he hears Laban say, Oh, if I found favor in your eyes. Please. You know. Jacob could tell when Laban was lying. Whenever he moved his lips, he knew he was lying. This is how deceptive he was. And so he appears to be graveling, but actually he has a stronger purpose. He wants more for himself. Look what he says in verse 27. I've learned by experience. That just having you around, that the Lord has blessed me for thy sake. Man, just having you here is helping me I've learned this by my discernment, just seeing what happens around. Again, that's a principle that we see true in other places in Scripture. You know this world is blessed to have believers in it You know this world is being preserved, I believe, because of the presence of believers. When believers are around, God will bless that believer, and unbelievers will inadvertently and indirectly receive some of the overflow of those blessings. And that's what the Lord means when he says, you are the salt of the earth. That's why God blessed Potiphar's house because Joseph was in that house. That's what Paul meant when he said, listen, just by having a saved spouse in the home, that home is now sanctified, 1 Corinthians 7. And so we see this principle right here. If you're a believer, your marriage is better now that you're saved, your whole home is better, the workplace is better, and so on. And so Laban wants them to stick around. So look what he says in verse 28. He says, appoint me thy wages, and I will give it. Again, that's kind of a haunting statement because of what had happened before. Okay, Jacob, you tell me what you want. Tell me what the wages should be. And then we'll settle. We'll agree on that Notice Jacob's response, verse 29. And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and how thy cattle was with me. For it was little. Which thou hast before I came, and it is now increased unto a multitude. And the Lord has blessed thee since my coming. And now whence shall I provide for my own house also? And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not give me anything. If that will do this thing for me, I will again feed and keep thy flock. And so notice what Jacob does. When Laban says, Tell me what you want me to give you, and Jacob says, I don't want you to give me anything. Who does he sound like there? He sounds like Abraham, his grandfather. When he's talking to the king of Sodom, I don't want anything from you. I don't want you to ever have to say that you made me rich. And so here's what I want you to do. In verse 32, he says, I will pass through all the flock this day, removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle, and the brown cattle from among the sheep, and the spotted and speckled from among the goats, and of such shall be my hire. In other words, Jacob proposes to take as his wages all the animals that are not solid colors And here he's expressing his faith in God to prosper him. He understands that prosperity comes from the Lord. And so here he's going to do an act of faith. He's saying, now here's what we'll do. All the animals that are spotted or striped or speckled I'll keep for myself all the solid colored animals you keep. Now remember, this is a barter economy, so your wealth was measured in the cattle that you had. And so now also remember this that normally goats are black or brown, and sheep of course are white And cattle are brown. Very rarely are there colors that are abnormal, that are spotted, or speckled, or striped. These are rare breeds. They're there, but they're rare. There's not that many of them. And so Jacob says, I'll take the ones that are speckled, that are spotted, that are striped. All these abnormal colors I'll take for myself. Now, normally the hire of a shepherd was 20% of a flock. Rarely would a speckled population ever get close to that. And so really, this is uh either incredibly generous on the part of Jacob, or it was incredibly stupid on the part of Jacob. Or perhaps maybe Jacob is now trusting in God. Now he knows that Laban is not the one that's going to make him wealthy. He wants to put his trust in the Lord. And so he recognizes that prosperity, first of all, it comes from God. I'm not trusting in Laban, I'm not trusting in any man, I'm trusting in the Lord to prosper me. Here's the second principle. He didn't try to become wealthy. He didn't set his heart on riches. He just wanted his basic necessities. Now notice the response of Laban. Look in verse 34. Notice how he responds. And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be done according to thy word. In other words, you've got a deal. Yeah, he jumped on this with both feet. I think Laban may have been laughing when he walked away from this. Yeah, uh we'll do this. And uh what we see here with Jacob is again, he's not trying to be rich. He just wants to provide for his family. He just wants enough to take care of all of his children. Now remember, he has a growing family now. He's got twelve children. Eleven sons, a daughter, and another son is going to come later. He has two wives. And so he just wants to take care of all of them. And again, the normal rate was 20%. And Jacob agrees for much, much less. And again, this tells me that he doesn't have a covetous or a greedy spirit. And let me tell you something, beloved, God does not bless a greedy spirit. The Bible is very clear about that. The scripture says in Proverbs 23:4, labor not to be rich. Cease from thine own wisdom. Wilt thou set thine eyes on that which is not? For riches certainly make themselves wings, they fly away as an eagle towards heaven. And so the scripture tells us, don't labor to be rich. How much is enough? I remember reading a story that was told years ago about a woman, perhaps you read of her, Leona Helmsley. She was convicted on 33 counts of tax evasion. She was already a multimillionaire that owned a lot of property in New York. But she was supposedly a very greedy Selfish person, even to the extent that when her son died, she sued to get all of his wealth, all of his estate, left his widow with just a thousand dollars. Who had three children. Incredible. She already had more than she could ever spend. Laban is kinda like this He wants all that he can get. But Jacob, he doesn't want to try to be wealthy. He's just trying to provide. Here's the third principle. Jacob determined to be a man of integrity. Look in verse 33. Notice what he says to Laban, so shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come. When it shall come from my hire before thy face, every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats and brown among the sheep. That shall be counted stolen with me. You see, Jacob knew Laban. He knew what Laban was capable of. He knew that if he had herds and flocks and they started to increase, that Laban would accuse him of stealing from him. Jacob already knew that. So, by making this agreement that all the abnormal colored of the flock and the herds belonged to him, Laban could not level that accusation against him. He was keeping that from happening. And so he wanted to work in integrity. He didn't want his integrity to be questioned by Laban. And by the way, we also need to operate on that principle. God wants us to work hard, but he wants us to determine to be people of integrity. Ted Ingstrom said this. He said integrity is not the only way one thinks, is not only the the way one thinks, but even more the way one acts. Simply put, integrity is doing what you said you would do. It is as basic as keeping your word, fulfilling your promises. And when Laban finally called up to Jacob after he uh left later, notice what Jacob says. Look in chapter 31. Look at verse 36. Again, this shows the integrity of Jacob as he labored. Verse 36 And Jacob was wroth and chose with Laban. And Jacob answered and said to Laban, What is my trespass? What is my sin that thou hast so hotly pursued after me? Whereas thou hast searched all my stuff. What hast thou found of all thine household stuff? Set it there before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us both. This twenty years have I been with thee. Thy ewes and thy she-goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not eaten. That which was torn of beasts, I brought not it unto thee. I bear the loss of it. Of my hand thou didst require it, whether stolen by day or stolen by night. Thus I was in the day, the drought consume me in the frost by night, and my sleep departed from mine eyes. Thus have I been twenty years in thy house, and I have served thee fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle, and thou hast changed my wages ten times. So here's Jacob. He's bearing witness. Can you tell me something that I've done wrong? Is there anything that you've seen where I've stolen from you? And of course the answer was no. And so Jacob determined then that he wanted to be a man of integrity. But that's not what Laban wanted to be. Go back to chapter 31. They make this agreement, and I want you to notice what Laban does immediately after they make this agreement. Look down in verse number 35. And here's Laban. And he removed that day the he-goats and the ring straight and the spotted and all the heat she-goats that were speckled and spotted, and every one that had some way in it. And all the brown among the sheep, and gave them unto the hand of his sons. And he said, three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob, and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks. He said, what happened here? Well, right after they make this agreement, all the spotted, the speckled will be mine, said Jacob. All the solid colors yours. You know what Laban does right after that? He removes all those animals from his herd. That was the very day they made this agreement. What does Laban do? So Jacob can't get an advantage over him. He removes all of those animals That are speckled and spotted, and he puts them under the hands of his sons. He took all of them out of there. At least Jacob with nothing. And then what does he do? He separates that herd three days from Jacob so they couldn't mingle together. There couldn't be any breeding there. He sets them three days' journey ahead of Jacob's flocks. He puts distance between them. And in doing so, again, he is deceiving Jacob And so, what does Jacob do in response? Here's the fourth thing. Again, what are we learning from Jacob? He ri recognizes that prosperity comes from the Lord. He doesn't try to be wealthy. He wants to be a man of integrity. And here's the fur fourth lesson I learned from him. He just works hard. What was Jacob doing while Laban was cheating him? Look at verse thirty-six. Look at the very end. And Jacob Fed the rest of Laban's flocks. You know what Jacob was doing? He was doing his job. He was tending to Laban's flocks. He was doing what he agreed to do. And while he was doing that, meanwhile Laban was removing What uh the the the speckled from the herds. Jacob just continued to keep his word, you see. And so God honors this He honors hard work. In fact, later on, again, chapter 31, verse 6, Jacob will say, And ye know that with all my power I have served your Father talking to his wives. I did it with all my power, all my strength. We can say, I worked hard And God honors this. Let me give you the fifth principle here. He recognizes that prosperity comes from the Lord. He doesn't try to be wealthy. He just wants to provide for his own. He determines to be a man of integrity. He works hard. But here's the fifth thing. He trusts in God for his prosperity. He trusts in God. And this is all he can do at this point. Because again he's left with nothing. There were no retirement programs in these days, no social security taxes, no benefits. But Jacob had something better than that he had God. God who was going to watch over him. But now Jacob has a problem He has nothing. The only thing he's left with in Laban's herds are the solid colored animals. And again, we know the colors. Sheep or white, the goats are brown or black, and the cattle are brown. And so Jacob comes up with a plan. Now remember, he also has a problem because solid-colored animals will normally bear solid-colored animals. And spotted animals or speckled animals will have offspring that are the same as them, speckled. But Jacob has none left. And so he comes up with a plan. What does he do? Notice his plan. Look at verse 37. And Jacob took him rods of green poplar. Now, the word rods here, we can say just branches. branches of green poplar, and of the hazel and chestnut tree, and peeled white strapes in them And made the white appear, which was in the rods or the branches, and he set the rods, which he had peeled, before the flocks, and the gutters, and the watering troughs, when the flocks came to drink. That they should conceive when they came to drink. And the fox conceived before the rods or for the branches, and brought forth cattle, rain-straped, speckled, and spotted So here's the first thing Jacob does. You say, what's going on here? Well Jacob takes these branches of wood, poplar branches, and he peels back the bark And when he peels back the bark, you know what you see. Normally the wood is dark, but it might have white streaks in it or white spots in it. And so this is what he's doing here. He takes these branches and he puts them in the watering trough where the animals come to drink the water. You say, what's the idea here? The idea here is this is the color that he wants the mother to bear when the mother bears the offspring. It's almost like Jacob is saying, here, look at this branch. This is what I want your offspring to look like. This branch here. See the streaks in the branch? See that it's spotted? And there's a bit of humor here in the Hebrew. The word for white in verse 37 is actually the word laban, because Laban's name means white. And so Jacob pulls back the bark and reveals the Laban to the animals. It's kind of the idea there in the passage. And so at the watering trough, normally the animals bred right there at the watering trough. And so those sticks would be right there. And notice, so he places these sticks there in the watering trough. And then notice the separation. Look at verse 40. And Jacob did separate the lambs and set the faces of the flocks towards the ring straight. And all the brown in the flock of Laban, and he put his own flocks by themselves, and he put them not unto Laban's cattle. And it came to pass that whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle and the gutters. That they might conceive among the rods. But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in. So the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's. And so what's he doing? Now he's separating. Puts these branches in the in the watering frough, and they began to uh uh conceive these animals and Sure enough, the solid-colored animals are giving birth to speckled or spotted or striped animals, and when they do that, he separates them unto himself. The solid-colored animals he puts into Laban's herd. And he notices the stronger females, and when he notices a stronger female, he makes sure to put the branch right in front of that stronger female So that she will bear uh uh an offspring that is speckled or striped, and it would be stronger, his flocks would be stronger. And so what happens, he ends up rich. Look at verse 43. And the man increased exceedingly And had much cattle and maidservants and men servants and camels and asses. I mean he ends up rich, so rich he's able to hire servants and he's able to have a camel. You say, what's the big deal of a camel? Well having a camel back then is kind of like having a Mercedes-Benz today. I mean that was the that was riding in style there if you had a camel. And so he ends up doing very well here Now, some might come to this and say, now what hold on for a minute. What's happening here in this passage? What's going on here? What's the relationship between these branches of wood and these animals that are bearing uh spotted offspring? What's the relationship here? What's the connection between the branches and the animals? And this has been a question that many have asked And there's basically been several approaches to answering this problem. Let me just give them to you. Here's the first one. Number one, there's what is called the superstition view. And this is the view that Jacob was following an ancient superstition. He believed that when the mother, whatever the mother sees at conception, that will affect the birth color. That was the ancient superstition. And again, the theory was that the visual impression that the mother had at the time when the mother was giving, was going to have a uh offspring, that would affect the appearance of the animal that was conceived. That was the idea. It's like, you know, you heard these women talking, and uh one woman said who believed this said, you know, the day that my doctor told me I was gonna have my daughter. I remember that very day that he told me I was pregnant. She said I had been painting with red paint and a fire engine drove by and the red paint spilled all over and sure enough I had a redheaded daughter And another lady in the group said, that's ridiculous. She said, My mother told me the day she found out that she was going to have me that she was carrying a stack of phonograph records and she dropped the whole stack and broke them all, but it didn't affect me. Affect me. Affect me. Affect me. Now some commentators like Walkie feel that Jacob, what he's doing here is the same thing that Rachel did with the mandrakes. You remember that story? Rachel believed in the superstition of the mandrakes, that that little yellowish-like fruit, that if she ate that it would help her to have children, and so she put her faith in superstition. And there are some Old Testament scholars, Brute Walkie, which is a great Old Testament scholar, he thinks that Jacob is practicing a superstition here and that God humored him. God allowed this to happen. And he acted according to the superstition. But there's a problem with that view, with all due respect to Mr. Walkie. If Jacob was practicing a superstition and God humored him, what kind of message is that sending to Jacob? That's not teaching Jacob to have faith in God. That's teaching Jacob to have faith in superstition. How does that build his faith? I don't think that's at all what's going on here. Well then those who take this view they say well it's again it's just like Rachel. You remember Rachel with the mandrakes, yeah, but what commentators fail to realize, and it's amazing to me that they don't see this, and that is that God didn't bless Rachel because of the mandrakes In fact, if anything, if you read that story, that Rachel remained barren for three more years, while her sister Leah, who could no longer have children, she prayed, and God honored her and gave her more children while Rachel stayed barren. God didn't honor Rachel and her superstition. If anything, he punished her for that. God's not doing this in response to Jacob's superstition, not at all. That's not what's happening here. But then there's a second view. And this is what I could call the scientific view. And some scholars say That there's some science here that maybe we don't understand. Henry Morris, in fact, is an example of this. I respect Henry Morris greatly. He points out that Jacob understood breeding and cattle because he had been around it so much and he knew all the advantages and He suggests that certain sites could have strong influences upon a mother. This is what he says, quote, there are indeed certain factors which can become prenatal influences and which can determine to some degree the physical characteristic of the progeny. End quote. That's what he says. If nothing else, basically maybe the chemicals in the branches. I read what one person said, maybe the chemicals there was kind of an aphrodisiac for you know these cattle and and it was you know does all this and again Morris goes on to say it may be that Jacob learned certain things about these animals which modern biologists have not yet approached. End quote. So there's a scientific view. Something scientific is happening here. I don't think either of those things are true. I think the third view is true. You say why? Because this is my view. I'm I'm just kidding. Let me let me just tell you what I think is happening here. When Jacob placed the sticks in front of the livestock It was not because he believes in some superstition. Or it wasn't because he knew something that modern biology didn't know. It was because he was setting up the sticks as a sign of his faith that God was going to do it. God was going to do it. In fact, I think the key to understanding what's going on here, again, look in chapter 31, look in verse number 8, or verse 7. Jacob is talking to his wives, and your father has deceived me and changed my wages ten times, but God suffered him not to hurt me. And verse 8, and he said thus, the speckled shall be thy wages, then all the cattle bear speckled. And if he said thus, the ring straight shall be thy hire, then they bear And thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father and given them to me. You see that? Jacob says, God has done this. Look down at verse 10. And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived Now he lifted up mine eyes and saw in a dream, and behold the rams which leaped upon the cattle were ring-straped and speckled and drizzled. And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob, and I said, here am I. And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see all the rams which leap upon the cattle are ringstrake and speckled and grizzled. For I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee. I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointest a pillar, where thou avowest a vow unto me, and now rise and get thee out of this land. And so this is the key to understanding this. God appeared to Jacob in a dream. Right before the breeding season came. And at the beginning of that season, God said to Jacob, Jacob, I'm going to honor you. I'm gonna, you see this vision? I'm gonna multiply cattle to you that are speckled, ring straight, and Spotted. This may explain why Jacob in the very beginning agreed to put himself at such a disadvantage. You know why? Because he had heard from the Lord. And he believed that God was going to prosper him. And so therefore he trusted in the Lord. And as a sign of his declaration of faith and trust in God, He took these branches and he set them up there by the watering trough as a way of saying, this is what the offspring of these cattle are going to be, because this is what God told me. It was more like staking a claim And faith that this is what God was going to do. You remember later on, Moses will set up in the wilderness, he'll set up a serpent on a pole. You remember that story? And the people could only look to that pole and they would live. It wasn't the pole or the serpent that healed them, it was God that healed them, but that object, that serpent on the pole, was a way in which when the people looked to that object God rewarded their faith for them looking to that object. And there's a sim similar thing that's going on here, a parallel here, not identical, but it's a parallel. In much the same way, Jacob is setting up these branches in a way he's looking at those branches and he's saying, This is what the Lord is going to do for me, and I trust in the Lord. Despite the great disadvantage that I'm under. I believe that God is going to work on my behalf. And so this was a difficult circumstance And Jacob learned to trust in God. And you know what? God honored him because of his faith. Now you may be here tonight and you may be in some circumstance in your life, and I don't know, I know the Lord knows. You may be at some great disadvantage. At some circumstance in your life where uh maybe someone is constantly taking advantage of you. And someone's constantly not giving you a fair shake, and you always kind of end up with the short end of the stick And maybe you're here tonight and some of you are worried about how I'm going to be able to take care of my growing family, or I have all these needs, and I don't know how I'm going to be able to pay these bills or do these things that I need to do In all these circumstances, Jacob learned to trust in God, and God rewarded him. And you know what? You can do the same thing. And God will reward you if you just put your trust in God. Put your faith in the Lord. Now you might be thinking, well, now wait a minute. Jacob had a vision from God. I mean, he had God tell him this. Well, friend, I want to tell you something. You have something better than a vision. You know what the Bible says? Where there is no vision, what? The people, what And whatever that verse is quoted, it's always taken out of context. Some guy gets up and he quotes that verse and he's thinking about some future vision maybe for his program or or whatever. And that's not what the verse is talking about. In the Old Testament, whenever God wanted to give his word, how did he do it? He spoke to a prophet, and he normally would use a vision. So that's referring to the Word of God God giving his word to his servant so that that servant can communicate the word. And so we can say it like this, where there is no word of God being communicated, that's when the people perish But friend, you have the word of God. You have a vision. You have so much right here where God says, I am going to take care of you. Jesus would later say in Matthew 6, don't worry about these things. All these things do the Gentiles see. Seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness in what? All these other things will be added unto you. God will take care of you. You have a vision. You have something. You have the promises of God. And all you need to do is to lay hold of those promises. And so God blessed Jacob. He wasn't perfect. He was still growing in faith. And by the way, I'm grateful for the life of Jacob. I'm glad the Bible says the God of Jacob is with you. Because you know what? I'm kind of like Jacob. My faith is not perfect. I'm still growing. I still make mistakes. But you know what? The Lord Is helping me to learn to trust in him. And he's doing the same thing for you. And by the way, you know why God blessed Jacob so much? So that he can in turn be a blessing to others. And that's why God blesses you. So that you can in turn be a blessing to others. Jesus said, freely you have received, freely give. Let me close with this. Jeremiah 29. 11. I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord. Plans to prosper you, give you a hope and a future. And that's what God wants to do for you. He wants to bless you. He wants to prosper you. God says, trust me. Doesn't matter your circumstances. Just trust me. On October 18, 2002, Jake Porter, 17-year-old young man, was a member of the Northwest High School football team in Ohio. Jacob was born with a defect, a chromosomal fragile X syndrome is what it's called, a common cause for mental retardation. Jacob or Jake couldn't read or write, but he loved football. And he loved go and be with the team. And the team made him an honorary member. And he was there at every practice. And the last game of the year, the coach decided he wanted to do something for Jacob. They had already lost the game. The score was 42 to nothing. There was only a few seconds left. The coach called a timeout and he said, I'm going to put Jake in and I'm going to hand him the ball just so that he can kneel down. And so he met with the other coach in the middle of the field and said, Look, I just want you to do this for me. I'm just going to hand this ball off. I just want him to kneel down. And the other coach said, No, just let 'em run with it. And so they did. And so they handed the ball to Jake. He began to run with it, and the defense on the other side parted like the Red Sea. And Jacob ran right through that defense, all the way into the end zone, to get the only touchdown of the game. It was the touchdown that was heard round the world, later people would say Why? All because that one coach said, I want him to get this touchdown. I want him to score. You know what, friends? You know what kind of God we serve? He wants you to get the touchdown. He wants you to score. We're like Jacob. We can't do it without him. But thank God we have a God who wants to prosper us. And friend, he wants to prosper you. All we need to do is put our trust and our faith in him. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, we again thank you for the life lessons that we can learn from the life of Jacob. Again, Lord, I see a lot of myself in this, a lot of Jacob in me. My faith is weak at times. And Lord, you're teaching me to trust in you more and more each day. And I thank you, Lord, that you are a gracious and good God who wants to prosper your people. I pray, Lord, for every person here tonight who will reach out in faith and put their trust in you. There are many people here tonight, perhaps, that are in a difficult situation. They're wondering about the future. They just don't know. Perhaps they're in a situation where they're being taken advantage of. Things aren't going their way. Lord, I pray that you'll do for them what you've done for Jacob, despite all the adversity, all the difficulty, that you would bless them, that you would prosper them Watch over them as they put their faith in you. As they learn and know that prosperity comes only from you. As they labor just to provide for their own. They're not trying to be rich. As they work hard with integrity, trusting in you, I pray, Lord, that you would honor them and reward them, just like you've done for Jacob. Do so for them. And we pray in the mighty, Maxwell's name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.