And tonight I want to just deal up with one topic tonight, and we'll go to several passages of Scripture and consider this one theme that we're going to be dealing with. And I want to talk about really the key to spiritual growth in the life of a Christian. You know, it's important, I think, to study what is it that brings spiritual growth in the life of God's people. And so I want to give you one principle that I think is so very important in the life of the church and the people of God with regard to this. And look in 2 Peter chapter 3. Verse 18, the very last verse in this epistle, but grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ to Him be glory both now and forever. Now you don't have to turn there, but you might want to write down if you're taking notes 1 Peter 2, verse 2, where it says, As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word that you might grow thereby. So you could say that Peter really begins his letters and ends his letters with this one idea of growing spiritually. And I would like to just challenge all of us here tonight, my own self, my own heart, and I'd like to challenge you as well. to really determine to grow spiritually in 2017. May it be a year when we begin when we grow more than we ever have And at the end of this year we should be closer to the Lord than we ever have been. At the end of this year, we should be having greater victory in our life. And Christ's likeness should be more conformed. That's God's plan that we grow in Him And so let me first of all talk about what is spiritual growth. What does the Bible mean when it talks about growing spiritually? Because this should be Something that we all do. Just as physical growth is natural to any person who is alive, spiritual growth is natural to anyone who is born again. Now, first of all, let me tell you what is not There are some misconceptions out there about spiritual growth. First of all, it's not a matter of our position in Christ. A person doesn't grow into becoming a Christian. Conversion is instantaneous. It is miraculous. It happens at one moment. Now that is not to say that there's not a process of the seed of the gospel being planted. And where a person comes under conviction and the seat of the word of the gospel germinates in a person's soul. All of that is a process, but once a person gets saved, that is instantaneous. It happens at one moment. At the moment that person puts their faith in Christ, they are placed into the body of Christ. And it's just a marvelous thing. It is a time when God takes us out of the kingdom of darkness the Bible says that he plant places us into the kingdom of his son. And so spiritual growth is not a matter of your position in Christ because You were placed in Christ the moment that you were saved. A few verses. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a what? New creature. This is your brand new. Colossians 2. 10. And ye are complete in him. These are verses that talk about our position. When you're saved, you're a new creature. When you're saved, you are complete in Christ. In 2 Peter 1. 3, the believer receives all things that pertain unto life and godliness. So when you became a believer, you were placed into Christ. You received all spiritual blessings in the heavenlies, all things that pertain unto life and godliness. You have been given by God the Holy Spirit all the things that you need to have at that moment. So it's not a matter of your position. Positionally, you are in Christ. But then secondly, it's not a matter of God's love. It's not a matter of God's love. Sometimes a parent might say to a child, Well, if you do this, I will love you more. But I want you to know that God never says that. Because he cannot love you more, he will not love you less God loves you perfectly. And as I said before, God doesn't love you because you're valuable. You're valuable because God loves you. And he will not love you anymore. In fact, the Bible says that he loved us while we were what? Yet sinners. And so the spiritual growth is not a performance to get God to love us more. Because he loves us perfectly. And you can't grow into God's love any more than he's given to you. And so it's not a matter of position, it's not a matter of love, but thirdly, it's not a matter of time. Not a matter of time. Now there have been people who have been saved a very short time and they have grown quickly. And there are people who have been saved for a long time and it seems like they haven't really grown that much Now, certainly time is an element because it takes some time for the spiritual growth process to take place in a person's heart and life as they receive the Word of God. But here's the point. The point is it's not not we don't measure it by a calendar. Spiritual growth is measured by commitment to principles of the Word of God. It's not measured by time. And so you could be saved a very short, relatively short period of time, and you could have grown leaps and bounds Or you could be safe for a long time and it seems like you're still struggling, you're kind of spinning your wheels over things in your life that you haven't fully mastered yet. It's not a measure matter of time. It's also not a matter of accumulated knowledge Some people think, well, you know, I know so much, I look how much I've grown. Just because you know a lot doesn't mean you've grown spiritually. You know, I know some people out there, they have PhDs, and they're kindergartners spiritually speaking Because in their spiritual walk, in their spiritual life, they're not really living victorious in their life. They're not living committed to a certain group of principles. Knowledge alone is not the issue. Now again, let me qualify. Is knowledge important? Sure. We have to know the Word of God in order to grow. And we the verse that we just read says, grow in the knowledge and grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior. So we have to have knowledge to grow We have to know the Word of God. The Bible says, my people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. We have to know the Word. But if you know the Word and that's all, that doesn't mean that you've grown spiritually The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 8. 1, Knowledge puffs up, but charity edifies. There were a group of Corinthian Christians and they were going around talking about how much knowledge they have. Oh, well, we we're in the know. We know these things. In that passage, Paul was talking about weaker believers and meet sacrifice to idols, and there were a group of Christians in the church that felt like they could do anything, and they had liberty and they were flaunting their liberty. And they would go around and they would lord it over the weaker brothers saying, Oh, we have knowledge. And Paul came along and said, Yeah, knowledge puffs up. But charity edifies. And so it's not just a matter of knowledge. Certainly we need it, but if you have knowledge, it doesn't mean that you have spiritual growth. But then also it's not a matter of activity. It's not a matter of activity. There are some people that think, man, if I just get busy, if I just do more If I'm busier doing things and serving and this, that, and by the way, again, let me qualify, is there anything wrong with serving? No, we need more people to serve. We certainly need more people to get involved in doing things and using your spiritual gifts And, you know, when you got saved, God gave you a gift, and that gift was not for you. It was for others. So if you don't use your spiritual gift, others aren't being blessed And so don't you know don't s uh sit around and just do nothing. Use that gift that God has given you, but also realize this. Spiritual growth is not a matter of activity. I know some that are so busy, busy, busy, busy doing all these things and they're thinking, well, I'm growing. No, not necessarily You can get too busy. You can get to the point where you're doing too many things. Remember the story of Mary and Martha? Martha was in the kitchen, she was getting things ready for dinner. I mean she was the first Martha Stewart, I guess you could say She was in there, she was working in the kitchen, she was doing all these things, Jesus was the guest, and and she was stressed out and she was anxious. And what was Mary doing, her sister? Mary was sitting at the feet of Jesus And then Martha came in and said, Jesus, make Mary get to work. This is the Harmon paraphrase here. Make her get to work. I'm in here, I'm doing all this. And what did Jesus say? Martha, Martha, you are Cumbered about, you're stressed and anxious about all these things. Listen, Mary has chosen the best thing. She's chosen the wise thing. And what is that? To sit at the feet of Jesus and learn. Now again, activity is important, but it doesn't necessarily mean that you're growing spiritually. Think about the Pharisees in the New Testament. They were always busy. But they were not growing spiritually. No one was further from the truth than the Pharisees, who were always so very busy. And Jesus said in Matthew 7, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, haven't I done all these things in your name? They were busy, but they didn't know the Lord Jesus. So busyness doesn't qualify for some some for salvation. It doesn't equal spiritual growth. And then here's another thought. It's not a matter of prosperity. There are some people that have this idea, well, I must be really favored by God. I must be really spiritually on a high plane because look how God has prospered me financially. And by the way, if God has prospered you financially, that's wonderful. Um we have offering envelopes in the back of the church here. If God has prospered you that way, that is great. And you know what? Some of God's greatest saints are prosperous, but I also want you to know that some of God's poorest saints, some of God's greatest Christians, are poor. And they don't have a whole lot. Paul at the end of his life had to tell Timothy, Timothy, get my coat and send it. He didn't even have a coat to keep himself warm. And here was one of God's greatest soldiers. And so it's not a matter of prosperity. There are some people that think, you know, if I just have all these things and I God's blessed me with these, and you know, then I'm growing And that's not necessarily true. And so it's not a matter of your position in Christ. It's not a matter of love It's not a matter of time. It's not a matter of knowledge. It's not a matter of activity. It's not a matter of prosperity. You say, what is spiritual growth? Let me give you a definition. It's not mystical. It's not sentimental, it's not devotional, it's not not psychological, uh, it's not some clever formula that you can easily apply. You say, what is spiritual growth? Well, remember that you are in Christ, and now because you're in Christ, your position is you are complete in Him. You are perfect in Him. You don't need anything else to be added to you. Because when you got saved, God downloaded into you everything that you need And your position is complete. But that's not necessarily our practice. Our position may be complete. Practically, however, we're not there. So spiritual growth, here is my position way up here, here's my practice. It is bringing my practice up to be commensurate with my position I'm complete in Christ. I need to live like I'm complete in Christ. I've been given all spiritual blessings. I need to lay hold of those spiritual blessings. I need to Put them to use in my life. He's given me all things that pertain unto life and godliness. Am I using all those things? And so it's bringing my practice up with my position. That's spiritual growth. I had a coach one time, I was playing football, and I played defensive end. You know, you have a certain responsibility when you play that position. You know, guard the end, don't let anyone get around you, put some pressure on the quarterback When I first started playing, I was all over the field trying to do everybody's job. And the coach said, Harmon, play your position. Harmon, play your position. Stop running all over. Here's what your position is. This is what you are to do. And we can say the same thing about a Christian. You know what God says to you? Play your position. You are complete in Christ. Now Act like you're complete in Christ. Live like you're complete in Christ. You've been given all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. Play your position. You have already been given victory by Christ. Play your position And so it's bringing my position up with or my practice up with my position in Christ. Now you say, well, now how do you do that? What's the way to that that that happens in our life? Let me give you one principle now. I think this is an important principle for us to learn And it's kind of implied in verse 18, the verse that we just read. Look at it, but grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Notice the last phrase, to him be what? Glory, both now and forever. And so to him be glory. So growing in grace is equit, he's equating it with giving glory to God. And so the key in this process of spiritual growth is understanding what it means to glorify him. And so let me give you the principle. I think this is a key principle. If you're going to grow in grace, this is one thing you have to know, you have to understand, and that's simply this. We focus on glorifying God. And when you focus on glorifying God, you know what happens? God begins to bring spiritual growth in your life. I mean it's just a principle. And by the way, did you know that everything is created to that end? Everything is for that one purpose. This is the greatest theme in all of the universe. It is the glory of God. Jonathan Edwards calls it the ultimate, the end of all things. The ultimate end of all things is that God be glorified. We exist to glorify God The Westminster Shorter Catechism. This is a statement of faith from which many of our Baptist catechisms or Baptist statements of faith come from But it says that the chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And then there's the next question what means does God give us to glorify him. And then there's the answer to that. God has communicated through his word, Old Testament, New Testament, the rule for glorifying him. If you want to know how to glorify God, it tells us right here in the Bible. You follow what the scripture says. But this is the chief end of everything. We should live every day of our life with this one major thing in mind. How do I glorify God today? How do I best glorify him in the way that I live, in my actions? This is the reason for the universe, right down Psalm 19. 1. So the heavens declare the glory of God. All of heaven, all of creation, shows the magnificent splendor and glory of Almighty God That's why I hate evolution. I hate it because it's man trying to take God's glory from him. It is trying to say that we're here all by accident, by chance, and it robs God of the rightful glory that he deserves all of creation. Glorifies God. The animals, Isaiah 43. 20 says this, the beasts of the field shall give me glory. Even the animals of the field. Isaiah says, give God glory. You say, how so? Well, have you ever been to the zoo and just see how incredible God's creation is? To see the various animals there and you know how God just uniquely fashioned and formed them. It's just an amazing thing. We see the glory of God. The angels in heaven live to glorify God. Luke 2. 14 The angels that appeared at the birth of Christ said, Glory to God and the highest. And if you read the book of Revelation at the end, all the angels in heaven will be singing glory and praise to God. All throughout eternity. And so all of the angels, all of creation, all of the universe, all of the animals, all of the angels, they all live for the glory of God. You know what that means for us, you and I? That's why we're here. Man, we are created to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. That is the purpose of all things. And let me tell you something, beloved, if you focus on this one thing, it'll change you. It'll change your life. David said this in Psalm 16, verse 8. David said, I have set the Lord always before me. And then he later on says, Therefore my heart is glad. You see in that verse there's an exchange. In other words, all that I do, I do I do for the glory of God. I focus on the glory of God. And in exchange, He gives me joy. He makes me joyful. So when you come to church and you worship God and you focus on his glory, you know what happens? God just downloads you with joy. That's the exchange. Lord, I glorify you. I live for your glory, and God fills my heart to overflowing with great joy. Now this morning I was speaking about conflict and warfare, and where does it come from? It comes from selfishness. It comes from someone who has selfish ambition and their their their Focus is turned inward. They're only thinking about me and my and mine. And they they're so self-centered that they're miserable and there's conflict that come with that. You know what the cure for that is? You focus on the glory of God You focus on God, and God in return gives you peace and it gives you joy. And so we exist in order to give God glory. Now, you say, what is it to glorify God? Well, again, this is one of those concepts that's sometimes hard to wrap your mind around. But whenever in the Old Testament God wanted to display his glory, it was in some marvelous light. But it was in that light was contained all the goodness All of the attributes of God, it shows the goodness and greatness of God. It upholds him, it exalts him. And so there's a sense in which when we show the goodness of God in our life, we make him look good to this world. So think it think of it that way. You know, I have four kids. If they go out and they live a terrible life, an ungodly life, how does that make me look good? It doesn't make me look good at all It makes me look pretty bad. If they're not if they're not doing right, then it doesn't speak well of me. But on the other hand, if they're out there and man, they're really, they're living a a life that is honoring and pleasing and they're obeying the word and they're doing the right thing. You know what? In a way that reflects on me. That makes me look good. Now you multiply that and you think about your relationship to God. If you wear the name of Christian and you're living like the world, you're not bringing glory to God You're not making him look good. That's what I believe it means to take the name of the Lord in vain. If you wear the name Christian, if you call yourself a Christian, Then friend, you better live like a Christian. Because if you don't, you're not giving God glory. But on the other hand, if you take the name of Christian And you're living like a Christian and people see Christ in you, and they see the attributes of God in you. They see the goodness of God in you, and they know it's not a man, it's something beyond that. You know what that does? That makes God look good. That pleases the Lord. And that glorifies God. What did Jesus say? Let your light so shine before men that they may what? See your good works and what? Glorify God. God in heaven. It glorifies God. When people see you, you take the name Christian, you take the name Christ, and you're living for Christ and you're doing the right thing. That's when God is glorified. Now also just keep in mind that God, this is not an option for us. Did you know that? God has commanded this from us This is a command in Scripture. Let me give you a few verses. If you're taking notes, just write down these things. Write down 1 Corinthians 6. 20. And these are commands. For ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. You know you don't belong to you? You belong to God, and God's command is that you glorify me. You glorify God in your body and in your spirit. 2 Thessalonians 1. 12, that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you and ye in him. So again, here's the command. This is why we live, that the name of the Lord Jesus Christ might be glorified in you. 1 Peter 4. 11. Listen to this. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. That is He's talking about gifts here. There are serving gifts, there are signed gifts, there are speaking gifts. If you have a speaking gift, then when you speak, let it be the oracles of God. Make sure that when you speak, you're speaking the Word of God. Peter said, Now listen He says, and let him do it as with the ability which God has given, whatever spiritual gift God has given you, use that gift. Watch this, that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. Whatever spiritual gift you've been given, whether it's a speaking gift, serving gift, or whatever You're to use it for God's glory. That Jesus Christ might be glorified in you Let me give you one more verse. 1 Corinthians 10 31. And you know this whether therefore ye eat or ye drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the what? Glory of God. So even in the menial things of life. Even in the daily routine things of life. You are to glorify God. And so this is our focus. This is why we're here. We are here. As Christians in this life, to focus on glorifying Him with our life. And if you do that, God's going to reward you. Let me give you one more verse. Just turn to 2 Corinthians 3. 18. Let me just show you this verse. 2 Corinthians 3. 18. I want you to look at this because it's so important. This is such an important verse with this matter of spiritual growth. 2 Corinthians 3. 18. And this is a great verse. Mark it if you don't have it in your Bible already. But we all with an open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed in the same image from glory to glory. Even as by the Spirit of the Lord. How do we see the glory of God today? There are several ways. We see it in Christ, but Christ is no longer here. But we see the life of Christ in Scripture. There's a sense in which when we look in the in this in the pages of Scripture, we see the glory of God. Now, we don't see the full glory of God But we look at it as in a glass, and there's a sense in which we see glimpses of the glory of God. And where do we see it? We see it in the pages of Scripture. So when we come to the Word of God, we focus on the glory of God. That's our focus. What happens? As we focus on the glory of the Lord, you know what happens? We are lifted automatically by the Spirit of God to new levels of spiritual growth. New levels of glory in our own life. The more I focus on the glory of Jesus and glorifying Him, the Spirit of God automatically energizes me and He will lift me to another level of spiritual growth. Notice where it says, from glory to glory, how? Even as by the Spirit of the Lord. So the Spirit of the Lord, as I'm focusing on the glory of Jesus, he will automatically lift me to new levels. And so therefore John Owen writes this Let us diligently study the Bible and the revelations of the glory of Jesus revealed there. He goes on to say, so in reading and studying the Bible, we ought to make every effort to search the revelation of the glory of Christ. And he says the glory of Christ is the pearl of great price, which we should make every effort to find. And the scripture is the ocean into which we dive. To discover this pearl. And then he goes on to say, every sacred truth that reveals something of the glory of Christ to our souls is a pearl or precious stone that enriches us. And then Jesus went on to say, John 5. 39, search the scripture, for in them ye think ye have eternal life. And these are they which testify to me. So here's the principle. As I focus on the glory of Jesus In the scripture, as I focus on glorifying Him in my life, God automatically, through the Holy Spirit, listening to new levels of glory in my life. That's the principle that you need to maintain. So tomorrow when you get up, the first question you need to ask yourself is, Lord, how do I glorify you today? How can I show your glory? How can I live for your glory? Now, with all that said, let me just give you, in the time we have left, that was all introduction. We have ten minutes for the main body of the sermon and we will not finish it. But let me just give you, you say how do we how do we glorify God practically? Well, let me just give you just two ways, real quickly. Look in Philippians chapter 2. Look at Philippians 2. And this is a great verse, and you know this as well. Philippians 2, verse 5. This is a great passage about the selflessness of Christ. Remember, we were talking about selfishness this morning, but Jesus was the most selfless person ever. And it says that in verse 5, let this mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus. The same mind that Jesus had, it should be in you. What did he do? He left all of the glory of heaven. He laid aside all the privileges of deity. He never laid aside deity. He was always God. But he emptied himself. This is called the Kenosis passage, which means a self-emptying. And hear me carefully, he didn't empty himself of being deity. A lot of I've read some who, you know, try to uh throw that idea out there that he stopped he emptied himself of deity. No, he never emptied himself of being deity. He was always God But what he did was he set aside the privileges that come with being deity. And he set aside the glory That comes with being deity. And he humbled himself. He's saying, how did he humble himself? By taking upon himself flesh. By taking upon himself a human body, that's how he humbled himself. And then it says this in verse 6: who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. Took upon him the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of man, being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross Watch this. Wherefore God also has highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. You know why God exalts him so high? Because Jesus humbled himself so low. He humbled himself, he emptied himself, and therefore God highly exalted him. And so now look in verse number 10. Verse 9. Wherefore God has highly exalted him, given him a name which is above every name. Verse 10, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven. Things on earth, things under the earth, verse 11, that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Watch this next phrase. To the glory of what? God the Father. You know the first way we glorify God? By confessing Jesus Christ as Lord. That glorifies God. That brings great glory to God. You say why? Because when we confess Jesus as Lord, what are we saying about Him? That he's God, that he is the Savior. We are affirming everything that Jesus has said about himself And by the way, this is the key for evangelism. This is the key of reaching out to others because when other people come and they confess Christ as Lord, God is glorified even more. And so this is the reason why we do evangelism. And by the way, I want us to really uh everyone determine in your heart that in twenty seventeen I'm gonna I'm gonna witness the more purple people. I'm going to be purposeful to share the gospel with others. Why? Because we want to be a big church. That's not the reason. You say, why? Because we want to keep people from going to hell. Absolutely. I don't want anyone to go to hell, friend. And that's a perfectly legitimate reason. And also the Bible says the love of Christ constrains us. We're constrained to do this. That's another legitimate reason. And we're commanded to do it. There's nothing there's nothing about the Great Commission that is unclear. Nothing. But I want to tell you the reason we do this is not because we're compelled to, we're commanded to. The highest motive For sharing Christ is for the glory of God. Because when anyone confesses Jesus is Lord, what does it do? It gives glory to God. It glorifies God. So when a person turns from their sin and they they come to Christ and they call him Lord, God is glorified. You say, Yeah, well that doesn't mean salvation, that's calling him Lord. Friend, it's the same thing I have some people out there that say, well, I can receive Jesus as my Savior and then I'll make him my Lord later. No. He is the Lord. You come on his terms, not on your terms. There's no such thing as there's no dichotomy of dividing Jesus as Savior and then later taking him as Lord. There's no such dichotomy in the scripture. The Bible says that if you confess Jesus as Lord, And believe in your heart that God raised them from the dead, you will be saved. You don't come to Jesus and say, Well, I know you're Lord, but I don't want you as Lord right now. I just want you to keep me out of hell. And then I'll decide whether or not to obey you. That's not salvation. You come on his terms. You repent of your sin. You by faith receive him as he is the Lord, and he receives you as you are, and as I am, a sinner. That doesn't deserve salvation. But when we confess Him as Lord, that's salvation. And that glorifies God So we confess Him as Lord. And then we obey His Lordship in our life. When we obey that Lordship, when we act as if He is Lord of our lives That glorifies God. And that's the reason why you have missionaries that go over into foreign fields and they give their life on the mission field and they see other people come to know Christ because they're doing it for the glory of God. Because they know that whenever another person confesses Jesus, that God is glorified even more. There's another person added to the chorus of voices that sing praise to Jesus Christ. And God is glorified through all of that. Paul said this in Romans 1:5. He said, We preach obedience to the faith among all nations. Listen to this, for his name. This is why we do it. We do it for his name. We don't preach the gospel for their sake. We preach the gospel for his name's sake. For the glory of God's sake. Now let me give you a second thing, and then we'll be done. And we'll have to pick this up later. But here's another way. We glorify God by confessing Jesus as Lord. But then here's the next thing, by aiming our lives to obey His will. By aiming our lives to obey as well. We just obey what he does, or what he says, rather. And by the way, Jesus is the ultimate example of this In John 8, 50, Jesus said, I seek not my own glory. Jesus said, I'm not here to seek my own glory. There is one that seeketh and judges, and back in verse 49, he says, I honor my Father. He was saying, Listen, I'm here in my earthly ministry for one reason, and that is I want to Glorify my Father. It's his glory, not mine, that I'm after. And so Jesus is the example of this. Jesus said, I always do those things that the Father tells me. I'm not here to do my own thing. I'm here to do whatever the Father tells me. And that's the way he lived all of his life. He was focused on glorifying God Now, when we do that, there's going to be several things evident in our life. Number one is we're going to be willing to sacrifice. We're going to be willing to glorify God no matter what the cost is to us personally. And we also see that in the life of Christ. In John 12, 27, Jesus said, Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? But for this cause I came unto this hour. And what he was saying is, God, should I what should I pray now that I'm uh anticipating the cross and suffering, what should my prayer be? Should I ask you, Father, to bail me out of this? To get me out of this? And he said, this is the reason I came. Then he says this, Father, glorify thy name. Jesus was willing to make any sacrifice if it would bring glory to his Father's name. And that's why he said, Father, I'm not going to ask you to deliver me from this. Glorify your name. He was willing to do whatever was necessary to bring glory to the Father. Now that's the example for us. Because the challenge for us is we should be willing to do anything as long as we know that it's going to bring glory to God. And that means we're willing to make any sacrifice. And again, this is why missionaries make the sacrifices that they do. This is why some great Christians that we read about are so greatly used of God. Because they are willing to make any sacrifice necessary if it's going to glorify the Father and they know it. They're willing to do that. Now let me give you one example of this and then we'll have to be done. But look in John chapter 21. Let me just give you real quickly the story of Peter here. He's such a good example of this. Now when you think of Peter, just remember that Peter wasn't always the strongest of the disciples, even though he was the leader. He was really the unofficial spokesman. When Jesus asked a question, it was Peter who always gave the answer, it seemed like He was the spokesman. And many times Peter was putting his foot in his mouth, saying the wrong thing, and Jesus would have to rebuke him But Peter saw the power of Jesus. Jesus revealed it unto him many times. And yet it seems like Peter would fail to every test that he was given. And you know the story of Peter, how that when the Lord Jesus was arrested, And he was tried. What did Peter do? He cursed and he swore and he denied the Lord. And I and it had to be devastating. I don't know about you, but when I fail the Lord, it's hard sometimes to get over that. There's such a guilt trip that you're on. And I think that's what Peter is feeling. Look in chapter twenty-one of John, and look in verse number three. Simon Peter saith unto them, that is, he's talking to the rest of the disciples. He says, I go of fishing. Now, Jesus had said to Peter in Mark 16, 7, go to Galilee and wait for me. Peter, go to Galilee and just wait for me. And Peter waited a little while and he here he says, you know what, I'm done, I'm going fishing. And by the way, this is in the present indicative. I it didn't it didn't mean he was going on to a little fishing venture with his fishing rod for the day It meant that I'm going back into the fishing business. I'm done. I have failed. I have failed the Lord in such a way that He could never use me. I mean, I'm just going back into the fishing business. And look what the disciples said. They said unto him, We also go with thee. They chose Peter was the leader. Peter said, I'm going back into the fishing business. They said, Yeah, let's go. We're going to go with you. And so there they are. And the Bible says in verse 3, we go with thee. And they went forth and entered into a ship. In the Greek, this is articular. This is the ship, or the boat. You say what boat? This was Peter's boat. He's going back into business. He's got his boat, and they go out, and the Bible says, in that night they caught what? Nothing. They caught nothing. You know why? They couldn't catch anything? Because this wasn't what Peter was supposed to do. And if you're not doing what God has called you to do, you know what? You're not going to succeed at it. God will reroute every fish in the sea so that Peter gets nothing. And if you're out there and you're doing something that God hasn't called you to do And you're trying to do something, and you say, I have one failure after another after another. Maybe you should do what God called you to do. Because you're not going to succeed unless you do So he catches nothing. They're tolling all night, and then the Lord appears to them. Look in verse number 4. But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Then said Jesus unto them, Children, have you any meat? And they said, No. And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. And they cast therefore now they were not able to draw it in for the multitude of fishes. This is familiar for Peter because this is how the Lord called them in the beginning They weren't able to pull it in. They got so many. And so they realize it's the Lord, and then, you know, Peter and the rest of the disciples, they go to Jesus, and when they got to the shore, Jesus had already had fish That he has was ready on the coals in verse 9. As soon as they were come to the land, they saw the fire of coals, and fish was already there and bread. So Jesus had already made fish for them. And this is not in the Bible, but I believe that if Jesus made fish, it was filleted. I don't think there was any bones in it. I think this is the best fish they probably ever ate. And then we know the the interchange. This is a very well-known passage. Look at verse 15. So when they had dined, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, do you love me? Lovest thou me more than these? More than what? All this fishing stuff? That your boat? Your nets? Are you telling me that you want to go back to this? Do you love me more than these? And what did Peter say? Lord, you know that I love you. And he said, feed my lambs. And you remember he goes through this a second time. Do you love me? Yes, Lord, you know I love you. Feed my sheep. 17. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? And Peter was grieved. And this time Peter appeals to the omniscience of Jesus. Lord, you know all things. And even though I failed you, even though the way I've lived lately doesn't prove it, but you know my heart, you know that I love you. And he said Feed my sheep. Now, listen to verse 18, because this is important. Verily, verily I say unto thee, when thou wast young, thou girdest thyself and walkest whither thou wouldest. Now, Jesus is about to make a prophecy about Peter's life. What's going to happen when thou shalt be old? Peter, when you get old, let me tell you what's going to happen to you. Thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shelter thee. You know when it says stretch forth the hands? This is in Greek, it actually it's it's a it's a word for crucifixion. Peter, you're gonna literally Stretch forth your hands. Here was Jesus making a prophecy about Peter. Now get this in your mind. He's feeling guilt. He's feeling like a man, I can never be used. I messed up, beyond repair. I'm going back in the fishing business. God could never use me. I'm done. And Jesus comes along, and his whole purpose is to restore Peter. And then he makes this prophecy. He said, Peter, let me tell you what's going to happen to you. And he said, he said, you're going to stretch forth your hands one day, and you're going to die for me He had just denied the Lord. He wasn't even strong enough to stand up to that worldly crowd by the fire. But that was going to change. Peter, one of these days. You are going to make the ultimate sacrifice for me. You're going to grow to the point to where you're willing to make any sacrifice for me. And you know what? You're going to stretch forth your hands one day and you're going to be crucified. And look at verse 19. This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God. Peter, you're going to glorify me. You're gonna bring glory to me one day. Great glory. How? By making the ultimate sacrifice, you're gonna die for me. That's the ultimate sacrifice. of a person. So you know how we glorify God? By willing to obey Him no matter what the cost to us. Even if it means that God takes our life, even if we have to sacrifice our life To glorify God. We're willing to do that. You know why? Because we are so focused on the glory of the Lord. I want God to have glory in my life And that's why the Apostle Paul said, for me to live is Christ, to die is King. That's why I said it's better for me to go, but I'm ready to stay here. And it doesn't really matter if I die, if it magnifies and glorifies God by my death, then let me do that. And if I can glorify God better by my life, let me do that. To live is Christ, to die as gain. I just want to glorify God no matter how long By life or by death, because they were so focused on the glory of God. And I pray that as we begin a new year, that this would be the major focus. of our heart and our life, that we live for the glory of God, focusing on his glory, to him be glory in his church. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, help us to live with this one thing before us. May we say like David, I have set the Lord always before me. And Lord, as we focus on glorifying you in return, would you fill our hearts with joy? And let people see it. May we live in a way, Lord, that brings you great glory. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say, this is my desire? God help me. That I'll live this with this one focus Would you lift your hand and say, pray for me? That I will focus on this one thing of the glory of God. Father, help us all. This is our heart's desire, and we pray in Jesus' precious name, amen.