Take God's word tonight, please, and open to 1 Peter chapter 2. And tonight I want to look look at a few verses in 1 Peter chapter 2. I want to look at verse 11 and verse 12. And the topic of my sermon is living like a pilgrim. Living like a pilgrim. What I mean by that is not that we wear back black pilgrim clothing and speaking King James English. But living like a pilgrim is more of a mindset that we are to have. It's the idea that we're just passing through this life and we're on our way to heaven. We're journeying towards heaven. And uh Christians in the early days often referred to this life as a pilgrimage. And that's really what we're on as believers. We're on a pilgrimage. The Latin word pilgrim is from the Latin prefix pil, which means through, and then grim is the uh the Latin word which means land. So you put it together through the land. A pilgrim with someone is just passing through. Like the song says, this world is not my home, I'm just passing through. A Vagabond has no home, a fugitive is running from home, a stranger is away from home, but a pilgrim is on their way home They're headed home. And that's the biblical definition of a Christian. And so this is what I want to talk about tonight. You probably haven't heard too many sermons on the pilgrim life of a believer, but this is what Peter's talking about here. And uh this is how we are to view our life. This is how we are to have them have the view of living here in this world. You know, we we uh I was talking this morning about the hope of our calling and uh our eternal inheritance. We've been talking about that a lot in Ephesians. The problem with a lot of believers today is that we are focused on the here and now And we're kind of obsessed with it. There's nothing wrong with this world. We have to, you know, take care of these things that are in the here and the now. But we seem to be more obsessed with that. And not really focus on eternal things. Um, you know, we think of heaven as a nice extra to the Christian life, but it's really not our focus. We want to enjoy life now. We want to cling to it as long as we can. We don't view death as a gateway to everything we've been living for, but we see it as something to be postponed and avoided at all costs. And we don't view ourselves as pilgrims. There's a book out that was written in 1649 called The Saints Everlasting Rest. It's been reprinted. Written by Richard Baxter, it was a Puritan writer, and he develops the theme that believers are to live every day on this earth in light of our hope for heaven. And uh Wilbur Smith, a scholar, said he thought that that book that Richard Baxter wrote was the greatest treatise on heaven ever written, and it very well may be. Richard Baxter uh wrote this book Because he was thirty-five years old, he was of frail health, frail body. Uh it looked like he was going to be dying very, very soon. And so he wanted to prepare himself for death. Uh and so what he did was he would meditate on heaven. He would read it through the scripture, meditate on verses that talk about heaven, and and just write out his thoughts about it, and think about all the joys that God has laid up for his children in heaven. And uh he wrote all that out in just massive notes about heaven and what it's going to be like. And uh s surprisingly to himself, uh he didn't pass away like he thought he would. But uh He put together all those notes and uh that became the basis for the book, The Saints Everlasting Rest. And in that book, he suggests that believers meditate For about a half hour every day on the subject of heaven. And he said this: quote, For one of the recourse to heaven, thy soul is a lamp not lit. If you want to light your lamp and your soul, think about heaven. Think about all the joys that God has laid out for heaven or for believers in heaven. Now, Peter is writing to believers who are going through difficult times. And uh one of the things he wants them to do is to focus on uh what God has laid up for them. So Peter reminds these believers that they are to live like pilgrims. That's the way we make progress in this world. We live like pilgrims. It was C. S. Lewis that said, basically, if you read if you if you read history of The Christians that God used the most were the were the ones that thought the least about this world and the most about the next world. And then he said this, Aim in heaven and you're you'll get earth thrown in. Aim in earth and you'll get nothing. So Peter shows us three essentials. If we want to live a pilgrim life, and this is what God calls us to as Christians, Peter gives us three basic essentials to living a pilgrim life. And I want to give them to you tonight. First of all, number one, to live like a pilgrim, there is a worldview to adopt. There's a worldview that you must adopt. Look at verse number 11 of 1 Peter chapter 2. Dearly beloved. I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims. Notice how Peter addresses them as strangers and pilgrims. So he wants us to think of ourselves in these terms. Do you look at the world with this pilgrim mindset, with this pilgrim worldview? When I say worldview, I'm talking about the way in which we view the world. the glasses through which we we look at the world around us. A worldview or a world uh a life view, as some people call it, is the structure of the understanding that we use to make sense of our world. That is kind of our our our pre- our what we presuppose. Now, some people that even call themselves Christians live with more of a secular worldview And and the word when I mean secular, the word secular is from the Latin word which means this world. And secularism, if you add an ISM on the end of a word, it kind of develops it into some system of thought. Secularism is this idea of just living for the here and the now. No thought of what's beyond. No thought of eternity. And, you know, it's just living for what is, this is the way Solomon would say it in the book of Ecclesiastes, living for what is under the sun. With no view of looking beyond the sun, looking into eternity. And Peter addresses the believers, he says, Look, you're strangers and you're pilgrims This is not your home. This world around you is not your home. Now it was probably not hard for the people that Peter was writing to to grasp this idea of being pilgrims. You know why? Because they were suffering. They were being persecuted by the world. Remember, he was writing to believers in Rome that were suffering tremendous trials. The problem we have today, especially American Christians, is that, you know, we have it really good. I mean, let's be honest, we have it pretty good, don't we? I mean, we we have everything we need, and we don't really suffer like other people suffer. I mean, you know, we've never really suffered hunger and and a lot of things that other people suffer, persecution in other places. So we have it really, really good. And when I go to to to preach in third world countries at times Uh you know what they want me to talk about? They want me to talk about heaven. They want to talk about the next life. You know why? Because a lot of people in some of those places are not having it all that great And for them to lead the the things of the world, that that's a great prospect for them. They're ready to go see their Lord. But I think you know, again, we have it so good that we're clinging to all the things around us, we're clinging to the temporal life. And so Peter, first of all, addresses them as pilgrims, dearly beloved. Look at the term beloved there. Eight times it's used in his letters. And uh to remind them of how much God loves them. And then he calls them strangers and pilgrims. Dan Tabner once said this, we are citizens of earth going to heaven. Or excuse me, we're not citizens of earth going to heaven. We're citizens of heaven passing through this earth. And we're not to love the things of this world. Since God has taken us out of the of the kingdom of darkness and he put us into the kingdom of his dear son. The Greek word here for strangers Literally means alongside the house. It refers to someone living as a foreigner in a land. And so again, we're we're looking for a city. This world is not our home. We're to be focused on what God has for us in heaven. And by the way, this is the theme of the Christian life in the Bible. We see this all the way through The Bible, since Adam was kicked out of the Garden of Eden, man has really not had a home here in this world. In Genesis 47, when Pharaoh asked the patriarch Jacob how old he was, this is what Jacob replied. He said, the days of the years of my pilgrimage are 130 years. I love the way he said that. I've been pilgriming through this land for 130 years. And then there's Psalm 119, verse 19. I am a stranger in the earth. Again, same idea. A foreigner, a pilgrim. Lord, I'm a stranger in the earth. Hide not thy commandments from me. I like the way the Living Bible paraphrases this. I am but a pilgrim here on earth. How I need a map. And your commandments are my chart and my guide. And that's really so very true. The writer of Hebrews said this in Hebrews 11: By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place which he would read receive as an inheritance, and he went out not knowing where he was going. By faith he dwelt in the land of promise as in a foreign country. Dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. But he waited for the city which has foundations whose builder and maker is God. And then it goes on to say this: These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, were assured of them, embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. For those who say such things declare plainly that they seek a homeland, and truly if they had been called to mind that country from which they had come out They would have had opportunity to return. But now they desire a better, that is a heavenly country. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God. And he has prepared a city for them So, according to Hebrews 11, the patriarchs confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims here on this earth. And they had their eyes on the future. They had their eyes on that place that God was preparing for them. And so living like a pilgrim is really not a matter of geography. It is a matter of attitude You feel like a traveler, not a settler. And so that means you don't get too attached to these things around you. Because they're only for a time. They're only for a time. We have another destination in mine. And so this is what Peter's saying to these believers here. You have to adopt this attitude, you have to adopt this mindset. Uh Jonathan Edwards, remember I was telling you about him before that he had uh wrote out a list of resolutions, about seventy resolutions of how he was going to live his Christian life. He did this when he was a teenager. One of his resolutions was this He said, resolved to think much on all occasions of his of my dying and of the common circumstances which attend death. So he decided that he was going to spend time each day thinking about dying. And thinking about the circumstances that may surround his death. Now I know that you might be saying there, that sounds pretty morbid to me, preacher. For me every day to think about my death, to think about dying. But that's actually a really good thing. It's really biblical. Because again, you know, it reminds us that we're passing through here Heaven is our home and heaven is very real. And how wonderful it must be for those who know the Lord Jesus Christ to be there in his presence. in that heavenly home. And all of us one day will be taken. If the Lord Jesus doesn't come back in the rapture, we're all going to die. And every day that God gives us is a gift, and we don't know when the Lord is going to call us home. So we should think about that. That's all part of adopting the mindset that we're not here for long. And we have to hold loosely to the things that we have around us. So to live like pilgrims, there is a worldview that we have to adopt. Howard Hendrix said this, he said, most people think that they're in a land of the living headed toward the land of the dead, but the truth is we're in the land of the dying headed toward the land of the living. So we have to adopt that mindset. But here's the second thing. Not only to live like pilgrims, there's a worldview to adopt, but number two, there is a war to fight. There is a war to fight. Look at verse 11 again. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. This is the other thing we have to do, the believers, to abstain from fleshly lusts. Now the word abstain here literally means to hold away from This is a present tense verb, keep on continuing to hold away from fleshly lust. This is a daily, continual battle. The voice Or excuse me, the the verb is middle voice, meaning it is an action that we do to ourselves. That is, it's our responsibility. This is something we have to do. We have to constantly hold back the fleshly lust. We have to constantly do battle against Fleshly lust. We are waging war. And the idea here is waging war is not a single battle, but a military campaign. This is a lifelong struggle. It's a struggle that we face every day against these fleshly lusts, against the things that can, if we allow them, enslave us As believers, and rob us of our victory, and rob us of our joy. The phrase fleshly lust there in verse 11 refers to strong cravings of our sinful nature. Although we have been transformed in Christ, we still have the residue of this flesh and that sin nature that is still in us. We have this spiritual battle that we constantly fight against these inward sinful desires that again, if we yield to that, it would lead us astray. Becoming a Christian does not eradicate the sin nature. I wish that it did. I wish I could tell you that when you get saved, that that sin nature is going to leave you. But I'm sorry to tell you that it's not as long as you're here in this life. When you die, that's when you're going to become perfect. That's when our final stage of salvation is complete. That's when glorification is there. But for now, we have to fight against sin. We have to fight against desires that would lead us down the wrong path. And that is a daily discipline. It is a daily fight. And when you let up, the flesh will take over. When you ease off or you become careless or apathetic in your spiritual life, you just mark it down the flesh will take over. And so it's it's a constant fight. George Mueller, you remember the story of George Mueller, he was a great man of prayer who prayed in so many millions of dollars. uh for orphans that he had taken in in a in a home, a wonderful man of prayer. And for he for many years he walked with God, just a godly man. And he used to pray this, Lord, don't let me become a wicked old man. Now you would think someone like George Mueller that spent so much time in prayer, praying in all this money, living by faith, that that wouldn't be necessary for him to say that. Lord, keep me from becoming a wicked old man. But he knew the propensity of his heart. He knew that the old nature's always going to be with him. And that it will be there, and that if we at any time led up in this spiritual war, that we could be defeated And so we can't yield to the flesh at all. In contrast to that, we are to long for God's word. We are to long for worship and prayer and to offer spiritual sacrifices to the Lord. Only when we get to heaven will we have perfection. And so the believer is to stay away from the strong cravings of his sinful nature. which war against the soul. Look at that word witch there in the verse. The Greek term witch refers to the nature of something. By the very nature, strong fleshly desires fight a war against the soul. And the soul here just simply refers to the inside of a person. When God created man, he fashioned him into a living soul. The strong desires of our sinful nature wage war. And again, it's a long military campaign. That war is constantly going on. And in 1 Peter 2. 11, fleshly lusts are personified as an army of rebels who intend to capture, enslave, and destroy the human soul. And so uh we we have to fight. And again, the where is the battle? Where does it where does it start? It starts in the mind, right? And if you want to have victory in this area, you have to win it in your mind, in your thought life. You have to take every thought captive. And and you have to uh cast down, as Paul said, imaginations and thoughts, any of those things that are against Christ. And bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Just write down in your margin, Second Corinthians ten, verses four and five. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. And Paul's using uh warfare imagery here in that verse, and the mind is like an ancient city where the enemy is trying to take over. You know, back in those days the enemy would basically uh a city had a wall around it and the enemy would take ladders and throw them up to the wall and try and the enemy would try to scale those ladders and if one enemy soldier could get inside that wall and then open the gate Then the enemy could flood in. And that's exactly what Satan tries to do in the mind. If he can just get you to have one thought to dwell on, one fleshly sinful thought, and that thought allows to take uh to have residence in you or to take your mind captive, the gates can be opened up and all kind of things can flood in. That's why we have to war Against sinful thoughts. One enemy soldier could bring in a whole army, and so we don't let him in. We cast down, just like the Soldier on the wall would cast down the ladders. We cast down any thought or idea that would try to enslave us or make us their its captive. You know, we hear a lot in our day about addiction. And it's kind of portrayed as a complex psychological problem that requires therapy. You know, there's there's all kind of addictions You know, almost like it's something new. But addiction is not a recent problem. In fact, there's a biblical word for addiction. You know what the Bible calls it? Slavery. Or being enslaved. That's all it is, being enslaved. Addicts don't recover as if it's some kind of a illness. They have to repent. Because it's a sin that they're enslaved to. That's the whole idea there. I'm not suggesting that it's easy to overcome. There are some habits of sin that are deeply entrenched. And the struggle to overcome them is very intense and it's very protracted. But the answers we need are the sufficiency of Jesus Christ and His power and His help, not some psychoanalysis. As if we have to go to therapy to overcome this illness. Until you come face to face with what it is, a sin, and realize repentance and trust in Jesus will help you to overcome that, you're never going to win that battle. You're never ever going to overcome it. This principle is stated in Romans 6. Just write down your margin, Romans 6, verse 16. Know ye not that to whom you yield yourselves servants to obey his servants you are, to whom you obey whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness. Paul said, you are a slave, or we could say you are an addict to what whoever or whatever you yield yourself to If you allow that thing to enslave you, you've just become an addict. And before salvation, we were helpless slaves to sin. But now that we're saved, guess what? We are freed. We're free to serve a new master. And you have the power to deny sin. You have the power To yield yourself to Christ. The choice is yours. You know, w is for sometimes people just they get in their mind that they can't resist or they can't say no, and that is a lie from the devil. You have the ability to say no. And the reason you don't say no is because you want that thing more than you want Christ. And the problem is in the desire. And so a Christian can still be an addict to some sinful habit. They don't have to be. You can be freed anytime because God's given you that ability. Peter wrote, Beloved, I urge you to abstain. In other words, just stop. Abstain from fleshly lust. Just think about what Peter's saying there. What could be more direct? Do you want to put to death in your heart fleshly lusts, then stop entertaining them? Just stop entertaining him. Peter doesn't describe some program of therapy. Peter didn't have an addiction group that met. By the way, you want therapy? It's Sunday morning, Sunday, and Wednesday night in God's house. That's therapy. All right, you get more done hearing the Word of God and worshiping Jesus Christ and yielding to the Holy Spirit than any psychiatrist or psychoanalysis will ever do for you. If you're trying to win the battle against sin That's where you get your strength from. You get it from the Word of God, you get it from being with God's people that encourage one another in the things of God. But Peter here just says, look Just stop it. Stop doing it. Don't abstain from fleshly lust. What does that imply? What does that presuppose? That you have the power to do that if you're a child of God. You have no business indulging in such thoughts and such things. Put them away at once. And you have to do this. It can't be done for you by someone else. You have to do it. There's no point in waiting for some heavenly power to erase this sin automatically in your life. Or to get some kind of second baptism that's going to suddenly make you holy. It just doesn't work that way. You know what the Bible says? The Bible doesn't say do that, it just says stop it. Just stop. Because you've already been given the power of the Holy Spirit to overcome this. Martin Louis Jones said this. Quote, I do not speak know of a single scripture, and I speak advisedly, which tells me to take my sin, the particular thing that gets me down to God in prayer, and ask him to deliver me from it, and then trust in faith that he will. Now, that teaching is also often put like this. You must say to a man who is constantly defeated by a particular sin, I think your only hope is to take it to Christ, and Christ will take it from you. But what does Scripture say in Ephesians 4. 28 to the man who finds himself constantly guilty of stealing? To a man who sees something he likes and takes it What am I to tell such a man? Am I to say, take that sin to Christ and ask him to deliver you? He continues, no. What the Apostle Paul tells him is this, let him that stole steal no more. No secret. Stop it. If you're stealing, stop it. Let him that stole steal no more. And if it's fornication or adultery or lustful thoughts, again, stop doing it, says Paul. He does not say go to prayer or go to Christ or lay these sins at the feet of Christ. Listen, Jesus already took your sins on the cross. No need for you to take those sins back to him, just stop doing it. And that's the whole point there Too many people think they have to wait for some extraordinary experience or some miracle from heaven, a sign from the Lord, or whatever. They think some special divine intervention is necessary to free them from a sinful practice or from some pattern. And that's just not the case. What did Paul say in Romans 6? Reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin. Just remember you're dead to sin. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. Satan can't come to you and make you do things. Satan can't have dominion over you if you're a child of God. That wicked one touches them not, John says. Those that are the beloved of God, those that are children of God. And so Peter says, look, if you want to live like a pilgrim, There is a worldview to adopt. Remember, you're a pilgrim in this world. You're just passing through. You need to have that mindset. Hold loosely to the things around you. Along with that, there's a war to fight. Abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against your soul. Do not be in love with the world and don't be lured away by the things of this world. But here's the third thing. To live like a pilgrim. Not only a worldview to adopt a war to fight, but number three, a walk to maintain. A walk to maintain. Look at verse number 12 Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they shall behold glorify God in the day of visitation. The word conversation here just simply means lifestyle, way of life, the way you conduct your life. It points to the overall flavor of our lives. What kind of a lifestyle are we to have? Honest, calos. It's a kind of a attractive is the idea there. Something that is attractive to the Gentiles. And in this case, when Peter uses the word Gentiles, he's talking about unbelievers. A life that is honest, attractive to Unbelievers. Our lives should be marked by honesty. It should be marked by good deeds which conform to God's word. And this world should look at the lives of Christians and admit even though they don't accept our Christ or accept the Bible, they they should at least admit, you know what, they're good people though. And they're honest. And I can't find any fault. I they're you know they're blameless in their conduct Again, the word Gentiles, ethnos, where we hit the word ethnic, is a general reference to the lost world. The lost world should be able to see our consistently good behavior Pattern of behavior in our life. Behold. The word behold there, the idea of observe or to get the attention of. This word occurs here in chapter 3, verse 2. And it has kind of this idea of a long reflective observation. In other words, the idea there is after someone's watched you for a while, looked at your life. They see the honesty, they see the virtue, they see, you know, even though they might not like Christ, they see Christ's likeness. They see your godliness, they see how you react to things at work. They observe how you talk. They watch how you deal with problems. They note how you treat your family. They're watching. Whether you realize it or not, beloved, if you are a believer, you're a Christian, the world is watching you. People are watching you. And they make judgments about Christianity based on what they see in your life. And so Peter tells us that when the lost world observes our godly life, our good works, What'll happen? What will it accomplish? Well there are two things it will accomplish. First of all, it refutes slanderous accusations Look again at verse number 12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works Which they shall behold. Glorify God in the day of visitation. When it says here, evildoers, believers will be slandered as evildoers. That's what the world wants to do This refers to very wicked people worthy of punishment. In Peter's day, they used to refer to Christians as evildoers. They would heap up verbal abuse and contempt against the believers in Rome. That's what the world likes to do. They like to make Christians and Christianity their whipping post. They like to beat on them verbally. The loss accused Christians in Peter's day of insurrection against the Roman government. They accused Christians of cannibalism. They accused Christians of immorality. They were also accused of damaging trade and social progress. Christianity kind of changed things and the and that social structure back then because uh women were elevated to their rightful place. Which wasn't really part of the culture back then, slaves in the Roman Empire were treated as equal people and respected. And Family life was totally turned around because husbands began to love their wives and be faithful to their wives. And all of this was a threat to those that were ungodly. And so they were accusing Christians of ruining family life, of leading slaves into rebellion, and of hating people. Those were all slanderous, false accusations against Christians back then. That's why there arose in the early church a group of people called the apologists that had to defend Christianity against all these malicious lies and all the slanderings that was going on. And by the way, the world still likes to do that. The world still likes to slander the church or slander the believer. But believers How do we refute this kind of talk, these kind of false accusations? What are we to do about that? We simply, it's through our good works. Again, verse number 12. Whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works. In other words, if it's your good works That's going to change their understanding about who you are and and what about who Christ is. In the second century. Justin Martyr was one of those apologists I was telling you about that w that a group of apologists rose up in the early church to defend Christianity against these malicious lies. And he wrote his famous book, Apologia, which is a Greek word for defense. He was defending Christians, and he addressed it to the emperor, Antonius Pius, and his desire was to clarify in it All these misconceptions and the rumors that were spreading around about Christians in that time. And for example, he said it was commonly said in the beginning of the second century that the Christians were a seditious group that were trying to upset the authority of the Roman Empire. And in his book, The Apologia, Justin Martyr wrote to the emperor and he said, Look, I would just encourage you to look at the lives of Christians. They don't disobey the law. They honor their authority as much as they can. They're good citizens. They don't steal. They treat others with kindness and respect. He encouraged the emperor, just look at the lives of these Christians and make your own judgment on that. And that was what really won the argument for Justin Martyr back then. He just said, look, look at them. Look at their lives And so that should be the argument that we use in this world today. You want to know what Christianity is like, you want to know what Christ is like? Just look at us. Look at our lives. Look at how we live. There's no argument against a godly change to life. And so It'll refute the accusations that are made against us, refute slanderous accusations. But here's the second thing, Peter says: what'll happen is if you lead a godly life, it leads others to salvation. Look again in verse number 12, the latter part. Whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold. Watch this. Glorify God in the day of visitation. By seeing the believers' good deeds over a period of time, some unbelievers will glorify God. In the day of visitation. How can an unbeliever glorify God? What does he mean here when he says day of visitation? Well, this term is used sometimes in the Old Testament. God would visit a people. Sometimes that visitation of God would be a visitation in judgment Sometimes it would be a visitation of blessing. But it's a divine act. That's the whole idea there. We see this also in the New Testament where God visits a people. Again, sometimes it can talk about salvation. You remember when Jesus was weeping over Jerusalem? He was weeping because they did not receive him, and he said this, You did not recognize the time of your visitation. The time when Jesus himself, the truth was right there, God had visited them in the presence of Jesus Christ, and they did not recognize it. And so it's the idea of God's coming in judgment or coming in salvation. That's the whole idea. Now, here Peter is referring to salvation. So what's he saying? That these unbelievers, when they look at your life and they see Christ in you, There's going to come a time when God's going to use that and they're going to get saved, and that'll be the day of their visitation. And on the day of their visitation, you know what they'll do? They'll give God glory. How will they do that? Because they will say, you know, one of the reasons I'm coming to Christ is because I knew some Christians and I watched their life. And they had an attractive life. And they drew me to Christ with just the way they lived And they glorify God in the day of visitation. During World War II, missionaries Herb and Ruth Klingon were and their young son. Were three years at a Japanese prison camp in the Philippines. And in this diary, Herb recorded that the captors murdered, tortured, and starved to death many of their fellow prisoners. But the camp had a commander, a man by the name of Kunishi, and he was hated and feared more than other uh all the other uh soldiers that were there in that camp. And Herb writes this. He says, Kenichi found an inventive way to abuse us even more. He increased the food ration, but gave us unhusked rice. Eating the rice with this razor-sharp outer shell would cause intestinal bleeding. That would kill us in ours We had no tool tools to remove the husk, and doing the job manually by pounding the grain or rolling it with a heavy stick consumed more calories than the rice would supply. So he writes, it was a death sentence for all interes. That's how cruel this guy was. Before death could claim their lives, however, General Douglas MacArthur, you know the story of his forces liberating people from captivity there in the Philippines It was that very day that they were liberated that Kanishi had planned to gun down all of the prisoners in that camp. Years later, Herb and Ruth Learned that Kanishi had been found working as a groundskeeper at a Manila golf course. And he was put on trial for his war crimes. And eventually he was executed. He was hanged for his war crimes. But before his execution, he had said this, that he had become a Christian. He became a believer. Why? Because he was deeply affected by the testimony of Christian missionaries Who he had persecuted, people like Herb and Ruth. And when God graciously visited Keneshi and brought him salvation, He remembered these godly missionaries that he once persecuted, and he referred to them and their example and how they taught him about Christ. And so before his death, you know what he did? He glorified God. For God's visitation on his soul. He gave God glory. So the question we have to ask ourselves in closing is this: Are we living the pilgrim lifestyle? Are we doing that? Do we have that mindset? Are we at war against sin and the flesh? Are we maintaining a walk that is pleasing before God? You know, honestly, the truth is if we really live the pilgrim life, it's really a radical way to live life. A radical way to live life where we're we we hold loosely to the things of this world and we allow God to use us as we keep our focus on the eternal, on the hope that we have as children of God. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So, Father, thank you for these wonderful verses here in 1 Peter, and how it reminds us, Lord, of the calling that you've given to all of us. Of what we are. We've talked today about what the Christian is knowing who we are. And this truly is a part of who we are, Lord. We're pilgrims. Lord, forgive us for holding tightly to temporal earthly things, being obsessed with The things of this world to the point where we lose sight of eternity and of the hope that you have laid up for us. as children of God. Lord help us to have that pilgrim mindset, to look to the hope of heaven, to know that all this that we have here it's temporary. It's temporal We know that we're on our way to our home, our heavenly city, that place that you are preparing for us. And help us, Lord, to live our lives. accordingly and let the world see that in us. And as we walk this pilgrim path, Lord, give us the the willpower, the strength, to fight against these fleshly, worldly lusts that are constantly pulling us Down, pulling us to be a part of this world system. Give us the strength to stand apart and to maintain a godly walk so that others will see it and glorify God in a day of visitation. Father, bless these words to our heart, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.