Book of uh Second Corinthians, chapter three. And I want to continue in a series of sermons that I've been doing on the glory of God. And we've been talking about this one concept that is designed to help us grow spiritually. That if we focus on glorifying the Lord, that the Holy Spirit of God will energize us and lift us to new levels of spiritual growth. This is a thing that I've tried to emphasize and want you to see. And again, I want you to know that the things that I'm really just sharing with you or have been sharing with you from the past few weeks are not things that are original with me. These are things I learned as a young Christian. learned from the book Keys to Spiritual Growth and uh the glory of God by Pentecost and transformed by his glory by Ryrie. And very frankly here many of these concepts traced by our founding pastor, Pastor Johnson when I was growing up here. These are things that I have learned that I want to impart unto you that I think is going to help all of us in our spiritual growth, because it is God's will for all of us to grow spiritually into the likeness of the Lord Jesus Christ. So look in 2 Corinthians chapter 3 and look at verse 18. And here is the concept that we s I've been talking about right here in this verse. But we all, with an open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed in the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. As we focus on the glory of God, as we focus on seeing the glory of God in Scripture And as we focus on glorifying God in our own life, the Holy Spirit of God lifts us to new levels of glory, or we could say growth, or Christ-likeness, being formed into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ, because that's what spiritual growth is all about. Now you remember that we kind of gave a definition of what it is to grow spiritually, spiritual growth, and you remember we said it's not a matter of um your uh of of God loving you more. God already loves you as much as He's going to love you. It's not a matter of time. It's not a matter of activity or a matter of prosperity or any of these things that a lot of people attribute to spiritual growth It's a matter of you bringing your practice up to your position. You've been declared righteous in Christ. You have been complete and you are complete in Him positionally. Now we bring our practice up to that position. And how we do that is we do that by focusing on the glory of the Lord and And of course we talked about glorifying God and what it means, and that just simply means that we make God look good to this world. We show the character of God in us to this world, and God is glorified. It makes God look good. We bear the name of Christian and then we show the world the attributes and the character and the nature of God in us, and it certainly glorifies God in doing that. And so essentially what we've been doing then is just going through the Bible and giving you verse after verse on what it means to glorify God or how we can practically glorify God. You might want to call this a theology of glory. Whether you realize it or not, we're we've been studying systematic theology. Now, you say you know when p we all already when you mention systematic theology, people's eyes begin to get heavy and they start falling asleep. But you say, what is that? That's very it's a it's a technical term. You know what it all it very simply means that you take one topic and you you see what the whole Bible says about that topic You take all of the scripture and all of the Bible from Genesis to Revelation and you systematize those verses and you correctly interpret those verses and then you bring a theology of that one topic. That's a s that's basically a systematic theology, as opposed to a biblical theology where you take what one book of the Bible has to say about this one topic, or what This topic, how it was understood at one point in redemptive history, in that certain time frame, in that one book. That's biblical theology. Systematic theology is when you say, here's what all of the Bible says about it Let's just take all these verses and bring them together and let's develop then a theology of this one topic, which is what we've been doing here. We've been going through the Bible. And just really seeing what the Bible has to say about how we glorify God. And then make sure that we line up with that And we learn so far that we glorify God by confessing Jesus as Lord. Remember the Bible says that when we confess Jesus as Lord, it glorifies the Father. And then we learn that we glorify God by aiming our lives to obey His will. That whatever the will of the Lord is, that's what we want to do. And Jesus is our example of that because he didn't come to this earth and do his own thing or have his own agenda. He did whatever the Father told him to do And so that means that we're willing to make any sacrifice. That means that we are sensitive to what God wants. That means that we're selfless. We're not concerned about who gets the credit. We're only concerned about that God gets the glory. And it means that we are willing to go through suffering. But also we glorify God by confessing sin. And then we glorify God by trusting him. We saw that last week. Abraham staggered not at the promises of God, but he glorified the Lord by trusting him. And then we learned also by bearing fruit. Jesus said, Herein is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit. And we look in the Bible what it means, what is fruit? Fru there's action for that is the things that we do, winning souls and giving and thanking God and doing good. All those things are fruit in our life, and then there's attitude fruit, which is simply the uh the the work of the Holy Spirit through um the fruits of the Spirit in our lives, those attitudes And then I want to move on to the next way that we glorify God. Now, we were in 2 Corinthians, so I want you to go to Psalm 50. And I want you to see the next passage here, how we glorify the Lord in our life. Go to the book of Psalms and go to chapter 50. And then I want you to look down at verse number, we'll start at verse number 23. Psalm 50 verse 23. And notice what it says there. Whoso offereth praise, notice the rest of this what? Glorifies me. So here's the next way that we glorify God, and that's simply by offering God praise. And that's what we need to do. God wants his people to praise him. And that should be a pattern in the life of the Christian. This should be something that's natural. All of our days should be filled with praising the Lord. And when we do that, the Bible says, when you offer praise, you glorify me. Look at Psalm fifty, look down in verse fifteen. Kind of back up a little bit more. This is all part of praising the Lord. And call upon me in the day of trouble. And I will deliver thee, and thou shalt what? Glorify me. That's all part of the way that we praise the Lord. When we go through a difficulty, we go through a crisis, we call upon the Lord, and what does God do? He delivers us. Isn't God faithful to do that? And when He does that. We don't need to be silent about it. We need to let people know. Listen to what the Lord has done for me And then we praise the Lord. And the Bible says that when we do that, we give glory to God. Every time we come to church, And we sing songs like we sang tonight, and we respond to songs the way we have heard them all day long today, and we give God praise for what He has done. It brings great glory to God And so that should be the pattern of the life of the believer. Praise is so much a part of God's people that God has given us a whole book in the Bible dedicated to that one thing. And that's the book of Psalms. I mean, it's just a list of one hymn after another, uh, of things that God has done that praise the Lord and it offers him praise. Write down here's another verse, Psalm 86, verses 9 and 10. It says this all nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord. Listen to this, and shall glorify thy name. For thou art great and dost wondrous things. Thou art God alone. And then he goes on to say, verse 12, I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify thy name forever. So praising God is equated with giving him glory. And so that's what we are to do. And so we praise the Lord. Now, very specifically, what does it mean to praise the Lord? Because as I look through the Bible, I see that there are a few things that people do when they are praising the Lord. And that is one of the things they do, is they simply recite the attributes of God Uh we are reminded about the character of God. You know, sometimes people uh will say, Why why study the Old Testament? I mean we after all we're under the new covenant and You know, uh our salvation is really revealed in the New Testament and why study the Old Testament? And I really hate when people kind of downplay the Old Testament because, friend, that's the word of God as as well But there are many reasons why we still get into the Old Testament, but one of them is that the Old Testament reveals so much of the character of God. We see it in the narratives, we see it in the wisdom literature, the greatness of God, the character of God. And when we want to praise the Lord, part of what we do is we remind ourselves of the great character of God and we recite those attributes. In fact, if you go through the book of Psalms, you're going to find out that's what they do a lot. They talk about the characteristics of God Just for an example, look in Psalm 103, just to give you an example of what I'm talking about in verse number one. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, forget not all his benefits who forgives all thine iniquities, who heals all thy diseases, who redeem thy life from destruction, who crowns thee with loving kindness, who satisfies thy mouth with tender mercies. And verse six, the Lord executes righteousness and judgment, and then so on, you just go on down the line. One thing after another, it just rehearses the character of God and what he does. Look at Psalm 104. Bless the Lord, O my soul, O Lord my God, thou art very great. And thou art clothed with honor and majesty, who covers thyself with light and with a garment, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, who lays the beams in his chambers, and then on we go. It just goes, it gives a lift very poetically, and it describes the greatness and the character of God. That's part of what we do. That's why some of my favorite hymns are the hymns that point to God and they talk about His character, His holiness, His righteousness, His mercy, His grace, and and all those things. It just causes us to remember and to think about all these wonderful attributes and characteristics of God. And what you're going to find out is that even when you're in the midst of a crisis and you're in the midst of a problem and you remember who God is, you know what it does? It lifts you out of that That that depression that you might be in. Or that sadness. Or sometimes we might question the Lord about something going on. But then we're reminded of who he is. And and it helps us. For example, Habakkuk. Some of you may have uh heard of the prophet Habakkuk in the Old Testament, and in chapter one, he's having a difficult time. You say why? Because God is using the Chaldeans to judge Israel. And part of the problem he has is that the Chaldeans are a much more evil nation than Israel is And so he's wondering, God, how can you take a nation that's more evil than Israel and use that evil nation to punish a nation that's less evil? And so he was kind of struggling with that. But you know what he does in the middle of chapter one? He just remembers who God is. He remembers God is holy. that God that makes no mistakes, that God is a covenant-keeping God, He doesn't break His promises, He's eternal. And then the next thing you know, He's just praising God. And you know what? The situation hasn't changed, but you know what? He's He's different Because he knows that he can trust in the character of God. God's faithfulness in the past proves that God will be faithful in the future. And so when we praise the Lord, we recite the character of God. And I think this is so very important. We recite his character We recite his works, the things that he has done. And again I say when God has done something for you, don't be silent about that. Let others know what the Lord has done for you. Because when you do that, that brings great glory to God. And so we we glorify God by praising him. And really just by also by giving him thanks. You know, we have a wonderful tradition here at our church, and that is a Thanksgiving service, where we just thank the Lord for what he's done, and that in itself, it just so honors and glorifies God. Remember the story of the ten lepers? Jesus cleansed all of them and one of them came back and the Bible says that with a loud voice he glorified God. Amen And Jesus said, where are the other nine? Well they went on. But there was one who came back, and with a loud voice he thanked the Lord and he glorified God. And so when we praise the Lord, We give God glory. 1 Peter 4 says this if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as the ability which God giveth, that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ. In other words, what Peter is saying is, listen, if you have the ability to use your gift to minister and speak, then you better give God glory for it. Because he's the one who does all the praise. If you serve in ministry, it's because God has allowed you to do that. God in his grace has appointed you to do that, and he deserves all the glory All the glory alone because of what he has done. And so spiritual growth is part of that is learning to praise the Lord for the great things that he has done in our life. Now let me give you another one. Confessing sin, aiming our lives to obey His will. Confessing Jesus is Lord, trusting Him, bearing fruit, praising Him. But here's another one by simply praying. Look in John chapter 14 now This is a very well-known passage, but I want you to look at it and see it again in the context of what we're studying. John 14 and verse 1. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me, and my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you. And then in verse 3, if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also Now, drop down to verse 13. And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. And so this is a great promise. Jesus said, look, if you ask anything in my name, I'm going to do it. That the Father may be glorified. This is the purpose of prayer. People say, well, you know, God answers prayer in order to give us what we want because he made us a promise, and there's a certain extent to which that is true, but the real reason God answers prayer is in verse 13, that the Father may be glorified. In the Son. God answers prayer. Listen, for His sake. For His glory's sake. Now again, we are the benefits of that because certainly He wants to meet our needs. And certainly He delights in giving us what we need and what we want. But the ultimate reason is for his sake, for his glory, and I think sometimes we don't understand that, and sometimes we're reluctant to pray because we're not too sure that God's going to answer our prayer, but I want to tell you something, dear friend. He will answer our prayer. And the reason for that is because God delights in putting his glory on display. And he does that through answered prayer. And so when I pray, I glorify God because I give him the opportunity to work. And in that work, he manifests his character, he manifests himself, and he receives glory. That's why prayer is such a vital element in spiritual growth. Because you're not going to grow unless you interact with God and you see his power on display in your life. And so that's why prayer is so important. Now keep the context of this. What's going on in John 14? Well, there's the panic of the disciples They're kind of having a difficult time. We read in verse 1, Jesus said, let not your hearts be troubled. What's that imply? Your hearts were troubled. Why? Because Jesus was getting ready to lead them. And he's trying to comfort them. He said, look, if I go, I'm going to go and prepare a place for you, and I'm going to come again and receive you unto myself. But here's the thing, meanwhile, what are they going to do? If he leaves, who's going to take care of them? Remember, when they went to follow Jesus, they turned away from their jobs and their employment just to follow Jesus. And so what are they going to do with if Jesus leaves? And while they were with Jesus, if they ever needed anything, it was no problem. Jesus would give it to them. I mean if they needed money to pay taxes, Jesus said, that's fine, just go fish and you'll find money in the fish's mouth. We'll take care of it that way. If they needed something to eat, Jesus could multiply the loaves and the fishes. I mean he was there, he provided everything for them, and they w they enjoyed his fellowship But they were wondering now that Jesus is going to leave, how are we going to have our means uh our needs met, I should say, and and what are we going to do for our resources? But Jesus is basically telling them, look, don't worry. Even though I'm leaving, if you ask anything in my name, I'm going to do it. You're going to get it. Whatever you need, ask it in my name, and I will do it. I don't have to be here. To give it to you. Just ask it in my name. And I will do it that the Father may be glorified in the Son. And so Jesus said, just ask it in my name. Now what does it mean to ask something in Jesus' name? Because a lot of times I think we think this is just a little formula that we tack on at the end of a prayer, and if we don't tack this formula on at the end of a prayer, we're not going to get what we want. So we've got to make sure we put it in Jesus' name. And then anything we ask for we get. But what does that mean? Because some people think if I just put in Jesus' name on the end of a prayer, that kind of binds God. Now he's got to give it to me. Right? Because I put that on the end of it. But that's not what this means. When it says in Jesus' name, this isn't some just little formula here. This is praying according to the will of God That's what that means. It means that, you see, his name is all that he is, all that he embodies And actually what we're basically saying here is that to pray in Jesus' name is to pray consistently with what he would want if he were here. This is what Jesus would want. So can you honestly ask yourself that when you pray a prayer, say, you know what, I can pray this knowing that if Jesus were here, this is what Jesus would want for me. And for that person that I'm praying for. So I'm asking it in his name. You know, uh one way to illustrate this, um, and then Jesus says, look, if you come in my name, the Father is going to give it, because it's in my name. And it's what I want, Jesus said. And if it's what I want, then it's what the Father's going to give, that the Father might be glorified. Ron Dunn, in his book called Don't Just Stand There, Pray Something. is the name of the book. He gives an illustration. He says one day he went to the carnival with his kids. He had a had had a lot of kids. And he went to one of those carnivals where you have to go to a ride and each ride you have to purchase a ticket. Stand in line, get a ticket to go to the ride. He said that was kind of a you know it was kind of a pain to have to stand in line for each ride. And so he decided to buy a whole roll of those tickets And then his kids would come to him with their hands out, and he would just rip one off and give it to them. They'd stand in line, rip one off, give it to him. So kids would stand in line with their hand out and get a ticket. He said, one time uh here was a little boy standing in line holding his hand out. He said, I'd never seen that little boy before in my life. Wasn't any of my children. I looked at that little boy and said, Who are you? He said, suddenly my son turned around. I said, Dad, I told him to go ahead and get in line. I told him that you would give him a ticket if he asked you. And Ron Dunn said, Well what am I s what am I going to do now? I'm not going to make my son out to be a liar. He said, in fact it kind of makes me happy to do that my son knows I'm that generous And so he said, I gave my uh a ticket in my son's name. And he said, suddenly it dawned on me what it means to pray in Jesus' name. You see, if Jesus wants this and we can pray knowing that this is his will, then the Father is glorified to answer that prayer. And that's what it means to pray in the name of Jesus. And so we have to ask ourselves, is this prayer? What Jesus wants from me because praying in Jesus' name limits us from being selfish in our prayers. And it keeps us on course for the things that are pr uh that are important, the things that are part of the kingdom. You can't say, Lord, I believe it's your will to get this brand new Lamborghini car, and I pray this because I believe this is what Jesus wait a minute. That's not what Jesus would ask. So it keeps us from being selfish, from praying in the wrong manner, with the wrong motive. Because we want His will in our life. I also think it means praying in the Spirit As the Spirit leads us, He will show us what we should pray for. And I want you to look at one other verse when we're talking about this. Just go to Romans chapter 8. We were looking at this verse this morning in a Sunday school fast, and I think it kind of matches what we're talking about here, Romans 8. 26. Talking about praying in the Spirit. It's equal to praying in Jesus' name. Romans 8. 26, likewise the Spirit also helps our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray as we ought. How many of us, when we go to prayer, sometimes we're not really sure what to ask? We need God's help. In fact, there's a lot of infirmities. The Spirit helps our infirmities. The word infirmities is weakness. And sometimes I feel very weak in this thing of prayer. And I need the Lord's help with this. In fact, this whole section is about our weakness. It's about groaning. The present groaning, creation groans. And the believer groans for the completion of his redemption, the adoption that we're presently in, but we haven't experienced it to the full measure until that day of redemption. But also groaning with us is the Spirit. The Spirit is grown. He groans with us. And as we're in this world and we groan, we take our requests and our burdens to the Lord, and the Holy Spirit helps us. He brings those burdens to the Lord with us, and sometimes we're not sure exactly what to pray for. There's ignorance in my part on prayer, but the Bible tells me right here that the Spirit helps For we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit itself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And so He helps us And when we line our prayers up in the will of God with the Spirit and Christ, we're praying in Jesus' name, and we got answers, God is glorified. in that. And that's what the Bible says. The praise of answered prayer is what we experience. When you pray according to God's will, he will answer your prayer that he might be glorified. And that's why we share prayer requests here together. It's just not something that we do to uh you know spend time. It's something that has a purpose. We share prayer requests so we can pray together So that when we hear that answer to prayer, what happens to all of us? We all praise God together. You see, the person who sits there indifferent to that was someone who wasn't really involved in the prayer And so they don't praise the Lord because they didn't have anything invested in that. But when we share requests and we pray all together, and God answers that prayer, we praise the Lord and God is glorified through that. So we glorify God by praising him and by praying. Let me give you another one. By proclaiming his word. Now go to 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. Go to 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. And I want you to look at verse number 1. 2 Thessalonians 3:1. Here's another way. Finally, brethren, pray for us. Now listen to this. That the word of the Lord may have free course and be what? Glorified. Even as it is with you. The word of the Lord is the expression of God. He is synonymous with his word, and this is the primary way he reveals himself. Listen, the way God has chosen to reveal himself is in his word. The way Christ is revealed to us is through the Word of God. What do you know about God and Christ that's outside the Scripture? Nothing God has chosen to reveal who He is through the Word of God. That's why when the Word of God is proclaimed, God is glorified, because all of this is about Christ and God. So, again, I've said this before. So when I come and I preach, I try to make this clear because if I do, you're going to get an understanding of who God is. You're going to understand his character, his power, his grace, his wisdom. And when you do, you can't help but give him praise. And you can't help but glorify him. And so when the word of God is preached, God is glorified because we see God in it. And uh and that's just something that we delight in doing is glorifying God through the preaching of the word. In Galatians chapter 1, the Apostle Paul is speaking in verse 22 and verse 24. In regard to his conversion and his ministry, the Apostle Paul said this, quote, the churches of Judea had heard only He who persecuted us in time past now preaches the faith which he once destroyed. That is, the church has heard that Saul Tarshius had been converted and now he is preaching the faith. The faith he once persecuted. And this is verse twenty-four. And they glorified God in me. They did that because the word was being proclaimed. Because the word was being proclaimed through this man that was once persecuting them. They glorified God. And so we glorify God when we present the truth. Because the Word of God is life-changing. It will do its impact. That's why wherever you are, whoever you are, if you're teaching a Sunday school class, if you're just sharing the word with someone else, or discipling someone else, if you give the word of God, God is going to be glorified. And the word of God is going to have an impact because it's just, it's a life-changing book. And that's just the way it is. Let me show you another verse in regard to this. Look in Acts chapter 13. Just flip there. Look in Acts chapter 13. I know I'm having you flip around a bit, but remember I'm kind of going through these verses, kind of giving you a theology of the glory of God, putting these verses together. And look at Acts chapter 13 and look down at verse number 47. Now, you know that the pattern of the Apostle Paul was when he went into a village or a city, the first place he would go is to a synagogue to preach the gospel. And as a visiting teacher they would have him teach normally that was the custom. And a lot of times when Paul would go through the Old Testament and begin to show verses about God and the prophecy of Christ and him dying in and and and suffering and resurrecting and all that. He was trying to prove who Jesus is as the true Messiah, the Savior. And sometimes he would get a positive response. Sometimes he didn't get a positive response. Sometimes they kicked him out And this is what is happening here. Look at verse 46 of chapter 13. Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold and said, it was necessary that the word of God should first have been spoken to you, talking to the Jews in the synagogue. But seeing ye put it from you and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo, we turn to the Gentiles. So since they didn't receive the word, Paul said, Okay. He did what Jesus said do, kind of shake the dust off. And he went, he said, I'm going to go to the Gentiles now. And he went to the Gentiles. And look at verse 47. For so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have set thee to be a light of the Gentiles that thou shouldest be for salvation under the ends of the earth Verse 48. And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord. And as many as were ordained to eternal life believed. And so what happened here is the Word of God was being preached to them. They received it, and they glorified God for the message of salvation that they received. So in the ministry of the Word, God is glorified. And I think there's two ways this happens, when we take it in and when we give it out. When you're here and you listen and you receive it and you learn more about God and you praise Him for who He is and you grow in Christ, He's glorified in that. And then when you go and you take it to others and you share it with others He's glorified in that. By the way, did you notice that it really becomes cemented in your life when you share it with somebody else? Did you ever notice that? You know, if you just come and you listen and listen and listen and and that's all you do You know, you'll get some of it, but you'll lose some of it. It's the old principle, the more you give away, the more you keep. And so when you hear something or you learn something and then you give it to someone else, it stays with you It cements itself in you. I have found the things that I teach, I remember. The things that I read and don't pass on, I forget It's the things that I pass on that I remember. And so it's a wonderful progress. And so what we have to do is we have to saturate ourselves with the Word of God. We have to listen to it. We have to read it We have to study the Word of God and on Sunday is not enough. You have to study it on your own. You have to read it on your own. You have to memorize and meditate on it. And you have to just saturate yourself with it, just like the Bible says And Deuteronomy 6, you know, is to be part of your house when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, when you rise up. That's just a way of saying, just saturate your home and your life with God's word. And then you know what? You'll just begin to speak it automatically. It'll just be a part of who you are. You know, you'll begin to talk it in your sleep. You'll begin to dream about it because you're so saturated with it. It reminds me of a story I read. Spurgeon, the great creature. He would study his sermons at six o'clock on Saturday. I don't recommend that for anybody. That's when he would start to prepare for Sunday. And uh there's no way I would want to do that. But that was he's different. He's kind of a level above all the rest of us. We're all down here and he's up there And um but one Saturday afternoon he just it it just wasn't gelling with him. Uh he just really couldn't get to any definitive outline or you know it just wasn't coming and he thought, you know what I'll just go to bed and I'll wake up early in the morning and then maybe it'll be there. Again, I would never do that. I would stay up all night and say, Lord, you're gonna have to give this to me. But that's what he did. He went to sleep. And and this is, you know, this is in his biography, so I have to believe the biographer. I I kind of find it hard to believe, but this is what he said. The next morning when he woke up, his wife came to him and handed him an outline for that morning's sermon. No, my wife has done that for me several times. No, there's kidding. She handed him the outline for the sermon. And he looked at it and he said, man, that's exactly what I want to preach. Where did you get that? She said, oh, you were you were talking in your sleep, you were preaching in your sleep, and I just took notes. That is just not fair. I mean he could outpreach many of us in his sleep. But it kind of gives you the idea he was so saturated with the Word of God that he just spoke it all the time. And friend, as Christians, we are to saturate ourselves with the word of the Lord because it glorifies God. You know, to be scripture filled is to be spirit-filled? Yes. They're synonymous. Those two things are the same. And so the word of the Lord is glorified when we do that. And we do this because we know that the Bible is the inspired word of God. It's life-changing. And the Bible tells us we are to study, to show thyself approved unto God. Let me give you one final thing. in this and we'll be done. But that is, we glorify God by praising Him, by praying, by proclaiming the word But let me give you one more passage and we'll be done. And that is just we glorify God by just bringing others to him. And I want you to go back to 2 Corinthians chapter 4. This is kind of where we started, same area. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. And I want you to look down in verse number 15. Here's the Apostle Paul, and he's writing in 2 Corinthians, and he wrote to them to the Corinthians before because he was deeply concerned for them And in 1 Corinthians, he had rebuked them using some very harsh terms because of their failures. And in 2 Corinthians, he's kind of giving an explanation of why he wrote what he did in 1 Corinthians. So look at 2 Corinthians 4, verse 15. For all things are for your sakes. Think about that. He says, all things are for your sakes. Paul says, all these things that I'm doing, all of it, for your sake. Now what are the things that he's talking about? Well look in verse 8. We are troubled on every side. yet not distressed, perplexed but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, cast down but not destroyed. Verse 10 always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus Christ What is Paul saying here? Paul was saying we're always facing death for the ministry, and we're going through all these hardships, enduring all these difficulties. For your sake. We do this for the ministry's sake. I'm totally committed to doing these things. Why? Look again in verse 15. For all things are for your sake. Watch this: that the abundant grace might through the thanksgiving of many redound to the glory of God. That's why. There's the bottom line Why did he go into hostile towns knowing he would be persecuted? Why did he confront people over truth? He wanted people to know the saving grace of God. That's why Paul wanted to add more voices to this choir of thanksgiving that give glory to God. Did you know that when people get saved, they just add it to the choir? Of voices that praise and thank the Lord. And Paul said, I just want to add more voices to that group. that redound to the glory of God. And so if I can just win somebody else to the Lord, they become part of that wonderful choir of voices. We add another voice. That will just glorify the Lord. Isn't it wonderful when we get to heaven and we're all there singing together? And we're giving glory to God and we're praising God. What a wonderful thing that is. And Paul said, that's why I do what we do. So look, if you want to grow spiritually in your life, focus on this one thing. I am going to glorify the Lord And all that I do, whether I eat or drink, or whatever I do, I want to do it for the glory of God. And these are just some practical things that the Bible says that we do that brings glory to the Lord. And when you focus on glorifying God The Holy Spirit of God will work mightily in you, and He'll bring you to new levels of spiritual maturity, new levels of Christ-likeness, and God is glorified through that. It becomes one big cycle of glorifying the Lord, which is why we're here. This is what we're here to do. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we again thank you for the word of God that is so clear to us. And how we're to live our lives. And Lord, I pray that this will be a part of who we are. If there's someone here tonight that's never confessed Christ as their Lord, I pray they'll do it tonight for your glory. And if there are Christians here that have been doing their own will rather than your will, I pray that they would aim their lives to obey your will that you might be glorified. And if there's Christians here tonight that's been harboring sin and haven't confessed it, Lord may they confess sin knowing that it glorifies you, it confesses you as holy. And to deal thoroughly with sin, Lord, glorifies you. And may we trust you and bear fruit for your glory. And may we not be silent, but give you praise. Perhaps there's some Christians here tonight, Lord, who have been silent and they haven't really talked about the great things that you've done. And may they give you glory. May we pray in Jesus' name for your glory. May we proclaim the Word of God. May we receive it and give it out for your glory. And bring others to you, to add more voices to that chorus of people that will glorify your name. Help this to be our passion, Lord And help these principles to not be something that we forget. I pray, Lord, that these things will resonate in the hearts of everyone here, and may this be our ultimate purpose, Lord, and may we see as a result of this wonderful growth in the lives of your people. So use these words, Lord. And we pray all this in Jesus' match and wonderful name. Amen.