It's good to see you here tonight. Thank you, praise team. I invite you to take your Bibles tonight and open, please, to the book of Psalms. Chapter 40. We've been looking at some psalms and uh we look at some for the Thanksgiving season, and I thought I'd just continue on and look at some messianic psalms that can help prepare our hearts As we begin to celebrate the incarnation of our Savior for care of our hearts to truly worship Jesus in this uh Christmas season. So Psalm 40 Uh we're going to look at just a few verses here in this this beautiful psalm. And during the Christmas season, we often hear or read the Christmas story according to the perspective of perhaps Mary or or Joseph or the angels or the shepherds. We also hear from the Old Testament prophets and also from the Apostle John. But uh I I would w wonder uh where will we find an account where we could see the story considered from the Lord Jesus Himself? Where will we find such an event or an account in Scripture? We don't have it in the Gospels, but it is found here in Psalm 40. That's why we can call this psalm here a Christmas Psalm. In fact, there are several psalms in the Old Testament that are messianic that point to the birth of Christ that we could call Christmas Psalms. And what we see here in Psalm 40 are our Lord's own words with reference to his coming. Specifically in verse number 6 and verse 7 of Psalm 40, look in verse number 6. Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire. Mine ears hast thou opened, burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required. Then said I, Lo, I come In the volume of the book it is written of me, I delight to do thy will, O my God. Yea, thy law is within my heart. And so these are the Lord's words at the Incarnation. Now someone might ask the question, you know, how do we know that? How do we know that these are the words of the Lord Jesus? um at his incarnation. Well, because these verses are quoted by the inspired writer of Hebrews, and he it quotes them as being the words of Jesus Before he left the glory of heaven to come down here to this sin-cursed earth. In fact, Hebrews chapter ten, you might want to write these verses in your margin. Hebrews chapter ten, verse five. Down to verse seven. Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, and here's the writer again, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit said, When he, that is Jesus, comes into the world, he saith And then he quotes here from this Psalm, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me And burnt offering and sacrifices for sin, thou hast no pleasure. Then said I, Lo, I come. In the volume of the book it is written of me to do thy will, O my God. So there's the writer of Hebrews quoting from Psalm 40 verses 6 through 8, and he's saying, When he came in the world, this is what he said. There's no doubt that this is the language of incarnation here. One commentator, James Smith, wrote this that Jesus spoke these words on the eve of his descent into the world to provide the once-for-all sacrifice for sin. And so I want us to take a little bit of a closer look at these words here. Since these are the words of Jesus, since this is the Christmas story from the perspective of our Lord Jesus Christ, I want us to see the heart and the mind of Christ. as he came into this world uh to be our savior. Now historically, let's get the context of this psalm. This was written by David. It was written at a crisis time in his life. He was in a horrible pit, and he cried out to God, and God delivered him. And David wrote this psalm, it was probably either at the time of Absalom's rebellion, or maybe the rebellion of Adonaijah, another son. In the first half, verses one to ten. David testifies of God's mercy and shows his gratitude by yielding himself anew to the Lord. And then in the closing verses, verses eleven to seventeen, David calls for further help as new enemies approach him. But verse number 17 is such a comfort. Look at verse 17. It said this, but I am poor and needy. Yet the Lord thinketh upon me, thou art my help and my deliverer. Make no tearing, O my God. I love that verse. God is our helper. He looks upon us. He is our helper and our deliverer. What a comfort that verse is But in in Psalm, though, this psalm has been called one of the messianic psalms because, again, it speaks prophetically of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the words speak about his birth. So I want you to see four important factors that we see in these verses, in the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, about his coming into the world. First of all, if you're taking notes, you can write down the purpose of the Messiah. These verses tell us that Jesus knew his purpose. He knew why he was coming. Again, in verse 7, where he says, I come. And then in verse 8, to do thy will, O my God, I come. And then in verse 8, I delight to do thy will. Jesus came knowing that he was going to do the Father's will. Now we get a little bit of a glimpse of this in the life of Jesus in Luke chapter 2. Remember when Jesus was just twelve years old, he went up to Jerusalem with his mom and dad at one of the feast days. And when the parents returned home, they found that he was not in the caravan with the family. Someone might ask, how can you lose a child like that? Well, you have to remember they traveled with bunches, families and friends, and uh he was twelve years old, but somehow they lost sight of him. And they returned back to Jerusalem, and after three days, they found him in the temple talking with all the scholars, and all the scholars were astonished at the understanding that Jesus had at this young age. And then Mary and Joseph confronted Jesus and they said, you know, um, you know, what are you what are you doing? Why are you this is the Harmon paraphrase here, you know, uh what are you doing? How come you're not with us? You know, you you scared us half to death. That's in the Greek. And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Jesus said, Why are you looking for me? Wished ye not that I must be about my father's business? And and they understood not the saying which he spake unto them. Even Mary and Joseph didn't get it at the time, but Jesus fully understood that the purpose for his coming was to do the will of his heavenly father. He was absolutely committed to that. He knew at this young age, this tender age, what he was going to do. And he came to do his father's will. Uh a few verses here we see this in the Gospels. John five, verse thirty. I I can judge of my own self to to do uh I can of my own self, excuse me. Do nothing. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will, but the will of the Father which has sent me. And then in Luke chapter John chapter four, verse thirty-four Jesus said unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. Again in John 6, verse 38, I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but to do the will of him that sent me. And again in John 17, verse 4, I have glorified thee on earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. What was the will of God for his son Jesus? Well, we know that. His will was that Christ be the Savior. His will was that his son die for the sins of the world. And Jesus knew this from the very beginning. In fact, Jesus knew this from before the incarnation, because what does the Bible say? He was the lamb slain From before the foundation of the earth. All the way back in eternity past, he knew that he would be the Savior who would die for sin. And so as we think about this Christmas season, we need to remember this, every Christmas, that while we worship the Incar at the Incarnation and thank God for sending his Son Jesus, we also have to remember the whole purpose of his coming. And that is for his death, so that he would die as a savior for our sins. Now what's interesting here Is in these verses here. If you look closely in verse number six of chapter 40, let me show you something. Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire. Notice the next phrase, my ears hast thou opened. Now it's interesting when you read Psalm 40, verse 6, and then you read in Hebrews the writer who quotes this psalm, when he quotes it. He quotes it very differently than what it reads here in in Psalms forty verse six. In Hebrews chapter ten, verse five, he says this. But a body you have prepared me. In other words, sacrifice and offering thou dost not desire, but a body you have prepared for me. Now wait a minute. In the Psalms it reads, My ear have you opened. But then in Hebrews 10 verse 5 it says, But a body you have prepared for me. Now why is that? Why is it that when the writer of Hebrews quotes from this psalm directly, rather than quoting it word for word by saying, My ears hast thou opened, he finishes off by saying, But a body you have prepared for me. Now obviously scholars out there have multiple explanations for the difference from the Hebrew Psalm and the quotation, actually this is from the Septuagint. And some people say, well this is an example of free translation. What is free translation? It's just, you know, we would say a little bit of dynamic equivalence and then some maybe an interpretation on what uh the writer is saying there. But we have to remember that the same Holy Spirit who wrote the Word of God can quote it or expand upon it or explain it as He wills. And I think what's happening here is when the writer of Hebrews, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit quotes from Psalm 40 verse 6, he gives us really the Holy Spirit's translation there, we could say. I think this is the best explanation for this. What the psalmist is describing is actually a custom that took place in the Old Testament. Now remember he says, you know, but my ear have you opened. Well we could translate this uh several ways. But um let me just give you a custom that he's referring to here. When a Hebrew bought a slave according to the law, he could own him for six years. On the seventh year, he was required to set the slave free The slave was no longer a slave when the seventh year came. But when the seventh year came, the slave had a choice. He could go free, or he could choose willingly to serve his master. voluntarily make himself his master's slave forever. And so sometimes a slave when he was considering his options rather than go free He loved his master. His master was so kind and gracious and gentle and and and generous that he sh he thought the best thing for him to do was to indenture himself to his master for the rest of his life. And if a man chose to be a slave to his master for all his life, this is what would happen. The master would then do something that made this official. The slave would surrender his body to his master. Then the master would have the slave stand against a wooden doorpost. And he would take a little spike or an awe, we could say, and a hammer, and he would pierce the earlobe of the slave. And that, and of course the blood would run down to the doorpost. And the opening of the servant's ear left a mark. And that mark was the mark that said basically, I have indentured myself, I have surrendered myself. to be the servant and the slave for this master for the rest of my life. And so the servant was willingly surrendering his whole life, his whole body to do the will of his master. Now, we can just see the translation here. Even so, God the Father, when he sent his son Jesus into the world, Jesus was so submitted to do the Father's will. That Jesus yielded the body that God the Father gave him. Jesus yielded and submitted that body to do whatever the Father wanted him to do. Of course, when the r when the Hebrew writer of Hebrew says, you know, but you prepared him a body Of course, we know that God, through the Virgin Mary, prepared a body for the Lord Jesus Christ, and this body was not tainted with sin because he was virgin born. Although he did feel all the weakness of the normal human flesh, he did not have a sin nature, or else he could not be the Savior. The body that the God the Father prepared for the Son, thus Jesus yielded to the Father every f every fiber of his being to do the will of God. God. Let me read to you what one uh Hebrew expert, Robert Milligan, wrote when uh he was considering this verse. He said, To the careless and superficial reader, There may be at first seem to be no connection between the digging out or opening of the ears of anyone and providing a body for him. But the thoughtful reader will at once see that in the case of Christ, the two expressions are nearly equivalent. And in that latter, in that the latter differs from the former chiefly in this. That it is rather more specific and expressive. To dig out the ears of a person means simply to make him willing and an obedient servant. But in order to to uh to to so qualify Christ as to make him a fit servant for redemption of mankind, a body was absolutely necessary. Without this, there could have been no adequate sacrifice for sin. And and I think he's right there that the opening of the ear, sig opening of the ear signifies a servant surrendering fully his body, and God the Father gave a body to his son, and the Son in turn fully surrendered his body. to do the will of the Father. And just like the servant's ear was pressed against a wooden post and was pierced, even so The body of our Lord Jesus Christ would be pressed against a wooden cross and be pierced, and his blood would shed be shed in order to do the Father's will. And so the whole point of this is the absolute total submission and surrender that Jesus had to fulfill. The purpose of the Father. That's the thing that we need to take from this. When Jesus came into this world, he wasn't reluctant about it. He was absolutely surrendered. And we'll see this as we go on. But we see, first of all, the purpose of the Messiah But then number two, I want you to think about the provision of the Messiah. These verses express another important idea. Jesus understood that only he had the power and ability to atone for the sins of the world. Only he and he alone. No one else had the credentials. If if Christ did not come to pay this in debt, no one else w would would would could If he had not come, then we're all destined for hell, because no one else could atone for sin. He was the only one and the perfect one to fulfill the Father's purpose. But look again in verse six, where he says, Sacrifice and offering Thou didst not desire. What does that mean? Didn't God institute the sacrifices in the Old Testament law of Moses? Yes. Didn't God require that every year the nation offer a lamb for sacrifice on the Day of Atonement? Yes. Didn't He require people to bring burnt offerings and sacrifices to the temple and tabernacle? Of course he did. Then why does the Bible say this? What does the psalmist mean by this? Again, the book of Hebrews offers the translation. Hebrews chapter 10, verse number 6. Which says this, in burnt offerings, again he's quoting from the Old Testament here, in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin, thou hast had no pleasure. Then said I, Lo, I come, and the volume of the book is written of me to do thy will, O God. Above, when he said, sacrifices and offerings, and burnt offerings, and offerings for sin, thou wouldest not Neither has pleasure therein, which are offered by the law. Then said he, Lo, I come to do the will of O God. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second. You see what the writer of Hebrews is saying there First, that is the Old Testament sacrificial system, God abolishes these sacrifices. The writer says, why? To establish the second. And what is the second? That is the once-for-all sacrifice of Christ. That's the whole point. Notice Hebrews chapter ten, verses ten through twelve, it says that the blood of Old Testament sacrifices was never meant to pay for Sin. God was never satisfied in them in the sense that the debt was dissatisfied or his holy justice was satisfied Those animals in the Old Testament could not do that. Those sacrifices could not. Hebrews 10, 4 says this, for it is not possible that the blood of bulls And of goats should take away sins. Those Old Testament sacrifices never took away sins. They were never meant to do that. You say, well, what are they meant to do? They were meant to point to Jesus. They were meant to point to Christ. Only He has the power to take away sin. Only He can pay the great debt of sin with His own blood on the cross. Well, someone might ask, well Uh what then, what purpose did the sacrifices in the Old Testament serve if they could not take away sin? Well Let me just give you an illustration. I don't know if you're Christmas shopping right now. Don't raise your hand. I know you use that little plastic card in your wallet to do Christmas shopping. Again, don't raise your hand. Someone said it's going to be an electric Christmas this year because everything's got to be charged, you know. But when you go and purchase gifts Um and then you go to the register and you you know you pull out your credit card and you use that credit card to purchase those gifts. And uh it they swipe it in the machine. The uh receipt is printed out and the receipt basically says it's all paid for, right? But let me ask you a question, do those things really pay for? No, they're not paid for. Really the only thing you bought was time. Because basically what you said in that with that card was that look, I'm not going to pay you cash right now, but at a later date I guarantee you that I'm going to pay all this plus a little bit extra interest. Maybe a lot extra interest for here lately. You know, basically um the reason you use your card is because perhaps you couldn't pay the debt at that moment right there You're saying to the store, you know, if you require me to pay this debt now, I can't. But if you'll be patient with me, extend me some time and kindness, I will see that it gets paid. The debt is still outstanding. It's not paid for you. The store in the bank has not yet comp been completely satisfied because the debt has not yet been paid. You know, that's what the old testament sacrifices were. They were kind of like credit card purchases. They didn't pay the debt for sin. They were ba it was basically saying, you know, at a future date that debt will be paid in full. These sacrifices, just like a credit card points to a future payment, the sacrifices of or goats and bulls in the Old Testament pointed to a time when the debt of sin would be paid in full at one moment. The huge debt of sin will all be paid. And so that's really what the purpose of all these sacrifices are. They point to the time when God's wrath for sin will be satisfied. Again, Hebrews 10, 11, and 12, it says this Verse eleven, every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But this man, who is that, that's Jesus, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins, forever sat down on the right hand of God. One day all the accounts of all man's sin was settled at one moment, at one day, at one time, and that's when Jesus paid that sin debt on the cross. Jesus was the only one that was able to pay it. He's the only one that could pay that debt. And why was he able to pay it? Well, because he was sinless. He was a virgin born son of God. He obeyed all of the law for us. Again, I point to Psalm 40 in verse 8 where it says, I delight to do thy will, O my God. Yea, thy law is within my heart. Jesus obeyed all of the law perfectly. And you know why I did it? He did it on our behalf. We're saved not only by the death of Christ, we're actually saved by the life of Christ Because when Jesus lived, he fulfilled all of the demands of God's law and righteousness completely. And you know why he did it? He did it for us, for you and me. You see, systematic theologians, they like to divide the obedience of Christ into two categories. There is the active obedience of Christ, there's the passive obedience. Active obedience simply means that Jesus actively obeyed all of the demands and the righteousness of the law where I could not do it, you could not do it, we were weak in doing it We failed in that Jesus fulfilled all of it. You could say it like this, to use a financial term. Let's just say Jesus was rich and the bank of heaven, his account was Filled with righteousness with with the gold and silver of righteousness. His account was filled to overflowing. My account in heaven, it was empty In fact, I was in debt in God's eyes, because I could not fulfill any of the law of God. And not only is there the active obedience of Jesus, there's the passive obedience And that is where Jesus submitted and surrendered himself to die for all our sins. He just submitted himself. to the uh to the suffering of death on the cross. That's his passive. He was obedient, the Bible says, obedient unto the death of the cross. Now, dear friends When you get saved, you know what God does? When you put your full faith in Jesus Christ, not only does he forgive you for all of your sins, you see, it was the passive obedience of Christ that made it possible for you to have all of your sins forgiven. Because his death paid your sin debt. But if that's all that happened, you know what? In your account, you're just neutral. All of your past sin debt's been paid, but you don't have any righteousness. And you know what the Bible says? Without righteousness, without holiness, no man shall see God. But it's not my righteousness, because I have none. So you know what happens at salvation? When I put my faith in Jesus Christ, not only did he pay all of my sin debt, All that's forgiven in Christ. But on top of that, all of his righteousness was added to my account. Because of his act of obedience, all that righteousness that Christ had was now given or imputed to me, and that happened to you the moment that you put your faith in Jesus Christ. And now when God looks at your account in heaven, you know what he sees? He sees the righteousness of Christ, not my righteousness, not your righteousness, but he sees the righteousness of Christ. That's why Paul said, you know, not having my own righteousness. You know, but the righteousness that comes by faith. Faith in Jesus Christ. This has been called an alien righteousness because it's not my own. It's the righteousness of Christ. And I want to tell you, dear friend, according to the word of God, one day I'm going to go to heaven. And you know why? Because I have been given the righteousness of Christ. Not only have my sins been forgiven, but I'm now holy in God's sight. You see, I love the words of the hymn. Rock of Ages, not the labor of my hands, could fulfill thy law's demands. Could my zeal no respite know? Could my tears forever flow? All for sin could not atone Thou must save and thou alone. Only Jesus could be the Savior. Only He can save. And so this beautiful messianic song points to that reality. It points not only to the purpose of the Messiah, but it points to the provision of the Messiah. that that he was the sacrifice for sin. He looked down from eternity and he saw all those sacrifices, hypocrites worshiping at the at the temple in the tabernacle and saying, you know, God no longer desired He doesn't desire those kind of sacrifices and burnt offerings. But Jesus submitted himself He said, Lo, I come to do the Father's will, and God prepared a body so that he could be the sacrifice for sin. But then let me give you a third thought here that we see in this beautiful messianic psalm. We see the purpose and the provision, but also we see the pleasure of the Messiah. Again, Jesus did this with delight. He did it with pleasure. Again, look at verse 8. I delight to do thy will, O my God. Jesus took pleasure in doing what his father wanted him to do. Even though it required his humiliation, he took pleasure in it. The word used here, delighted, and other places in the Old Testament, the same word is translated satisfied. Jesus was satisfied. He was delighted in all of his humiliation and all of his suffering and the pain and the agony that he suffered. He was delighted to do it, even though it was very, very hard to say the least. I have to tell you, I get convicted when I read this. You know why? Because there's times in life when things get hard, and you know what my first response is sometimes to complain and say, you know, why do I have to go through this? You know, why why this difficulty? And what a shame when I think about Jesus who bore more trials and more difficulty, had more pain. No one suffered like Jesus suffered. And yet he didn't complain about it. He didn't do it reluctantly. In fact, he did it with delight. He was he was uh satisfied with it. He Rejoice in it. In fact, what does the writer of Hebrews say in Hebrews chapter 12? That for the joy that was set before him He wanted to do it. He was satisfied in doing it for the joy that was set before him. And so what a beautiful, beautiful attitude that Jesus had in doing the Father's will. And this is something that we need to think about as we serve the Lord. Jesus didn't do it half-heartedly. But yet I find that sometimes in my service to my own shame, maybe I'm half-hearted. Maybe I'm a little reluctant to do God's will. You know, it's hard to find Christians who sometimes will do things with all of their heart. They're half-hearted in the way we serve God. And I want to tell you something, dear friend, Jesus deserves more than that. He deserves more than half-hearted, reluctant service. You know, it's hard to get people even to come and be faithful to worship him, who call themselves Christians You know, uh we shouldn't be half-hearted in our devotion to Christ because he was certainly not that way in coming to pay our sin debt. He said, I delight to do thy will. Yea, thy law is written within my heart. But then let me give you the forethought here that we see in this beautiful messianic psalm. We see the purpose of the Messiah, the provision. the pleasure of the Messiah. But then finally, another thought here, the presence of the Messiah. This is another thing I want you to notice. When Jesus said, Behold, I come, He's actually speaking in the present tense. In Hebrew it's in the perfect tense meaning completed action. Um in the writer of Hebrew is kind of translated in a in a present tense sense. And so the idea here is that I have come, but I'm not going to leave. I'm here, but I will not depart Christianity is a story that is continuing on. It's not a story that is over a Christian was witnessing to a person, that person said, The problem I have with Christianity is that It happened so long ago. You're talking about something that happened 2,000 years. And the man said, well, no, actually, the story is ongoing. It's not over yet. This is a story of redemption. And it continues on. Jesus may have lived and died 2,000 years ago and resurrected. But the story is a continual story. And every time a person comes into the kingdom of God, that story is continuing on. It is what Uh you know, to quote our TV program, an ever-living story, the ever-living story of the gospel. It just continues on. And that's the idea here. Jesus came, and we know the prophecy that said that, you know, his name shall be called Emmanuel, which is God with us. But when Jesus came, he came to stay among us. Now you might say, now wait a minute. After Jesus resurrected, he ascended to heaven. Yeah, but he said this to his disciples before he left. Lo, I am with you what? Always. I'm with you always. His body, physical presence is not here, but I'll tell you something better. His spiritual presence is with each and every one of us. Through the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Christ, He is with us. Emmanuel is true at Christmas, but it's actually true all the time. And this is something that we need to remember. You might be facing an affliction, a hardship, a deep trial, a sorrow. Just remember this, no sorrow or trial that you go through, do you go through it alone? You have Emmanuel with you every day of your life. The Lord is with you. Jesus said, Lo, I come. And in Matthew, Jesus said, Lo, I am with you always. I read of a story of a m a man by the name of King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy. He had gone with his troops into battle, and in the midst of a battle, as the shells were firing, a lieutenant One of his lieutenants had fallen and been mortally wounded. And then a a young soldier ran to this lieutenant And uh wanted to carry him off the battlefield and help him. The lieutenant began to give him keepsakes and said, you know, tell my family that you know that I I love them. But the soldier said, No, I'm gonna take you with me and he tried to carry this lieutenant off the battlefield And uh some of the gunners called out to him through the gunfire and said, Look, it's too late, save yourself. But he still remained. And in the distance he could hear a motor car. And a whisper began to be b uh went around among the soldiers that the king Emmanuel who was with them on the field had left the field, because in the distance they could see the the motor car of the king leaving the field. And the soldier struggling there on the field said, even the king has departed. But suddenly a hand touched his shoulder And he heard the king's voice behind him. And the voice of the king said, This, My dear boy, the car is gone, but the king is still with you. And he remained there with that soldier until the end of the day. And this is what we can say about our Savior Jesus Christ. He may have ascended back to heaven, but the King is still with us. Emmanuel is God with us. And again, this is something that we see in this beautiful messianic psalm. The purpose of the Messiah. the provision of the Messiah, the pleasure of the Messiah, the presence of the Messiah. Friend, have you placed your full trust in him? John Neal was a Anglican minister who in eighteen eighteen ministered in the uh Madeira Islands off the northwest coast of Africa. And while he was there serving, Neil discovered a Latin chant. And he saw the words of it. He thought the words were so very beautiful. And he translated it into English. And uh we don't he we don't know who the author who wrote this original chant was. Uh he wrote it before eight hundred A. D. according to Neil. But whoever the author was, he obviously knew the Bible very well. He knew the scripture. And the chant was a simple, reverent tribute to the birth on the coming of Jesus. And we sing it every year, Christmas. And you will recognize the words of this. Chant was turned into a hymn. O come, O come, Emmanuel, and rants of captive Israel, that mourns in lowly exile here, until the Son of God appear. Rejoice. Rejoice. Emmanuel shall come to thee, O Israel. And he did come. You know there's some people still waiting for the Messiah. When I was over in Israel a few years ago, they had posters all over the place of a rabbi, and many Jews were saying this is the Messiah finally come. And they were had all kind of hype about this one rabbi. And you know what happened to this rabbi? He died. And you know what? He didn't come out of the grave either. He just stayed dead. You know why? Because the Messiah has already come. And his name is Jesus. And made we Be used of God to help people in this Christmas season recognize that Jesus is the true Messiah that has come. And may we help people to place their faith in him and him alone. And if you are a believer My prayer is that as you think about this beautiful messianic psalm, that you'll have the same heart and attitude that Jesus had as a servant of God to do his will, delight to do his will, absolutely, totally, totally submitted. To doing the will of God. That's the mind of Christ. Not doing it haphazardly, not doing it half-heartedly, not doing it reluctantly, but serving our God with joy. That should be the response of every believer to the coming of our Savior. Let's bow for prayer together. And Father, we thank you again for another Old Testament passage that is so rich and beautiful that points to Jesus Christ, our Messiah, our Savior. And Lord, I pray that we will have the same heart and mindset that Christ had when he came into this world, when he said, I delight to do thy will. When he said, the law of God is in my heart. Father, give us that same kind of passion. The same kind of joy and delight in serving and doing your will, even though at times it might be difficult or hard. Lord, it's our joy to do your will. Help us to have the mind of Christ. And Father, I pray that you will use us as we begin to celebrate this Christmas season, that you'll use us to point people to the true Messiah, Jesus Christ. That's what it's all about Lord help us not to get distracted by all the all the glitter, all of the commercialism, all of the worldly thoughts that cover up the meaning of Christmas. Help us to really focus in on the whole purpose of the Messiah's coming. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.