Thank you so much. Would you take God's word tonight, please? Open to the book of Hebrews, chapter eleven. As you know, we're studying this chapter. It's one of the, I think, more well-known chapters of the Bible and has so much to teach us about faith. It's called the Great Faith Chapter of the Bible, or we like to call it the Hall of Fame of Faith, because it gives us a series of Old Testament characters that illustrate what it means to live by faith. And so that's why this is so valuable to us today. They teach us these incredible spiritual lessons of living a life by faith. And the writer of the book of Hebrews is exhorting all of us to follow their example. And to live by faith. Faith is the only way you can approach God. Faith is the only way you can please God. You want to go to heaven? You have to come by faith. That's the only way. You want a life that pleases the Lord? Well, you have to walk by faith. That's what the writer of Hebrews tells us. You want a life that God blesses? God rewards those who walk by faith. And so now remember that the writer of Hebrews is writing to Hebrews to tell them to stop being Hebrews. That's really the whole point of it. They were Hebrews that were considering the claims of the gospel. They were hearing about the gospel, but many of them had not made a full commitment to Jesus Christ, and they were considering turning back into Judaism. And the writer of Hebrews is saying, oh, don't do that. Now, as I have told you before, the first century Judaism was kind of an apostate form of Judaism. It taught that you you approach God by works. That you are pleasing to God by the works that you do. And the writer of Hebrews is saying, oh no, that's not how you approach God. That's not how you live a life that's pleasing to God. And if you turn back into Judaism, that's going to be a big mistake. What you have to do is you have to follow God by faith. And really this whole chapter, as I've reminded you before, starts in chapter 10, verse 38. Just look at that again. Now the just shall live by faith. This is Hebrews 10, 38. And notice what else it says, but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him And the writer of Hebrews again is reminding these Hebrews that you gain salvation not by effort, by ceremony, by works, by your morality. But by faith and faith alone in the work of Christ. The just shall live by faith In the Old Testament, they got saved by looking forward to the cross, just like we look back upon the cross and place our faith in the finished work of Christ. They were looking forward to the cross and what would take place there, and they were acting on the revelation that God had given them. And that's how they were saved. And so the writer is pointing all of this out, that we have to approach God by faith And just to show them that this is not a new concept, he goes all the way back to the beginning in the book of Genesis and he just starts going through lists of characters in Genesis and then he'll go on into Exodus and then on into uh Joshua and Judges and Ruth and first and second Samuel. He kind of goes through the Old Testament and he points out one Bible character after another who lived a life by faith. And because of that God honored them, and their life was pleasing to God, and and they uh are being mentioned here in Hebrews eleven in the Hall of Fame of faith. Now we fo focus tonight on Abraham. Look in chapter eleven, look at verse number eight. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed, and he went out, not knowing whither he went. And so here is Abraham, and he's called the father of the faithful. Did you know that Abraham, his name is mentioned 74 times in the New Testament? In Romans chapter 4, verse 11, it says that he is the father of all them that believe Nearly one-third of the verses in Hebrews 11 are devoted to Abraham and Sarah. And he's a man that is revered by many people. In fact, even today, Jewish people revere Abraham, Muslims. uh even look back to him and and kind of have a reverence for him and Christians. And his name has a great name today. But when Abraham first followed God back in his day, it was very likely that uh they didn't reverence his name. They laughed at his name. Did you know the name Abraham means father of many? God changed his name from Abram to Abraham, which means father of many people. And I imagine that when um Abraham was introducing himself to someone. They said, What's your name? He said, Oh, my name is Abraham. Oh, father of many. How many children do you have? Well, I I don't I don't have any children They kind of laughed. Uh really? Father of many, huh? Okay. So, but yet God changed Abraham's name. because of what he was going to do in Abraham's life. And you know what? Abraham believed the promises of God. He believed that everything that God In fact, we saw here in verse eight in Hebrews eleven that he went out not knowing whither he went. He left his home, which included his family, his friends, his comfortable lifestyle, a beautiful house. to travel to some place that he did not even know where he was going. Think about that. Uh you ever come up to someone who was loading their things on a moving truck and say, oh you're you're moving. Yeah we're we're leaving. Where are you going? Well I'm not sure We don't know. We're just moving. I'm not sure of the location. We're just moving. And uh Abraham left all that he had. Why did he do that? He was following the word of God. He was following what God told him. Someone said when Alexander the Great had completed his conquest of Persia, he headed east. And the author, the historian said that the general marched off of his maps. And in a way, that's exactly what Abraham did. He marched off the map because he went out and the Bible says he didn't know where he was going. He just was following what God says. But notice also, look at verse 10. He lived his life looking for a city whose builder and maker is God. Verse 10, for he looked for a city which has foundations, whose builder And maker is God. Now we looked at the life of Noah. The people in Noah's Day laughed at Noah because he was building this monstrosity called an ark. because it was going to rain, something that had never happened on the earth into that time. And you can imagine that Noah was a laughing stock to the people of his day. Well even so Abraham was probably laughed at because he left his home in the Ur of the Chaldees A rich man, a well-known man, a man of some stature in his community, and he went someplace not absolutely certain or sure where he was going. Who does that? Who does that? People of faith. People who hear from God. People who hear a direct word from God. Remember the description of faith that the writer gives us? Faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. It is when God gives you his word of something that he's going to do and that thing is not yet visible. We can't really fully see it or maybe even fully comprehend it, yet because God speaks it, you know what? We believe it. And faith takes that, the future unknown that God spoke, and it makes that future unknown. A what? A present reality. And that's what faith is. Faith takes something hoped for and not realized, and faith gives it substance. It sees it. We have faith, but our faith has substance to it. It has weight to it. It has body to it. And again, this chapter just shows us one person after another who believed the promises of God, promises they could not see, promises they did not fully, fully grasp in some cases or realize. And yet they lived their whole life according to those promises. And they did great things. And some of them even suffered great things. because they believe in the promises of Almighty God. Now I want you to notice tonight then as we look at the faith of Abraham 3 characteristics of Abraham's faith that we have to emulate, we should emulate if we're going to be people of faith. Just write down number one the pursuit of faith. What I want to call the pursuit of faith. Faith follows God's call. Again, by faith, when he was called to go out, he went into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance. And he obeyed. He obeyed. Abraham obeyed. In order for you to live by faith, you must first receive a call from God. You must first receive a word from God. That's the operative principle here. Uh faith is based on always not my word, but God's word. Right? It's not me calling something into existence. What power do I have? It's not mean trying to make something real. If I you know the old idea that some people believe, oh if I can just achieve uh uh believe it in my mind Conceive it in my mind, and I can just claim it and call it into reality. Really? You got that much power? That that's that's uh that's faith in faith There's nothing mystical about faith itself. Faith has to be placed, has to be rooted in something that is reliable, something that is solid. And friend, there's nothing more solid than the Word of God Nothing more solid than God's Word. Remember what we said in Romans 10, 17. It says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. So you must Hear from God. You must get a word from God. And that's how Abraham lived. So hold your place in Hebrews 11. Go back to Genesis chapter twelve and let's just look at Abraham's life of faith and look at the word that he received from God that caused him to do something that people in his day probably thought was crazy. So look in Genesis chapter 12 and look down at verse number 1. Now the Lord had said unto Abram Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will show thee, and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great And thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curses thee. And in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. And so one day God appears to Abraham. Now, and you might want to write in your margin here, Acts 7. 2 7. 2. Because it says this, the God of glory appeared to our father Abraham. So how did God appear? Well, it was the God of glory. In the Old Testament, many times when God appeared, he would appear in some kind of Shekinah glory cloud, some manifestation of light that I fully can't comprehend or grasp. I just know that whenever God appeared, he would appear in that Shekinah. Glory. And this glory appeared to Abraham, and God spoke and said, Abraham, get thee out of thy kindred. Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred. And uh and the Hebrew verb here is a very strong verb, likah. I know that doesn't mean anything to you, but this verb is only used two times in the Old Testament. Both times it applies to Abraham. Once here, when God says, leave your family, leave your country, go to a place I'm going to show you, it's a strong word. Get up and just leave. Again, this is a command. This is uh an authoritative command from God, a command that demanded a response. By the way, you notice what the gospel is? The gospel is not an invitation, it's a command. God says, I want you to repent and put your faith in Christ. An authoritative command. That's what God is commanding all people to do here in this world today. Follow me. Believe in my son. Put your faith in Jesus. Now, so God comes to Abraham and says, Abraham, get up, leave your family, go to a place I will show you. Cut yourself off from your past. The only other time we see this command is again, God gives it to Abraham, and it's in Genesis 22, and this time he says, Get up and take your son Isaac to Mount Moriah and sacrifice him. Again, there's a command there. Get up and do this. It demands a response. So think about it. The first time God gave him this command, God was saying, Abraham, cut yourself off from your past and trust me. The second time God gives him this command, sacrifice your son Isaac, he's saying, Abraham, cut yourself off from your future and trust me. Sacrifice your son Isaac and just trust me. Now, in between, that first Leak Lika and the second command leak leak, there's a lot of tests that Abraham went through. Test of his faith. And he didn't do so well on a lot of those tests. So God gave him a retake. By the way, whenever you get a spiritual test and you don't do so well on it, the good news is you get to retake that test. But the bad news is you get to retake that test. And sometimes that test doesn't always uh isn't a pleasure to go through again. I don't want to go through the same test twice to you But Abraham grew in his faith, and the Bible says he grew to the point to where he staggered not at the promises of God. But faith starts with hearing the word of God. That's always where it begins. So Abraham was willing to leave everything behind and start his life over again because this is what God told him to do. Real faith demonstrates commitment. So look in verse number four of Genesis 12. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him. And Lot went with him, that is his nephew. And Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran. So think about that. Uh he he 75. Uh he's not a spring chicken, is he? He's a he's old, even by biblical standards. He's still, I guess you'd say late middle-aged, maybe by biblical standards. But his faith is manifest in simply obeying what God said. It wasn't easy. It couldn't have been easy. You know what faith is? Faith is not believing in spite of circumstances. It's obeying in spite of consequences No matter what the consequences are, I'm going to believe God. I'm going to obey his word. And we see this here with Abraham. We see it in the actions that he does. Our faith is demonstrated in the things that we do, whether or not we truly believe God. There's all kind of things here we see of Abraham. The verbs, Abraham departed, verse six, Abraham passed through. Verse 7, Abraham built an altar. And verse 8, again, Abraham he built an altar. He called upon the name of the Lord in verse 8. In verse 9, he journeyed. All this reminds me of what James said in his epistle, that don't tell me that you have faith. Show me you have faith by what you do. By your actions. And Abraham certainly does that by his actions. Do you obey God's word when God tells you to do something? Do you do what God says? Because that is evidence of genuine faith. But also faith, real faith demonstrates courage. Again, we see he was 75 years old When he departed out of Haran. Why does the writer mention his age here? I I again I think he's mentioning this because it's a demonstration that this was not an easy thing for Abram to do. I mean he but he didn't let his age hinder him. He didn't use his age for an excuse on why he wasn't doing things for God the way God called him to do. When God calls us to do something for him, you know, sometimes it's not easy. Sometimes it's challenging, but we have to do what God says. Even though, you know, it may not be convenient, it might not be the ideal time. You know, if I only did things when the When the circumstances were ideal, you know what? There's a lot of things in life I never would have done. You know. Um when I asked Carolyn to marry me. I I I had a I had no job. I was sorry as can be. I'm surprised her father even allowed me to ask her. to marry me. I mean the the circumstances were less than ideal. I just knew this. I know that I wanted to marry Carolyn. I knew that I think that's what the Lord had and I had to talk her into that and finally she believed the Lord But the circumstances weren't ideal. If you only do things when the circumstances are ideal, you really want it too much for the Lord. And so Abraham, he was 75 years old. I mean, he was approaching its retirement years. But here God says, I want you to do something new. And and and the Bible again says in Hebrews 11:8, and Abraham he w when he was called, he went out into a place not knowing where he went. He was leaving behind a thriving city, he was leaving behind a reputation that he had. Obeying God's word. And that's really the ties, one of the ties that he severed. He abandoned his reputation. Get out of your country. Even though you're seventy-five years old, you're respected in your community. Uh probably a man of high standing, and he lived in a city that was wealthy, you know, archaeological discoveries confirmed that the houses in the Ur of the Chaldees were advanced, they were luxurious. There was evidence that they had indoor running water. God is calling Abraham to leave all that behind and go live in a tent. And just go to a place that I will show you. And I'll make of you a great name, God says, but you need to leave your reputation behind. You need to follow me. And there's a hint that he would even face hostility by doing this. God wasn't promising Abraham, look, if you leave behind your nice house, I'm going to give you an even bigger house. No I'm not going to tell you what I'm going to do. You just follow me. I will do this. I'll make of you a great name. And I'm not going to tell you it's going to be easy. And in verse 3, we get a hint that there was probably some hostility because notice what God says, I will bless them that bless thee, and I will curse him that what? Curses you. So we kind of get a hint here. God didn't say I won't let anyone curse you. He said I'll curse those who do curse you. What's that mean? Well you're gonna have you're gonna receive some curses, Abraham. It's not gonna be easy. You're gonna face some hostility But that's okay. I'm going to be with you. Abandon your reputation, abandon your relatives, get away from your kindred, your father's house. God could have said, I'll be your God, and you can stay in the Ur and you and you can use your contacts here and we can really do start something really great here. God said no. That's not what God wanted. No. Leave your familiar surroundings, leave your extended family, and go and travel. Now travel in those days was not easy. There were no hotels, motels, restaurants, and so on. Abraham couldn't call home to let everyone know how he was doing. No Facebook, no face messaging, FaceTime, none of that. Cut yourself off. Say goodbye. When you said goodbye back then, it was once for all. It was it. You know, uh we're blessed in our day-to-day, aren't we? I mean, you know, Abby and Will and the my grandsons are all going back to London this week. And I that kinda makes me sad, but I also know that I can just pick up my phone. And I could do a FaceTime with them at any time. Isn't that a blessing? Abraham had no FaceTime. It was cut off completely. And so abandon your reputation, abandon your relatives, abandon reason. He says, under the land that I will show you. I mean just imagine the conversation Abraham had to have with his family. You're leaving. Yeah, I'm leaving. Well could could we get a forwarding address? I don't have a forwarding address. I'm not sure where I'm going. You know, I'm just packing up and moving. Well, why are you doing that? Well, because the God appeared to me and He told me to do this, to go to a place He would show me and He would bless me. How many would do that? How many would obey God's word? He God didn't give him a map. Abraham would have to use GPS, God's pointing system. Go here, Abraham. Just go here. And then the next day I'll tell you where to go after that. That same glory. That appeared to Abraham, I believe, probably led him, kind of a foreshadowing of how God would lead his people, Israel, through the wilderness. And so this was faith, just trusting God, just obeying God. Faith demonstrates commitment. Faith demonstrates courage He has to abandon reputation, relatives, and reason. But here's the second thing about faith that we want to understand. So we see the pursuit of faith. Faith follows God's call. But here's number two, write down the pilgrimage of faith. Faith lives like an alien in this world. Again, in Hebrews chapter eleven, verse nine, it says, By faith, he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs of him of the same. promise. And so uh and then we can drop down the uh verse thirteen where uh it says says that these are all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having received them from afar off. Abraham lived like the others listed in Hebrews 11. They lived like pilgrims and strangers. in this world. And they confessed it. They realized that they were no longer home. You know, we sing that song, this world is not my home. Do we mean it? Do we really mean that? Have we set our affections on things above? Is our heart really settled on that celestial city? Glory. Abraham uh he was looking for that city. He understood this And again, this is what the writer of Hebrews points out. He moved out of a city. He lived in tents in a strange land, looking for a city whose builder and maker was God. He had what we call a pilgrim mindset. And that's the mindset that we need to have, beloved. Notice some things about this mindset. First, there's the pilgrim's patience. A pilgrim is able to patiently endure difficulty and hardship. Why? Because he knows his destination. He knows what lies ahead, and that will help him to endure some of the present circumstances. Look in verse number nine of Hebrews 11. I might be flipping back from Genesis. twelve to Hebrews eleven. I hope I don't confuse you. Go back to Hebrews eleven, verse nine again, where it says this By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as a strange in a strange country dwelling in Tabernacles or tents with Isaac and Jacob. So Abraham lived in tents all his life, waiting for God to fulfill his promise. This is the only verse in the Bible that refers to Canaan as the land of promise. And the irony is Abraham is the heir to this promised land. God gave it to him. Yet he never owned any of it during his life. And yet God gave it to him. There's one exception to that. He bought the cave that is wort in order to bury his wife Sarah. And it became kind of a family tomb. And so this was all what he inherited, and yet he really didn't take possession of any of it. Um He basically went into the land of Canaan. Um in fact go back to chapter twelve of Genesis. I know I'm Confusion. Go back to G Genesis twelve and verse seven. When he gets to the promised land, he passes through um Shechem. Unto the plain of Moor in verse six, verse seven of chapter twelve, and the Lord appeared unto Abram and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land. And there builded he an altar unto the Lord who appeared unto him. So he go he gets to goes to a certain oak tree there. And and uh the the land of Canaan, as soon as he gets in there. By the way this oak tree kinda becomes a famous oak tree. It's referred to several times in the Old Testament. But as soon as he gets to the promised land, there's a famine, and he has to leave and he goes down to Egypt for refuge He realizes he makes a mistake by going to Egypt, so he goes back to Canaan, and he lived in that land, trusting God to take care of him by faith. And faith alone. So what's the point? The point is, as people of faith, we often have to live in this world with conditions that are less uh uh than ideal. And with conditions sometimes that seemingly contradict the promises of God God said, I'm going to give you this land, Abraham, and yet Abraham never really in his whole lifetime owned any of it. And but we look in Hebrews, in fact, go back to Hebrews 11 now, all right? And look in Hebrews eleven. Look at verse number thirty-five. Look what it says here. Women received their dead raised to life again. Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance that they might obtain a better resurrection. Others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yet moreover of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sown asunder, were tempted, were slain with a sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute Afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and in caves of the earth. And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise. God having provided something better or better some better things for us. And so these people listed here in Hebrews 11, for the most part, didn't see the fulfillment of those promises of God in this life. And yet they believed. They didn't get it in this life. But they still yet believed. You know, this health and wealth and prosperity gospel out there doesn't square with scripture, does it? Sometimes God's people have to face trial. Sometimes God's people have to go through tribulation and distress and persecution and peril and nakedness and all that. Paul described himself as having nothing yet possessing all things And God's people many times have to wait on God to fulfill the promises that He gave. Abraham and these people listed in Hebrews 11 live in promises that they never really saw fully realize. And yet it it did not shake their faith. They continued to trust in the Lord. The word of God was still real to them. And what did God say of them in verse 39? They received a good report. A good report from who? A good report from God. God gave them an A on their report card under faith. They believed in a promise that had not yet been realized. They had no visible evidence that the promise would be fulfilled. Yet those promises were still so very real to them, so much so, so substantial, that they persevered through all kind of difficulty and heartache, and they continue to wait on God That's the pilgrim's patience. They believe that God will fulfill his promises. Maybe not in our time, but he'll fulfill them. And that's faith. I believe when God says something, it's going to happen. And then there's also the pilgrim's perspective. Again, in Hebrews chapter 11, verse number 10, notice again what it says about Abraham, for he looked for a city. Which have foundations whose builder and maker is God. And again in verse 13, which says that Having seen them afar off. That's the phrase in verse 13 that I want you to see. You see, the secret of Abraham's patience was that he could see the invisible. Remember what we said about faith, seeing what is not yet visible? I can't see it with my visible eyes, but with my eyes of faith, I can see what is invisible. And I believe that God will bring it to pass. It's the substance of things that are hoped for. And faith makes it very, very real to us. Faith sees the invisible Write down 2 Corinthians 4. 18. While we look not at things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. That's not double talk. Paul says we're not looking at what we can see. We're looking at what we can't see That's faith. Faith sees the invisible, it knows the unknowable. This is an invisible world. There's an invisible world. That only those who have faith can see. And Abraham, he saw it. He was looking for a city whose builder and maker is God He could see the invisible. A man went into a psychiatrist's office. The nurse came to the doctor and said, Doctor, there's a man out here who needs to see you. She says, Doctor, I think he's crazy. He thinks he's invisible. Well the doctor says, Well just go back and tell him that we can't see him. Let me tell you, there is an invisible world. And the only way you can see that invisible world is through the eyes of faith. Faith. So that's the whole point here. Now let me just give you the last thing. We see the pursuit of faith. Faith follows God's call. We see the pilgrimage of faith. Faith lives like an alien in this world. But then here's number three, the power of faith. Faith overcomes problems by God's power. Look in verse 11 of Hebrews 11 Through faith also Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful who had promised. Now here's Sarah, she enters the picture. God promised Sarah and Abraham that they were going to have a natural born son. And to underscore the promise, again, remember what I said, God changed Abraham's name from Abram to Abraham, father of a multitude. And then God made this promise in Genesis 17, 6, and I will make of thee exceedingly fruitful, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come of thee. But there's a problem. Both Sarah and Abraham were past childbearing years. Now at first when God made this promise If you read Genesis 18, what happens when God makes this promise? What does Sarah do? She laughs She laughs at the promise that God made. Listen, when when God promises something, don't laugh at it. And this was kind of a a a laugh of unbelief. And God said, okay, you're laughing at my promise. Your son, your natural-born son, his name is going to be Isaac. You know what Isaac means? It means laughter. How'd you like to have a name like that? Lassar. You know, he probably thought all this life he was a big joke. But that was to remind Sarah of her unbelief. Every time she called his name for the rest of his life It would be a reminder to her that she laughed at the promise of God. Don't you laugh. When God says something, it might from our perspective seem impossible or unbelievable, but when God says something, friend, you can bank on it. You can bank on it. Now, Sarah grew in her faith. Now, God gave Abraham time to grow in his faith. Abraham staggered some of the promises of God, but became strong. But now Sarah is now being brought along. Her faith is now growing. And she grows to the point where she believes in the promises of God. And she trusts what the Lord says. And so God honors that. He fulfills his word. And Of course, you know the story where Abraham and Sarah have a natural-born son, and of course his name is Isaac. What I'm saying is that faith overcomes problems by the power of God. When you trust in what God's Word says, even though there are obstacles there in front of that, don't put your eyes on the obstacles or the circumstances. Keep your eyes on God and trust in the promise of what God says. Just trust in what the Lord says. It might not happen as fast as you want it to happen. It might not happen exactly the way you want it to happen. It'll be according to the way God wants it to be, but you can rest assured when God says it, it will come to pass. You can claim the promises of Almighty God So what do we learn from Abraham? We learn the pursuit of faith. Faith follows God's call. We learn about the pilgrimage of faith. Faith lives like an alien in this world. We learn about the power of faith. Faith overcomes problems by God's power. And we walk by faith and we live in faith, and you know what? It's pleasing to God. It pleases God when we live by faith. I'll close with this. George Mueller, you probably heard that name, the famous Christian of Bristol, England. He exemplified a life of faith. I remember reading his biography when I was a teenager, being inspired by his prayer life. He was led of God to start an orphanage. And uh but before that he lived kind of a wild life and he was converted in his twenties, and um he felt led of the Lord to start an orphanage But he also felt led not to tell anyone else of his needs except just God alone. He didn't go out trying to raise support. He didn't go out trying to advertise what he needed. To gather funds. All he said, you know what, I'm just going to tell God and God alone of what our needs are. And he literally prayed in millions of dollars. to take care of those orphans that lived with him and those orphanages. He faced tremendous problems. And yet he prayed through and trusted God on all those problems. In 1877, George Mueller was on board a ship. that was stalled. It was off the coast of Newfoundland in a dense fog. The captain had been on the bridge for twenty-four hours Trying to figure out how to get out of that mess when George Mueller came to see him. And George Mueller said, look, I have to be in Quebec by Saturday afternoon. And the captain said, Well, that's just impossible. Very well, said George Mueller. He said, if your ship cannot take me, God will find some other way. I've never broken an engagement in fifty-two years, and I I'm not going to start. So he said, let's go down to the chart room and let's just pray. So the captain kind of uh was bewildered, wondered what lunatic asylum this guy escaped from. But he followed George Mueller down to the chart room. And uh and before he prayed with him, he he he looked at him, he said, Mr. Mueller, do you understand how dense this fog is? And George Mueller said, my eye is not on the fog. My eye is on Almighty God. And let's pray. So George Mueller knelt and he prayed a simple prayer. And when he finished it, the captain was about to pray, and George Mueller said, he put his hand on his shoulder and said, look, don't bother. You don't need to pray. He said, first, you don't believe. Second, he said, I believe God has heard me already, and that He's going to answer this prayer. And again, the captain looked at this guy in amazement. But you know what? They came up out of the chart room, opened the door, and the fog had lifted. It was completely gone. I wish I could tell you a story of answer prayer in my life like that. I can't tell you any stories like that in my life. I don't have any tremendous answers. God has answered prayer, but it's been in very simple You know, small ways where God answers prayer. But George Mueller and Abraham could challenge us to grow in the life of faith by putting our trust in a God who is faithful. He is faithful and we can trust him. And we can obey God when he gives us the promises of his word. We can live like aliens in this world knowing that We have a city that we're headed to. We're looking for a city whose builder and maker is God. This world can't see it, but we can see it. We can see the invisible. We can ask God by his power to overcome insurmountable problems that we face in this life. God in his power can help us to overcome those problems. If we just trust him. Do you believe that? Amen. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for this encouraging word from the life of Abraham. Thank you, Lord, for the promises of your word. Lord, help us to live in faith, to walk in faith, to act in faith, to see the invisible. To know that the future unseen is so real that it becomes a present reality and it affects how we live now. And that's why we live as strangers and pilgrims in this world we're just passing through. Because our affections are set on heavenly things, on things above. We're looking for a city. So, Father, grant to us the strength to live day by day in faith. In your faithfulness, we pray in Jesus' name