Take your Bibles open to Psalm 121, the Psalm that we read just a minute ago, and I want to speak on this Psalm here today. And the title of my My sermon is very simple. Lord, I need help. Lord, I need help. Anyone here willing to say that? One of the most powerful words in the English language is Is the word help. It's a word really that mean that uh communicates a kind of a desperation, isn't it? Kind of a humility where you're reaching out to the Lord. Help is someone said the cry of a mother with four children, three dogs, two cats, and a week at home while the husband is away on a business trip. Help is a man sitting at the table surrounded by stacks of unpaid bills. Hungry children, an empty bank account with no job in sight. And he cries out, Lord, help. I don't know about you, but I've been in a position many times where I've just needed To say, Lord, I just need your help. I just need you to help me. I've been in that place many times. In fact, some of God's strongest saints realize their Weakness when they appeal to God for strength uh for strength and help, that's strength in and of itself, realizing our weakness and knowing that we need the help of the Lord. It was said on one Sunday morning Psalm one twenty one. That's why this is such a well loved Psalm. Really it's a psalm about reaching out to the Lord for help. This was a psalm that was read by David Livingston. Remember he was the great Scottish missionary that went to the interior of Africa uh in the nineteenth century. The morning before he left Scotland, he called his family together and he read This Psalm, Psalm 121, before he departed, because he knew he was going to need all the help of God that he could. And that's what this Psalm is about. Let me give you a little background. This psalm was written uh on the occasion of a pilgrim worshiper traveling to Jerusalem, traveling to Mount Zion, and normally Three times a year pilgrim worshippers would travel to Jerusalem. They were going there because they were worshiping the Lord that God commanded in Exodus three times a year that they come Now this wasn't an easy journey, it was a difficult journey. Uh you know, traveling back then was very, very difficult. And this This was one of the psalms that was sung on the way on that journey. And the key word here is the word help. In verse one, look at it. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills. From whence come And we also see that word again in verse number two, my help. It's the word easer. You remember in uh first Samuel, Samuel raised a stone and he named the stone Ebon Ezer. Evan means stone Ezer is a Hebrew word for help, stone of help. And he was saying, you know, this is the stone that Marks the fact that thus far the Lord has the one is the one that has helped us this far. I don't know about you, but I've gotten this far in life by the help of God. But friend, we also look to that stone of help as a reminder that God is going to help us through the rest. Now we're looking at a new year, we're looking through uh twenty eighteen we're kind of looking ahead and perhaps maybe some of you here this morning are thinking about all the things that perhaps you have to do in twenty eighteen or or some of the things that might happen Maybe there's some fears that you have in your heart. As I look out over to the future, I just cry out this one prayer, Lord, I just need your help. I need your help in this next year. And so this psalm really is a an encouragement. Now, really, it answers four questions. First of all, who is our helper? It tells us that in verses one and two. How How close is our helper to us? We see that in verses three and four. And then verses five and six, from what does our helper protect us? And then in verse seven and We see the vigilance, we see the limits of our helper's vigilance, and we're going to find out that there are not very many limits that our helper gives us. And so So what I want you to see are just three encouraging truths about our health. First of all, if you're taking it, write down number one, the name of my help. What is the name? Again, look at verse one. I would lift up mine eyes unto the hills. From whence cometh my help? My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. Now, first of all, what the Psalmist sees here is danger. Think about danger. When he says, I will lift up mine eyes into the hills. Now there are some commentators that Translate this as if the Psalm is looking to the hills as his source of help. Oh, I'm I'm looking to the hills as my help. That's not the meaning of this. In fact, the hills weren't the source of help. Help, the hills were the source of danger. I never got any help from a hill. I don't know about you. Hill has never helped me. In fact, the hill's been kind of hard on me and probably you as well. Now you have to remember that the psalmist is on a journey. He's traveling. He's got to go from his destination wherever that might be. He's got to make this journey all the way into Jerusalem. And geographically speaking, Jerusalem is located on a high mountain area. And so he's got to navigate some hills He's going to make this long journey. And those hills were a source of fear. They were a source of anxiety. Why? Well, because in those days when you traveled, uh That's where burglars and bandits would hide themselves. There were many crevices, many places where they could hide, many caves, where they could uh find as a place uh a den where They can do their work. And so if you were a traveler, they were looking for travelers. They wanted to rob them. It was also a place where wild beasts would hide. Traveler back then and you looked up and you saw all those hills with all those uh uh caves, canyons, dark places, you would be afraid You would wonder what is lurking in those hills. Do you remember Jesus told the story about the man who traveled from Jerusalem down to Jericho? And remember he gave this story that he fell among what? He fell among thieves. Why? Well, if you ever take that journey, I've been on that road from Jerusalem, it goes down through a valley Down through a canyon, there are dark places, and that's where again bandits would wait. And here's this man and he takes his journey journey and he fell among thieves. They would have understood that completely because they know how dangerous it was to travel. And those hills were a source of fear. Not only because of bandits, but Also, did you know that in those hills that's where idolaters set up their high places? That's why they're called high places in the Old Testament, because that's where they would go to worship idols and things such as that. In fact in the Old Testament the many of the kings of Judah and Israel were graded based on what they did to those high places. Some of the kings tore those high places But those high places represented idolatry. And so the hills were not a source of encouragement. were a source of fear, something that a person was afraid of. Again, it may be here, you may be here today and you may be looking into 2018 and you have certain fears. There's things that you might be afraid of. It may be a physical illness. It might be finances. You're concerned about how you're going to make it through the year. Or it may be just other things that are on your heart that's causing you concern and anxiety. That's what the psalmist was saying here. These hills are causing me And so notice the next phrase in verse 1. I would lift up mine eyes into the hills, and here's the question. From whence cometh my help? Really that's a question. It's really the me I in in the Hebrew is interrogative. It's not relative in function. And so really he's asking a question: From whence cometh my help? Where is my help going to come from? From he then he's traveling, he's looking at those hills, see some of those dark valleys he's got to go through. And he asked the question, from whence comes Now again, here's the second thing we saw. Number one, danger. But here's another thought here: dependence. Who's he going to depend on Done. Now again, many commentators debate about how to interpret this. There are some that think that there are two travelers here in the story, an older traveler and a younger, and the younger saying Where are we going to get our help? And the older traveler is saying, then there's another interpretation that is there's one traveler and he's having an internal uh struggle. He's talking to himself. This is an internal dialogue, you know. And I think that's really what's happening here. And uh you ever you ever do that? You ever talk to yourself? Raise your hand. Honestly, I talk to myself. And sometimes uh we need to preach to ourselves. We need to remind ourselves And I think this is what's going on here. By the way, the psalmist does this. There are other places in the Psalms where he will talk to himself. For example, in Psalm 43 2 verse 5, he says, This, why art thou cast down, O my soul? Who's he talking to there? He's talking to himself. Why are you cast down? What's the matter with you? You ever say that to yourself? What's the matter with you? Why are you cast down? And then he says this to himself: Hope thou in God. Again, he's talking to himself. And what's he saying? He's taking himself by the hand, he's bringing his emotions under control. And saying you hope in God that's what you need to do you hope in God you know sometimes we listen to ourselves Instead of talking to ourselves. So what does that mean? We listen to the negative fears when they come upon us. We have one fearful thought after another after another, and before you know it, we Give in to those fearful thoughts. And now we're all stressed up and we're all anxious. And you know what we need to do at that point? We need to talk to ourselves. We need to preach to ourselves. Sometimes my wife would say to me, I wish sometimes I would be complaining and she would say, I wish you would preach those sermons that you've preached to others. I wish you would preach them to yourself Yeah, oh Chad hurts. But you know what? She's right. I need to start listening or start talking to myself. You know what some of you You need to do when you hear the word of God preached here, you remember it. And when you start having those negative thoughts and negative emotions and all these fears that come into you, you know what you need to do? You need to preach to yourself. You need to take the word that you've heard, and you need to do what the psalmist said in verse uh 40 or verse uh chapter 42, verse 5. Hope thou in God And here, this is what the psalmist is doing here. He's walking along, he sees these hills, he sees these dark valleys, and he's saying, Where am I going to get help And then all of a sudden he reminds himself, my help comes from the Lord. He reminds himself of that thing. You know what you need to do here in 2018? You need to remind yourself that your help comes from the Lord. There's nothing that you're going to face in this year, but that the Lord will not help you through That he is your help. And this is what he reminds himself. He says, My help comes from the Lord. And again, I remind you, look at the word Lord there. It's all caps. Again, I've told you this before For but this is means it's the divine name. It's the name that is so holy that it's hard for uh Jews to even utter that name unless they're in a life or death struggle, they won't mention this name Because it's so holy. This was the name that God gave to Moses when Moses was at the burning bush, and he said, Lord, who am I going to say sent me? And the Lord said, I am in Hebrew. That's the the two Be verb, I am, has sent you. And it's the idea that He is the ever-present one, that He's always there, He's always with you. Who is the one who's going to be your helper? I am the ever-present one. My help comes from the Lord, he says. So he refuses to give in to his fears. He refuses to give in to his emotions And then what does he do? He preaches to himself, and he reminds himself that his help is the Lord, and again in verse two, which made heaven and earth. The idea here is I don't have to fear the hills because the one who's helping me is the maker of those hills. He's the creator of heaven and earth. So therefore I don't have to fear. Again, David Livingston would refer to this psalm many times during his dangerous journey while he was He was a missionary there in Africa. And on one occasion he wrote in his journal on January 14, 1856, that he was in the very darkest part of Africa. He was surrounded by hostiles. He could hear the beat of the war drums and he knew that they were going to attack, and he thought, you know, I'm gonna die here, and you know, I won't be able to accomplish the mission. And he was filled with fear. But then he reminded And then he wrote in his journal this is the word of a gentleman of the And of course the Lord preserved him because he knew that his Help came from the Lord, the creator of the heavens and the earth. And so this is what we need to do. We need to get our eyes off of our problem. We need to not Focus on the hills, which are the source of our fears. We need to look beyond the hills to the Lord who is our helper. She said, Oh, there's Beautiful mountains there. He said, That's perfect. He said, look beyond those mountains, look high. The far look will relax your eyes. And what is true physically is also true spiritually. You need to get your eyes off of your problems, take them off the hills, and look beyond the hills because that's where your health And it will relax you spiritually. Your help comes from the Lord. And so this psalmist then for the rest of this psalm is really preaching to himself. Reminding himself of his helper and what a sermon he preaches. Notice we have not only the name of my help, but notice the nearness of my help, because verses three and four Answers the question: How close is my helper? Well, look at verse 3. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. How close is my helper? It's one thing to have a helper, but you need to have him near you if he's going to be a help. How close is he? Well, he says he won't let my foot move. First of all, God is my security. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. And the word moved here means to slip or to slide. Now again, picture in your mind a long journey Through a hot desert area with canyons and rocks and hills, and making that journey is not easy. And the one thing you What you don't want to do on that journey is you don't want to slip, you don't want to stumble, and so you have to be very careful where you put your feet. And here's the idea. That my helper is so close to me that he won't allow me to slip. He won't allow me to take a wrong step. You need to say, I need help in 2018. I'm not sure exactly what step to take. Just call upon your helper. He will help you with every step so that you won't take the wrong step. So that you won't slip because again that day to slip and fall or to break an ankle or a limb or something like that, that was pretty serious business there. But God is so close to us He monitors our every step. Listen to Psalm 37, verse 23. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. And he delights in his way. That's what God does. He orders our every step. He watches over us. It says this in Psalm 56, verse 13: For you have delivered my Soul from death. Yes, you have delivered my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of life. Look again in verse three. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. Watch this. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Verse 4 Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The fact that God does not slumber or sleep is mentioned twice in this psalm. Now Now when a preacher says something over again, he's trying to find something else to say. But when God mentions something twice, he's not running out of things to say. Why does he do that? It's again it's for emphasis. It says God doesn't slumber. He doesn't sleep. Now you have to remember that in the ancient Near Eastern people speaking, a God who never slept, that was kind of something they couldn't imagine Because in that day, in that culture, they had all kinds of gods. They were of course imaginary gods, they weren't real, but in their fancy, all these gods slept. In fact, let me give you the names of Some of the gods that they worship. One God was named Hypnos. That's where we get the word hypnotizer, hypnotic. Somnos, that's where we get the word somnia. You know why they Called this God Somnos because he liked to sleep. There was another god called Nyx, the god of the night, and he lived in a cave Uh and he slept on a couch in that cave all the time. That's some of the gods that they had in their minds. And so in Mesopotamian literature, a s Sleeping God was one that wasn't responsive because he was busy sleeping. Remember Elijah on the Mount Carmel when all the prophets of Baal were crying out to their God Send let the fire fall on their sacrifice and nothing happened. You remember what Elijah said? Hey, cry louder. Maybe he's asleep. Maybe you need to just wake him up Cry louder. But here in this song, our God never sleeps. You know what that means? He's constantly watching over you. I read one time of a minister, he was Stressed out, pacing his study. It was late at night. He had so many problems that was causing him anxiety. And it happened to be that his Bible was open to Psalm 121 and his eyes kind of uh fell upon these verses here. God neither slumbers nor sleep. And it was as if the Lord was saying to him, look, I'm gonna be up all night. You may as well go to bed. You know what We don't need to be up stressed out worrying. I don't know about you, but sometimes I get stressed out. Sometimes I'm worrying about things and I need to be reminded. I don't need to do that. I have a God who takes care of all these things for me. I lose sleep. A man wrote a book. I thought it was a great title. The title of the book was God Works the Night Shift. That's a good title of a book. God works the night shift. He's always there. He's always watching over us. He takes care of our problems. He's my security. He's my sentry. God is my shade. Looking Verse number five. The the Lord is thy keeper, the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. Now again one of the dangers for a traveller was heat exhaustion and sun stroke. But here the Lord The Lord was right there at his right hand, and he was his shade. That's the idea there. You know, when children of Israel went through the wilderness, God was a pillar of cloud by Day. That was a shade from the sun. He actually provided them shade so that they weren't uh exhausted by the heat of the sun. And that's the idea here. God And the whole whole point is that no whatever danger might happen a day, God's there and He's He's watching over you today. And He's also watching Now, did you know the ancient Near Eastern people believed that the moonlight could have a bad effect on a person? They believe that there were certain sicknesses and illnesses that came from the moon. By the way, we some people still believe that today. We we use the word Lunatic is from the word lunar, moon. When the moon is out in full, they're crazy, we say. They're a lunatic. Something the moon is causing them to act that way. Ancient Near Eastern people they really believe that. And some of them had fears about being moonstruck. In fact, there are ancient medical texts that talk about this very thing. What this might represent is things that would happen at night. And so here's the idea: God is watching you all during the day, and He's also watching you all through the night There are no dangers by day or by night that God will allow to harm you. And so that's the nearness of my helper. He's very near. Let me give you the last thing. The name of my helper. He's the Lord, the creator, the nearness of my helper. He's right there. He won't let my foot slip. He's right at my right hand. He's guarding me by day and by night Night. But number three, the nature of my help. Look in verse seven. It says, The Lord shall preserve thee. Now again, this is answering the question to what degree From what does our helper protect us? How comprehensive is my help? Sometimes when we want to purchase insurance, what's one of the questions we ask? What does this cover? Sometimes we buy insurance thinking that we're covered, and guess what we find out? You're not in good hands like you thought. There was a little Clause at the bottom that you have to use a giant magnifying glass to read. And these are the things that were not covered for. Coverage does he give his children? How comprehensive is God's help for us? Well, look at verse 7. The Lord shall preserve thee from All evil. Wow. All evil. Now, obviously, this doesn't mean that the believer will never have bad things happen to them. Doesn't mean What it means is that when those things happen, although they might hurt us, they will never ultimately harm us. Because God God is able to take those hurtful things and he's able to use them for our good. They might hurt. There are some people here I'm speaking to this morning. This morning you're broken, you're hurt You've had things happen to you. You're a hurt person. But you know what? That hurt will not harm you. God's going to take that, He'll touch it. And he'll turn it around and he'll make it good. He's going to preserve you from the evil or the harm of that trial, and he'll make it good He might allow you to go through the trial. He might allow you to get hurt in the trial. Think about Joseph. He was hurt many times by his brothers, by others that he trusted. But ultimately, none of those things really harmed him. All they did was they helped him, they made them stronger. And that's what God is saying to you. He's going to preserve you from all Evil, not only from all evil, but notice in all circumstances. Look again at verse 8. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in What does it mean by going out and coming in? This is a Hebraic expression that simply means all circumstances, this is referring to daily activities. You know, we're either going or coming in our house. Right? I mean you you you left this morning, you'll go back home. Going and coming just means when you go to the store, you're out of milk, you gotta run down to the store. You gotta run down to the dry cleaners real quick. You're going, you're coming. You know, you grab your keys and you go off. You gotta take the car to be uh to be fixed. You've got to go, you know, go to the uh the barber shop and get a haircut. You gotta do these little things. We're constantly going and coming. Run to the bank, going to the post office, going to the doctor. You name in anything on your your schedule. You're going in, you're coming out. And these are the just the daily routine things of life. But did you know that most people when danger Or sometimes fatalities happen. It happens during those daily routine things. You know, we hear about people that just went to the store and they got robbed, or maybe they were killed. Or maybe they were in a car accident just two met two minutes away from their house. Some remember I was in a car accident in August. I was coming home from church. Taking the route I take every Every day, just two minutes from my house, these dangerous things can happen in the goings and the comings. But God God says He's going to preserve us from all evil. He's going to preserve our going out and our coming in. He's going to watch over us even in those daily small activities. Let me give you the last thing for all time. Look again in verse eight. For the Lord shall preserve thy going out, thy coming in, from then this time forth, and even for what? For evermore He's going to protect us for all time. Think about that. From all evil in all circumstance for all time. How many of you have an insurance Policy that covers that. Nobody. But you do if you're a Christian and the Lord is your helper. He's going to protect you. He Finney believed that when you got to heaven you could fall from heaven. A preacher by the name of Charles Finney, he believed that you could lose your salvation. You had to hold on to it with your own strength. And he even says you can even Even fall out of heaven when you get there. Let me tell you something, dear friend, I'm not falling from heaven. I'm not holding on to my salvation. God is holding on to me. And when I get that Heaven, he'll be holding on to me there because his protection is forever. Forever. For all time. He's watching over you. So I love the song that we sing. Oh God, our help in ages past, our hope for years to come, our shelter from the stormy blast, and our eternal hope He is our helper from all time. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. He'll be your helper. We need to all learn to depend upon him and just say, Lord, I need your help. The greatest helper is the Lord Jesus. Let me give you this one story and we're done. Remember, Jesus was walking on the water, the disciples were out on the boat. Jesus came walking on the water. The water. At first they thought it was a ghost, and Jesus said, It's I be not afraid. And the Bible says, My sheep hear my voice, and they know me. And so they knew it was Jesus. And Peter said, Lord, bid me come unto thee. I like Peter. He wanted to get out of the boat on the water. It was a storm out. But he wanted to be close to Jesus. And so Jesus came. Gave him one word, he said, Come. And Peter stepped out of the boat. He started walking on the water. And then you know what he did? He took his eyes off of Jesus, and what did he do? He looked at the winds and the And what does the Bible say? That at that moment Jesus reached forth his hand and he picked him up. Now wait a minute, Jesus was far enough away that they could they really couldn't run Recognize him. And yet when Peter said, Lord help, he was right there. And he helped him. That's what Jesus says to us, dear friend. He's a prayer away. You know your greatest prayer that you can pray in twenty eighteen is this Lord, help. Help me, Lord. And you know what? He'll be right there. Amen It'll be your help. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we do need your help. I can't bear the thought Of living one day in this next year without your help. I affirm the words of my master, who said, without me ye can do nothing. And Lord, we realize that. And so we all come to you today. We all have needs. We're in great need of you. With all our heart we pray out Lord help help me help us there are people lord that I don't know about but you know and you know the diff difficult situations and circumstances that many of these your people are in. And Lord, they just need your help. So Lord, bless them. And how many here today with heads bowed and eyes closed will lift up a hand and And say, Lord, be my help. Is that your prayer today? You're in a circumstance situation. You just need the help of God. Would you lift your hand? So I want to pray for you Just lift your hand up to God. I want to pray for you. Lord, be my help. Be my help. Father, you see all these hands. This is our humble confession of total dependence on you, Lord, that we need your help. And Lord, we're like this psalmist here. We we tremble a bit sometimes When we think about the hills, but then we remind ourselves: my help comes from the Lord, the maker of heaven and earth. And Lord, that is our battle cry As we enter in this new year, the Lord is my helper. And so we will not fear. Lord, let that be our theme as we enter in this new year. Bless these who are in In special need of your help and your grace, we ask it in Jesus' precious name. Amen.