Take his uh girlfriend out on a date and this was the days uh before cars, this was the days of horse and buggies. They went and picked her up and they went and out to see the moonlight and the moon was just shining so bright that night And his name was John and her name was Mary and he didn't really say much. And Mary looked at him, she said, John, aren't you gonna say anything? He said, Well Mary, will you marry me? And she said, Well yes, John, I will. And he sat there and she sat there for another hour without him saying anything. And she said, John, aren't you going to say anything else? He said, Well, Mary, I've done said too much already. Well, what does real love look like? Um that's what we want to talk about here tonight. 1 Corinthians 13, as we know, is the great chapter, one of the great chapters in the Bible, but this is the great chapter on love. And A. T. Robertson, the great Baptist scholar, has called this one of the great chapters of the Bible, and he says this, it comes like the sound of a sweet bell between clanging noises of chapter 12 and chapter 14. Now, as we understand what love is about, and by the way, it just seems like today that we have a generation that talks more and more about love but knows less and less about it. And so we need to get the biblical perspective. What does the Bible say about love? What does God say about love? Am I, as a Christian, I need to ask myself, am I practicing real, true, biblical love? And what does it look like? Well 1 Corinthians thirteen tells us exactly what it looks like. But in order to understand this chapter, and by the way, I won't do this justice tonight, I'm just going to apologize just before I start. I know We'll never get to the bottom of everything this chapter says, but hopefully we can get just a little bit of what God's Word has to say about love. But when we study this chapter, we have to study it in its context. So let me just lay a little bit of a foundation for you. Now you know the church in Corinth, if you have read anything about this church, we know that it was a church that was filled with problems You talk about a problem church, this was the most problematic church you've probably ever heard of. They had division, they were depending upon human wisdom. They had personality clicks. There was carnality in the church. There was sexual perversion. There was worldliness. Believers were suing each other. Paul had to deal with that in chapter 6 about taking other believers to court. There was rebellion against authority. There were marital conflicts. There was the abuse of Christian liberty. The Lord has given us wonderful liberty as a Christian, but the Corinthians were abusing that liberty. There was idolatry, there was pride. And then when you get to 1 Corinthians chapter 11, you see that at the Lord's Supper and at the love feasts that were called Agatha Feast back then When the church would come together and they would bring their their meals together, we think potluck is something new. It wasn't it, it was all the way back in the early church. I don't think they called it potluck back then. They probably called it potfaith or something like that. Actually what they called it was the agape feast. And they would bring their food together, but what was happening in the church of Corinth is that the poor were being shamed because the rich would hoard their food and say to the poor, You can't have any. Can you imagine something like that going on in a church? They were abusing the Lord's Supper, abusing other believers, and they were abusing their spiritual gifts. So Paul has to write this letter to straighten out a whole cacophony of problems that was taking place here in the church. Now And when you get to chapter 12 and 13 and 14, the Apostle Paul is going to deal with the issue of spiritual gifts and try to straighten them out with regard to spiritual gifts. And we could divide the spiritual gifts really into three categories. That is speaking gifts, people who can teach and people who can preach and Prophesy and then serving gifts, that's the gift of administration, the gift of giving, the gift of mercy, and then there are signed gifts that were present in the early church at that time And that was the gift of healing and the gift of miracles and speaking in tongues that are recorded here in 1 Corinthians in the early church. Now the problem was that they were abusing these gifts. You say, how were they doing it? Well, they were desiring the more showy gifts They wanted the spotlight. They wanted the gifts where they could stand before others and made an appearance as if they were spiritual. They categorized certain gifts. They thought some gifts were more important than others And that's why in chapter 12 Paul gives the analogy of a body. Our body needs all of its parts. And all the parts work together, and there's no one part more important than the other. They all serve a function in the body. But the problem was the church there was coveting what they called the best gifts. And we could say this. They were not content with the gift that the Lord had given them, the spiritual gift. They wanted something more showy. They wanted something better. You ever see someone who thinks they have a gift when they really don't have it? They got a blind spot? If you've never seen that, just watch You've Got Talent on TV sometime Or watch American Idol and you'll see people that have serious, serious blind spots with respect to their gifts. Now the people at Corinth, they wanted certain gifts. And they wanted the showy gifts. And among those was the speaking gifts, the speaking in tongues, the other gifts that were impressive, the the prophesying and so on, these showy gifts And really, 1 Corinthians 13 starts in chapter 12, verse 31. Look at that verse there where it says, But covet earnestly the best gifts, and yet I show you a more excellent way. Now when Paul says covet earnestly the best gives here, this can be translated as a command or an imperative or It can also be translated as a statement of fact or in the indicative. It could be either one. Now, you say, well, how do we know whether it should be translated as a command or translated simply as a statement of fact? I think that the context of 1 Corinthians 12 would dictate that And so therefore I think that we can say it like this. Paul is saying to the church, you have been earnestly coveting the more showy gifts. Or the more excellent or the or the better gifts, the best gifts I should say. But I want to show you a more excellent way. And here in a nutshell is what the Apostle Paul is saying. You want to desire the best gifts? Let me show you the greatest gift. Let me show you the best way, the excellent way. In 1 Corinthians 12, he talks about the endowments of gifts. In chapter 14, he will talk about the exercise, the proper exercise of the gift, but here in chapter 13, he will talk about the attitude of the heart the atmosphere of, or the proper motive, the more excellent way. And what he does here in 1 Corinthians 13, therefore, is exalt the gift of love. Now there's no doubt that the Corinthians were gifted people. The Apostle Paul already established that. In chapter 1, verse 7 he said, you lack in no spiritual He looked at that congregation and he said, you come behind, you lack in no spiritual gift. But beloved, let me just say this: just because you have a spiritual gift does not make you spiritual. And you can exercise a spiritual gift in a way that is less than spiritual. In fact, you can exercise a spiritual gift in a way that does not please the Lord and in a way that is carnal. rather than spiritual. You see, the gifts of the Spirit show diversity, but it's the grace of the Spirit that shows maturity And so you can have a spiritual gift and not be mature in the way that you exercise that gift. And what the Apostle Paul is basically going to tell us is that everything you do, whatever spiritual gift you have, it must be done in love. And if you don't do it in love, Then it really doesn't profit anything. Right theology is no substitute for love. Religious works are no substitute for for love. Nothing substitutes for real, true love. And so the Apostle Paul is going to talk to us about this. Now with all that in mind, with that little foundation, I want you to see three truths that he's going to tell us here about love. Number one, I'm going to talk tonight about the priority of love We're going to talk about that as we look at this chapter. Secondly, we're going to talk about the personality of love. This is what love looks like. And then thirdly, I want to talk about the perpetuity of love, and that is that love never, ever fails. Now here's number one, the priority of love And Paul calls attention to love as a priority, and the way he does it is he's going to speak in hypotheticals here. He's going to give us hypothetical situations Of someone who has gifts. And Paul's going to tell us that you can have the greatest gifts, but if you don't have love, it really doesn't mean much. Look at verse number one. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, or we could say love, I am become as a sounding brass. As a tinkling symbol. What's he saying? Speaking gifts without love is noise. Some of you Corinthians, you want to have speaking gifts? You want to be able to stand up and proclaim before the congregation? You can speak with the tongue of men. Or angels. But if you don't do it in love, it doesn't really profit you anything. And by the way, again, the Corinthians were transfixed, especially, it seems like on the gift of tongues. And there was a true, literal, real gift of tongues that was used in the early church, and that was simply the ability, uh the Spirit-given ability to speak in a language that you didn't previously know, but it was an earthly known language And the Holy Spirit would give them utterance. But friend, I want you to also know that in this day and age there was also a false gift. The mystery religions were invading the church and some of the mystery religions surrounding Corinth and other places in the Greek world had this idea that for a person to reach the gods they had to speak in some gibberish So therefore a lot of those drunken uh worship services that included uh sounding brass and tinkling cymbals All had this idea of getting drunk and then speaking gibberish. That to them, to the Greek mystery religions, was getting in touch with a pagan deity. And some of those ideas were getting into the church. and corrupting and perverting the purity of the real gift that was being exercised there in the church. And Paul says, look, you guys talk about tongues, you talk about speaking. If a man had the gift of the tongues of men, if he had the ability to speak any known earthly language without having prior knowledge, having that ability, having that gift By the way, I wish I'd had that gift when I went through seminary studying Hebrew a lot of times. If someone had that gift, if they were able to master all the languages of the earth And speak like an angel, the eloquence of an angel. Now there are some who say, well, there's evidently a heavenly language. No, Paul's using hyperbole here. He's using hyperbole to exaggeration to make his point. If you had the ability to speak with such eloquence, like that of an angel, and yet you did it without love. Paul says it's just noise. It's like a sounding brass. It's like a tinkling cymbal. It doesn't do any good. Speaking gifts without love is noise. And then secondly, supernatural gifts without love is nothing. Look in verse 2. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all faith, and all knowledge, and though I have all faith So that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I am nothing. Now again, Paul is using hyperbole here. Just suppose that you had this supernatural ability given by God To understand all mysteries. Some people who had uh in the early church a prophetic gift where God would give them revelation, he would give them things in their mind, and sometimes God would give them answers to mysteries such as the The Lord did many times in the case of the apostles, especially the Apostle Paul. And Paul's saying, What if there were someone who could understand all mysteries? God gave them that ability I don't know of anyone today who's figured out every mystery. I'm going to tell you, the more I study the Bible, the more I realize great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. And I want to tell you that theology is not a problem-solving venture. It is a mystery-discerning venture. And there are mysteries of the faith that I can't get to the end to with my feeble reasoning skills. But let's just say it, though I have the ability to know all mysteries. I don't know anyone who has that ability. And then all knowledge. In verse number two, and and and and all knowledge. This is omniscience. This is way beyond human knowledge. This is supernatural knowledge. Again, I don't know anyone who has all knowledge except God. But let's just suppose that I was suddenly, supernaturally, given this ability to have all knowledge. And yet without love, it doesn't mean a thing. And then all faith, he says again in verse 2, and though I have all Faith. This is not saving faith. This is the ability to believe God for great things. It's the ability to trust God to do great things, the ability to believe God to do miracles. And uh and and and Jesus used the analogy, if you have faith, just a little faith, you can move mountains. But here Paul says, all faith. Man, I don't know of anyone. I've met some people who have great faith. But I haven't met anyone who has all faith. And Paul said, you can have a lot of faith, and yet if you don't have love, Doesn't profit anything. Doesn't matter. You know someone in the Bible who had a lot of faith and yet he didn't have love. You know who I think of? I think of Jonah. Think about that. Jonah ran from God. God said, Jonah, go to Nineveh. Jonah went the other way. You know why he went the other way? Because he had faith. He knew the power of God's word. And later on after he preached, God, you know, of course you know the story, uh Jonah took a boat the other way, God put them on a submarine and took them back to Nineveh, right? God said, You're going to Nineveh. And then Jonah preached, and when he preached, you know what happened? One of the greatest revivals in all the New Old Testament broke out. And you know what Jonah said? Jonah said to God, I knew this was going to happen. I knew this. I knew this is why you were calling me there. He had the faith to believe that God would honor his word and that God would bring great revival. And here's this prophet preaching, and he has great faith. But he does it without love. And there's a pitiful story of him sitting there pouting at the end of the book of Jonah because he's sad. That God brought revival. What a pitiful picture that is. There's a man that had great faith, yet he did not have love And so, friend, you can have all these gifts. You can have supernatural gifts, but supernatural gifts without love profits nothing. Serving gifts without love is nothing. Look in verse 3. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned And have not charity. It profiteth me nothing. Give all possessions. This is one of the serving gifts. This is just giving. And again, Paul just continues to use this hyperbole. And he imagines someone, he says, suppose there was someone, suppose I have this gift of giving, and I gave away all Now again, I have met people that are so very generous and so wonderful in the way they give, and yet I have never met anyone who has given everything, all their possessions, everything Who's given all, except maybe the Lord Jesus, who gave all. And then he says, I give my body to be burned. And verse 3. If this is the ultimate sacrifice for perhaps a Christian, to give one's body to be burned, being martyred as a stake. And by the way, if you're reading Christian history, you're going to find great men of God and women of God have suffered in this way in the church. I think of William Tyndale, that great scholar, that great man of God, who was the first man to translate the Bible into English. He knew the Hebrew and he knew the Greek. He was the first man to translate the Bible into English from Hebrew and Greek. He was such a scholar, such a great man of God. And you know what? Because he did that, he was hunted, he was hounded Finally he was betrayed and turned in, and he was taken to the stake and burned at the stake, and his last words as he was burning was Lord, open up the eyes of the King of England. And of course later God did that and God honored him But he gave his body to be burned. And we could give other stories of other Christians who have suffered in the same way. And Paul is saying here, you can make that monumental sacrifice. And yet, if you don't have love, it profits nothing. Now these are incredible statements. I don't know about you, but when I read this, I see how important It is that I have love in everything I do. So we see number one the priority of love. But then I want you to write down number two, here's the second thing, the personality of love. What does it look like? This love that Paul's talking about, that he puts a priority on, how does it look? You know, it's hard to define love. You ever try to define it? One person said it's a feeling that you feel when you feel like you're going to feel a feeling that you never felt before. Another person said it's an outward expression of an inward all-over-ishness. And of course, those are whimsical definitions of love. Let me read to you what some children wrote. One little seven-year-old girl uh named Karen said this, when you love someone, your eyelashes go up and down and little stars come out of you. One little five-year-old boy named Carl said this, love is when a girl puts on perfume And a boy puts on shaving cologne and they go out and they smell each other. And then one little boy named Billy, I love this definition, and listen to what Billy said. Billy said When someone loves you, the way they say your name is different. He said, you just know that your name is safe in their mouth. That's out of the mouths of bees and suckless, isn't it? It is God's name safe in your mouth. So in order for us to understand what love looks like, the Apostle Paul is going to kind of illustrate it. He's going to give us the personality of it. This is what it looks like. And by the way, all these verses that we're going to read from verses 4 to 7, we're going to go through quickly, kind of like a checklist. But I just want you to know in advance, all of these things characterize the Lord Jesus Christ. You want to know what Jesus is like? This is it right here. This is the personality of love. He was the personification of love. And here are the qualities that Paul gives. Now, as we go through this, I want you to do what I do, and that is just go through and examine your own heart and say to yourself, how am I doing on this? Jesus is our standard, and this is our standard of what we're to follow. And so what is love about? Look in verse number four. Love suffers long. And that's first on the list, and that one hurts me already. It says love is patient. To be impatient is to love yourself, but to be patient is to love others. So love is patient, he says. Suffers long. The Greek word comes from two words, long-tempered, when you're slow to anger. That's a quality of love. How patient are you? How patient am I? I read a story of a man. named Thomas Cooper, Dr. Thomas Cooper, and he was putting together a dictionary, and he did eight years of work of putting together 33,000 words And was ready for publishing. And one day when he was gone, his wife came into a study. And under the guise of thinking he's studying too much, I need to deliver him from all this study, she burned all of those pages Later he came home and he asked, what happened to these pages? And she told him, now what would you have done? He said to her, he said, Oh wife He said, you have given me a world of trouble. And he went right back to doing more work, right back where he started. Next time you think you're patient, measure yourself against that. Patient. But then love is also kind in verse 4. It's serving. And this is just simply patience in action. It's just a kindness. to others. A kindness even when perhaps people have not been kind towards you. And we can say a lot about this word, but again I want to go through this quickly, this checklist. Are you kind to others? But then also it's sincere. Again in verse 4, envy it not. And the word here means to eagerly desire. It's used in both a positive and negative sense in the Bible. Here, it's used in a negative sense to talk about jealousy. And it's related to greed and selfishness. And so jealousy or envy has two forms. One form says, I want what someone else has. If someone else has a better car than you or something else better, you want what they have. That's a sense there. But it's also used in another sense, and that is a worse sense, where it says, I wish they didn't have what they have. That's even a worse sense of this. And then there's an even more evil sense in which you want bad things for others. That's terrible. But love never, ever. Acts that way. If someone else's gain is your loss, that's not love. But then also self-effacing. Look again in verse 4. Launteth not itself, is not puffed up. And this is uh just simply means it's not proud It's an attitude of pride or conceit, puffed up is from a word that actually means windbag, as funny as that may sound. It's a boastfulness, it's a verbalizing boastfulness of someone who's always kind of shooting off their mouth about their own accomplishments and about what they do and I, me, and my and bragging in an effort to make others feel small or feel low before them in a sense that I'm better than you, and it leads to bragging. That's not love. Paul says love vaunteth not itself. And then it's self-restraining. Look at verse number five. It does not behave itself unseemly, or we could say it's not rude. It doesn't act in a way to embarrass others. It's courteous in little things. It doesn't needlessly offend. It has good manners, courteous, polite, we could say, sensitive to others, use using tact to avoid offending others. And then it's self-denying. Look again in verse 5. Seeketh not her own. This is just plain old selfishness. Love is not selfish. Love does not demand its own way, its own rights. And we have to admit I have to in my own life. There's a lot of selfishness in me, beloved, that I have to get out of my life. We all have an inordinate amount of selfishness that comes from our fallen nature. Linsky said this, pure selfishness and you plant a garden of Eden. Red Pass said the secret of every discord in Christian homes, communities and churches is that we seek our own way and we seek our own glory. Then here's another thing. It's serene in verse 5, not easily provoked. And this is a Greek word which means to arouse anger. It's not touchy. Love doesn't have a quick trigger. You know, people like that, they just fly off the handle with a temper and a fit of anger in just a moment. They're easily offended. And when things don't go their way, kaboom, they go off like a bomb. Uh and they say, well, you know, I got over it quickly. Yeah, meanwhile there's dead people laying all around. Because you went off in an explosion. Love doesn't do that. And then surrendering. Look at verse 6. Think of no evil. Literally, this means doesn't take into account a wrong sufferer. This is an accounting word. It's used of the numerical calculation. And what it means, and it's used of God not imputing guilt to us in Romans 4 God doesn't count guilt against us when we're our sins are are placed on Christ. So it's an accounting term. And it literally means that it doesn't keep a list of account or faults against someone. It's like that old story that we've heard a hundred times. Uh husband and wife come to a counselor and the husband says and we have a conflict, she gets historical. He the counselor said, You mean hysterical? He said, No, I mean historical She rehearses everything I've ever done. She keeps a list. She tallies it up. And this word literally means love does not do that Doesn't keep a list of grievances, doesn't do that. Love is forgiving. But also it's sympathetic. Looking in in verse 6, rejoices not in iniquity, but rejoices in truth. Love is never glad when others go wrong or do wrong. Friend, when we see someone, if we really love someone and we see them go astray into sin, it would grieve us It would tear our hearts out to see others go astray. But on the other hand, when we see people walking in truth and being blessed, we rejoice. That's love. That's true love. Encouraging, sympathetic. But then it's also suffering. Look at verse 7. Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things To bear up. To endure. It's a military word. To sustain an assault against an enemy. When someone truly loves, they are able to bear up. They're able to endure a lot of things. We have so many people that jump out of relationships over the least little thing. But when it's true love, true love endures. True love bears up. And it chooses to suffer. Someone says, why all the suffering? Well God can remove suffering. All He has to do is he has to remove love out of our heart. Because when you choose to love, You make yourself vulnerable and you choose to suffer. C. S. Lewis said it like this. To love it all is to be vulnerable Love anything and your heart will be wrung and possibly broken. If you want to make sure of keeping it intact, you must give it to no one, not even an animal. Wrap it up carefully With hobbies and little luxuries, avoid all entanglements. Lock it up safe in the casket or coffin of your selfishness. But in that casket, it will change. It will not be broken. And then he says, to love it all is to be vulnerable. So how'd you do on your checklist? I need some work as I read through this. God help me. To do better. Now here's the third thing. Number one, we saw the priority of love. Number two, we saw the personality of love. And again, all these characteristics, all these qualities, it's just Jesus It's the Lord Jesus. And by the way, let me challenge you to do something. Sometimes hold this list up to Galatians 5, where it talks about the fruit of the Spirit, and you're going to find an exact parallel. To Galatians 5. The fruit of the Spirit is love. We can put it like this: colon, joy, peace, long-suffering. In other words, all these things are the outflow of love. All these qualities are what you see here in 1 Corinthians 13. But now let me show you the third thing, and this is the perpetuity of love. The perpetuity. Look again in verse number 8. Love or charity never faileth. But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge It shall vanish away, for we know in part and we prophesy in part, but then that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. Love never fails. The word fail here It's just an incredibly interesting word. It's the word that means to fall to the ground and to decay. For example, this word is used to speak of petals from a flower that dropped to the ground and then they decayed. And we could really say it like this, abolished. So love will never be abolished. Love will never fall to the ground and decay. With love, love is a flower that never decays. You see, love is eternal because God is eternal and God is love, and since God will always be around, love will always be around. And so this is what it means here. Someday, and by the way, look at the word never. Never has to do with time. Again, love at no time will ever fail Someday the only thing we'll have left is love. Everything else will be gone. When we get to heaven, we won't need teaching anymore. I'd love to teach the Bible. That's my spiritual gift to teach, to make the Word of God clear. But friend, one of these days you won't need that. In heaven, you won't need teaching. You won't need preaching or prophesying. You won't need encouragement. You won't need rebuking. You won't need any of these other things. Because we'll be just like the Lord Jesus Christ when we get to heaven. And the only thing that will remain will be love. And that's what the Apostle Paul is saying here. Now sometimes people take this term, love never fails, and they misinterpret this. They think of it like this. They say, well, love will always win out in the end. They go through a crisis, perhaps in a relationship or something, and they say, well, if I just love, love will win out in the end. But I'm sorry, friend, that's not what that's talking about. The Apostle Paul would go to these cities and he would preach the gospel and he would love the people and you know what they would do? They would kick them out of the city. The Lord Jesus Christ, during his earthly ministry, I want to tell you, friend, nobody loved the way Jesus loved. And when he walked through the dusty streets of those towns and villages throughout Galilee and Judea, he loved the people there. He invited the people to come, but he was rejected on a large part by many people. His love didn't win out in the end. Sometimes we see marriages where a a wife will love a husband and she will sacrifice for him and she will love him unconditionally and and he will just walk away out of that relationship. Or maybe it's the opposite. A wife will walk out on a husband, despite the fact that that husband has loved her in a wonderful and great way. Love didn't win out in that situation. This is not what this is talking about Unfortunately, love can be rejected here on earth. That's a sad reality. But what Paul is saying here is that love is eternal. Love will go on forever. And it will outlast the gifts. This is what he's trying to say to the Corinthians. You Corinthians, you're so focused on these gifts. You want to have these shelly gifts and the best gifts according to your categorizing of these gifts, but I want to tell you there is something better than all these things that you're focusing on That'll be here forever. It's a more excellent way. And you should focus on this. It's love. Because when all these other spiritual gifts are gone, love will still be here. Look at verse again verse 8. He tells us these guests, whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Prophecy, again, is the ability to proclaim God's truth publicly. It is a forthelling of the truth. One day prophecy will no longer be needed. And then he says again in verse 8, whether there be tongues they shall cease. And that's the word, the Greek word is pa'o. cease, a middle voice verb in and of themselves, when they're no longer needed, tongues in and of themselves will cease. They'll no longer be necessary, they'll no longer be used. Tongues will cease. And then he says, knowledge In verse number 8, whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. What is this knowledge? Some people think this is a supernatural knowledge that God gives. Or some people think this is a uh a gift of knowledge, a gift of the ability of knowing things and having wisdom. Either way, you translate that or interpret that, still the point is the same. It's going to vanish away That gift of knowledge will no longer be needed. That gift of prophecy will not be needed. The gift of tongues will cease these things you Corinthians are seeking after and wanting these so-called showy best gifts. They're going to pass away. They're going to be gone. But look at look again in verse number nine. For we know in part and we prophesy in part. Right now We don't have perfect knowledge. We see Christ now through the pages of Scripture. We look at him through a glass darkly. We know in part We do the best we can to try to make the Word of God clear for you to see the glory of God in Scripture. The glory of Jesus in Scripture. But I want to tell you, friend, the best efforts I could do, or anyone else that has superior gifts to mine, it's just knowing in part. We're still looking through a veil. We're still knowing in part, but one day, look in verse 10, but when that which is perfect has come, then that which is in part shall be done away Now, what is the perfect here? Now, we don't have time to get into all this. Some people say this is the revelation, this is the completion of Scripture. Some people view that as the perfect. Some people say this is the maturing of the church. Some people say this is the rapture of the church. That's what's perfect here. Let me tell you what I think it is. I think when he says that which is perfect, he's talking about the eternal state in heaven. One day we will be in heaven. And you know, I've got good news for you. When we get there, we're going to be perfect. Isn't that good news? That which is perfect. We're going to be in the eternal perfection. And we will see Jesus face to face. And when that happens, I'll no longer know in part. I'll know Jesus there completely. The veil will be removed. The glass one day will be removed. And I will see Jesus face to face. And I will experience the perfection of heaven in that day when it comes. And so that's why Paul says in verse 11. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child, whatever I came a w when I became a man, I put away childish things And when he says as a child, he's talking really about this life here, and I think he might be referring to the Jewish custom of bar mitzvah when a a a boy is a child And in an instant, at the bar mitzvah, he's declared a man. In an instant, all of a sudden, he lays aside his childhood, and then he enters manhood He crosses that threshold and he's in the manhood. And there's a sense in which I think Paul is talking about the time when now we, as a child, we understand things as a child here on this side, but one day we're going to reach full maturity and we're going to cross the threshold. A full spiritual adulthood when we go to heaven and we experience the perfection of heaven, and then I put away childish things. I'll no longer need the gift of prophecy or knowledge or preaching, any of those things. I'm going to set those things aside. They'll no longer be needed in that day. But notice what he says in verse 12. But we see now through a glass darkly, but then face to face, now I know in part, but then I shall know, even as also I am known. And then look at verse 13. But now abideth faith, hope, and charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity. So, what's going to happen there when we get to heaven? Love will still be needed. Love will still be existing. Love will outlast the gifts. And love, when we and love really outshines the graces. He mentions three. Faith, hope, and love. But of those three, what's the greatest? Love. You know why? Because in heaven, even faith I'm not going to need in heaven. My faith will end in sight. I won't need faith in heaven. And all my hopes will be realized in heaven. I won't need faith. I won't need hope. Those things will be gone. But you know what won't be gone? Love. In fact, when we get to heaven, we're going to be able to love more fully than we've ever, ever loved before. Heaven is going to be a place Of perfect love. Now we love now, but I want to tell you all of our love still has baggage in it. It's still tainted with our old sin nature. It's still tainted with our own selfishness. Well, you've never loved perfectly. I've never loved perfectly. But I want to tell you one day when I get to heaven, I'm going to be able to love perfectly. And my love will be fully mature. And heaven will be a world of love. And so the Apostle Paul is saying, of these three things, love is the greatest. Love never fails. Love is eternal. So you Corinthians, you should focus. I'm showing you a more excellent way. Here's a better way. You want to focus on a gift? You want to focus you want to covet something? You want something that's the best? He says you focus on love. That's what you should desire. Faith looks to the past to Calvary. Hope looks to the future, to the second coving. Love is for all time. Love is past, present, and future. And friend, we'll have it there with us in heaven. And so really the climax of everything that Paul is saying is found in chapter 14, verse 1. Look at the first phrase in chapter 14, verse 1. Follow. After charity. That's the climax right there. Follow, and the word follow means pursue. Pursue love. Present indicative active. Keep on continuing to pursue love. And that's what we need to do. And this is what it looks like. This is the priority of it. And this is why it's so important. It will never fail. And so, beloved, I want to be able to love the way God wants me to love. And I hope that's your prayer too. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Lord, we just are amazed when we see Christ in these pages of Scripture continually. And we see our Savior right here. He is the full expression, the full embodiment of love. And He's our standard. We don't compare ourselves to others. We compare ourselves to Him. And Lord, as we do, we have to admit that we fall short. And yet, Lord We don't have to work up love in us. You've already given it to us. All we have to do is just express it. Just tap into it. Just yield to the Spirit of God in our life and practice love. So Lord, help us. We live in a world and we live in a time and a culture that talks so much about love but knows so little about it. Lord help us to see what love is in these verses and then to pursue it just as the Apostle Paul Encourage the Corinthians. May we take these words to heart to truly love the way our Savior loves. And we pray all these things in His matchless name. Amen.