Good to see you here tonight. We're going to get right into God's Word because we want to uh save some time for our baptism. So take your Bibles tonight. If you would open to the book of Romans, chapter twelve. As you know, we are Studying through Romans, and we have gone through all 11 chapters. And last week we dealt with chapter 12, and we talked about spiritual gifts. Now tonight we're going to be looking at uh Romans chapter twelve, verses nine to twenty-one, and the title of my sermon tonight is Love Without a Mask. Paul actually begins uh we could say he begins a new subject, but really uh he continues on from what he had said in in the first eight verses and and really kind of gives us a new uh division of this same old subject. But look at verse number nine. Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor to that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. And so I want you to look at that first phrase in verse number nine, because really this is the central idea that Paul is giving us here. Let love be without dissimulation. Now, we don't use that word much, dissimulation. We probably not really sure what that means, but let me tell you exactly what the word is. And really it's the Greek word that I want to look at tonight. And the Greek word is probably a word that you recognize very well. It's a word, actually the word is hypocrite. How many ever heard of a hypocrite? And we know that we've heard that word before. This is literally the Greek word for dissimulation here. And literally the word hypocrite is a word that means under a mask. Let me tell you where that word came from. Did you know in classical Greek uh a hypocrite was an actor on a stage? Now today actors they uh they go to a place and they got all kind of uh make up and and things But back then in the Greek culture, what they used was just simply a mask. They would hold a mask up in front of them and to portray either a comical person or or or or some tragic character in a play. And so a hypocrite therefore was someone who spoke from behind a mask This wasn't who they really were. Their true identity of that person was not what they you saw in the mask And that's really the whole idea here behind the word hypocrite. So it was used back in uh the first century. It was not necessarily used in a negative way, but it came to have a negative connotation. It came to talk about someone Who face to face wasn't what they really are. What you saw in front of you wasn't wasn't necessarily the real And so then the word hypocrite began to get a negative connotation to it, and it would describe someone who is a phony. Someone who pretended to be something that he was not. Now I think all of us can uh uh relate because perhaps we have met up with people that are like that, and I know the famous line that a lot of people say the reason I don't go to church is because there's so hip so many hypocrites in the church. How many ever heard that expression before? Yeah. Well I like to say to those people, it doesn't stop you from going to the restaurant It doesn't stop you from going to the theater. It doesn't stop you from going to other places to the Ravens game. By the way, the Ravens won today. Doesn't stop you from going to any of those other facilities or places that you go to. Are there hypocrites in the church? Of course there are. They're all over the place. And yet the Apostle Paul here is giving us an exhortation when he says in verse number nine, let love be without, literally we could read it like this: let love be without a mask. Without hypocrisy. Let it be genuine. Let that love be without a mask. Now think about this, just a few thoughts. First, love is the supreme virtue. Look at the word love. That's the the Greek word is agape, perhaps you've heard that word before, but this is the word that's used to speak about the highest form of love It is the love of God. Now, whenever Paul uses this word, he doesn't use it to speak about the love that uh a person might have towards another. He always in the Book of Romans here so far he's used this word only to speak about divine love or the love of God, the love that's given by the Spirit of God. In fact, this word love was rarely used in Greek literature because this kind of love was uncommon in the culture. You just didn't see it a lot. And so this word of agape wasn't used a lot. But Paul and the New Testament writers seize on this word. And this is the word that they use to speak about the love of God, that godlike love, and the love that God gives his people when they get saved and when they have the Holy Spirit Living inside of them. This is a love that comes only from the Father. We don't see it any other way. We see it from in in God. We see it in Christ. And when you get saved, this love is given to you as a gift from God. In fact, I would say the second thought, preliminary thought, is it's the supreme gift. It's given to you as a gift. Now remember in Romans 12, if you were here with us last time, Paul mentioned the spiritual gifts, and all of you, if you're saved and you know the Lord, you have some spiritual gift. But what he tells us here is he kind of saves the supreme gift Last, because he talks about this love, and this love is a gift that every believer has. And really, this is Paul's whole point. If you study 1 Corinthians with us, in 1 Corinthians chapter 12, he talks about spiritual gifts, but then 1 Corinthians 13 is the love chapter of the Bible. And again, it's the same idea. The greatest gift is love. He said to the Christians, You're coveting these gifts, but if any gift you should covet, you should covet this gift of love. You should covet this God-like love. And I think that also we could say that this is a supreme test. Sometimes people will ask me, how do I know that I'm really saved? Well, one test of it is, do you have a love for others? Do you just love other people Especially the people of God. Listen to this. 1 John 3. 14. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we love The brethren. That's just gonna be it's gonna be natural. When you get saved, you're gonna love God's people. You're gonna love everyone You'll have this love. The Bible says the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. And this will be a telltale sign that you are a child of God because your heart will be filled with love. for others. This wonderful characteristic about a child of God and then is love. It's the supreme test. You want to know that you're a Christian, ask yourself this question, do I love others? Now when I first got saved I just wanted to be around God's people. I had just this natural love for God's people. Sometimes I'll say, I'll hear people say, well, I love Jesus. I just don't love the church. I love Jesus, I just don't love his people. Well, friend, that doesn't work because you know the Bible calls the church the bride of Christ. You don't compliment me when you come to me and you say, you know, Pastor Harmon, I love you, I just don't like your wife at all. How would that go over? That wouldn't go over at all. And but in fact I've often said this, it's often the reverse. People go to Carol and say, We really like you, we just really can't stand your husband that much. But that's not a compliment to say that I love you, but I don't love your bride. How can you say to Jesus, I love you, Jesus, I just don't love your bride, I don't love the church? No, when you're saved, you're going to love God's people. But then I would think about this thought. The supreme hypocrite is someone who pretends to be a Christian, who pretends to love, but actually doesn't Can you think of anyone like that? I tell you, the person that comes to my mind is one of the disciples called Judas. Remember Judas? Judas is a model of wearing a mask. of not being really who he claimed to be. Remember that story in John when Mary took a pound of expensive perfume and she poured it out on Jesus' feet? And then the Bible says she began to dry his feet. She used her hair to wipe his feet and dry his feet. And Judas was there and he saw all that. He got bitter. And he said, why didn't we take this perfume and sell it? This was expensive perfume, probably a year's wage to pay for this expensive perfume. And Judas said, why Didn't we just take this perfume and sell it and take the money and give it to the poor? The only poor person Judas was thinking about was himself there. Because the Bible says in John's gospel, he did not say this because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. John called it straight. Judas wore a mask. Judas pretended to care about others, but really he was just a thief. Now, Paul here is telling us that if you truly know the Lord and you really have given yourself to the Lord, as we saw in Romans 1 and 2, real worship is wholly dedicating yourself to the Lord. And God has gifted you. Don't forget about this one gift that God's given to everyone. It's love. And let your love be without a mask. Let it be real. And then what Paul does in the rest of this chapter is he gives a series of twenty-five exhortations to describe for us. What love without a mask looks like. 25 exhortations. How much time do you have tonight? I I can't go over every one of these in details, but really it's kind of like a list. So what I'd like for you to do tonight is just kind of look at this list with me, and I want you to examine your own heart and I want you to ask yourself the question, is my love real love? And my truly God's child is my love without a mask. But what we what you'll see is if you go through these, they're kind of like three circles, one small circle, and then it gets to be a bigger The first one deals with me, it's personal. Then it moves to church life, and then it moves beyond the church walls to those outside the church, to even our enemies In other words, if you truly have this agape love, if your love was without a mess, it's going to affect who you are, it's going to affect your relationship in the church, and then beyond that, it's going to affect your relationship to everybody. All over, even your enemies. So let's look at it first. Notice the first uh relationship affected, that is, we could call it discipline in relationship to myself. Look at verse number nine. Let love be without dissimulation, abhor that which is evil, and cleave to that which is good. Abhor is a very strong term to really hate, or we could say shrink back from How do I know that I'm not a hypocrite, that what I have is a real thing? Well, one thing is if you truly love, you're going to shrink back from evil because evil hurts others And so you're not going to have any uh toleration for evil. You're going to want to walk away from it. You're going to want to abhor evil. And I would just say to God's people, we're living in a society today, but if you're not careful, society will desensitize you towards what is evil. And what we need to do is we need to not allow that to happen in our life. We need to see real evil. We need to shrink back from it. You remember what the Bible said about Job? One of the things that God loved about Job, that he eskewed evil. And the word eskew, again, is the idea of to shrink back from. to uh to to uh to to not like it. Uh you ever you ever see a little kid bite into a lemon and the response they get, that's the word askew To just kind of shrink back from it. And that's the idea. We should have that idea about evil Don't the Bible says this, 1 Thessalonians 5. 22, abstain from all appearance of evil. And what that simply means is wherever evil appears, you get away from that. If evil appears over here, walk away from it. If evil is there, get away from it. Wherever evil appears, you should get away from it. You shouldn't watch it. You shouldn't be there with it. Get away from it That is part of being with a true believer. We abhor what is evil. But then notice the rest of the verse in verse 9. And then we adhere to what is good, where it says, cleave to that which is good. Again, a very strong term here. We hold on to. We grab hold of. Whatever is good. Remember what Paul said? Whatever things are true, whatever things are honest, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. And so we are to hold on to what is good. We are to shrink back and hate what is evil. Now let me give you the second one. We self-discipline, that's in relationship to myself, but then I call this devotion in relationship to the church. And then he's going to give us a list of exhortations in reference to the church family. Look at verse 10. Be kindly affectionate one to another, with brotherly love and honor preferring one another. So the first thing is just be kindly affectionate. And this is a compound word, phileo, and then storgas, phaleo storgas. Let me give you a little bit of Greek lesson. You guys up for it? There are four words in the Greek language for love. Agape. That's kind of a fatherly love. Of God. There is Philea, that's a friendship love. I love you like a friend. Then there is the word iras, which is uh the kind of sinful kind of love. That's a fleshly love. And then there is storge, and that is a family love, that is a natural affection. And the word here is a combination of two of those words, Phileo and Storge. Which is a kind of a brotherly family-like love. And you know what he's saying here to us? He's saying that when it comes to the church, the church is one big family. And our love in the church should be like a family love, like we love our family. This is what Paul told Timothy. Timothy was a young pastor of a church, and Paul was telling Timothy how to behave. And listen to what he said. He said, Timothy, rebuke not an elder, but treat him like a father. He said, and the younger and uh he said and the younger men as brethren And the elder women as mothers. And he said the younger as sisters with all purity. You know what he's talking about there? Family relationship. I don't rebuke an older godly saint. I treat him like he was my father. I treat older lady saints like they are my mother. I treat the young men around me, my peers, like they're my own flesh and blood brother. I treat the younger women the same way like they are my sisters. And Paul is basically saying to Timothy, just treat everyone in the church like they're your family. Now that's assuming that you have a good family, right? That your family life life is right. But treat them like family. And then he uses the word brotherly love in verse number 10. With brotherly love, and that's the one Greek word again I told you Philaleo. It's really the word uh it's the Greek it's the word Philadelphia where we get our the name of the city and it's uh a love from literally uh from someone who's from the same mother literally is the delphi is the word it means from the same mom I treat I had this kind of love for someone as if they were my brother, my flesh and blood brother, or my flesh and blood sister. This is just a natural love, and this is what Paul is saying: that when you're a true child of God You're going to just have that natural brotherly love. And then he says, preferring one another. In verse number 10, preferring one another. Again, very strong word, pro before ego, before I, it means you put other people in front of you. You put them in front of you. You prefer them over you. Remember the story in Genesis 10 when Abraham and Lot's Herdsman were having an argument over the cattle and the plain and the Bible says the land wasn't big enough for their cattle? And the Bible says that Abraham came to Lot and said, Lot, you choose. If you choose to go to the right, I'll give you all that. I'll go to the left. You choose to go to the left, I'll go to the right. What was Abraham doing? He was preferring light in front of him. Saying, Lot, you just you just choose whatever you want. I'll take the leftovers. Just whatever you desire. That's putting others in front of you. And that's what he's talking about here. Then he says, not swathful in business in verse 11, which simply means don't be lazy When you serve, serve with intensity, serve with excellence. Don't be weary and well-doing, but be fervent. In verse 11, be fervent in spirit. And that word means to have zeal. You know, when we do something for God, it shouldn't be done halfway. How many of you would agree with that? We should do it with excellence because that is a reflection of how we feel about God and how we worship God. Don't be careless and lazy and haphazard in the way that you serve But have a fervent spirit for the Lord. That's all part of this love. But then also notice what it says, serving the Lord. In verse 11, this is just a selfless service for God. With zeal, we need to have that fervent spirit as we are serving the Lord here and the word here is where we get the word or the word is dulas which literally means enslave yourself to the Lord Just act like he's your Lord, he's your master, and by the way he is. And just serve him, just like a servant would serve their master. And then he says, rejoicing in hope. In verse number 12, rejoicing in hope. And hope almost always refers to when the Lord Jesus is coming. That is the hope of the believer that the Lord is going to come again. And by the way, hope in the Bible is not a wish, it is a definite The blessed hope is that we know that Christ is going to come and take us and fulfill our salvation complete and we'll be with Him forever. We rejoice in that hope. And then He says, patient in tribulation. Here in verse 12. And that just simply means to persevere. We persevere through difficulties. When things get hard, when things are tough, we just continue to persevere. Because we do have this hope. We know the Lord is watching all we do, and we know He's going to come back and He's going to judge us. I had a guy call me this afternoon, out of state, a friend. And he said, you'll never believe what happened today in our church. I said, what's that? He said, our pastor, right in the middle of the sermon, he said he just resigned He just resigned. He said it was a shock to everyone. Just right in the middle of the sermon, he said, I'm done. And I said, Well, did he give a reason why he decided to just up and resign? He said, because he said he was tired And that was it. He said, I'm tired, I'm done, I'm resigning, and it's over. Now, friend, if that's the criteria, I should resign. Because I'm always tired. But you know what? Even when we're tired and even when things aren't easy, you know what? We need to persevere, continue on And that's what it means, patient in tribulation. And then he says, continuing instant in prayer, which is we just continue to pray. Don't give up praying. Keep praying, keep asking, keep seeking, keep knocking. I know some of you may be saying, you know, I've prayed for something for so long. Well, friend, just keep praying. Don't give up. God's not done yet. Just keep praying. And then he says this, distributing to the necessity of the saints. And that is just giving to those who have needs And you remember the Apostle Paul, even while he wrote this letter, he's collecting money to give to the poor on his third missionary journey. He wants to Give an offering to the poor saints that are in Jerusalem. So give to those who have needs. And then in verse thirteen he says Given the hospitality. And this literally hospitality is a Greek word phileo xenon, love of a stranger We need to have love for the strangers, love for those who are without, and we need to be a lover of hospitality, then that shows real love. Now that's the list. Now let me ask you a question. How'd you do on your list? How did you do? Are you examining your own heart? Can you say honestly, well, this is this is part of who I am. This is part of my Christian life. You might not do it perfectly But friends, somewhere along the line you'll see that you have this kind of love, this kind of genuine agathi love that God has given you. Now let me give you the third thing. In relation to self We saw that. Abhor that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. In relation to the church, I'm to do all these exhortations here that Paul mentioned, but here's the last one, and perhaps maybe even the hardest one, in relation to my enemies. Because the Bible says we're to love our enemies. Look at verse 14. Bless them which persecute you. Bless and curse not. Rejoice with them that do rejoice. Weep with them that weep. And so here, the first thing, we're to bless those who persecute you. That's not an easy thing to do. And I want to tell you, friend, that's not natural. Not natural, is it, to give out a blessing to those who may persecute us, and that persecution can come in many forms. But here This is again a quality of true Christian love. Jesus said this in Matthew 5. 44, but I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you. And by the way, that's exactly what Jesus did. All during his earthly ministry, even when he was suffering on the cross. What did Jesus say, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do? And then he says, sympathize with them. Weep with them that weep. We're to rejoice with them that rejoice. We're to weep with them that weeps. And then don't look down on them. Look at verse 16. Be of the same mind. One toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. And what he means is just don't be high-minded. Just try to live in harmony with others Uh basically be of the same mind. Try to live in harmony. Strive to live in peace is what he's saying. And don't be so high-minded that you don't meet people where they are. Go to where they are. Meet people where they are. And love doesn't doesn't look down on those. Love doesn't think that you're better. than anyone else. A story is told of Abraham Lincoln, the great 16th president of the U. S. He was he was from the backwoods of Illinois and was elected president almost out of nowhere. And some of his old backwood friends decided they wanted to come and visit the White House. And they did. And when they came, uh some of the some of the more uppity uppity up people there The VIPs that were in the White House noticed this uh these people from the backwoods, and they were horrified when they saw these people drink coffee from their saucer You know what Abraham Lincoln did? He poured a little bit of coffee into a saucer and he joined them and drank it with them. That's exactly what Paul's talking about here. Don't be high-minded. Where he says, condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceit, he says here. And then he says, don't retaliate in verse 17. Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. And here he's just saying, you know, don't take matters into your own hand. Don't practice revenge. Now somebody might say, well, now wait a minute, doesn't the Bible say in the Old Testament, an eye for an eye? Well, friend, that's the job of a government or a nation to give vengeance. That's not a personal responsibility. God has never called you or me personally to take out vengeance. God has instituted government to put down evil. In fact, we'll see that as we study Romans chapter 13. The Bible says he the government bears not the sword in vain. It is the responsibility, the primary responsibility of the institution of government to punish evildoers and to do vengeance. But God says, you leave that to me. Look what he says here in verse 18. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you Live peaceably with all men. Verse 19, dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. It is the Lord's job to give vengeance. So don't you try it because you'll get in God's way. You get out of God's way. You say, I know someone who did me wrong. Well, friend, let God take care of it. You know what? He can do a whole lot better job than you can Give it over to the Lord. In 1 Thessalonians 5. 15 he says, see that none render evil for evil unto any man. But ever follow that which is good. Let the Lord take care of this. And then he says in verse 20, Therefore if thy enemy hunger, feed him. If he thirsts, give him drink. For in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Now what does that mean? You say, man, I know some people I'd like to throw some coals of fire on their head. Well, you have to understand what's happening here culturally. You see, uh this was actually doing uh good to someone in that day. Um and the the culture was that it was kind of an ancient Egyptian ritual. When uh you were actually carrying coals perhaps to start another fire and those coals became uh cool, then you would put coals on that pan that that person carried. It was actually doing good to them That's what it's talking about here. You do good. Look at verse 21. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. Now I want to tell you all these things that Paul has mentioned, and we went through this list rather quickly. We could spend a lot of time. I could do a whole series of sermons just on each one of these exhortations that the Apostle Paul gives us here. But I want to say, and you probably saw this as we went through these, that this is in ourself, we can't do this. I can't do all of this myself. Friend, I need God in my life to do This. I need to be yielded to the Holy Spirit of God. I need to, first of all, know that Jesus is my Savior and my Lord, and I need to be fully yielded to His Holy Spirit because the Holy Spirit in and through us Can help us to love in this way and show the world what God's love really looks like. And I tell you, whenever that happens, you know what? God is glorified. Because the world knows that that is not natural. That is something of God. Maybe you watched with me this week in the news of an incredible story. A Dallas police officer by the name of Amber Geiger. She returned home one night from a long shift. This was back in September 2018. She her excuse was she was on the wrong floor and she went into the wrong apartment. And there in that apartment, there was a man there. That was his apartment. He wasn't doing anything wrong. She thought it was her apartment. Again, that was the excuse that she used anyway And she pulled out her revolver and she shot this man and killed him. You know what he was doing in his apartment? He was eating a bowl of ice cream. That's all he was doing. She pulled out her gun. She shot him dead because she said she mistook him for a burglar. Well that trial was just last week. You probably saw it on the news. And she got 10 years in prison for killing this man. She'll be eligible for parole in five years. And when the sentence, the verdict was given, and her sentence was given, it was met with boos, it was met with jeers. There was a crowd outside the packed courtroom. One woman said when that verdict was given, she said it's a slap in the face. People outside the courtroom were angry at that sentence. But inside the courtroom The judge allowed the brother of this murdered man to say a few words. His name was Brandt And he got up and he addressed the witness in the courtroom. And let me let me re read you what he said. And again, you probably saw this on TV. He said this, I love you, talking to this woman that shot and killed his brother. I love you as a person. I don't wish anything bad on you. He said, I don't know if this is possible, he says to the judge, but then he said to her, to the judge, can I give her a hug? And he the judge allowed it and he went over and he hugged this woman and showed her and had true love for her. And you know what he said? He said, during the course of his testimony, he said, I wish if you go to God and ask God to forgive you, he will forgive you. And I wish that you can know Jesus Christ. I want to tell you something, friend. That went around the world. You know why? Because that kind of love, that's not natural. That is a love that comes from God, the love of Christ. Even the mayor of Dallas. He issued a statement, and he said that over that young man's testimony, he was deeply moved. And he said, This I will never ever forget the incredible example of love. personified in this young man and in that family. Friend, you know what that is? That's a love without a mask. That's the real deal. That's true Christian love. And I want to tell you, God is glorified in that because that is showing The true love of Christ. And this is what Paul is asking of us. Anyone who names the name of Christ, who truly knows the Lord, will have this kind of love. Friend, is that true of you? Do you know that that's really what you are? Let's let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Now I'm going to ask those that are going to be baptized tonight, if you'll go ahead and go to your place, and all those who will be helping them, go ahead and go to your room to get yourself ready while we have this moment of prayer and a moment of just invitation. And I want you to bow your head and close your eyes. And friend, as I said in the course of the sermon, would you examine your own heart? about this. Do you have the real deal, the real thing, the love of Christ in you? Because again, we can't do these things without it. And if you don't have it, that reveals that you're not a child of God. Because John said it very clearly in 1 John. This is how we know that we're really his children. When we love others. We'll love the children of God. We'll love even our enemies. We'll show love to them. You can't say with absolute certainty that I know that I'm a child of God, I know that I'm saved. Would you take this moment right there where you are and pray right now? You say, how can I get saved? Just remember that Jesus, when he came to this earth and died on the cross, he had all of your sins on him. God laid all of the sins of the world on Jesus. Because God has to punish sin, but he didn't want to punish you. So instead he punished his son. Jesus took all of your sins upon himself. He died for you. He died in your place. So that you can have life. Salvation is by putting your faith in what Jesus did for you. It's not by works. It's not by trying to do good It's by putting your faith in Christ and what he has done for you. And if you've never done that, friend, you can do it right now. And the Bible says that when you get saved, he will shed the love of God abroad in your heart By his Holy Spirit. Would you be willing to pray right where you are and say, Yeah, I need Jesus in my life. I need I need to be saved Pray this prayer in your heart immediately. Say, Lord Jesus, would you please forgive me for my sins? I recognize now that you are the only way of salvation. That you died for my sin. So save me, Lord Jesus. Make me your child. Place me into the family of God. Friend, if you pray that, if you reach out in faith right where you are, he will meet you right there. He will save you. He will forgive you of your sin. He'll give you eternal life if you'll just put your faith in him. I don't want to embarrass anyone, but with heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say that's me? I want to trust Christ. I want to be saved. I want to know Jesus. Father, again, thank you for your word. Bless these words to hear your hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' precious, wonderful name. Amen.