Now take your Bibles open to the book of Luke, chapter ten. Samaritan. The title of the sermon is Loving Your Neighbor. So Luke chapter 10, we're going to look at this parable, verse 25. Actually, we want to get the context of it. We'll start there The question, what must I do to inherit eternal life, that's easily the most important question that a person will ever ask. It's more important than the question, whom will I marry? Although I tell young people that's a very important question. But this one's even more important. It's more important than what career shall I pursue? Life is so uncertain that a person could be in his grave before he marries or enters a career. And so the matter of where one spends eternity is a crucial matter to settle before all others. Now a man who was a scholar and an expert in Old Testament Jewish law asked Jesus this very question. We're going to look at that in verse 25. And you know it's possible to ask the right question with the wrong question Motive. That's basically what he does here. He knew the answer in his head, but his heart was not right with God. He was not open to the fact that perhaps he himself needed eternal life. He knew the law, after all, better than the average Jewish person. He kept the law, or at least he thought he did. And really the however the reason he asked this question to Jesus was Not because he was a sincere seeker, because he wanted to test Jesus. He wanted to trip him up. But Jesus basically turns the question back on him. And then the lawyer tries to uh find a loophole in the law to justify himself, to make him appear righteous before everyone else, and that's when Jesus gives this parable the So this guy basically comes to Jesus expecting kind of to land a theological knockout punch, and Jesus kind of reverses it. This guy, when he tells this parable, this parable silences him. It's kind of like a gut punch to this guy. Just knock the wind out of him. This parable, the parable of the Good Samaritan, is perhaps the most well known of Jesus' parables. It is beloved, it's very interesting. It has a common message to it That is be kind to strangers. And in fact, as a result of this parable, when we want to compliment someone for doing good, we call them a what? A good Samaritan We name hospitals and mission organizations and heroes. Good Samaritan. But the lesson in this parable Is not merely an exhortation to help someone in need, although that's certainly here, it goes deeper than that. Really, what he's showing here is he's showing what the law really demands of us. Jesus tells this story to illustrate to this religious legalist and to all how far short we fall of what God's law That's really the whole point of it. In short, Jesus is telling this parable to this religious person who is trying to To portray himself as being one who has obeyed the law and merited eternal life. He was telling this to show him that he's fallen short of the And he was graciously revealing to him what the law demands. It demands love. The whole fulfilling of the law is Love. We don't have the love that the law demands. We don't have it. That's the whole point of this. So let me just show you three lessons here in this period. Well, number one, I want to talk about the priority of love, the great question. Let's look at the context of this. And really we have to understand the context Look at verse 25. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Now what what happened in Jesus' ministry this thus far was that uh he has been met with relentless opposition in this area He's at the point now where he's sending his disciples out on missions and they're coming back and reporting to him what's happening, and they're also meeting with opposition. And then if you look in we don't have time to look at it all, but in Luke chapter ten, he basically gives some words of condemnation for these Jewish towns in Galilee that heard Jesus speak, they saw his miracles in Galilee. Yet they didn't repent, they didn't believe, and so he gives a harsh condemnation to them. If you look in verse 13 of chapter 10, Woe unto thee, Khorazin, and woe unto thee, Bessaidah, and so on. So he pronounces woe Jesus, as it were, is kind of shaking the dust off because even though he did great miracles in them, they didn't repent. They didn't believe. And then As a result of that, this whole religious community gets angry. They were already angry at them, but they're even more filled with anger. And so it was at this point that this legal expert, one of the hostile religious leaders, steps forward. He was a Jewish lawyer. He was a lawyer in a sense not Not like a Roman civil lawyer, like he didn't know Roman civil law. He knew Jewish law. He wasn't really a lawyer, he was more like a theologian, but he was an expert in the Old Testament. Look at verse 25, tempting him, it says, which means to test. Again, he was not an honest seeker. He was attempting to attrap and embarrass Jesus. It was a challenge to a debate, is what it was You better watch it when you try to challenge Jesus to a debate. He wanted to impale Jesus on the horns of a theological dilemma and impress the crowd with his superior knowledge. And so he raises the question, it's a good question, however, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Despite the evil motive, it's a the greatest question. Now this lawyer no doubt thought that he had already inherited eternal life. After all, he knew the law. He was a member of the covenant race. some Jews that felt just by virtue of the fact that they were Jewish, they were going to go to heaven. There's a uh uh one of the old test old Jewish writings that said Abraham sits at the gate of hell to make sure no Jew enters in So they thought that already, just by virtue of being Jewish, he was going to heaven. He never missed a Jewish feast or sacrifice. He observed all of the Jewish traditions. He was careful to avoid any kind of ceremonial defilement. He tied not only his money, but even tablespices Remember Jesus mentioned that you tithe even your your mint and your cumin and all those little spices. Please don't tithe your table spices to us This man was just fastidious. He thought he had all his bases covered. He thought that he had eternal life by keeping the law. And so he comes to Jesus and he asks this question. But notice how Jesus answers. Look at verse 26. And he said unto him, What what is written in the law? How readest thou? Jesus says, Well, what is What does the law say? What does the Old Testament say? One thing I want to point out here is just notice how Jesus points back to the Bible, back to the scripture. You know why? This book is the only book that can tell you how to get eternal life. This is where it's found right here. It's not found in man's philosophy. It's not found in man's wisdom. Not even in Jewish tradition. He didn't say to the man, Well, what's your opinion? How do you think? Rather, Jesus directed him back to the written word because that is our sole authority. Jesus says, What do you read? How do you interpret what you read in the Word of God? And notice the lawyer's response, verse twenty-seven. And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, with all thy strength, with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself So he responds by quoting the Shema in Deuteronomy, to love the Lord with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. And then he adds to that Leviticus 19, 18, where it says you're to love your neighbor as well. As yourself. That was a good response. Look what Jesus says. Verse 28. And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right, do this, and thou shalt live. Jesus saying, this is exactly right. And it's almost like Jesus walks him into this. Yeah, this is right And if you want to have eternal life in heaven, then do this. Perfect answer. Do this and you will live. You want eternal life, obey the law. Now, I know it's You're thinking. You're thinking, now, wait a minute, we can't get saved by obeying the law. I mean, at first glance, it would seem like Jesus here, his reply is contradicting the heart of the gospel. You can't get saved by obeying the law. After all, Galatians 2. 16 says, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. We're justified by faith in Christ, not by the works of the law. So what's going on here? Why does Jesus answer him this way? Why doesn't Jesus just preach the gospel to this man rather than tell him to obey the law? Well, you know, theoretically, we could get we could go to heaven Heaven by obeying the law theoretically, but the problem is you have to be perfect. God demands absolute perfection. Nobody has this This lawyer vainly thought that he was keeping the law. And so what does Jesus do? Jesus is using the law just like it was intended. What was the law intended to do? The law was intended to show us that we can't fulfill the law. It was to drive us to the mercy of God To drive us to salvation, to the gospel. Jesus was using the law as a tutor. Remember what Paul said in Galatians? The law is a tutor to bring us to Christ. To get you ready for the gospel. And we see this pattern with Jesus in the Gospels. We see it when a person would come to Jesus if a and you you find this when you read the gospel. If a person came to Jesus Broken over their sin, mourning over their sin. You know what Jesus would say to them? He would say, You're forgiven. Go and sin no more He would say to the people that were broken and humbled over their sin, knowing how sinful they were, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you what? Rest. Rest from the burden of sin. Rest from the guilt that you're feeling. If they were poor in spirit, Jesus would say, yours is the kingdom. However, if you read in the Gospels and you'll find when people came to him and they were not broken over their sin, if they came proud of their religious achievement, proud of their self-righteousness. Thinking themselves to be worthy, you know what Jesus would do every time? He would hold the law up right next to him. He would just hold the law up to him. It was a Jesus' way of saying: just take a really good look At who you really are. If they came to him mourning, he would comfort them. If they came to him comforted, he would bring them the mourning. If they came to him humble, he would exalt them by forgiving them and placing them in the kingdom. If they came exalted, he would humble them. In short, he would comfort the afflicted and he would afflict the comforted. And he would do this by using the law. So this man here, he was infested with religious pride. He thought he was righteous He thought he was fulfilling the law, and Jesus was simply holding up the mirror of God's word next to this legal expert and saying, Here, take a good look You know, this morning when you came to church, didn't you look in the mirror? And didn't you you didn't walk away from the mirror and say, I'm I'm I'm I'm fine Looking good. When you when you went to the mirror, you said there's some things that aren't right. Need to take care of this. And when we look into the mirror of the law, you know what the law shows us It shows us where we're not right. It shows us that we are sinners. But the thing about the mirror is the mirror can't cleanse us The mirror can only reveal who we are. This man was saying, mirror, mirror on the wall. Who's the most righteous of them all? And Jesus held up the mirror, and the mirror was saying, It ain't you, buddy. It's not you. If this lawyer were an honest man, he should have acknowledged that he didn't love God the way he should. He should have acknowledged that he didn't love his neighbor as he should. But this man who was so steeped in the law and steeped in Old Testament study, he should have been broken by that law. He should have been humbled. He should have felt deep conviction. His next question is Jesus should have been, how can I find mercy? I know from experience that I am not the uh able to fulfill this law. I'm not loving God the way I should. I'm not loving my neighbor as myself. I'm so filled with sin and selfishness. Where can I be forgiven? Where can I find redemption? The fallow ground of his heart should have been broken up so the seed of the gospel could be planted there and watered with tears of repentance and bring forth. fruit of fruit of salvation in his life. That's what should have happened. But he's so filled with righteousness, his own righteousness. And there was a tinge of conviction, however. Look at his response in verse number twenty-nine. But he, willing to justify himself, he felt the need to Justify himself when Jesus said, Okay, yeah, that's right, go and do this. And he knew immediately that he fell short, especially this area of loving his neighbor. And so But he felt the need to justify himself before Jesus. Remember, this is a debate. There's a crowd around, they're all listening. And Jesus kind of laid It leaves him standing there in his own self-righteousness when he says, Yeah, do it and you'll live. Everybody around there knew that nobody could do that. He should have known that So he felt the need to justify himself. And so he asked another question. And he said unto Jesus in verse 29: Who is my neighbor? You're to love your neighbor as yourself? Well, the next question is, who is my neighbor? You see, he wanted to uh find a technicality in the law That he could rest in. He was basically looking in the mirror and saying, that mirror can't possibly be right. I can't possibly be right. be that bad. He did what lawyers do. He tried to find a loophole. He was not willing to admit that there was something wrong with him, even though deep down inside he knew it. And so there's a little conviction here in So what does he do? Rather than yielding to that conviction, the desire to convince people that he was righteous overpowered the desire to be honest with himself He wanted to maintain the facade of being religious. He was desperate to make himself look good in the eyes of others. And so he asked, Well, just who is my neighbor? Now the rabbis had already explored this issue. They had studied eighteen, and when they looked at the term neighbor in that old testament, Saul. You didn't have to love anyone who wasn't a fellow Israelite. Some Jewish rabbis taught that this command does not apply to foreigners It doesn't apply to Samaritans. In fact, one rabbinical saying said this that all that heretics and informers and renegades should be pushed into the ditch You didn't have any obligation to love them. And so really the lawyer is saying, Who do I have to love? He was implying, I don't have to love everyone. Not everybody is my neighbor. Just fellow Israelites, the love that I'm required to show doesn't cross religious barriers or racial barriers And so Jesus, now at that point, you know, Jesus, he could have dismissed the guy. He could have said, you know what, you're a hopeless case. So you're not going to get into the kingdom. So I'm just going to move on. But the very fact that Jesus would graciously respond to this man's self-righteousness and give this parable I think was an act of humility on Jesus' part. It was an act of compassion. This parable, then, is a wake-up call to this self-righteous man. And it's Jesus saying, Let me tell you the love that God demands. The love that the law demands. So I want you to see the second part of this, not only the priority of love, the great question, but also Also, number two, the portrait of love. Notice the parable. Look at verse 30. And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves. Which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. road from Jerusalem down to Jericho. This is a very real road. I had been on this road myself, this route. If you go over to Israel, you can basically take this route Goes down from uh Jerusalem down to Jericho. That's about 17 miles. It's a drop in elevation about 3,600 feet. So you're constantly going down and it's a road that has a lot of twists and turns and there's caverns alongside the road. This is It's a very dangerous road, it still is. And here this man traveled this road. Now normally in this time, when a person was leaving Jerusalem and traveling this road, people would try to do it in groups, but this man is traveling alone. In fact, most priests that served their term in the temple in Jerusalem. Many of them lived in Jericho. This is the New Testament Jericho, not the Old Testament Jericho. There were two Jericho There in the Bible. This is the New Testament Jericho. They would live in Jerusalem. They would take this road and go down to Jericho and live there. It was such a great place to live. And so there were travelers on this road. And so this man takes This means he was leaving, perhaps he was going home. Leaving Jerusalem. That means that he was probably, most certainly, a Jew leaving Jerusalem. Maybe he Had come there for temple worship or something, but now he's on his way back and he falls among thieves. It happened suddenly. There were a lot of muggings along this road, and this man is mugged He's robbed, he's brutalized, he's left bloody and naked and dying. They took everything he had, leaving him to die there on that road. Now without Any help, he would have died. There he is, bleeding on the on the road. A dying man on a desert road. We would say today that he was in critical condition. Now, notice what happens. Notice the priest, verse 31. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way. And when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. I you know there's a little bit of hope here in the story. On the surface it looks that way because there's good news. Guess what? Here comes a priest Priest. Surely if anyone would help a broken and bleeding man, it would be a priest, a servant of God. This was a priest that perhaps Perhaps he was serving his term in temple service, and he was going home, and he comes upon this man that was bleeding, surely a spiritual priest who offers sacrifice For the people would have compassion on this man. I mean, after all, he represents the best of men. And this man, no doubt, knows the Mosaic law. He knows to love your neighbor as yourself Surely he's going to help, but all hope fades because as this man encounters this fellow Jew lying in a pool of blood, his life blood ebbing away, what does he do? He passes on the other side This is a very strong word in the Greek, antiparchomide, to purposely shun, to ignore, careful not to touch Because after all, and by the way, this guy could use the law to justify what he's doing. You know, if you touch someone who's dead, you can contaminate yourself. And he didn't want to have to do that go back to the Jerusalem and go through the cleansing rites. This man was perhaps dead already, so he didn't want to be ceremonial ceremonial uncleans He was a priest after all. And so the best thing for him to do is to just pass by as far away without getting contaminated with his Man. And that's what he does. Reminds me of the lady who took a first aid course. She spent weeks learning first aid. And then one day she saw a car accident and there was a person laying on the pavement, their life, blood spilling out, and she said, Oh, it was so horrible she said I almost fainted she said but then I remembered my first aid and I sat down and I put my head between my knees so I didn't faint Didn't really quite understand the purpose of first aid there. So then here comes the Levite. Passed by. Look at verse 32, the Levite. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and he also passed by on the other side. Here's another religious man. The Levites served at the temple. They did a lot of different things there, myriad of things. But yet he passes by on the other side. Maybe he saw the priest pass And thought, well, if the priest doesn't help him, I'm not obligated to help him. Maybe the priest saw the Levite behind him and said, Oh, he'll help them. They both use each other for an excuse, perhaps Meanwhile, this man is bloody and dying. These men are the best of Israel, the religious workers there, the best of the establishment. They were religious but they didn't know God. They just passed them by. And by the way, they were able to give good reasons why they couldn't help them. That moment, I'm sure. Spurgeon said this: I never knew a man to refuse to help the poor who failed to give at least one admirable excuse And so these guys, they just pass by. And before we condemn them, we have to ask ourselves the question, are we any better? Have we passed by people that have needed our help? Gary Indrick writes this quote: He says, We should not make the mistake of thinking these are bad men. No, not bad men, but busy. For them, and often, too often for me, people in need are problems, interruptions, nuisances. They intrude awkwardly on my privacy They deflect me from my duty. They distract me from my responsibility. They keep me from pleasures. I agree they need help. And I hope that someone does But not me, not now, not here. I have a different agenda. Well then there's the Samaritan. Look at the next verse here, verse thirty three, and I And but a certain Samaritan as he journeyed came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion on the I think by this time the audience is kind of caught up in the story. They're probably wondering as Jesus is telling this story, who's going to help this half-dead man? I mean, after all the priests didn't and the Levite didn't, and so now they're thinking, well, it's got to be some layman, but they never expected the twist that Jesus gave A Samaritan. Who? A Samaritan. You've got to be kidding me. The Jews hated Samaritans. They saw nothing good in them. You know why? Because Samaritans were they called them half-breeds. They were Jews who married Gentiles. produced what they called half breeds. They were foreigners in the mind of the Jews. In fact, one rabbi said they have no law, not even the remnants of command, and they are thus Suspect and degenerate. They look down on Samaritans, and likewise Samaritans looked down on Jews. So you had a really huge religious and racial barrier here because the Samaritan Samaritans, when they worshiped, they set up their own temple and their own place of worship, not in Jerusalem. So this was deliberately shocking to the audience. And I think Jesus is making a point here. But notice how this Samaritan Acts. Notice how love acts. He has compassion. Look what it says in verse 33. It says, He came where he was. And when he saw him, there's the first thing. Love refuses to ignore a need. He saw the man, he didn't ignore the need. He didn't close his eyes and pass on the other side. A few years ago a CBS anchorman and reporter was mugged outside his apartment and New York. He was he was lucid, he was awake, but he couldn't move. And what he noticed was that from two in the morning until the dawn, people passed by and no one did it anything. No one did a thing. All he could do is moan. Love does not ignore a need. Secondly, love has compassion in verse 33. It says he had compassion on him to feel with someone. The Samaritan didn't come and give him a lecture about how he needed to improve on his travel habits. You shouldn't be traveling on this road alone. He didn't give him a lecture. Compassion doesn't do that. Compassion feels Deals with the person. Love has compassion. Love meets the need. Look at verse 34. And he went to him. This is the polar opposite of what the priest and the Levite did They went away from him. This man goes to him, and he bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an end, and took care of him. So he bandages him. He pours in the oil and the wine. The wine acted like an antiseptic. The oil was kind of a healing bomb that would seal the wound and prevent infection. When he bandages bandaged him, what did he have to use? Obviously he had to use clothes from his own bag Tearing them up, putting a bandage around them. And when he pours in the oil, it's kind of a lavish thing. Jesus is emphasizing how Sacrificial this man was. He didn't just dab his wounds. He poured in the oil. He set him on his own beast, verse 34. That means this the Samaritan had to walk the rest of the way. Well, this injured man was on his mule. This was not minimal care He was making sacrifices and he brought him to an inn and took care of him. He didn't just take him to an inn and leave him there. He stayed with him. He got him a room. He nursed the man back to health. He continued to treat his wounds. He didn't leave until the next morning, which means he stayed here with him all night, nursing him, giving him food and comfort and water and whatever he needed. And then notice verse 35. And on the morrow, when he departed, he took out two pence, and he gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again I will repay thee. Two pence, that's about from what we know of the rates in that time on a wayside side end like that, that's about two months room and board Two months. And then he says to the innkeeper, Look, let him stay here, let him get well, and if there's any other charges, I'll take care of it when I get back. I mean, he gives this guy a blank check. You ever do that to a stranger? Just give him a blank check. Now this Samaritan easily could have thought, let the Jews take care of him. After all, he's a Jew. I don't have any responsibility here. But that's not the way love acts. He saw him as a fellow human being, not as a man from a different race. All racial prejudice stems from pride, but he lays aside any such pride And he shows compassion, and he sees this man as a man who is created in the image of God. And he gives him his time, his clothes, his supplies, a significant amount of cash A promise to give more. He never asked if he could get the money back. I'm sure he assumed that he would never get it back. He doesn't bombard the man with questions to find out what happened, to see if this guy's worthy of his investment. He doesn't do any of that. He sees a need. He has compassion. He goes to the man. He meets the need. This is love here. This is the answer to the question, who is my neighbor? Answer anybody who has a need. That's your neighbor. But let's be honest with ourselves. I mean this seems excessive to us in our day, that this man would do all of this. I mean, we would do this for family members sometimes. We would even perhaps do it for a friend, but a stranger, someone you'd never met, and even someone that could be considered an enemy. That would look down upon you? Would you be willing to single-handedly provide everything that person needs, dress their wounds, take care of Care of them, feed them, stay with them through the night, pay all their bills, and leave them a blank check to a stranger? No. The only person we would do this for is ourself. Most of the time. But what does the what does the law say? Love your neighbor as yourself. This is loving your neighbor as yourself. Jesus is describing a rare love here that has no love Now let me give you the last thing quickly. We see the priority of love, the great question, the portrait of love, the good Samaritan. Number three, the practice of love. This is the gracious challenge. Now keep in mind that this whole story, what's it designed to do? It's designed to answer the lawyer's question, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And the answer goes something like this. Well what does the law say? Well it says love your neighbor as yourself. You've answered rightly, go do this. And then you Jesus gives this parable in order to show what impossible high standard that is, that He himself couldn't meet this standard. This is the high standard of love. This was a rebuke to this lawyer, and it should be a rebuke to all of us. And if we really loved that way, this wouldn't seem so generous to us, it wouldn't seem so excessive to us. Whatever theological trap the Lord was trying to set for Jesus was defeated by this parable. Jesus was basically saying to him that you don't have the love that God demands because this is the kind of love that you need to exhibit to fulfill the law and you need to do it not just one time, you need to do it all the time. Every day, all the time. And notice he turns it back on the lawyer. Look at verse 36. He finally asks him at the end, now, which of these three thinkest thou was neighbor unto him? There's only one possible answer, verse thirty-seven, and he said, He that showeth mercy on him, then said Jesus unto him, Go and do thou likewise. Again, this should have provoked deep conviction and humble confession in him because the law demands this love perfectly all the time. And if the lawyer was honest, he would have said, I can't do this I am selfish, I can't live up to that standard. He would confess his guilt and he would say, God forgive me. He would humble himself. And Jesus, you know what He would do, he would forgive him and he would comfort him with salvation. That's what should happen here. And by the way, you know what happens at salvation? The Holy Spirit comes inside of us, and you know what he does? He gives us the ability to love like this. Because Because in and of ourselves we can't do this. And even with the Holy Spirit, we sometimes are not consistent with this. But here's the point when you get saved, when you trust Jesus, we now have the Holy Spirit inside of us, and the Bible says that the Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit's love is shed abroad in our heart, and now we can love like this. But it's got to be God who does it. You see, when God saves us by His grace, He doesn't throw off the standard of His holy law. Rather, as Paul puts it, the requirement of the law is fulfilled in us who do not walk after the flesh, but after the what? The Spirit. When we're walking in the Spirit, the requirements of the law are fulfilled in us, but it's not us, it's the Holy Spirit in us. Spurgeon put it like this. He said, What the law demands of us, the gospel produces in us. And that's exactly what happened. You see the law in one can in one case it beats us down because it gives us this high standard and we can't live up to it and it should cause us to humble ourselves. And say, God be merciful to me. But on the other hand, it presents a standard that we reach for now that we're saved and we know the Lord Jesus. This is his standard of love. This is what he expects of us. Now that we're saved, we can love like this through his help. And so this parable ought to cause us to say: I want to be a good Samaritan. Let me just close with this. There's a story of a young man by the name of Bob who on one Christmas received a new car from his brother as a present. And on Christmas Eve, when he came out of his office to drive this car home, he noticed that there was a little street kid admiring this shiny new car. And when the man came to his car, the little boy said, Is this your car, Mister? And the man said, Yes, it sure is. My brother gave it to me for Christmas. The little boy was astonished. He said, You mean he just gave it to you? And it didn't cost you anything? Wow. Boy, I wish, and then the little boy hesitated. I wish, and Bob was kind of in his mind completing the little boy's sentence You know? And finally the little boy said, I wish I wish I could be a brother like that. And that answer astonished Bob He thought the little boy was going to say, I wish I could get a car like that. But no, the little boy said, I wish I could be a brother like that. And so Bob said to the little boy, Would you like a ride? And his eyes lit up. He said, Absolutely. And they got in the car and the little boy was just sparkling with excitement. And after a while, the little boy said, Mister, can you drive to my house Stop off in front of my house and Bob was thinking, well, he wants to show off a little bit. So he said, Sure. And so he went to the house and the little boy said, Sir, can you stop there at those two steps? And he stopped there and almost before the man could get the Car stopped, the little boy jumped out of the car, he ran in the house, he ran upstairs. He was there for a few minutes and that then he came downstairs and he came out of the house. And Bob was shocked to see the carrying on his back was his crippled little brother. And he said to his little brother, Johnny, John, I told you this is w this is it right here His brother gave him this car. It didn't cost him a cent. And someday I'm going to get you one just like it. And we're going to go and see all the things I've been telling you about. And Bob was so moved by what he heard that little boy say I wish I could be a neighbor like that. I wish I could be a neighbor like that. There's one other deep lesson here, and that is the way the good Samaritan love the traveler is the way Jesus loves us. Us. He found us mortally wounded. He knew that we couldn't help ourselves. Man couldn't help us. Religion couldn't help us. It's only a relationship with God. When we begin to see our own fallenness, our sinfulness, that our own goodness falls short of God's law, and when we reach out to Jesus for salvation He will save us and he will place his love in our hearts and make us the people that we ought to be. He will make us neighbors like that. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for this parable so clear. Lord, help Us to realize that in and of ourself, we we don't measure up to this. We can't fulfill this standard of love as sinners Selfish people in and of ourselves, we don't have that capacity. And Lord, may we be broken by our inability Broken over our own sin. May we look at the mirror of the law and realize that Lord, we there there's things that need to be made right and we don't have the power to make it right So may he cause us to cast ourselves upon you for mercy and salvation. And then, Lord, as you fill us with your Holy Spirit, may we exhibit this kind of love. May this be our standard. May this be our goal to love this way. Lord, this world needs this. Our city needs it. This. We need it. So bless these words to hearing hearts, we pray. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask if you're here today, has God convicted you You of your sin? Has he shown you through his word that you don't measure up? I don't measure up. We're sinners. We can't obey the law. We can't fulfill the righteousness of the law. Friend, that was done by Jesus. Jesus Christ for us. And when we come to Him and we realize that we're sinners and we ask for His forgiveness, when we turn from our sin and turn to Him, He will save us. He will save us. He will cleanse us from our sin. He will give us eternal life. That's how you get eternal life. By coming to Christ. How many Here can say, I have done that. I know that I'm saved. Would you raise your hand? Yes, I know beyond any shadow of the doubt that I have eternal life through what Christ has done. You may put your hands down. Perhaps you couldn't raise your hand at that moment And I'm inviting you right now. In fact, the Bible commands you to come, to repent, to trust in Jesus. Would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, be merciful to me A sinner, save me. Forgive me. And if you'll pray that and mean it, friend, you can be saved today. How many of you say that's my prayer? Pray for me, preacher. I want to know Jesus. I want to come to him Him today. Anyone here? My second invitation is my desire is to be a neighbor like that. May God help me to live out this kind of love. I have the power now through The Holy Spirit. I have the resource. May God help me to put it to practice. Is that your prayer today, friend? God help me to be a neighbor like that. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Lord, use your word To strengthen the body of Christ, to help us be what we ought to be. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.