Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of First Timothy? It's our privilege to be studying First Timothy on Sunday nights. And we're in chapter six. We're really getting close to the end of this epistle. We're going to be looking at verses six. down to verse ten tonight of 1 Timothy uh chapter 6. And I just want to read a few verses here with you, starting in verse number 6. But godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that we carry nothing out. And having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil, while which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows I think 1 Timothy 6. 10 is perhaps the most misquoted verse in the Bible. We hear people say all the time, the Bible says money is the root of all evil. But that's not what the verse says if you look at it very closely. It says the love of money is the root of all evil. There are some people that have money that don't love it. And there are some people that don't have money that do love it It's not a matter really of accumulation, it's a matter of attitude in your heart. And so God's not against people having riches. Because in fact, if you look in the Bible, you'll find out that some of God's greatest saints were blessed by God to have a great material prosperity and riches. You think about Abraham in the Old Testament. I think about Job. The Bible says how rich he was. And the Bible talks about David and Solomon and others. And so, you know, God was able to bless these men with riches because he could trust them with his resources. And there are many people that are blessed with material possessions. today. And by the way, being rich is a relative term. I think everyone in America is rich. When you compare our country to other countries, I've been to other countries. Last summer I went to India. I was down in the Philippines. I saw real poverty. And anyone in those conditions would consider any American to be rich compared to what they have. And so we need to thank God that He's been so good to us. And so this is not a sermon against rich people, it's a sermon against covetousness and greed. It's a sermon against loving money. And Paul gives Timothy a warning about this very thing. And what I want you to see here in our passage tonight are three detrimental aspects of loving money. Here's the first thing. Number one, the distortion of loving money. Paul had just been writing about uh characteristics of false teachers. If you were with us last week, you know that. We dealt with uh the marks of false teachers. And there were false teachers at the church at Ephesus, and these were godless men who were really in the ministry for financial gain. They thought godliness was a means of financial gain. In other words, they were just in the ministry for money. Religion was big business in Ephesus. If you know anything about that city, there was a huge temple there dedicated to the false goddess Diana And there was a lot of merchandise that was surrounding that false religion. There were um uh idol makers who made a lot of money from that there were temple prostitutes and so on. And so big money was made out of religion in Ephesus. And so perhaps maybe the these false teachers saw it to market Christianity uh and pad their own pockets. Perhaps they went out on a lecture circuit and they were were charging people for what they were Hearing in those days there were many popular teachers, uh teachers of wisdom that would go around and gather an audience and charge fees for them to for people to hear their wisdom. Most likely these men were teaching an early version of health and wealth gospel. We think that that's new, but I don't think it's new at all. So they were interested not in religion for its own sake, but they were interested in patting their pocket and making money Greed has always been a danger for the church. I think last time we talked a little bit about this in the Middle Ages the the the Roman Catholic Church began to uh m sell indulgences, which was basically a piece of paper Marked with the authority of the Pope who said, who supposedly had the keys of the kingdom, that once that person bought that piece of paper, the Pope had the authority to spring their loved ones out of purgatory. And they were selling indulgences in the church at Rome. And so you can see how they were taking advantage of desperate people who were concerned over their loved ones. Thinking that if they bought an indulgence, they were able to get their loved one out of hell. That's nothing but uh just false religion uh making a merchandise of people, selling salvation. But even today Christian television programs spend a great deal of time and energy telling people how that if you give to this ministry, God is going to give back to you. Just give us the seed money and you'll get the harvest I wonder why they don't try that themselves if it works so well. Why don't they tr they do that? They they they say you send us A donation and God is going to give back to you. You know, send us your seed money and you'll get a big harvest. And there are many people who fall into that. And again, people are taken advantage of by hucksters. That's why many unbelievers look at the church and Christianity today and say, it's all about money. Well who can blame them when they have to see some of the abuses that they watch on television? There's been financial scandals, embezzlement of funds, inappropriate use of funds. We hear stories all the time, how these things rise up, secretaries who embezzle funds, ministers who uh misuse funds and use it for their own selfish purpose. This is why the Apostle Paul was careful in the use of money. He refused to sell the gospel. This is why many places he went to, rather than taking money from the people, he worked for himself. He he was a tent maker. Why? Because he didn't want the gospel to appear to be chargeable He didn't want people to think that he was just another one of those religious hucksters going around trying to take money from people. He wanted to give the gospel freely at one point Paul said in 1 Corinthians 9, look, I have a right to receive compensation for what I'm doing, but I'm limiting that liberty because it's my joy. It's a joy for me to preach the gospel freely So that people can understand and know that the gospel has no charge with it. And that was the joy that Paul had. He worked very hard himself to pay for his own needs and preach the gospel just for the joy that he had. for of doing that. He never peddled the word of God. And so Paul is warning Timothy about these false teachers. And he's warning that they are teaching a false message, and they are distorting what true gang really is. And so notice how they were distorting the truth. Loving money distorts true gain. Look at verse 6. But godliness with contentment is great gain. Now notice the first word in verse 6, but that's an important word. It's in contrast to what the false teachers were teaching and what they believed. They thought that religion and godliness was a means of gain. Paul says, no, godliness is not the means to financial gain. Godliness is the gain Godliness itself is the gain. Godliness with contentment is great gain. Paul says godliness doesn't uh does indeed provide gain, but not the way they think. Godliness itself is its own reward. And of course the word godliness here is Eusebia, the idea of a reverent heart for God, a love for God. It is knowing Jesus Christ and salvation. Really, that's what godliness is. It's a holy walk with the Lord. That in itself has its own reward. That in itself is great. gain. And actually, in verse 6 it says, godliness with contentment. When you add contentment, that's not just gain, that's great gain. The word great there is mega Huge. Large. And so godliness is gain, but when you add contentment to it, it it makes it huge. It makes it great gain If you're able to have godliness and you're able to have contentment, that is true riches. Now what is contentment here? We've talked about this before. The Greek word that Paul uses here is a word that he kind of lifted out of the Greek world, and it was a word that was used by cynic and stoic philosophers. um of of a a state of mind that they would try to achieve. A stoic was someone who had no emotion. They were kind of like a rock in their personality. And the idea was they did not let outward circumstances affect them. And the way they would do this is they would just harden themselves. They would just dis they would um uh uh disassociate themselves from people and things and their emotions and they kinda grew hard like a rock. And where did they get the strength to not allow themselves to be controlled by outward circumstances? Where did they get that from? It was self. They got it from self. It was a self-sufficiency that they had. And that's really what the word means here. A self-sufficiency that is not affected by outward circumstances. And these were this is where the Stoics thought that they had cornered the market on being content and being self-sufficient. Now what Paul does is he takes that word And he kind of brings it into Christianity and he adaptizes it as it were. And he puts a sanctified twist on it. And he basically says this our contentment as a Christian does not come from self-sufficiency. It comes from Christ's sufficiency. We get our strength from the Lord Jesus Christ. We don't let outward circumstances affect us. Because we get an inner strength from the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's Christ who gives us that contentment, that inward contentment. We can't get it any other way. We can't get it through self. The Bible says this in 2 Corinthians 3. 5, not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves, but our adequacy is from God. And then in 2 Corinthians 9:8, Paul adds, God is able to make all grace abound to you, that always having all sufficiency in everything, ye may have an abundance for every good deed. Do you get that? It all comes from Christ. He gives us that ability. He gives us that grace. We're not adequate in this, but Christ is. And because of Jesus Christ, we can be content. We can have a true inner contentment because we know him. Remember what Paul said to the Philippians when he was in a Roman prison, chained to a Roman guard? The government didn't provide his meals. Paul had to depend upon others to bring him whatever he needed from the outside. He was unable to do anything to change his present circumstances. And in that prison Paul wrote these words, not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned in whatsoever say I am therewith to be content. I know how to be abased, I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I am instructed both to be full And to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. Here was Paul in that circumstance, and you know what He was perfectly joyful. He was perfectly satisfied. He had learned to be content. He had learned to draw upon the strength of Christ, to give him that inner contentment, so that outward circumstances really didn't matter to Paul. That was irrelevant. He wasn't worried about his situation because he had Christ. True satisfaction does not come from material possession. Material possessions are absolutely irrelevant. The human soul was not created to find satisfaction in the accumulation of stuff And the accumulation of material things. That's a ghost that too many people have chased. Remember what Solomon wrote, Ecclesiastes 5. 10? He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increase. This is also vanity, said Solomon. And by the way, he would know. I mean someone estimated that his and his weekly income, if we use today's standards, was about $75 million a week. I think I could live on that. But that's how much he he got. And yet here's Solomon saying, he that loves silver is not going to be satisfied with silver. Solomon had all he could want. And it did not bring any contentment. It did not bring any peace into his heart. Satisfaction and true contentment is inseparably linked with knowing Christ. Knowing Jesus Christ. It comes through an intimate relationship with Christ. It comes through walking with Christ. That's why godliness, and you add to that contentment, is great gain. Beloved, that is true riches. But the love of money distorts that reality The love of money teaches the opposite. But another thing, loving money distorts our focus. Look in verse number 7. For we brought nothing into this world. And it is certain that we can carry nothing out. And in the Greek, the word nothing is placed first in the sentence for emphasis. Nothing. We brought into this world. That's the emphasis there. No one comes in the world all dressed up touching the shopping catalog. And when we leave this world, we're going to leave it empty-handed as well. John D. Rockefeller, when he died, his his aide was asked, how much did he leave behind? And the man wisely answered, he left it all behind. He didn't take anything with him. Job said this, Naked came I from my mother's womb, naked shall I return. In Ecclesiastes 5. 15, again Solomon says, As he came forth of his mother's womb, naked shall he return to go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labor, which he may carry away in his hand. There's a Spanish proverb that says, There are no pockets and a shroud. That's why pursuing these things, greed for Christians, uh, doesn't make sense. That's why for believers our focus is not on the temporal, it's not on the earthly, it's not on the material possessions, it is an eternal focus That's the focus for God's people. We're not supposed to live for the temporary things of this world. We live for the kingdom. We live for eternal things. We live for heavenly heavenly things. Mark 8 verse 36, for what shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? And then Jesus illustrates this point in a parable. You remember the parable of the rich fool? Here's a man who has a bumper crop one year. He's got all this coming in and he says, you know what, I need to build bigger barns. to store all of my harvest. And he does that. He's got everything stored up. And then he says to himself, you know, soul, take thy ease. You have many goods laid up for many years. Take it easy. Eat, drink, and be merry, you know. But then God said this, thou fool, thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee And if you look at that word required there, it's a Greek word that means it's a commercial term, and it means a loan. It speaks of a loan. God's going to require the loan. That you had. Now what's the loan? Well the loan is our life here on earth. God God gives us life here on earth as alone. You understand that? And one day God calls us alone in. And your soul is required of you. Any time God wants, God can call in his loan, the loan of life that you have, the very breath that you breathe is from Almighty God. Everything you have is from Almighty God. Your life is from Almighty God. And God can call in that loan And this man was so worried about his earthly accounts, he had no regard whatsoever for his eternal account with God. This rich man made a very thoughtful, deliberate decision, but he left out eternity in his thinking. He chose to focus on time. instead of eternity. He chose to focus on the body instead of the soul. He chose to focus on himself instead of God. He chose to focus on earthly riches rather than eternal riches. And his soul was required of him. But that's what the love of money will do. It'll distort your focus. One time the great preacher, George W. Truett, who pastored First Baptist Church at Dallas For over forty years. Um he was invited to the a home of a rich, rich Texas oilman And when he was there for dinner after they ate, he took the Rich Oilman took George Truitt out of his house out on the patio where he can get a good view of everything around And he pointed one way and he said, All of that all that land as far as you can see, that's all mine. All that all the way, all the forest that you see, that's all mine. The landscape dotted with oil rigs, that's all mine. All that's mine as far as you can see in every every every direction. And uh he was waiting to get kind of an affirmation from the pastor about, wow, that's great. But instead George Truith pointed it upward and he said, How much of that do you have? And the man was dumbfounded. He didn't know how to respond. He'd been focus focusing so much on an earthly investment he forgot his eternal investment. But that's what the love of money does. The love of money distorts true gain. Loving money distorts our focus. But here's another thing. Loving money distorts true contentment. Look at verse 8. And having food and raiment. Let us therewith be content. The bottom line is if you don't, you don't need a lot to be content. And if you're not content with what you have, you're not going to be content with what you get. The more money and possessions one has, the more complex life becomes. In Ecclesiastes 5. 11, again, Solomon said this, when goods increase, those who consume them increase. Funny how that works. The more money you have, the more hands are holding out for some of that money. The more that comes in, the more it seems to go out. And so what is the advantage to their owners except to look on, Solomon says, material things, having a lot demands time, it demands energy. when you perhaps could be spending that time and energy on eternal realities. And so Paul says, look, having food and raiment The basic necessities of life, that's what that stands for. Having the basics that you need here in life, that should be enough right there And by the way, isn't God faithful to provide the basic necessities that we need in this life? He's faithful to do that And so that in itself should be enough. How much do we really, really need I'm reminded of a simple living Quaker who is watching his new neighbor move in with all the furnishings and all the expensive toys and uh all the things that successful people collect. And finally he went over to the new neighbor and he said, Neighbor, if thou ever dost need anything, please do call me, and I will show thee how to live without it. No amount of money will make up for a lack of contentment. John D. Rockefeller once said, I have many millions, but they have brought me no happiness. Cornelius Vanderbilt added, The care of millions is too great a load. There is no pleasure in it. Henry Ford, the creator of the Ford Automobile, multimillionaire, once said this, I was happier when I was doing mechanics work. If you want to know tr how truly rich you are, add up everything you have that money cannot buy and death cannot take away. And that's how rich you truly are. But here's number two. Not only the distortion of loving money, loving money distorts so many things, but also the dangers of loving money. The dangers. The sin of loving money is dangerous because of the effects that it has on our life. Here's the first thing. Loving money opens the door to temptation. Look at verse number nine. But they that will be rich Fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and hurtful lusts. If you love money, it'll open up a world of temptation to you. The Bible doesn't condemn being rich. Again, it doesn't condemn being rich. It condemns the desire to be rich. Notice in verse 9 again, but they that will be rich. The word will thee, bullomai, that's a strong, settled desire. Here is someone that has a strong yearning in their heart to be rich. And the Bible says if you have that in your heart, it will open up all kind of temptation to you. It's not a good thing. You need to kill that sin in your heart. Write down these verses, Psalm 62, verse 10. Trust not in oppression and become not vain in robbery. If riches increase, set not your heart upon them. Proverbs 23, verse 4, labor not to be rich, cease from thine own wisdom. And Proverbs 23, verse 5, Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? For riches certainly make themselves wings, they fly away as an eagle towards heaven. Someone says money talks. That's right, it says goodbye. Like they fly away like an eagle towards heaven. And then write down Proverbs 28, verse 20. A faithful man shall abound with blessings. But he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent. The covetous heart will constantly be open to temptation. Look at the word fall there in verse nine. They that will be rich fall into many into temptations and a snare, and many foolish and hurtful lusts. The word fall here, this is present tense, continually falling. The idea. If you have this desire to be rich, you're going to continually be falling into temptation, it says. And it's a fact. It will happen. Temptation will open up. And a snare. Look at the word snare there. That's a trap for an animal. The love of money ensnares you Greedy people are constantly entrapped by their consuming drive to have more. Their pursuit of what they want is their passion. And that sinful behavior becomes compulsive and it controls their lives. And the Bible warns about this so many times. In Deuteronomy seven twenty five, Moses warned the Israelites, and he said this, The graven images of their gods you are to burn with fire. You shall not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor take it for yourselves Lest you be snared by it, for it is an abomination to the Lord your God. The love of money is a trap that carefully needs to be avoided. But here's the second danger. Loving money brings severe destruction. It brings severe destruction. Again, look at verse 9. But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in per destruction and perdition. Notice the word drown there. This is kind of related to the Greek word baptize. It's but means to sink or to submerge or to drag the bottom And what this is a picture of, it's a picture of a man who is drowning. He's completely under. He's drowning. People who love money are in danger of drowning. Drowning in what? Well, probably debt for one thing Or drowning in anxiety and worry. But Paul here mentions two specific things. Destruction. They drown themselves in destruction. Look at that word there. This is a word. used in Greek to refer to the body. Physically. It is destructive to their physical well-being. Loving money will wreck a person's physical being. It'll wreck their physical health. It'll bring destruction. Because they have to worry themselves to death. If you get rich, you are worried about keeping it and other people trying to take it and all it takes to be in that position it it it just rests sometimes a person's Physical health. Vanderbilt said this the care of two hundred million dollars is too great a load for any brain or back to bear. It is enough to kill anyone. There is no pleasure in it. But then also notice not only destruction but perdition. This is a word that refers to the eternal ruin of the soul. Destruction refers to the body, perdition refers to the soul. The love of money will destroy the body and it'll condemn the soul, Paul says. And the Bible gives many illustrations of people who basically were destroyed because of their greed. They were destroyed because of their love of money. Think about Achan. Do you remember the story of Achan in the Bible? Remember, the Israelites were going to conquer Jericho, and God gave a warning through Joshua and said, look, don't take anything out of the city. Because that city will be completely burned with fire and destroyed. That first city is given over to Almighty God. You don't take anything from it. You can have the spoil from other conquered places, but not Jericho. And you remember Achan went in and he was tempted with a wedge of gold and a beautiful Babylonian garment. And when he thought no one was looking, he took it and he hid it in his tent. And the next battle the Israelites were defeated because they had sinned against God. And through a series of events, the lats the lots were cast and it fell upon Achan, and it brought complete destruction, not only to him. But the Bible says if you read it carefully, his whole family bore the punishment for Achan's sin. That love of money destroyed not only him. But it destroyed his family as well. Judas portrayed the Lord Jesus for a paltry sum of money. Peter rebuked Simon, who sought to buy the power of the Holy Spirit. And Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money. You have no part or no lot in this matter. Your heart is not right with God. And on we could go. But let me give you the third thing. Not only the distortion of loving money, the danger of loving money, but here's number three: the description of loving money. Look down in verse number 10. For the love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. And in these last This last verse here, Paul illustrates to us the end product of loving money. And notice where it says love of money, that's one word in the Greek. It comes from two words, phileo, love. Arguera, which is silver, the love of silver. Paul condemns this love of money, which he says is the root that develops all kinds of evil. Think about all of the evil in this world that has come from loving money. I doubt that there's a sin that's been committed that hasn't been committed for the love of money. We could just go down the list. In fact, what you could do, you can go through all the Ten Commandments and show how that the love of money causes each of those sins is related to each of those things. And so It's the root of all evil, Paul says. And because of it, Paul said, many have wandered from the faith. I think Paul may have been thinking about Demas maybe when he wrote this. Remember Demas? We'll see this if we go to 2 Timothy and study it. The Bible says in 2 Timothy 4. 10, for Demon has forsaken me. having loved this present world, is departed under Thessalonica. So here Paul had a traveling companion, had a man who was with him in ministry, and this man turned his back on Paul. He turned his back on the gospel ministry. Why? For the love of the world. And I think it's the same idea there. He wandered from the faith for the love of the temporal earthly possessions, the things of this world. In Jude verse 3 It talks about the faith being the whole body of Christian doctrine. And that's what Demas wandered from. He absolutely totally wandered from the faith of the gospel. And notice what Paul says again in verse 10. Which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith. and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. And the language here is gruesome, impaled with many griefs. In other words, they have brought to themselves like knives stabbing them. Many griefs have come to them because of their love of money. Now what's Paul's counsel to Timothy and all this? Look at verse 11. I love this verse. But thou, O man of God, flee these things. Flee from this. The word flea here is the Greek word fwege. It's where we get the word fugitive from. And it means keep on continually running. It's used in the Bible to speak of one who runs from a poisonous snake, or one who runs from an attacking enemy, or one who runs from a dangerous plague. Keep on continuing to run from this thing, the love of money. Timothy, you're a man of God. Run from it. And I would just say to you here tonight, if this is a problem in your heart, ask Jesus to remove it and replace the love of money with the love of Christ in your heart. Because I don't think those two things can dwell in the same heart. The love of Christ needs to be supreme. Some of the most miserable people in this world are people that can buy anything they want. And yet they're the most miserable, lonely, unsatisfied people in this world. I I read an article this week from Newsweek magazine. In 1983, Johnny Carson's third wife, Joanna, was divorcing him. She asked for $2. 6 million a year in temporary support. Well, she awaited the outcome of their divorce suit. And then she gave the list of reasons why she needed two point six million. She needed twenty one twenty-one thousand a month for her Bel Air home. This is monthly expenses, including $5,000 a month for servants, $3,100 for maintenance and security. $1,400 for groceries, $800 in telephone bills. Other monthly expenses included $37,000 for jewelry and furs. And she explains in that that, you know, she's a former model and she's always dressed stylishly. She needed five thousand a month for clothing and department store purchases. $2,700 for travel, $10,000 for two New York apartments, and $12,000 for gifts to friends and relatives. I'd like to have $12,000 a month just to give, you know, for gifts to friends and relatives. Johnny Carson, who was earning more than $15 million a year, was able to joke about it. He said, I heard from my cat's lawyer today, and he said my cat wants $12,000 a week for tender vitals. You know what, you you don't have to read between the lines in a story like this to see that here were these wealthy people that were so very unhappy. So very unhappy. So very unsatisfied. You know why money can't bring true happiness? Because money cannot reconcile our soul to God. Because it doesn't deal with our sinful self-will that alienates us from God and others. Only Christ through his death on the cross can forgive us from our sins, can bring us into relationship with Him And we can find true satisfaction in knowing God. Only Christ can deal the death blow to our love of self. And where we can enthrone Jesus as our rightful Lord. Jesus said this: if anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself daily, take up his cross, and follow me. For whosoever wants to save his life will lose it. But whosoever loses his life for my sake is the one who will find it. For what? shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul. So we need to take heed to Paul's warning. to Timothy, the distortion of loving money, the dangers, and the description of loving money. The London preacher Dick Lucas tells a story of a man who went to one of the richest counties in England and he was looking for a church in that county. And he went into a particular church And the minister told him that if he trusted in Jesus, that God would give him a Jaguar automobile. The trouble was the man already owned a Jaguar automobile. So this man went to a the church just down the road and he walked up to the minister and he said, you know, I went to thus and such church and they told me that God wants me to have a jaguar. He said, but you know, I already have a Jaguar, and my life is so empty and so meaningless. Doesn't Christianity have anything more to offer me than a new automobile? Is there anything else? Christianity does have more to offer. What Christianity offers is Jesus Christ, the true treasure of the soul He is the true treasure of our soul. What the human heart really craves for is not gold. It craves for God. And he only can meet that need. Anyone who comes to God through Jesus Christ, you know what you find, you find meaning, you find joy, you find forgiveness of your sin, you find satisfaction, you find real life Real life. It's like the hymn that I love that was written by Charles Wesley, Jesus, lover of my soul, let me to thy bosom fly. But there's one line in that song that I love, which goes like this Thou, O Christ, art all I won. More than all in thee I find. Do you found that to be true? I have. More than all in thee I find. I find all that I need in Christ. He is the lover of my soul. He is the true treasure. He is the true source of contentment. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this reminder and this warning that we all need, because we live in a world that is constantly pushing to us th its treasures, which are really not treasures at all. And Lord, all these things you already give us, because you, Lord, you're the great provider. And it's all yours, Lord, God. But the world wants us to make idols of these things. Rather than looking to you, these things become distractions. And our focus is distorted. Because the world wants us to love its treasures, the love of money. And it distorts our focus. It distorts our understanding of what true gain is. And it's so dangerous, it opens up a world of temptation for us and brings destruction. So Lord, I pray. That you'll keep our hearts from idols, that our heart would be totally yours, completely yours absolutely focused on you, Lord, and to love you more, to serve you more, and to realize, Lord, you truly are the treasure of our soul. Lord, may we focus on you, may we pursue you, not the things of this world. Help us, Father, in this area. May, Lord, we in this next year love you more, serve you with greater passion. Be more faithful because we realize all that we need we have in you. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful matchless name. Amen.