All right, now turn to Philippians chapter 1. And this morning I want to preach on this topic: magnifying Christ in my adversity. Magnifying Christ in my adversity. There was an ancient coin that was discovered. It had an interesting imprint. On one side, there was a a picture of an ox And the inscription on the bottom reader. Organization uh discovered that coin and they adopted that motto and that is kind of a logo and an expression for their organization. Now when I think about that, I think about this past Lord diligently, but he was also ready at any time to bring any sacrifice to the altar that was necessary. If that meant his life, then so be it. The one question for Paul was simply this: how can I magnify Christ to the rest of the world? How can I magnify Christ? And this is really the dominating thought here in this passage. And this is something that all of us should consider as we study these verses. This same question should be really something that we're concerned about in our own life. How can I magnify Christ in my life? How can I magnify him to the rest of the world? Look in verse number 20 again, where it says, according to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed But that with all boldness as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. Christ to be magnified. If that can be by my life, by serving him, then I want to do that. I want to magnify Christ in my service. If it means by my death, if I have to sacrifice to the point to where uh the Lord calls upon me to give my life, then if that magnifies Christ the most, then so be it. Now one question that might come to our mind as we look at this word magnify is is it possible for uh us to magnify christ? And with the word magnify here is a word megaluno, which means to exalt or to enlarge So the question is how can we as mere mortals, mere human beings magnify or uh make Christ look great or exalt Christ? Possible that we could do that? That's one thought I had when I was studying this. Lord, is it possible for me to actually exalt you or magnify you? You know, I think about it like this You know, the stars are out there, they're much bigger than a telescope, but the telescope actually brings the stars close to closer to me. And that's a sense in which the word magnet Magnify here means. You know, when we magnify Christ, what are we doing? We're bringing Christ closer to the world. You see, the telescope makes the stars clear To whoever looks through them. And that's the sense in which what we do as Christians, our body, our lives are to make Christ clear to the rest of the world. We bring Christ closer Jesus really is a actions are a lens through which we take Christ that in the mind of But what we do is in our life we bring him closer so that people can see Christ in us. Exactly what the Apostle Paul is talking about here. He wants to magnify Christ. And that was why that in the circumstances he was in. Let's just be reminded if you were here last week, we talked A little bit about this. What kind of circumstance or what kind of situation do we find the Apostle Paul as we come to Philippians chapter one? He was in a very difficult circumstance. Not so good. He was in prison. He had been in prison in Caesarea for two years, and when he appealed to Rome, they took him to Rome. And now he has been in a Roman prison for two years. Remember we said in verse number seven where Paul says, I'm set uh uh for the defense and confirmation of the gospel. The word defense there is apologia. It just means uh really to make an a a defense of something. It's where we get the word apologetics. And he was going to defend the gospel in uh the courtroom and he was going to do it right before Caesar himself. And so Paul is in this circumstance and he's thinking about it. He's musing about it. And he's thinking, you know If I go before Caesar and I present the gospel and he doesn't like what he hears, he could put me to death. Or he could let me live. Look at verse number twenty-one. For me to live Is Christ, and to die is gain. Actually, the word is is not present in the Greek text, so literally it reads like this: For me Me to live Christ. For me to live, Christ. You talk about a mission statement or a life statement. You know, every once in a while someone will say you ought to develop for your life Well Paul's life statement was just one word. It was Christ. For me to live, Christ. You see, Paul didn't have And Paul was saying, if I could best magnify Christ by being here in this prison, then so be it. And if I could best magnify Christ by giving my life then so be it if I live it's Christ if I die well that's even better and Paul was absolutely confident When we read Philippians, there's no sense of depression. In fact, when you read Philippians, it kind of you feel the fresh breezes of heaven. You you get you can sense the joy that the apostles Apostle Paul has, even in his adverse circumstances, he's bubbling with joy because he had absolute, total confidence in one thing. What was that? He was going to be delivered. One way or another, deliverance was coming As he was looking out over into the future, his deliverance might come in the fact that Caesar will let him go, and he'll be free to go out and continue to serve the Lord, and as long as he's alive It's going to be Christ, but he could die. And if that happens, he's going to be delivered. And that deliverance is even better. He said it's gain. It's much better So Paul's musing, he's thinking about his circumstances, and it's almost as if he's saying, Heads I win, tails I win. I'm in a no lose situation. I'm gonna win out either way. And so that's why he had such joy, even in his adversity. You see, friends, if our whole focus in life is to magnify Christ, then we can have that same attitude no matter what our circumstances might be, just like the Apostle Paul. So what I want us to do here is I want us to look at this is kind of like two seconds So I want us to look at the first side, and that is service to live is Christ. What does Paul mean when he says for me to live is Christ? Well, here's the first thing I think it means. I think it means standing firm for Christ. Look again in verse 20. According to my earnest expectation and my hope That in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness as always, so now Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. was confident that God would help him to be bold. And the word boldness here just means forthright. It has the idea of freedom in speech. And Paul knew in a very short Time he was going to appear before an emperor. And of course, I think I told you last week that the Caesar, the emperor that was on the throne at that time, was a man by the name of Nero I'm sure you've heard that name before. He was a very unpredictable, irrational, extremely wicked ruler. You never knew what he was going to do. Just to give you an example of the kind of person he was, did you know that Nero poisoned his own brother one time because of something that his mother said Poisoned his own brother. And another occasion Nero tried to have his own mother drowned in the sea, but she managed to escape. So Nero, hearing that she escaped, sent a servant with a sword an actor even though he was ugly and he had a terrible voice and he couldn't act. But around him he expected everyone to praise him and if you didn't he could put you to death. That's how much power that They would let poor people come free on the condition that they would applaud loudly for Nero. Uh at one time uh uh there was a uh kind of a sign in the sky, uh a comet appeared, and to the Romans that was a sign of a new reign, that there would be a new emperor. And so people began to talk About that, and Nero overheard some of the senators mentioning that perhaps there may be a new reign sometime in the future, and he had all those men put to death because he didn't like what he heard. On one occasion he went to the Senate because he wanted to uh kind of a urban renewal project there in Rome. He wanted actually to build himself a a nice palace and he wanted to take uh kind of a That's where you get the image of Nero playing his violin while Rome is burning. And when everything went bad on him, when people began to accuse him of doing this, you know what he did? He Blamed it on a new group of people that were gaining momentum in Rome called Christians. He said it was the Christians who did it. They're always talking about a baptism of fire. And so, as a result, there was a fierce persecution for believers. He threw them the hungry lions. He would tether them at the wrist with ropes on their uh ankles and wrists and had a horse attached on each end and pull them apart. He was just vicious. This was the man that Paul was going to appear before. Now I don't know about you, but if I knew that my prospect was to go and appear before this person, I wouldn't be looking forward to it too much. But the Apostle Paul, that didn't intimidate him Look again where he says, according to my earnest expectation and hope. Earnest expectation is really a word that means to look forward to. He's anticipating It's the idea of actually standing on your tiptoes, looking forward into the future. Paul was looking forward to standing before Nero. He was anticipating Participating it. Why? Because he knew that he had a unique opportunity to magnify Christ before this man. He knew that Nero could put him to death. He already thought about that. That. But he said, you know, if I die, it's gain. And here I have this opportunity now that the Lord has given me to defend the gospel, to present the gospel before this man And for the gospel to spread even further. John Phillips wrote this the apostle expected to magnify the Lord Jesus before that wretched man and corrupt court. It did not matter And look what he says that in nothing in verse 20, that in nothing I sh Shall be ashamed. The one thing that scared the Apostle Paul was that he could shame the name of Christ in any way. I don't want to shame the Lord. So when I appear before I don't want to be ashamed. I want uh Christ to be magnified. And if that means he puts me to the sword, then so be it. And so what What does it mean to live is Christ? It means that we stand firm for Christ. But there's there's another thing it means. It means stay fruitful to Christ. Look at verse 22. But if I live in the flesh This is the fruit of my labor. Paul was saying, if God allows me to live, I will keep being fruitful. We could actually say it like this. This will mean fruitful labor labor for me. If the Lord allows me to live, I'm just gonna keep on serving so that I can be fruitful for the Lord Jesus. I and the word labor here error It's a word often used in the New Testament to describe diligent hard labor. Paul said, if the Lord leaves me here, I'm just going to continue to labor diligently that I might have fruit in my life. That's what it means to live for Christ. It means bearing fruit. And part of what that means is sharing the gospel with others and others people coming to know Jesus as their Savior. The Bible speaks about converts as being fruit. It also speaks about the righteousness of our life. Sanctification as being fruit It also speaks about the praise, the worship that we give God as being fruit. And so Paul said, if I stay in this world, I'm going to labor for Christ, I'm going to bring more people to Christ. I'm going to praise him. I'm going to worship him. It was all about the Lord Jesus Christ. Friend, can we say that? Can we say that you know no matter what, I just want to be fruitful for the Lord Jesus. That's what it means. It means standing firm for Christ, staying fruitful for Christ, but also submitting freely to Christ Look again in verse twenty-two. If I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor, yet what I shall choose I won't not. For I minister betwixt two, having a desire to depart and To be with Christ, which is far better, nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And we see here that Paul was submissive to God's providential will But he felt himself pulled in two different directions. That's what he means when he says yet what I shall choose, I won't not. I'm kind of between two things here. We could say like this, he was Between a rock and a hard place. That's really what it says where it says straight betwixt two. It's a word literally, it means hard pressed. We can say it like this: I'm hard pressed From both directions. This word was used to describe a being hemmed in, like a person walking through a narrow gorge with a high wall, rock wall on either side I Paul said, that's what I feel like. I feel like I'm in this place where I'm being pressured from both sides. What was it that was causing Paul this pressure Well, he had a desire to go to heaven, but he also had a desire to continue on and serve the Lord. He said both of these things are what's causing me pressure I could just go to heaven. Paul said, I'm okay with that. That would be wonderful. In fact, that was Paul's desire. That's what I would like to do. He says. Prime Minister verse 23, having a desire to depart. This wasn't uh something That was bad. This was something that was good. Heaven was very real to Paul. And he had this desire to go. Why? Because once there in heaven, he would be face to face with his Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Bible says in his presence is fullness of joy. At his right hand there are pleasures forevermore. We don't really fathom or understand how wonderful heaven is going to be Friend, it's going to be wonderful. Paul had a glimpse of that. And I think part of it was because at one time he was caught up to heaven. The Bible talks about that in 2 Corinthians. And where he saw things that he w did not utter, would not utter. He said it's not it's not expedient right now to talk about all those things. You know, we hear about people all the time that have these near-death experiences And they uh you know go to heaven, they come back and write a book about it and get a lot of money with it. Paul, and by the way, we don't need to read books like that. You already have a book that talks about heaven. Pretty thorough about it. But here Paul said I was there, uh but it's not expedient for me to talk about this. I think that's part of the reason why Paul might be saying here, men I have a desire to depart and to be with Christ. Yet there was also the desire to stay and Be with the Philippians. And so that's what he means when he's in a straight betwixt two. Every once in a while, I'll have the honor of going to visit a Christian, and they might Have been informed about a terminal illness. And they'll express something like this. They'll say, you know, I I'm not afraid of heaven. I'm not afraid of death. In fact, I want to go to heaven. I'm ready to go home. Yet at the same time, there are things here in this life that seem to pull on me, and I wonder about this or that, and I want to do certain things. And so, Paul, that's the situation It may be that you're here today. You may be struggling through an illness. It may be that the doctor is giving you some kind of report and you don't know what's going to happen. was saying, but you know what how he would take take care of that dilemma? He would just say to the Lord, Lord, whatever magnifies you the most, whatever gives you the most glory, he was completely submitted to that one One thing. In fact, Paul knew it really wasn't his choice at all. It's not our choice. God could take us home, and by the way, there's nobody here that can promise me That you'll be here tomorrow. We don't know when that day is going to come for any of us. That's all in God's hands. But here's the point: Paul is absolutely, completely Submitted to whatever God wanted. He said I'm in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart to be with Christ, which is far And so he was saying, Lord, whatever your will is, I'm completely submitted to whatever that That might be in my life. So it was standing firm for Christ, staying fruitful for Christ, submitting freely to Christ. But here's another thing I think He meant striving forward. Look at verse twenty five. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith. And I think he's expressing that conviction there in verse number twenty-five. I don't think this is a revelation You remember at one point Paul was in a shipwreck in Acts chapter 27, and the Lord appeared to him and said, No one's gonna die, you're not gonna die. And Paul used that to encourage the rest of Those that were around them that they would be safe. But that was a divine revelation. Here it's just Paul's expressing a personal conviction. I think the Lord is going to continue to leave me here. Why For your your furtherance and joy of faith, he says at the end of verse number twenty-five. And the ver word furtherance here means blazing a trail, it's making a pioneer advance. And what he was saying was, God's not done with me. There are more things the Lord's going to use me to do to advance the gospel. And in verse 26 he says this That your rejoicing may be may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me. There's another reason. Because by leaving me here and delivering me from these circumstances that I'm in It's going to bring more joy to you and more joy to me. What was he saying? Well, he felt like when he went before Nero and he presented the gospel He would be released, and later he could tell the Philippians about it, and they could see the mighty working of God in his life. And just imagine that he could stand before Nero to Then the gospel, and then go and tell others about what God had done for him. And you know what it would do? It would just bring joy. It would bring encouragement. It would bring strength. Now again, how does this apply to you today? Again, your circumstance here this morning may be very difficult. You might be going through adversity right now. And you know what? The Lord sometimes Will allow you to go through adversities like that so that He can do great things, He can deliver you, and by doing that, you know what it does? It encourages other believers around you. It gives them joy. They say, Look at the mighty things. Look at the mighty things that the Lord has done in so and so's life. And it builds their faith and it gives them joy. And that's what Paul is saying here. I think God is going to allow me to live so that I can strive forward. There's more things we can do, and you'll see that, and there'll be more joy and rejoicing when I come Come to you again, we'll rejoice together. And so that's what it meant for Paul when he said, For me to live is Christ. I'm going to stand firm. I'm going to stay fruitful. I'm going to submit freely to whatever his will is in my life. I'm going to strive forward for Christ for me to live as Christ. And let's turn the coin over and let's look for the last few minutes here. The other side of the coin, where Paul said, For me to live is price and to die is what? It's gain Look at verse 21. For me, to live is Christ, to die is gain, and the word gain there you might want to underline that. That means to wreak dividends on an investment that you've paid. You see, for the Christian, death is gain. For the world, the world says to die is pain. Uh you ever Talk to people about death, they don't like to talk about it because they look at it as something that is painful and it's an end for them, but for the believer it's just the beginning Uh one time there was a man who fell ill in Paris. This was right after the death of Voltaire, and they called in a professional nurse to come and be at his side. And she said, Is this man a Christian? And they said, why do you ask? She said, because I was the nurse that attended the death of the atheist Voltaire. And she said, I will I will not stay at the side of a of a of a atheist infidel ever again as they're dying. I'll never go through that again. I want to be the with Christians. There's a difference because For the believer to die is gain. And so again, Paul saying I'm going to reap dividends on an investment I made when I go to heaven. Look at verse number twenty-two. He says, Uh, but if I live in the flesh, this is a fruit of my labor, yet what I shall choose I woke not. And verse twenty-three, for I'm a straight betwixt two, having a desire to depart And I want to focus on those words to depart there. Very interesting word, this word depart. It's actually used only two times in the New Testament. Each time it's used by the Apostle Paul himself and he uses it as a euphemism for death. And it's the gr a very expressive Greek word. He uses it in 2 Timothy 4 6 where he said, the time of my departure He knew later on when the Lord was was going to call him home, and he uses the same word. Analuo is the word. And in classical Greek Literature, it's used in a very, very expressive way. And it helps us really to understand what death is like for a believer. First of all, this word Aneluo, it is a nautical term, it's used by sailors And it's a word that means to untie a ship. It's the idea of a ship being launched forth from its mooring, setting off on a voyage. That's what death is like for a believer. We here on this side we say there he goes. They on the other side are saying here he comes. Some of you may have loved ones that have died in Christ. You know what they They just went on a voyage. They landed on that celestial shore. John Newton, the one who wrote Amazing Grace, he said this. He said it I'm when he was dying on his deathbed, he said, I'm like a Person going on a journey who expects an arrival any moment, and I'm frequently looking out the window for it. He knew he was going on a journey. But it was also this word To depart was a martial term. It was used by soldiers and it meant to loosen the tent pegs, to fold the tent. And that's what death is like for a believer. You see, we live in this body, but But you know the Bible calls this body a tabernacle or a tent. You know something about a tent? It's not a permanent residence, is it? You know you you you stay in a tent, but you don't and That's what this body is like. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 5 1, for we know that this our earthly tabernacle will be dissolved where the word is fi Peter said, knowing that surely I must put off this my tabernacle. You know what death is like for a Christian? It's like moving out of a tent, it's moving into a mansion. In heaven. That's what it's like. That's why Paul could say death is gain for him. But it's also a political term used by senators, and it means To loosen a prisoner, to set a prisoner free, to take off the shackles. You see, there's a sense in which sometimes as we grow older this body may be, in a sense, a prison because we We can't do all that our heart and soul desires, and death frees us from this prison. That's why we could say it's gain. But also this term was an agricultural term It was used by servants. At the end of the day, they would take the yoke off the oxen. And that's the idea here. Loosen the yoke. And that's what death is like again. You know, in this life we carry so many burdens, so many heartaches, but when death comes for a believer, we take off the yoke. There's no more burden This was also a philosophical term used by scholars, and it means to unravel a mystery. It's the idea that you can't understand something and find Finally it dawns on you. Reminds me of the man who stayed up all night wondering what happened to the sun, and finally it dawned on him. Thank you for that curse It's the idea that there's things in this life we can't fathom. I have people come and ask me questions. I don't have answers to some of those questions We don't have answers in this life, but one of these days when we get to heaven, you know what is going to dawn on us. All those mysteries will be unraveled There'll be no more questions in our mind, only praise to our Creator, our God. And so that's what this word means to depart. That's also a biological term used by scientists. It means the idea of to be set free from a cocoon or a shell. You know, death in a way is kind of like us crawling up into a cocoon just like a caterpillar uh lives this circumscribed earthly existence, crawls up into a cocoon, but one day that cocoon splits open and out comes a beautiful shimmering butterfly. And that's what death is like This body will go into that coffin, that grave, but one day we will be resurrected with a glorified body, a body designed to live in heaven. And so that's what it's like. That's why Paul could say, Look, for me to live is Christ, but to die is gain. It's so much better to depart and be with Christ. That's why as Christians we don't have to fear death. It's like going on a journey, on a voyage. It's folding a tent, moving into a mansion It's being free from a prison. It's taking off the yoke. It's knowing that we're going to understand all things that we couldn't understand before. We're going to be set free. And so that's why the Apostle Paul's heart was so filled with joy, no matter what his circumstances were, he was determined to magnify Christ and was filled with the joy Well, this text causes us to ask one question naturally. What happened to Paul? Well, he did get released. He did go on and serve the Lord. He was faithful. He was fruitful. Years later, he finally was arrested again a second time. And this time, and we we see the uh circumstances written in 2 Timothy, he wouldn't be released on the second imprisonment. This would be the time where He would die. And he sensed that when he wrote Timothy, say the time of my departure. Same word that we saw here. And not much later after he wrote those words, an axe head flashed in the sun, his head And so I want to ask you, can you say these words Like Paul. I'm convicted every time I read this passage. Can I honestly say, for me to live is Christ? Can I say Can you say that? Can you say that? Because if you say anything other than Christ, like fill in the blank, for me to live is blank, to die, then to die is blank. If you say for me to live is money, then to die would be loss. Or for for me to live is fame, then to die is to be forgotten For me to live is power, then to die is to lose it all. Really, the only way you can really say to die is gain is if you say for me to live is Christ. For me to live is Christ. And so I want to ask you, can you say that? For me to live is Christ. Fill in the blanks in your life. And really the only way you can say for me to live is Christ is to know him as your Savior, as your Lord, to turn to him in salvation. And I want to invite you to do that if you've never So Lord, we come through So that Lord we can follow his example. So that we We can determine to magnify Christ in our life. No matter what our circumstances may be, we can say, like the Apostle Paul, for me to live is Christ. And Lord, if you choose to Call me home, then to die is gained so much better. I pray, Lord, that every person will be able to say these words from their heart and mean it And I pray, Lord, for the soul that may be here today that has never placed their faith in Christ, I pray, Lord, that you would turn their heart to him. That they would come to Christ today. May they realize that the offer of salvation is freely given to anyone who will believe. And then, Lord, I pray for believers Here today that are going through difficulty and affliction in their life. And I pray that you'll give them the heart of Paul to determine to magnify Christ in whatever circumstance they're in. That's the true secret of joy. Lord, may it be so for each person here. So with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to say, is constant Speaking to your heart today. Can you honestly say for me to live is Christ? And if you're here and you can't say that, I want to invite you to pray right where you are. We encourage people to walk an aisle, but friend, walking an aisle doesn't save you. What saves you is placing your faith in Jesus. And you can do that wherever you are. Whether it's walking an aisle whether it's seated right where you are, whether later you you think about these words and you pray. Wherever you are, friend, I encourage you to turn to Christ. Confess him today. Pray this prayer. Say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Please save me. Forgive me for my sin. Make me your child. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. And we'll thank you and praise you, Lord, for what you're doing in our lives. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.