Look in Mark chapter one. And as you know, we began a series through the book of Mark last week. I introduced the book and this today I want to deal with Lord willing verses one to thirteen. I know that's kind of a big section, but we'll try to manage that here this morning. And the title of my sermon this morning is Make Way for Jesus. It's what this passage is about. I heard about a new preacher, fresh out of seminary. He was so nervous about delivering his first sermon. He made it up to the pulpit and uh he announced his text. Behold, I come quickly. But he couldn't think of anything else to say. He was so nervous he forgot. So he was taught in seminary if you forget what to say, just announce your attacks again. So he said again louder, Behold I come quickly And still he couldn't remember anything to say. So he took a few steps back from the pulpit, determined to smack the pulpit. Hopefully it would shake his brain and he would remember something. And he stepped back and he hit the pulpit and he said, Behold, I come quickly. And what he did, he stumbled over the pulpit, landed in the front row, on the lap of a dear old lady that was sitting there And he said, ma'am, I'm so sorry. She said, It's my fault, Sonny, you warned me three times you were coming. Should have got out of the way. There's a sense here in which this first part of Mark is an announcement that the servant, and this is how Mark presents the Lord Jesus in this gospel, the servant is coming. Jesus is coming. And really, this is really about the ministry of John the Baptist. He was to be the forerunner that would prepare the way for the coming of the Lord Jesus. And that's how Mark introduces his gospel. And really this passage today forces us to ask this question, am I prepared for Jesus? Am I prepared when he comes? Now we know that Jesus already came at the first advent. He was a suffering servant that died for our sin. But you know he is coming again. We know that he's going to come again. And I think the text today forces us to ask the question, am I prepared for Jesus? Have I made way for Jesus in my life? Am I ready for his coming? Now you remember Mark is the shortest of all the gospels Matthew focuses on Jesus as the King. It's a very long gospel. It starts out with a genealogy because it was written to the Jewish people. The book of Luke was really focuses on Jesus' humanity. And it is a gospel that where it shows the compassion of Jesus, where he ministers to the down and outers of society. The Gospel of John. Starts with the idea of the eternality of Jesus. It focuses on the deity of Christ. It proves that Jesus is the Son of God. But you remember that we said the Gospel of Mark Focuses on Jesus as the servant. And the key verses Mark ten forty-five, the Son of Man came not to be ministered to, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many The Gospel of Mark focuses more on the works of Jesus than the words of Jesus. Whereas Matthew has a lot of parables. Mark only has really just four parables. um in this uh gospel. And uh nineteen miracles, however, are recorded, which tells us he focuses more on the works of Jesus than the words. But we also said, if you remember last week, Mark is a fast-moving book. The key word is the Greek word youth, immediately or straightway. It just says immediately Jesus did this and straightway he did this, and so it's constantly moving And you remember I said it calls upon us to take action. Well here again, Mark is going to ask us this question: are you prepared for Jesus? He's coming. And there are three ways I want you to see in our text today how we can make way for Jesus or be ready. And the first one is this, if you're taking notes, just write down, be receptive. Be receptive. How does Mark identify God's servant? Look at verse 1. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Mark jumps right in deep theological waters. He wants to assure us that Jesus is all that he claimed to be And so Mark makes a huge statement in the very beginning beginning. The gospel of, that is the gospel about Jesus. This speaks about his proclamation. All of the gospel is about Jesus. Friend, you take Jesus out of the gospel, you don't have a gospel. It's all about him. And this is from the word Euanglion. This was often used by Romans to speak about the coming of a king. In fact, it was used to announce the birth of Caesar Augustus And so this word would be known to the Romans. Remember, Mark is writing to the Romans, Roman Christians. And so this speaks about his proclamation, but also Jesus That speaks about his purpose. The name Jesus means Jehovah saves. Matthew said that in chapter 1, verse 21, thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. And then Christ, that speaks about his position. He is the Messiah, the anointed one. But Mark says he's the Son of God in verse 1. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Now that's a big, substantial claim, an incredible claim there. This servant is the Son of God. Now like you, I have been watching in the past weeks what's been going on on television. The president nominated a man to become the next Supreme Court justice, and there was a lot of things that have gone on A woman came forward and made some accusations against this man. And you know the key phrase I keep hearing over and over again in the news is cooperation. Or corroborating evidence or a corroborating witness. What does that mean? That simply means uh additional evidence to a claim that was made. Evidence to back up A claim. Proof to back up a claim. I think about that when I look in this chapter here because Mark makes an astounding claim. He's saying that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. I'd like to ask Mark. Mark, do you have any cooperating evidence? Is there anything that backs up this claim? And if Mark were here today, he would say, I'm glad you asked. I have several witnesses I'd like to bring in to corroborate what I just said. And the first witness, of course, is Mark himself. Mark boldly asserts Jesus is the Son of God. And it's very likely that Mark was an eyewitness himself. You remember I told you he his mother, Mary, had one of the largest homes in Jerusalem. The early church met in that home The apostles met there. It's very likely that Mark as a young man saw some of the miracles of Jesus himself. Saw some of the things that he wrote about. Of course, he depended upon Peter as an uh uh uh for the eyewitness accounts. He was really Peter's secretary. To write down the things that Peter saw. But Mark himself was an eyewitness. That's witness number one. Here's another witness. There's the witness of Old Testament prophets. Look in verse 2. As it is written in the prophets, behold, I send my messengers before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. As it is written, this is a normal way for New Testament writers to designate Old Testament quotations. And what Mark here does is he quotes from two prophets, Malachi in Malachi 3:1, and from Isaiah in Isaiah 40, verse 3, and he combines these two together, and he's quoting from these prophets. There is the witness of the prophets. The prophets prophesied that before the king would come, there would be a forerunner who would announce his coming. So this goes all the way back into the Old Testament. Did you know that In those days before an Oriental king would come to a particular place, there would always be a herald that would go before and announce the coming of the king. And his job was to prepare the road. He would call the people, prepare the way. And if the roads weren't very good, they would have to come out and they would have to fix the roads after all the king was coming. And if there were low places, they would fill them in. If there were high places, they would uh uh bring them down Isaiah speaks of this in Isaiah 40, every valley shall be exalted, every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall be made straight. And the rough place is plain, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed. The idea there is the forerunner would go, announce the coming of the king, the people would prepare the way, and then the glory of the Lord would follow. Who is that glory? Of course, it's Jesus. Jesus is that glory. So these were all prophecies from the Old Testament that spoke about the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. They were making way for The Lord Jesus. John the Baptist would be that forerunner who would prepare the people. And the preparation that John spoke about is not physical or literal. It's really a preparation of the heart Bringing repentance to the hearts of the people, getting the nation ready for the Messiah that was to come. So you have the witness of Mark. You have the witness of these Old Testament prophets that spoke about the forerunner who would announce the king. Then you have the witness of John the Baptist himself. Look down at verse 8. Here's John, it says, And preaching, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I'm not worthy, to stoop down and unloosen. I indeed have baptized you with water, but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost. Now these verses again focus on the message of John the Baptist You know, Jesus called John the Baptist the greatest of the prophets. He was constantly pointing to Jesus. He was careful to magnify Jesus, not himself. And in another place, John said this: He must increase, and I must what? Decrease. Jesus has to increase. And John was the first prophet in Israel in 400 years. Therefore, he was very popular. You have to understand at that time that people didn't know that Jesus was even on the scene, and John was so popular, people were coming out into the wilderness to hear John But John said this, there's coming someone after me who's much better than me. He's mightier than me. I'm nothing. I'm only the forerunner. I can't save you, only he can save you. Look at verse 7, he says, There cometh one. That's literally the coming one. The article, the definite article in the Greek is there, so we could say the coming one. And that's a messianic title. John's ministry didn't precede just any king or monarch. Rather, he was the divine king. And John said, He's mightier than me. I only can baptize you with water. That's all I can do for you. But he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. And friend, that speaks about regeneration. That speaks about salvation. You know what this tells me? This is another argument that water baptism can't save you It's the regeneration of the Holy Spirit. When you put your faith in Christ and the Holy Spirit comes into your life and you're baptized by the Holy Spirit, that's salvation And what John is essentially saying is, I can't save you, but he will save you. He's mightier than me I'm not even worthy to untie, to stoop down and untie his shoelaces. That was the duty of the lowest of servants That they would perform. But John's point is, I'm not even worthy to do this for this king, this one who is coming, because he's so great, he's so mighty. And so there's the witness of John. There's the witness of Mark. There's the witness of the Old Testament prophets. There's the witness of John. And then there's, if that's not enough, there is another witness. There's the witness of the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 9. And it came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized of John in the Jordan. Now if those witnesses are not enough, you now have the witness of the Holy Spirit of God. And Mark here gives the account of Jesus' baptism. Jesus came from Nazareth down to Jordan, the place where John was baptizing. By the way, that's 70 miles. Seventy miles Jesus walked from Nazareth. When it was his time to present himself, to begin his public ministry, the first thing that Jesus did was he walked from Nazareth. down to the Jordan River where John was baptizing. There's a specific location there at the Jordan River where John did his baptism. It's called the place of the crossing. That by the way is the the place where the Ark of the Covenant crossed The Jordan River and went into the promised land when Joshua was leading the children of Israel. It was a very historic place. And John was baptizing there. And Jesus came to present himself to be baptized Now this begs the question, why was Jesus baptized? Now when we're baptized, it's because we are admitting that we are sinners That we're repenting of our sin, that we have trusted the only way, the Savior Jesus Christ. So it's an outward manifestation of what has taken place inwardly in our heart. But the question is, why would Jesus need to be baptized? Jesus certainly was not admitting that he was a sinner. Because he was sinless. In fact, in Mark's account of this, the Bible says John forbade him saying, look, I need to be baptized of you And you're coming to me, I think that's one of the greatest statements of the sinlessness of Christ in all the New Testament. But Jesus said, Permit me. Permit me to do this. I need to fulfill all Righteousness. And really, there were two reasons why Jesus was baptized. First of all, it was an act of identification. It was Jesus identifying with us. The Bible says in Isaiah 53:12, He was numbered with the transgressors. He was identifying with us as sinners. He came into the world to bear the sin of the world. And so his baptism signified that he would be the sin bearer. He himself would be baptized in suffering and in death. When he took our sins upon the cross. You remember what in Matthew 20 when James and John came to Jesus and said, Lord Allow me and my brother to sit one on your right hand, one on your left hand in the kingdom. You remember what Jesus said? He said, You don't know what you ask. Shall you be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with? You know what he was saying? I'm going to be baptized in suffering. I'm going to be baptized in death. Are you able to bear that? And so there's a sense in which when Jesus was baptized, he was showing that he would be the sin bearer, he would be baptized into the suffering of the sins that were committed of all people, he being sinless. We are baptized as sinners. He's baptized as the sin bearer. Our baptism looks back at the cross His baptism would look forward to the cross. And so as the servant, he came to give his life to identify with sinners. But there's another reason for his baptism, and that is it was an act of consecration. He was dedicating himself to the Lord for this task, an act of consecration. Identification and consecration was the reason for his baptism. Now, one of my favorite baseball players ever was Babe Ruth. If you're from Baltimore, I'm sure you uh know that he also was a kid from Baltimore. Did you know that he played down here right across from St. Agnes Hospital, those fields? are now called Babe Ruth Fields because that's where he learned to hit. I thought if I went down there maybe I could learn to hit like that, but it didn't work. Babe Ruth is just an incredible sports figure. One of the most exciting things that ever happened to him was during the World Series when they were playing the Chicago Cubs. The Yankees were in Chicago And the Chicago fans were giving Babe Ruth a very hard time when he came to bat. On that day he actually struck out three times, so he was having a difficult time himself. When he came to bat for the final time in that game, the fans were heckling Babe Ruth, and so he did something that's now kind of legend. He allowed two strikes to go by and then he took his bat and he pointed in center field as if to say this next one's going over the fence in center field and to the amazement of the crowd in Chicago The pitcher who saw this got angry and threw a fastball, and Babe Ruth hit that ball out over center field. It was an amazing thing. He had called his shot. Now whether you believe that story is true or not, I choose to believe it is, and I love that story I think about that when I think about the baptism of Jesus, crazy enough, because really the baptism of Jesus was Jesus calling his shot. At the baptism of Jesus, Jesus was saying, I'm going to come to this world, I'm going to bear sin. I'm going to be baptized with suffering. I'm going to bear the sins of the world and I dedicate myself to this task. And when that happened, look in verse number 10. And straightway, coming up out of the water, He saw the heavens opened and the spirit like a dove descending on him. And notice the word straightway. Again, that's one of Mark's favorite words, use thus immediately, straightway And I love Mark's description. The word open there is from the word schizo, which means to rip or to tear. It's the same word used later to talking about the tearing of the veil in the temple It's like the heavens were torn open. And the Bible says the Spirit of God descended upon the Lord Jesus Christ. This was the divine anointing. And this was the Spirit of God Himself bearing witness to who Jesus Christ was, the true Son of God. At that moment, the Spirit of God Himself. Or witness to Jesus. Yeah, the witness of Mark, the witness of the Old Testament prophets, the witness of John the Baptist. The witness of the Spirit of God? Is that enough evidence? Well, if not, there's another witness here. Look in verse 11: there's the witness of the Father. And there came a voice from heaven saying, Thou art my beloved son, in whom I am well, please. A voice from heaven. Talk about cooperation. Talk about credible testimony. This is the most important witness of all, the most credible testimony of all Was the voice of the Father saying, This is my beloved Son. No prophet ever had that kind of witness. Prophets might be called the friends of God. No prophet was ever called the Son of God And here, Jesus isn't just a prophet. He's not just a servant. Although he is the servant, he is the Son of God. All of heaven is bearing witness to Jesus. And this is the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecy from Isaiah 42, 1. Behold my servant. Upon whom my ch of whom I uphold, I should say, my chosen one in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him. The incredible witness of the Father. The witness of Mark. There is the witness of the Old Testament prophets. The witness of John the Baptist. The Spirit of God, the witness of the Father. Is that enough? It should be. But there's one more. Ironically, there's the witness of, we could say the devil. He doesn't mean the witness to Jesus, but his actions show that Jesus is the Son of God because look what happens verse 12 again the the the word that Mark loves to use immediately The Spirit driveth him into the wilderness. And he was there in the wilderness 40 days, tempted of Satan, and was with the wild beasts. And the angels ministered unto him. This is a surprise witness. But again, I say the devil and his actions bear testimony that Jesus is the Son of God. Sometimes your greatest witnesses are your enemies. That bear witness to who you are. Here's the arch enemy of Jesus. And Mark really doesn't dwell on the details the way Matthew did. It just says that he was tested and tempted in the wilderness by the devil. Right after his divine coronation at the baptism, he's tested. For 40 days he doesn't eat. He's in this arid, barren wilderness. If you've ever been to Israel and seen the wilderness of Judea, you know exactly what I'm talking about. It's nothing but a desert. How anyone could survive there in that place is beyond me. But here was Jesus Forty days, and the implication of Mark here is that for 40 days he was tested, forty days he was tempted of the devil. The devil gave Jesus his best in that time. Jesus faced his strongest enemy at his weakest state. And during that time, Jesus did not fail at all. He bore up under all the testing and the temptation. All of that bears witness that Jesus is who he claimed to be, the Son of God. He's able to face the fierce assaults of hell and win. And heaven bears witness that he passed that test. How do we know in verse 13 it says, the angels ministered unto him? God the Father said, Send some angels down to minister to my son. And I think the idea of the word for ministered dichono, where we get the word deacon, I think it's really the idea here is that indicated they brought food to Jesus and they ministered to him there after that temptation. So the question is this: Do you receive these witnesses today? Are you willing to say after looking at all of this testimony, all of this evidence? That this is the gospel of Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God. All of these witnesses Cooperate, they all say the same thing. Are you receptive to that? Do you believe that Jesus is who he claimed to be? But here's the second thing. We're to be receptive. But number two, we're to be repentant. Be repentant. Look at verse 4 again. John did baptize in the wilderness and preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. And there went out unto him all the land of Judea, and they of Jerusalem, and they were all baptized with him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins. And so John's message was very simple. It was a message of repentance. Repent. John asked for people to show their repentance through their baptism. That was an outward demonstration. that they had truly repented of their sin. The Bible says people were coming out into that wilderness from Jerusalem, all over Judea. They were all coming to hear John. Preaching in that wilderness. Scholars estimate that as many as 300,000 people were baptized by John. But his message was very simple: repent. And I want to tell you, friend, that's still the message today. The message to you today, if you want to be prepared for Jesus, is repent. Repent. Dr. Harry Arnside in 1937 wrote a book in which he said titled this, Except You Repent. This is what he said in the book. He said the doctrine of repentance is missing. in many churches and in many fundamental circles today. That was in nineteen thirty-seven when he wrote that book and he said that. But friend, it's still true today. We're missing this idea of repentance. You know, people can come and they sure they want to accept Jesus. They just want to add Jesus to their life. But the question is: have you repented of your sin? And if you remove repentance out of the gospel, what you have is superficial professions of faith in Christ. That don't deal with the issue of sin. And so repentance is so very important. Why is repentance removed from the gospel? Well Partly because uh there's teaching out there that says we don't need repentance. And friend, that's a false gospel. There's a large seminary here in the U. S. where the entire organization teaches that repentance has no part in the gospel. They say it undermines the doctrine of justification by faith. That's so ironic, especially in light of the fact that John the Baptist came preaching repentance. That's how you get ready for Jesus. And Jesus himself, when he began his earthly ministry. The very first word of the first sermon that Jesus ever preached was this, repent The very first word of the first of the first sermon, Matthew 4, 17, from that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent For the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Jesus began his ministry calling people to repent. He ended his ministry after the resurrection. He told the disciples to preach repentance. He ended his ministry preaching repentance. And during his ministry He calls upon his disciples. We don't have time to look at it, but in Mark chapter 6, Jesus tells the disciples, you go out and you preach repentance to all around Justification is equal to repentance in Scripture. Listen to this verse. Think about it. In Luke 15, 7. I say unto you That likewise there's joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repents. See how that verse is equating salvation with repentance? It calls justification repentance. It calls salvation repentance. What is it to be saved? It's to repent of your sins. What is it to be justified to know that you'll be in heaven? It's to be repentant over your sin. Fifty times this word is used all through the New Testament That's the meaning, the message of repentance. Think about the meaning of repentance. What does it actually mean? It simply is from the Greek word metanoia. It means to change your mind, to change your thinking And it really encompasses the whole person. You change your mind, you change your thinking about who Jesus is, you change your mind about sin You turn from that. It has the idea of a 360-degree turn. You turn away from your sin. You turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. It involves all of you, your mind, your heart, your will, a complete turning around of the person. And by the way, it's not a one-time act. When you see the word repentance used in the New Testament, it is present, indicative of accident, continual repentance. I don't just turn one time and then turn back. I turn and I stay turned away from sin. And now as whereas before I was walking towards sin, now I'm walking away from sin. And I'm walking towards Christ, and that repentance is continual. We are people who are continually repentant, walking towards the Lord Jesus Christ. And so if you want to be ready for Jesus, Be receptive to the testimonies. Be repentant. But let me give you the last thing, and we're done as we're out of time. Be real. Be real. Look at verse 6. And John was clothed with camel's hair, with a girdle of a skin about his loins, and he did eat locusts and wild honey. And priest saying, there cometh one mightier than I after me. So Mark here gives us a snapshot of the appearance of John the Baptist. Very interesting appearance. He's clothed with camel hair, girded about with about his loins with a leather belt, we could say And if you look in the Old Testament, you know what? There's a similarity between Elijah the prophet and the way John the Baptist is dressing. I think that's Purposeful. There's a sense in which John the Baptist was the Elijah that was to come, that was prophesied about, who would be the forerunner to the Messiah. But also notice his diet. He didn't eat locusts and wild honey. He ate locusts. Does that make you hungry? Locust and wild honey. Doesn't do much for me. They would take the locusts and take off the wings and the uh it's only because the only reason I'm doing this is because I looked it up. How do you eat locusts? Take off the wings and the legs, you roast them, and sometimes they would dip them in honey. Honey-covered locusts. Now that's not too bad, I guess But but here's the point. Why why does why does Mark choose to focus on these details? You ever ask yourself that? Why these details here? Why does he want us to know that John the Baptist dressed this way, that he ate this way? That he lived in the wilderness like this. This is all to point out one thing. This simple life was really a life of protest. John the Baptist was protesting against the religious establishment. They loved to dress up in their religious garb, in their phylacteries, and show off their religion in the way that they dressed. John the Baptist didn't do that. He didn't wear the fine clothes because it was in rebellion against the hypocrisy of the religious establishment. He didn't preach in town in the temple. He refused to go there. If you wanted to hear John preach, you had to come to him in the wilderness. He's not going to support the hypocrisy of that religious establishment. So he preached in the wilderness. He had a simple diet. This was in protest to the self-indulgent people of Jerusalem and the religious leaders of Jerusalem his whole life. Backed up his message, and that's the point. He preached the message, but he lived it. His whole life was in dedication. To what he said. And there's a message there for us, isn't it? Friend, do you live out the gospel? It's one thing to preach the gospel. It's one thing to call yourself a Christian, but do you live it out? Do people see that in your life? Our life should be a testimony of that. And when the Lord Jesus comes, he should see that we're real, that we're living out. the message that he's given us. So how can we be ready for Jesus? Be receptive, be repentant, be real Is that you? May we examine our hearts in the light of what Scripture tells us. Let me just close with this illustration This is from Max Lacato. He tells the story of a man who had been a closet slob most of his life. Some of us men can relate to that. This guy, he just couldn't comprehend the logic of neatness. Why make up a bed if you're going to sleep on it again that night? Why put a lid on toothpaste if you're going to take it off again in the morning? Hopefully more than just once. He admitted to being compulsive about being messy. And then he got married. His wife was patient, and she said she didn't mind his habits if he didn't mind sleeping on the couch. Since he did mind sleeping on the couch, he began to change. He enrolled in a twelve step program for slobs. He went to a physical therapist who helped him rediscover the muscles used for hanging up shirts. His nose was introduced to the smell of pine salt. And by the time it was time for his in-laws to visit, he was a new man. But then came that moment of truth. His wife went out of town for a ladies' retreat. At first he reverted back to the old man that he was. He figured he could be a slob for a little while. But then Lakeda says this, but something strange happened. He could no longer relax with dirty dishes in the sink. Or towels flung around the bathroom or clothes on the floor, or sheets piled up like a mountain on the bed. What happens? Locato says it's simple. He was exposed to a higher standard of living. A higher standard of living. And friend, that's what happens when you prepare your life for Jesus. It's a whole higher standard of living. That's what repentance does. That's what happens when you receive the witness of who Jesus is. When you're receptive, when you're repentant, when you're real. This is a call to a higher standard of living for all of us. May God help us to do it. Let's bow for prayer. And so, Lord, we thank you for this message from Mark. May we take it to heart. May we examine our own life and ask ourselves the question: have we truly repented of our sins? Have we turned from sin to the Savior? Does our life demonstrate the message of the gospel? Do we live it out? Have we even received the testimony of who Jesus is? And I pray, Holy Spirit, that you'll move in hearts. And if there's someone here today. That's never trusted Christ that today would be that day when they they put their faith in him. Heads are bowed, and let me just ask you, friend, would you be willing to do that? If you've never trusted Christ If you've never received the witness from God's word about who Jesus is, never repented of your sin. Friend, would you be willing to do that today? You can do it right there where you are. A lot of times we call people to make that confession public But the truth of the matter is when you get saved, it's an issue between you and a savior. You can do it right where you are Would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, I believe. I believe you are the Son of God. I believe you are who you claim to be. And I believe that you are the sin bearer, that you did take my sin. sins. And today I turn from my sin and I turn to you, Lord Jesus. I ask you to save me. Is that your prayer, friend? Would you lift your hand and say that's my prayer? Can I pray for you? I don't want to embarrass you, but I I want to throw out the gospel invitation to you. In fact, it's more than an invitation, it's a command. The Bible commands all men everywhere to repent if you have anything. already. And then to those who are believers, God is calling us to a higher standard of living. Maybe God spoke into your heart about that. So if you say that's my prayer, that I would live up, that I would be real, would you pray for me, preacher? That I can live out the gospel in my life in a very real authentic way. Father, thank you for your word and how it convicts us, how it speaks to our hearts. Use it. We pray for your glory in Jesus' Precious name, Amen