Well it's good to see you here tonight. Take your Bibles open please to the book of James. Uh we're looking at James chapter three tonight, as you know, we've been doing a study through James. And we come to chapter three tonight, and verse thirteen is where we want to start. James 3. 13, we're going to look at verses 13 down to the end of the chapter verse 18, just five verses Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conscience his works with meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter ending and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. For where envy and strife is, there is confusion in every evil work. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure then peaceable, gentle and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits without partiality and without hypocrisy. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. I remember once I had the uh uh uh privilege of preaching in Derry, New Hampshire. And I had the opportunity to visit the farmhouse of the great American poet Robert Frost. You probably know that name, if you know anything about American um authors and poets. He's celebrated as one of America's greatest writers. And uh he lived there in that farmhouse. He had died in 1963, and it was there as a uh a place where tourists can come and see. I couldn't help but notice that out at the back of that house there was a road, a dirt road that went into the wooded area there. And I wondered if that was the source or the inspiration for the great poem that he wrote, The Road Not Taken. Again, if you know poetry, you probably know that poem, or maybe you learned it in English lit class. The poem is the thoughts of a traveler reminiscing on a choice that he made, wondering if it was the right choice. knowing that the choice that he made had made all the difference in his life. And the last stanza of that poem is especially poignant. Let me read it. It says, I shall be telling with this with a sigh Somewhere ages and ages hence, two roads diverged in a wood, and I took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the difference. Now the poem reminds us again that we're travelers in this thing called life. And in the path of life Uh it really our the sum of our life is made up of the choices that we make. We must make a choice or every day we make choices and we must live with the consequences of the choices that we make Now that concept is a very simple concept, and we see that in the scripture, don't we? The Bible is a book that tells us that we have to make choices. In fact, we can just really summarize it like this. You can choose to do things God's way or you can choose to do things man's way. That's a big summary of how you can live your life. There's God's way of doing things There's man's way of doing things. More specifically, we could say there's your way of doing things. There's your way and there's God's way. Which way will you choose? And again, we see all through the Bible people who made choices. From the very beginning, Eve made a choice to uh do her own thing and it brought down the uh uh mankind that brought the fall of mankind. In Genesis Lot, he chose the well-watered plains of Sodom and brought a curse on his family. Moses chose to suffer affliction with the people of God rather than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season, as the writer of Hebrews says. He esteemed the Uh he has seemed the riches of Christ greater. Uh or excuse me, the approach of Christ greater riches, I should say. In Joshua, we see that where Joshua said, Choose you this day who you will serve. You have to make a choice who you're going to serve. Elijah on Mount Carmel said to the Israelites, If Baal's God, follow him. If God is God, then follow him. And Jesus said in his Sermon on the Mount, there's a broad road that leads to destruction, and there's a narrow road that leads to life everlasting. Now we're kind of seeing the same thing here in this passage with James. He's showing us that there are two roads, we could say, or two ways to live. Or really the way he has it here is he it's just with reference to wisdom. There's two kinds of wisdom that you could live by. There is the wisdom of this world. And there is the wisdom of God. And every person has to choose which way you're going to go. Are you going to trust in the wisdom of God? Or are you going to trust in the wisdom of this world or the wisdom of man? You have to choose. Now, sad but true, the road less traveled here is the pathway of God's wisdom. Not many people today choose the way of God. They don't choose the wisdom of God. So I hope that by the time we're done looking at this passage that everyone here will make the choice. To uh follow true wisdom, they'll make a wise choice. So I want you to see two things. First of all, number one Notice what I call the conduct of true wisdom. Look at verse thirteen. Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? We see the word wisdom used several times in this text, and the word here comes from the Greek word Sophia, which actually means skill, or we could say skill in living. Wisdom is not theoretical, wisdom is practical. I've said this before. Wisdom is not measured by degrees, it's measured by deeds. It's not a matter of acquiring truth. In lectures, it is a matter of applying truth to life. Wisdom is not abstract, it is concrete. It is the choices that you make. And remember this, that really the sum of our life, as you sit here tonight, as I stand here tonight, the sum of our life is made up of the choices that we have made. Is that not true? We are right here and now the sum of all the choices that we have made. In fact, everything we do in life is the result To some degree of a matter of a choice that we made. You chose to come to church tonight. You made a wise choice. Some people didn't choose to do that. Some people are choosing to watch by way of live stream. And others are not interested at all. But you made a choice. You make choices every day. When you get up in the morning you begin to make choices. There are some choices we make on the on the moment there. There are other choices that we make one time and that one choice guides us throughout all the rest of our life. I always tell people, look Just choose one time the the the uh the uh the the the choice to be in God's house. Every Sunday when I get up I don't choose to come to church. I already made that choice long ago. You say, Well you're the pastor, you have to be here Well, I I I wasn't always a pastor, and I made that choice when I was a young man before I ever was in full-time ministry that I'm going to be in God's house. Again, some decisions are made on the spot, others have been made long ago. And again, other decisions we make after seeking prayer or maybe counsel. The question is where are you getting that counsel from? But wisdom in the ancient world is viewed as making the right choices. Did you know that in the ancient world Um wise men were valued. That's why in the ancient world you have all of this ancient wisdom literature. Each nation had their Wise men, each nation had their wisdom literature. Um I've studied this with going through seminary. Uh Egypt had its wisdom literature and wise men and Babylon and and and and Syria and other places in the ancient world all had their wise men, they valued wise men and they valued the literature, but all of it was designed around one central thing, and that was making the right choice. And so wise men were valued. They were a special class of men. They were devoted to teaching, especially the younger generation, to make the right choice choice. Now, let me talk to you a little bit about the distinctiveness of w of wisdom because when Israel came into the picture in the ancient world What Israel did was they put a special twist on this thing of making the right choice. And they basically extended it by saying wisdom is not just making a right choice. But wisdom is making a righteous choice, a godly choice. And they said this: that true wisdom begins with the fear of the Lord. Haven't we read that in Proverbs? The fear of the Lord is the beginning of what? It's the beginning of wisdom. If you want to have true wisdom, that's where it starts. It starts with fearing God. Wisdom is a, I should say, the fear of the Lord is a reverential attitude that leads to right choices. When you fear the Lord, then you make not just right choices, but righteous choices or godly choices. Now in Christianity, uh James he he plays on that, James being a uh a Jew, but also a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. And he also takes this very idea of wisdom leading to righteous, godly choices in your life. That's the distinctiveness. Now you can look out in the world And the world is still offering their version of wisdom. I mean, go to the bookstore, you'll see all these how-to books, you'll see all these books on psychology and philosophy The world is filled with a lot of these television shows where there are the doctor fills and all these other people that want to tell you how you should live your life. But the question is, do they have real wisdom Is this a heavenly wisdom? Is it a godly wisdom? Now, just like today, in James' day, there were many people around that were boasting about how wise they were. And that's why James, look again in verse 13. Who's a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Who are those that say you have wisdom? Notice the next phrase. He says, let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. Now the word conversation here in the King James is an old English word, and as you know, some of our words in the King James Version um uh are are a little obscure because the meaning has changed over time and that word just simply means a lifestyle. The word conversation means how you live your life. And so the issue for James is if you are wise, you claim to be to have wisdom and be a wise person, then the way we'll see that is in your lifestyle. And again, what is your life? It is the sum total of the choices that you have made. Now remember, James is the show-me book of the Bible, right? Remember we said that? James says, don't tell me about your faith, show me. If you have real faith, we're going to see it in your life. We're going to see it in your works. And it's the same here with respect to wisdom. If you have real wisdom, heavenly wisdom, wisdom from above, then it will manifest itself. in the way that you live. Not everyone who claims to be wise is really wise. And again he says here You'll see it in a good conversation. The word good calos, beautiful, moral, commendable, a life worth emulating. True wisdom will result in a good, godly life. Now think about this. Look at the Look at the lives of philosophers, people of this world who claim to be wise. Look at their life. Look how they live. Look at what their so-called wisdom produces, and you'll know What kind of wisdom that is, whether it's the wisdom of God or it's the wisdom of this world. In fact, uh let me just describe to you one philosopher. Let me see if you can recognize who this person is Uh he was uh born in uh Prussia in 1818. He descended from a line of Jewish scholars. His father was an attorney, he was baptized a Lutheran, confirmed at age fifteen For a while he appeared to be a committed Christian, but as he continued his education all the appearances of Christianity faded away. He received a doctor of philosophy from Cheno University. He settled in London in eighteen forty nine, and there he lived the rest of his life. As a boy, he wrote poetry, which normally revolved around the theme of destruction of the world. His poems were filled with savagery, hatred, suicidal pacts, packs with Satan. One poem he wrote said this, we are apes of a cold God. One of his favorite phrases was, everything that exists deserves to perish. And then he wrote this, religion is only the illusionary sun around which man evolves until he begins to revolve around himself. One of his friends said this of him, he does not believe in God, he believes much in himself, and he makes everyone serve him. He had a very unhealthy lifestyle. He drank heavily. He seldom bathed. He was incompetent in handling money. He never got a job. He lived off the lungs of family members and friends. He was left with a big inheritance, and that's pretty much what sustained him. But even with that, all he did was just spend. That's all he did. At one point he pawned off the silver in the house. And his clothes to to to one to where one point he only had one set of clothes left. His family life was disastrous. His daughter died of an opium overdose. Another child died in a suicide attack. He had a maid in the house and he fathered a child through this maid, but he convinced someone else to claim to be the father. Do you know who that was? That was Karl Marx. And there are millions of people that still follow his philosophy. But look at his life Look what his quote-unquote wisdom produces. And by the way, we're living in a revival of cultural Marxism here today. We're living in a revival of that. here in our country. But you can look at other philosophers. Russo, he had a tragic life. He quarreled ferociously with everybody around him. He lied habitually. He was called mentally sick. Nietzsche spent the last ten years of his life uh in a insane asylum. He was declared insane. These are all the men who were called the the wise men of the world, the philosophers Whose ideas so embedded in society changed the way people think. All of that is nothing but the wisdom of the world. And James would say about that, look at their life. Look at how they live. If you have real wisdom from God, there'll be a godliness about your life But then there'll be a gentleness about it. Look at verse 13 again. Let him show out of a good conversation, his works with meekness of wisdom. The word meekness, just simply a word that means gentleness. This is a person who is not abusive. This is a person who may be very strong, may have a lot of authority, but they are submitted to the Spirit of God. They don't use their authority, their strength for selfish ambition and ambition, I should say they are Meek of spirit, gentle of spirit. James says that's one thing that characterizes a person who has the wisdom of God. Paul wrote in 2 Corinthians 10 1, Now I, Paul, myself, beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ. Paul was responding to the Corinthians who were pretty hard on him, and he responded with meekness and with gentleness. That's the conduct of true wisdom. But now here's number two. And the good news is I only have two points in the sermon tonight. The bad news is I have a lot of subpoints under this one. But here's number two. The contrast of two ways. First we see the conduct of true wisdom, and now write down the contrast of two ways. Because in the rest of these verses here, What James does is he shows us a contrast between these two paths, between the path of worldly wisdom and the path of godly wisdom. Man's wisdom versus God's wisdom. Yogi Berra once said, when you come to a fork in the row, take it. James is basically showing us that you can't have it both ways. You have to make a choice. When you come to a fork in the road, you're gonna have to choose which way you're going to go. Are you going to go God's way? Or are you going to go man's way? This is where the two roads converge in the woods, as Robert Frost would say in his poem, and the choice that you make will make all of So here's the first one. Number one, the way of worldly wisdom. He's going to talk about the wisdom of the world first. Look at verse 14. If you have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not. Lie not against the truth, this wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. Now notice this how he characterizes this worldly wisdom. It begins with envy, that selfish ambition. This is someone who is promoting themselves, someone that is really pointing to self, very selfishly oriented. And then also along with that is the word strife in verse 14. Bitter ending and strife. And that's a that's kind of a relate related to the other word. The word strife here means party spirit. And this was used by Greeks to describe a politician out-candvassing her votes. And so the world wisdom says, get all the support you can. Get everyone on your side. It has that party spirit. And what James says is this creates rivalry. This creates division. This is so foreign from the mind of Christ. Remember what Paul said, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. But in lowliness of mind. That's the mind of Christ. But notice another thing to characterize it, boasting. Look at verse 14. But if you have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not And lie not against the truth. This is the word for boasting. Glory not. Don't stop being boastful. Stop being arrogant. Again, that's the way of worldly wisdom. It's an arrogant pride. Anyone who loves to boast. Now there's a way to report the blessings of God so that God gets the glory, right? But there's a way to say things where we're boasting in ourselves. What does the Bible say? Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his mighty. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But if you're going to boast for glory, glory in this, God says that you understand and know me, that I am the Lord. Paul said, let him who glories glory in the Lord. In Galatians 6. 14, he said, God forbid that I should glory except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. So then there's deceit. Again, look in verse 14. Um if you have bitter enemies, strife your earth, glory not And lie not against the truth. That's deceit there. And here the point that James is making is if a person claims to be wise and they're filled with envy and pride and arrogance and they're boastful and they're campaigning for themselves They're trying to win votes for themselves, fulfill their own selfish, self-centered ambition. They are lying against the truth. That is opposite of the wisdom of God. You see, the word for truth is used in James as a synonym for the gospel. This goes against the gospel. This goes against the way of God. All of this behavior is counter The gospel. Any person who's a citizen of the kingdom of God. Whatever claims this person may be making He may not be saved. One commentator says he cannot be saved. He's living alive. And then there's earthly. Notice again in verse 15. This wisdom descendeth not from above. But it's earthly. In contrast to divine wisdom, it's not from God. It's man's wisdom. Man is the source of it. It does not lead to God, but it leads away from God. And then it's sensual in verse 15. Again, look at the word sensual. And this is the word for natural. Suke is the word for life. Just means natural. It's supposed opposite of spiritual. It's not from God. It's not spiritual. It's from man. It's from the nature of man. And one thing we know about man is that he's depraved. Anything from his nature is to praise. And then he goes on and says it's devilish. Look down in verse 15 again, the last word. Devilish. And this is the word. Demonades, which is where we get the word demon or demonic. And this wisdom at its best has as its source man, but as its worse, the source is Satan. It's not of God. It's of the devil. And by the way, remember that James is, who's he writing to here? He's writing to people that claim to be Christians. People that are even in the church. You know, this kind of worldly wisdom can get into the church. I heard about a preacher one time who wanted to use reverse psychology with his church, so he got into a devil suit and he went out in front of the church with a big sign that said, Don't come to church here. Trying to use that reverse psychology. And he paraded up and down in front of this church with that sign, don't come to church here. Now the people of the church got concerned, and so they called the police. And the police came and they took him away. But before they did that, they took off his mask and they found out it was a preacher. Can you imagine that? Now by the way, let me make a qualifier here. You will never see me do that in church in a devil suit. If you see somebody in a devil suit, you can rest assured it's not me. So go ahead and throw them in jail. Um but the thing that concerns me, however, is not the preacher in a devil's suit, but it's the devil in a preacher's suit. And people that claim to be Christians that are really living their life by this wisdom of the world, which James says is devilish. It's not from above. It's not of God. And then it brings disorder. Look down at verse 816, for where ending and strife is, there is confusion, that is disorder, there's disturbance. And then every evil work. And it leads to evil. So the value of the wisdom of this world comes to nothing, and it has no value. Remember what Paul said to the Corinthians? Remember the Corinthians were so enamored with worldly wisdom. In fact the word philosophy means what? Phil, love, Sophia, love of wisdom. And that church at Corinth that was so filled with problems was a church that was enamored with the wisdom of the world. In fact, that was the root cause. Because if you study 1 Corinthians What Paul does is he goes to the very root of the problem, and in the very first part of the book, he talks about the wisdom of the world and how weak and how empty it is, as opposed to the wisdom of the cross. The real wisdom of God starts at the cross. It starts at Calvary. First Corinthians 1 18 says, For the preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness, but on those which are saved is the power of God For I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. That is, God says, I will destroy the wisdom of this world. I will bring the wisdom of this world to nothing. And that's what the wisdom of the cross does. It shows how powerless and empty the wisdom of the world is. That's the way of worldly wisdom. But now compare that to the way of heavenly wisdom. Now here's the contrast. Look at verse 17. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, hagnos. This is uh without defilement, without contamination, unmixed, untainted by impurity. James says this is a pure wisdom. It leads to peace. In verse 17, the wisdom that is from Bola is first pure, then peaceable. Man's wisdom brings competition and rivalry and war, but God's wisdom brings peace, peace in our relationships. It doesn't stir up controversy over petty issues. And then it's gentle in verse 17. Gentle. Again, we we see this uh um The word same word is translated meekness in verse 13. This gentleness it brings about And then reasonableness, we could say, look in verse 17 where it says, easy to be entreated. This is someone who's easy to live with or easy to work with. This is someone that you can come and talk to. You ever hear someone say, I just can't talk to that person? They're not approachable. I don't feel like I can approach them. They Put up a guard, they're not easy to talk with. A person with the wisdom of God is easy to be entreated. It doesn't mean you don't disagree with someone, it's just that you're not disagreeable. Um and then full of mercy in verse seventeen. A mercy shower. And then good fruits in verse 17 being added to this. Good fruits. James, I think, is hearkening back to what he said. In chapter two, that our faith has to show itself in practical good deeds. Remember, genuine faith will result in good works or good fruits. And remember, godly wisdom is practical. It will show in the fruit of a person's life. And then he also says it's without partiality. It's not partial. You say, what's partiality? Remember back in chapter 2 when James talked about the man who was partial towards the poor man who came into the church? This is someone who is uh prejudiced. Who makes judgments based on a person's outward appearance, a person who has the wisdom of God is without partiality And then they're without hypocrisy in verse 17. And the word literally is means you you know don't wear a mask. Remember actors back in those days wore masks to play a role. So literally it means without a mask. You don't wear a mask. This is our biblical justification for not wearing no, I'm just kidding. Um We can't apply it to the CDC's rules today. Go ahead and wear their mask. But in the Bible Back in that day, when an actor put on a full mask, they were, the word was Hippocrates or hypocrite. And so that's what this word means. And it means that you are sincere, that you are who you are. You're not hiding anything about your life. What you see is what you get. You're not pretending to be religious. You are a very sincere person. So there's the contrast. There are the two types of wisdom, the way of the world, which is full of envy and distrife and boasting and deceit and earthly sensual devilish disorder and evil works. Then there's the way of heavenly wisdom, pure, peaceable, gentle, reasonable, merciful, good fruits, impartial, sincere. So the question is, what do you want? Which one of these roads do you want to travel? Look at verse 18, last verse. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. And very simply, this is the principle of sowing and reaping. You reap what you sow. The fruit of righteousness is sown. And then what are you going to reap with that in peace in them that make peace? You're going to reap righteousness. You sow peace, you're going to reap peace. You sow selfishness, you're going to reap it. You sow strife, you're going to reap that. You reap what you sow. So if you sow worldly wisdom, which includes all these bad things that we saw, This is what you're going to reap back in your life. But on the other hand, if you sow heavenly wisdom, if you choose the way of purity and peace and gentleness and reasonableness and mercy and all this Then that's what you're going to reap in your life. But again, let me just say the wisdom of the cross, Is uh or I should say the wisdom of God starts at the cross. Let me show you one passage and we're done. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Just go back there real quick. Let me show you this as we close out. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Now remember Paul is uh telling the church there that's so in love with earthly wisdom or man's wisdom that that's weak, that the wisdom of the cross is so much superior. to the wisdom of man. Look at verse 18. For the preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness. But unto us which are saved it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. I will bring in nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world. For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believed. Now here's the point. I'll make it very simple. First of all, God's wisdom starts at the cross. The world doesn't get it. They don't understand that. They can't understand the preaching of the cross. And the word for preaching here is logos. We could say the logic of the cross, the whole message of the gospel. The world can't understand how a man who died on a cross 2,000 years ago can change their lives today. They don't get that. So to them it's foolishness. How can a man, a Jew, who died on a cross 2,000 years ago, change my life today? And that's why they say that the preaching, the logic of the cross, is Is Paul said to those that perish, it's moronic, it's foolishness, but to us who have been changed by Jesus Christ, it's the power of God Because we have seen it. We've seen the power of God in our life. I've often said, you know, my dad, when my dad got saved, he was he became a totally different person. I saw the power of the gospel. I saw Christ change him. And it's true with anyone. Let me just say this: no one is changed by the wisdom of man. The wisdom of man can't change a person. The wisdom of man can do nothing for them. It can give you a lot of ideas, a lot of things that sound really nice. It may on the surface help, but those are superficial changes. It doesn't really change who you are. It cannot change your heart The wisdom of God does that when you come to the cross. And that's where the wisdom of man is brought to nothing. It's it's it showed how powerless it is, how weak it is. Um I'll just use this illustration. I remember years ago when I lived uh down south and pastored. On Monday nights I would go to a hospital. This was a hospital for people who were uh uh depressed, they were they were sh just stressed out, they were some were suicidal, they couldn't cope with the problems of life. And they asked me just to come and just to to do a Bible study with them and they give me this chapel to do that. And I remember I'd go on Monday nights and I would just preach the gospel, preach the word of God, and whoever wanted to come would come and Sometimes people would come back and sometimes they'd come once and then they'd leave. But I remember on one particular occasion I went to that hospital on a Monday night and It was filled with people, and I shared the gospel, and right in the middle of that presentation, there was a woman there who spoke out right in the middle while I was uh sharing this gospel. And she said, God can't help me. God can't forgive me. And I'll never forget. Her name was Deborah. And I said, Deborah, I don't know what you've done, but I do know this. God can forgive you, and God can help you if you come to him. And she said, I murdered my boyfriend. Can God help me? And I reminded her in Scripture of Moses, who was a murderer, and how God changed them and used them. Reminded her about the Apostle Paul who persecuted the church. And then on the road to Damascus, Jesus Christ changed the heart of the Apostle Paul. And I said, if you turn from your sin and turn to the Lord and turn to Christ, ask for his forgiveness, he will save you. And right there, that moment, she didn't wait. She dropped down on her knees. And she began to pray. I didn't lead her into a prayer. She just began to pray. And when she started to pray, she started to weep And everyone there was listening to that prayer, and they were, it was so emotional, even for the people that were listening, that some of the people there listening to her teared up. to see her just pour out her heart in brokenness and repentance and ask Jesus Christ to forgive her for her sin And when she got up off her knees, I I just I looked at her and she looked different. It looked like the whole burden of sin, the guilt that she was carrying, it was gone. And she looked free. She I could sense the freedom of forgiveness that she felt, and she walked away with joy in her heart. Now the next week when I went back to the hospital and I went into the front door of that place, There were a s a circle of doctors waiting for me there in their white coats with their clipboards and their pens. And you know what their question was to me? Their question was, what did you tell Deborah? What did you say to Deborah? And I wanted to say, well, let me tell you what I didn't say. I didn't share with her Freudian psychology I didn't share with her the benefits of Marxism in her life, or the benefits of Rougeau, or the benefits of B. F. Skinner or Carl Rogers, or any of those so-called wise men out there that give you all these man-made superficial solutions to the problem of man. I told her that she was a sinner and that Jesus Christ had come to pay her sin debt. If she repented and asked Jesus to forgive her, God would forgive her and she would be saved. And you know what they said? That doesn't make sense Doesn't make sense. And that really is what Paul said here, right? The preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it's the power of God. And the wisdom of the cross brings to nothing the wisdom of the world. You know the thing I can't understand? I can't understand how any minister or church We want to mingle in the wisdom of the world with the wisdom of the cross. I don't get that. I don't get This idea out there that oh we need we need these common grace resources, these analytical tools to help us diagnose the problem of man. Do you honestly think the wisdom of man can help diagnose a sinful heart? The Bible is the only book that when you read it, it reads you back. And it shows you exactly what you are, and it does not need the help of man's wisdom, which is so futile, so weak. And the very wisdom that God says, I'm going to bring it to naught. I'm going to bring it to nothing. And here we have some people wanting to bring it into the church. When God says, I'm going to bring it to nothing. So you have to make your choice. Now, I don't know about you, but I choose the wisdom of God. I choose to believe the Bible is sufficient. I choose to stand upon the scripture And trust in the power of God's wisdom, which begins at the cross. So let's bow for prayer tonight. Father Heaven, we thank you for the cross of Christ. Again, Lord, we're brought into wonder and praise of Calvary, of our of our Savior Jesus Christ, and all that took place there at the cross, and how that at the cross The wisdom of man is brought to naught, brought to nothing. And we see the wisdom of God on display in Christ, who is the very wisdom of God. And it's at the cross, Lord, where we come and we kneel and we find our forgiveness of sin, where we find new life, eternal life, where we find help to sanctify the sinful heart. To walk in a godly life. Lord, may we find true wisdom at the cross and may we choose the right way of wisdom in our life. May this be the choice of every. person who's under the sound of my voice, may they come to the cross and find wisdom and may they walk all their days, shunning the wisdom of this world. And choosing the wisdom of God, being confident in that. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen