All right, good to see you all here tonight. I invite you to take God's word, please, open to the book of 2 Kings, 2 Kings chapter 22. Uh you know uh a while back we were doing a series in first and second kings and we kind of got off that and did some other um topics and we're kind of just finishing up Second Kings and I want you to look in chapter twenty-two and a story of a character that I'm sure that you've heard about before, one of the kings, a king by the name of Josiah. And I want to talk tonight about making a spiritual impact. You know, football season is right around the corner. Uh in his book, A Thinking Man's Guide to Pro Football, Paul Zimmerman uh is quoting a physicist who made really an incredible discovery. This is what he said. He said um he he had the facts to prove that when a two hundred and forty pound lineman Capable of running 100 yards and eleven seconds, collides with a 240-pound running back, capable of covering the same distance in ten seconds. He said the result is that there's enough energy to move 66,000 pounds one inch. That's 33 tons one inch. Wow, think about that. That shows you how hard those guys hit when they're out there playing on the field. That's kind of maybe the reason we see some of them kind of staggering off the field from time to time. And uh and s and some not so good statistics is that, you know, I I read that we're uh half of the veterans of pro football will die before the age of sixty because of the abuse of football on their body. And so they play with unbelievable force. Um and the human body was never really designed to handle those kind of collisions, those kind of physical impacts, but we have to admit that's part of the game that we like. We like seeing, you know, the the the hard hitting out there in football But more importantly than a physical impact, however, is a spiritual impact. In terms of spiritual impact, no impact could ever be too great. Have you ever asked yourself this question, what kind of a spiritual impact am I making on the lives of people around me? In our passage today, we're going to read about a young man, a king by the name of Josiah. He's one of my favorite characters in the Bible. He's a man who had a tremendous impact on the lives of the people of Israel. He made an impact on his whole nation. And he shows us the best way that we could have an impact on the lives of people around us. In fact, in 2 Kings chapter 23, verse 25, if you want to look at that verse, this is how it sums up his life in verse 25 of chapter 23. And like unto him, there was no king before him That turned to the Lord with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his might, according to the law of Moses. Neither after him arose there any like him. Wow, what a epitaph. What a thing to be said. No king like him, no king that came after him, that was anywhere like him. How would you like that to be said of you? Here's a man who had a tremendous impact on people and on his nation. And so we have to look at his life and ask ourselves, what was it? What are the things about his life that distinguished Josiah that perhaps maybe we could emulate in our own life to have an impact on people around us? Well, let me just give you three things here tonight that I see from the life of the king young boy king Josiah, we could say, because he starts off as a boy. And the first thing, if you're taking notes, just write down number one, these are three ingredients. The first ingredient is this, he kept his heart tender. He kept his heart tender before God. In 2 Kings 22, verse 18, God said, Because he had such a tender and sensitive heart, that God was going to withhold judgment from the land. That's again to me an incredible thing. God was ready to judge Judah because the sins of the nation were so great against God. And yet on the throne there was this boy king who had such a sensitive and tender heart towards God that God said, you know what, I'm gonna hold off. on judgment on this nation because of the heart of Josiah. God values a sensitive and tender heart. You know, one problem that many Christians face is that um at times we we seem to let our hearts grow hard at times. We you know, because of our sin nature, that's very easy for that to happen. And to not keep our hearts sensitive before the Lord. But notice in 2 Kings chapter 22, look at verse 1. Josiah was eight years old when it began to rain. So he starts On the throne when he's eight years old. Wow. That's an eight-year-old kid's dream. I'm the king. I get to do any whatever I want. You know, I call the shots. Eight years old, that's incredible But it also says that he began to seek God. Look at verse 2, and he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in all the way of David his father, and turned not aside to the right hand nor to the left. And so he walked like his father David. Now, if you've been with us in any of our studies on 1 and 2 Kings, I've said this before. that David was the gold standard as far as what a king should be. Every other king in Judah or Israel was measured up to David. Were they like David? If they were, they were a good king. If they were not like David, they were not a good king. And so often we see the expression in 1 and 2 Kings, he walked like his father David, or he walked not in the ways of his father David. And that's the writer's assessment of what kind of a king he was. And the more you were like David, the better king that you were. And here Josiah is given, he's commended because he walks like David. He begins to seek. In fact, you can write down your margin, 2 Chronicles 34, 3. 2 Chronicles is kind of the parallel story of 2 Kings. It also gives the story of Josiah. Sometimes there's a little bit more light shed on his life in 2 Chronicles. It says this For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of David his father. And so Now he's 16 years old. He's eight years old, and he's trying to walk like his father, David. And now here he's 16 years old. And the Bible says that he's really seeking after the God of his father, David. And so you have to admire this. From the years of eight years old to sixteen years old, he's seeking after God. And as he gets older, he's seeking even more. He got more passionate for about God. You know, normally what happens to the average person as they get older, their heart seems to get harder. It doesn't say sensitive, like a child. Remember what Jesus said, except you have the faith of a child. We need to keep our hearts tender like the heart of a child and not let it grow hard. And normally what happens is when children start getting those teen years And maybe they're exposed to some of the corruption around them of the world that it does something to their heart to where they're not as open to the things of God as they were when they were younger. It's sad to say that's just the reality that sometimes teenagers' hearts grow harder than when they're a child. They they don't maintain that childlike innocence or that childlike sensitivity. And by the way, this happens to adults as well. We we lose that childlike faith, that childlike sensitivity. But Josiah doesn't. He doesn't allow that to happen. As he's growing older, he's seeking God more. We have to admire that. That's what makes him unique among all the others that are around them. He doesn't seek God less. He seeks God more. He doesn't stop seeking God. In fact, you can do this one time, don't do it right now. But you know, sometimes when you're reading in 2 Chronicles, I think the writer makes a purposeful contrast between Joash and Josiah. Their names are almost spelled exactly alike, but there's two different kings. Don't get them mixed up. And they both have a lot of things in life. They sound so much alike. Both came to the throne when they were just boys. Both collected funds to restore the temple. Both are reported as having stood in the king's place in the temple precincts. Both led the nation in a covenant of renewal at the temple. But whereas Josiah, his heart, remained true to the Lord, Joash, his heart, departed from the Lord In fact, there was a godly high priest by the name of Jehoiada who had an impact in Joash's life, and he was kind of his mentor. And when Jehoiada died, you know what happened? Joash began to walk away from the things of God. And what it reveals is that it really wasn't his faith. He was kind of living because of what another person's was influencing him. It doesn't wasn't really his own personal faith. If your faith is propped up by someone else, what will you do when that prop is no longer there? That's what happened here with Joash. But Josiah is different. His face is not propped on any people around him. He he doesn't depart from the Lord. The Bible says that he doesn't turn to the right hand or to the left. That's just a idiom that says, you know, he was straight for God. He was continually faithful to God. And that's why God blesses him. Again, look in chapter 22, look down at verse number 19, what God says, Because thine heart was tender, and thou hast humbled thyself before the Lord. When thou heardest what I spake against this place, and against the inhabitants thereof, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and as rent thy clothes and wet before me, I also have heard thee, saith the Lord Behold, therefore I will gather thee unto thy fathers, and thou shalt be gathered into the grave in peace, and thine eyes shall not see all the evil which I will bring upon this place. And they brought the keen word again. So here is God making a promise to Josiah. Because your heart is so tender, I'm going to withhold judgment. You're not going to see it Because of the way you responded to my word and the way your heart is turned towards me, I'm not going to bring down judgment on this land. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we had leaders in America like that? That their hearts were so sensitive to the things of God. They feared the Lord. They sought his word. So much so that God says, you know what, I'm going to withhold judgment. Because we have leaders that are seeking me. And so we have to admire this about Josiah. What is it that causes the heart to get hardened? Have you ever asked yourself that question? What hardens the heart? Well the Bible gives an answer to this that is very clear. In Hebrews three, it says, harden not your hearts as in the provocation in the day of temptation in the wilderness. And then it says this in verses 12 and 13 of Hebrews 3. Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. There's one sign What can cause your heart to your heart? Unbelief, and departing from the living God, but exhort one another daily while it's called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. That's another thing that hardens our heart. The deceitfulness of sin. Sin hardens the heart. Unbelief in God, not trusting God, hardens the heart. And it's very deceptive. It's very insidious. It happens very slowly and sometimes almost imperceptibly. You don't sense or recognize that maybe your heart is growing hard. It happens over time. It's a process. You know, it's like when you walk into a dark room and you can't see anything and you st if you stay in that room for a few minutes, what's going to happen? You're going to begin to see things because your eyes are going to adjust. You know, your pupils will dilate and you'll be able to the eyes will gather in light, and it won't seem so dark in there after a while. And that's the way sin is. Sin is exceedingly dark, but when you've been in it for a while, it doesn't seem so dark And it's very deceptive, but it's sin that hardens the heart. That's why when sin enters into your heart, confess it immediately. Do business with God immediately. Forsake it immediately. Don't wait on that. Don't let sin linger in your life and cause your heart to grow hard. Kill that sin with the light of God's Word. Kill it with confession. If you don't deal thoroughly and quickly with your sins, they will harden your heart. And you'll ignore conviction and you'll ignore your conscience and your heart will grow hard. But Josiah didn't let that happen to him. He kept his heart tender. And that's why I would say another thing to do, read God's word every day. You know why? Because God's word, it keeps our hearts soft. You know what the Bible says, isn't is not my word like a hammer that breaks a rock? You know what God's Word does? It breaks us constantly And it keeps us soft and tender inwardly when we're reading and we're meditating in the Word of God. Pray. every day because prayer also keeps us humble. It keeps our hearts sensitive before the Lord. Focus on the cross of Christ. How can you not think about what Jesus did on the cross for your sins and and and not grow Tender. If your heart is hard, go to the cross and think about what Jesus did for you. Think about how he took all of your sins upon himself, what he did for you. Meditate on Christ. That keeps your heart sensit sensitive. But here's number two. Number one, he kept his heart tender, but number two, he erased ungodly influences. Go to chapter 23 of 2 Kings and look at verse number 4. Chapter 23, look down at verse number 4, and notice what it says there. And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest, and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the door, to bring forth out of the temple of the Lord all the vessels that were made for Baal. And for the grove, and for all the hosts of heaven. And he burned them without Jerusalem in the fields of Khidron, and carried the ashes of them to Bethel. And he put down the idolatrous priests whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah and in the places round about Jerusalem. Them also that burned incense unto Baal to the sun and to the moon and to the planets and to all the host of heaven. And he brought out the grove from the house of the Lord without Jerusalem unto the Brook Kedron And he burned it all in the Brook Kedron and stamped it small to powder, and cast the powder thereon upon the graves of the children of the people. Verse seven, and he break down the houses of the Sodomites That were by the house of the Lord where the women wove hangings for the grove. You know what he's doing here? He's purging the land of all idolatry. He's getting rid of all of it. And man, he does it with a vengeance. I mean he's so thorough. The Bible says in 2 Chronicles 34, 3 that he purged The land, purged, to cleanse it. He cleanses it from all of these ungodly influences, all this paganism. That's why God was going to judge Judah, because they were infested with idolatry And the people were engaged in false worship. And, you know, at first they would worship false gods in secret, but then it got so Prevalent that they were actually taking idols into the temple of the Lord and worshipping idols there and doing it in public. They openly turned from the Lord. to worship these false gods, the gods of the enemy nations that were around. And God was going to bring judgment on them because of that. And then also notice where it's we read where it says that he pulled down the high places in verse number five. The places where they would commit this idolatry. Now again, if you've been with us in our study. I told you before, what are the high places? These are, you know, there are hills all around Jerusalem, and they would build altars in these elevated places And these were the places where they would go and they would commit idolatry. They would take their idols there. They would have an altar there. And so all over were these high places. When we went to Jerusal uh to Israel uh last year, we went to visit one of them, a place called Dan, set up by Jeroboam. The altar is still there, that high place is still there, where they would go and they would Just do this these horrible practices, these these just terrible rituals there. And what does Josiah do He tears them all down. All the high places that were set up by Manasseh, he tears them down or other other kings. He tears them down. He takes all the idols and he destroys them. And notice how thorough he does it. The Bible says that he stamped it small to powder and cast the powder there on the graves of the children of the people. I mean he's making sure that you're not gonna worship these idols anymore. You know. Always was humorous to me when people say, you know what, I I I I got rid of all the all the you know, maybe it was something in their life that was really getting them down, you know. I got rid of all the alcohol in my in my refrigerator. Well what'd you do with it? Pour generator, no, I gave it to a friend or a neighbor. Don't do that. Just get rid of it. You know, Josiah's going to make sure he's not giving these idols out to other nations, saying, hey, we don't need these idols anymore. You know what he's doing? He's destroying them all. He's grinding them to powder. He's burning everything. Because he doesn't want this used anymore. And so he's so thorough in the way he does it. He pulls down these high places. Remember I told you there are only two kings in all of recorded, in all the record of 1 and 2 kings in all of Israel's recorded history that actually tore down the high places. One was Hezekiah. And the other one was Josiah. Those are the only two kings that did it. And Josiah completely destroys them. He's determined to get rid of all of them. So he purges the land. He burns vessels that were being used for this, we saw in verse number four. Grinds them to powder. And another thing that he does is he actually also tears down look in verse number seven again, and he break down the houses of the sodomites. That is, these were Houses of male temple prostitution that was part of the worship of um uh Ashtareth that was there. Uh he tears all that down. Destroys all of that. And then he destroyed the high places which Solomon built. Did you know that Solomon built high places Look in chapter twenty-two, look at verse thirteen. And the high places that were before Jerusalem, which were on the right hand of the mount of corruption, which Solomon the king had built for Ashturith, the abomination of the Zidonians For Kimash to the abomination of the Moabites, and for Milcom the abomination of the children of Ammon did the king defile Verse 14, and he break in pieces the images and cut down the grows and filled their places with the bones of men. There was an entire ridge of hills on the east of the city of Jerusalem, and that became known as the Mount of Corruption. That's because evil rites were practiced there. That's because King Solomon allowed high places to be built there just to please the foreign wives that he had married. And all that was going on under Solomon. And just Josiah, though, he he he destroys all that. The Bible says he defiles them by breaking down those sacred pillars. And he breaks them into pieces and he he's cutting down the ash dream, the the pole that's there and and uh filling these areas with human bones. Human bones were considered to defile a place so that a person So that you couldn't worship there anymore. From the earliest times bones were considered unclean. He didn't stop there. There's another altar that he tore down. This was in Bethel. Now, see if you can remember back with me when we talked about Jeroboam. Remember Jeroboam decided to start his own religion? Because he didn't want people going to Jerusalem to worship God there. He wanted to control the people, so he started his own false religion, and he put a high place, one at Din and one at Bethel. And they had golden casts there that people could worship. And you remember, God sent a man of God to Jerobo to Jeroboam and said, you know, one day there's gonna king there's gonna be a king that's gonna come along and he's gonna defile this place. That man of God made a prophecy. And you know what? Josiah is the fulfillment of that prophecy. Because notice what happens in verse 15 of chapter 22. Moreover, that the altar that was at Bethel And the high place which Jeroboam, the son of Nabak, who made Israel to sin, had made both that altar and the high place he break down and burned the high place, and stamped it into small small the powder, and burned the grove. And as Josiah turned himself, he s spied these sepulchres that were there in the mount, and he sent and took the bones out of the sepulchres, and burned them upon the altar, and polluted it According to the word of the Lord, which the man of God proclaimed, who proclaimed these words. Here's Josiah fulfilling The prophecy that that earlier prophet made many, many years ago, of what would happen to that idolatrous altar there at Bethel. And in fact, in fact, what Jeroboam did is he took the whole city and made it a high place. And what Josiah does is he tears it down and he defiles it because he hates the idolatry that's going on there. He crushed it all. You know what I like about Josiah? He doesn't do it halfway. These are not half measures. He is through. He completely Purges ungodly influences from the land. And as a result of this purging, you know what happened? Revival took place. God brought revival there to the people for a time. In fact, in the thirteenth year of the reign of Josiah, there was a young teenager named Jeremiah that was called to preach. Jeremiah 1, 2, the Bible says the word of the Lord came to him in the days of Josiah, the son of Ammon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign. The ministry of Jeremiah was a direct result of the influence of the godly king Josiah. And so he's impacting lives around them with what he's doing. So when we study something like this, we have to stop and ask ourselves the question, what are we doing with the high places in our life? You say, I don't have any high hills that I go to commit idolatry. Well, idols are not in hills anymore, they're in our hearts. And he's anything that we trust more than God, that we depend upon more than God, that we put ahead of God Need to be purged, need to be removed from our heart. We'll never have an impact on the lives of others until all the ungodly influences are removed from our life and we can be vessels that God can use. For some it might be changing what you watch. You know, we live in a world today where, you know, now you have iPads, you have phones, and you can just literally plug in and watch anything. I I plead with you, be careful. Don't allow yourself to be sucked into some of the evil stuff that's out there. Guard your eyes. and your mind. And also you might need to change what you're listening to. You know, not all secular music is wrong. But there's some sector of music that's just evil. It's satanic. It's sinful. Any music that plays up sinful themes is nothing that a Christian should listen to. or entertain themselves with. It pollutes the mind. And you need to get rid of it. Get it out of your life. I remember one I remember many years ago when I was a youth pastor, I'm an old preacher now, but Uh when I was a youth pastor uh preaching down in South and I I preached to a group of young people one time in a chapel and was talking about erasing ungodly influences in their life. And the very next day, um what the kids did was they brought all their, you know, rock music CDs and stuff and they they brought them to the principal's office and piled his all of it on his desk. You know, and they went out and they burned it all. They burned all of it, you know. Uh all the music that they had that they thought that was bad. And they said, you know, that you know, God used that in the hearts of those young people. And that's what we need to do. We need to make sure we purge ungodly influences from our life. It might even be some of the friends that you have. If they're not helping you to walk the Christian life, if they're pulling you down, if they're bringing you back into the world, you know what? You need to get rid of them. Love them in Christ, but you know you need to sanct you need to saturate them with your absence if they're not helping you to grow in Christ. It might be changing your friends. Whatever controls you, whatever causes you to be addicted to anything other than Christ, it needs to be changed in your life. Rid your life of ungodly influences. But let me give you the third thing that Josiah did, and this is big Of all the three, here I think is so important. He kept his heart tender. Number two, he erased ungodly influences, but number three, he made a commitment to God's word. Look go back to chapter 22 and look at verse number 3. Notice what it says, and it came to pass in the 18th year of the king Josiah that the king sent uh Shaphan, the son of Azaliah, the son of Mishalam, the scribe to the house of the Lord, saying, Go to up to Hokiah the high priest, That he may sum the silver which is brought into the house of the Lord, which the keepers of the door have gathered of the people, and let them deliver into the hand of the doers of the work, that they may overs over have oversight of the house of the Lord And let them give it to the doers of work which is in the house of the Lord to repair the breaches of the house. And they're collect they're counting the monies that people would give when they would come to the temple. Evidently they took the offering at the door when you were walking in there in the Old Testament. I don't we should try that maybe, I don't know, but anyway Um, just kidding. But they would uh take the money and he wanted to distribute that money to people that were in charge of a renovation project. In other words, he just felt it was time to renovate the temple. The temple was in disrepair. And because the worship of Yahweh was put on the back burner because of all the idolatry that was going on, the temple of the Lord was neglected. And Josiah said, no more. We're going to renovate this. We're going to clean it out. And these men that were handling the money, the Bible says that they were men of impeccable honesty in verse number seventh. And they were in charge of this whole thing. And while they were renovating the temple, look at verse 8. And Hokkiah the high priest said unto Sha Shaphon the The scribe, I found the book of the law in the house of the Lord. And he gave it, and Hilkai gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it. So here they are in the temple doing all this renovation, and guess what they find there? They find The Word of God, a portion of God's Word. Some think it was only the book of Deuteronomy, or maybe a portion of it. Some think that they discovered the entire first five books of the Bible. Hilkiah hands it over to the scribe. He read enough of it to know that this was exceedingly valuable, and they bring the word of God to the king. And notice I call this none first that we see Josiah's could But now we see Josiah's contrition because what does how does he respond? What does he do? When the word of God is read to him, Notice what the Bible says happened. Look at verse 11 of chapter 22. And it came to pass when the king had heard the words of the book of the law that he what? He rent his clothes. That was a sign of great mourning and sorrow. And why did he do that? Because he saw When he or he realized how far God's people had fallen away from God's word And in fact, if he's reading, if he's having Deuteronomy read to him, there are sections in Deuteronomy that make it clear that the king is to have his own copy of the law and he's to rule according to the law of God But here it is, it's been lost, and now it's been rediscovered. And he realizes that the nation of Israel had so turned its back on God, they turned away from the Word of God. They were completely ignoring it And the Word of God was lost. It wasn't lost because they couldn't find it. It was right there in God's house. It was lost because they didn't want it. Or they didn't think they needed it. And so he realizes that they're in trouble. So what he does is he sends to get a word from God. He sends to a prophetess at that time. Uh and and word is given to him from Hul Holda the prophetess of what is going to happen Look, drop down the verse number fifteen of chapter twenty-two. And she said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, tell the man that sent you to me, thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place. And upon the inhabitants thereof, of all the words of the book which the Lord of King which the King of Judah have read, because they have forsaken me and have burned incense to other gods that might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands. Therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place and shall not be quenched. Josiah's worst fears were justified. All the threats and curses that would be read in the book of Deuteronomy if God's people disobeyed, all the ones that perhaps Josiah heard? Because when God's people disobeyed what God was going to do, all that was going to come upon Jerusalem shortly. Wrath was coming. And Josiah could see that coming. By the way, let me just Say here, you know, I I love our country, America, but I believe that we're under the wrath of Almighty God. And I believe that's because this country has turned away from God's word. They've turned completely away from God's Word. Our government is responsible to rule under the Word of God, according to the law of God, according to what God says. That's the biblical responsibility that any government has is to govern according to the Word of God. But sadly, our our government doesn't really care about what God's Word says. They're more concerned about what they want to get re-elected or what popular culture wants. And if we let our country be governed according to the realms of depraved society, we're in big trouble. We are responsible to obey the word of God. And that's the way our country started. I don't need to give you a history lesson on that, because I've talked about this before. Our country was founded upon the principles of God's Word. But we've gotten so far away from that that I believe that we are under the judgment of Almighty God. But then I want you to see, however, Josiah's conviction. You talk about having an impact. Again, because of his tender heart, we already read verses 19 and 20. God said, I'm going to withhold wrath and judgment because of you, Josiah, because of your heart, because of when you heard the word of God read to you, your response of brokenness and sorrow Towards me, God so valued that kind of heart that God said, I'm going to withhold judgment. It's not going to happen in your time. But then you know what Josiah did after that? He calls for a national assembly. Look in chapter 23. Look at verse 1. And the king sent, and they gathered unto him all the elders of Judah and of Jerusalem. And the king went up to the house of the Lord, and all the men of Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the priests and the prophets, and all The people both small and great and he read in their ears the words of the book of the covenant, which was found in the house of the Lord And the king stood by a pillar and made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord, to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all their heart and all their soul to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book, and all the people stood up to the covenant. In other words, he has it read before all the people. Here's a national assembly that he calls with all the elders and leaders And he has the Word of God read to them. I I think, you know, to read the entire Pentateuch would probably take about, you know, eight hours or so. So I think perhaps maybe he they just read the book of Deuteronomy. But whatever. They read the words of the covenant and Josiah Renewed that covenant, and he vowed to obey the Lord. He made a covenant with God, the Bible says in verse number three. A covenant to obey the word of God. And to lead the nation to do the same. And at that moment in the history of Judah, judgment was withheld, and therefore that time revival came to that country because of the heart of Josiah. Because he had a commitment to the Word of God. And I I think that this can still happen today. You know, you know the best thing we can do for our country is obey the Word of God. Honor, fear the Lord. By obeying what he says in his word. If we had leaders that would do that, I believe it would spare our country from God's just judgment. Upon those that disobey the Word of God. And so he kept his heart tender. He erased ungodly influences. He made a commitment to the Word of God. And you know what? I think it's just that simple. I think if we just did that same thing, then we can have an impact on the lives of others around us. Transformation can happen in anyone's life if they Pick up the Word of God and they read it and they believe it and they allow that word to transform their life. I was reading about a man by the name of Thomas Bilney. That happened to him a long time ago in the 1520s. He was a priest in the University Town of Cambridge, England, and he began to study the Bible in Greek and Latin. And uh there was a a new uh Testament edition uh published by Erasmus, had a Greek on one side, Latin on the other, and he was reading and learning the Bible, and when he opened his new Bible that he got And he started to read. This is what he said. He said, at the first reading, I chanced upon this sentence of St. Paul. And he says, Oh most sweet and comfortable sentence to my soul. In 1 Timothy it says, It is a true saying, and worthy of all men to be embraced, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. And Bilde later said that when he read that verse, he said that that verse wounded me with the guilt of my sins, he said. And at the same time a marvelous comfort and quietness, insomuch that my bruised bones leaped for joy. The Word of God did its work in his heart It brought repentance. And he put his faith in Christ. Reading God's word for him at that moment was transformational. And that's exactly what happened to Josiah. When the word of God was read to him, it had such an impact in his heart that he determined to obey God. And Then he had an impact on those around him. And I believe that the same can happen to us. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, uh this is such a great story, an encouraging story. Of a young king who wanted to do what was pleasing in your sight, and when the word of God was read to him, had a heart To hear and to obey what your word said. Father, give us the heart of Josiah. Help us to keep our hearts sensitive and tender before you. Help us, Lord, to deal thoroughly with sin in our life. To not allow our hearts to grow hard, and to determine to make a commitment of obedience to your word With your grace as our help, Lord, may we have lives that impact those around us because of these things. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.