In your Bibles this morning, Matthew chapter 22. Matthew chapter 22, we'll look at verse number seven uh verse fifteen down to verse twenty-two of Matthew twenty-two And while you're finding that, you know, this is the Fourth of July weekend, and as Americans, we're supposed to be celebrating the birth of our nation. And we're supposed to be thankful for living in a free nation. Thankful and flag-waving Americans. But it seems like patriotism uh and gratitude for our country are on the decline. Honestly, it feels a little different this fourth than in any other fourth I've ever experienced, at least in my lifetime. It seems like we have more people that are willing to to burn the flag than wave the flag. And that's because of this year, this this 2020 has been a very challenging year for all of us. The coronavirus had a big role to play in this. In response to this dangerous pandemic, our local and state governments have told us when we can worship and when we can't, and as you know that For a while the doors of the church were closed and that was out of the safety for the citizens, and certainly we understand that. But I also feel at the same time there were some in government positions that use this as an opportunity to show their disdain and hatred for the church and the gospel. And went a little bit farther on that. And so we've had to graciously confront the government over this issue. And uh we've done that, and of course we're able to meet on a limited basis. And so it's kind of hard to feel good about the fact that government is kinda in a way maybe overstepping its bounds, infringing in our freedom of worship. And then there's another reason The murderous abuse of authority by rogue police officers has also played a major role. It's hard to feel good about America when we see such abuse of authority. And the result has been protest and riot. And now the uh cry out there is defund the police, let's get rid of the police, uh let's protest the flag. As Christians, we see all of this, and it's very easy for us to get swept up in all of the hysteria that is going on. It's very easy for us to drink in the spirit of the world and to forget what God teaches us in his word. So the question is, how are we to make sense of all of this? What should our attitude be towards our country? What should our attitude be towards our government? And what should our attitude be towards our God? Should we hate our country? Should we hate our government? Should we join in the revolt or even start a revolt of our own? Well, I hope that this passage of scripture will help us to make sense of these things and perhaps answer some of these questions that are floating around. and the minds of God's people and others. Let me just tell you that hating the government is nothing new. The Jews in Jesus' day hated the Roman government And they came to Jesus on one occasion and they asked him a question about it. They asked him a political question. And this is one of the few times in the ministry of Jesus where he responded to a political question. But let's just talk about the context. We have to understand what's going on in Matthew 22 when we come to this passage. Know this that this is the last week of Jesus' life. This is the week of passion. This is before he's crucified on the cross. This is Tuesday of that week. On this day, the religious leaders in Jesus are engaged in a verbal combat The religious leaders are trying to find something they can use against Jesus. Since the beginning of his ministry, they they didn't like him. Since they First heard him teach they were suspicious of him, and they were seeking from that point to find something they could use against them Their dislike turned to hatred, their hatred turned to hostility, and it will climax with murder at the end of this week Now, all again, all during his three and a half years of ministry, they have sought ways to destroy him, but now they're doing it with greater intensity because he has been mocking their system. He has been coming against their religious traditions and they resented him. They resented the things that he did that very week. On Sunday he rode in, he he proclaimed himself to be the Messiah On Monday he cursed the fig tree and he cleansed the temple. He healed the sick on Tuesday and the lame and the blind and he taught in the temple. And basically what he was doing was claim claiming ownership of that temple And so they come to Jesus and they said, By what authority do you do these things? And Jesus answered that question by with three parables, each of these parables Put the religious leaders in bad light. It exposed their hypocrisy. So look in chapter 21. Look down at verse number 40. five. And when the chief priests and Pharisees had heard his parables, they perceived that he spake against them. But when he sou but when they sought to lay hands on him, they feared the multitude because they took him for a And so these parables didn't put him in good light. They resented him all the more. They really hated Jesus. They wanted him to be arrested, but they were afraid to do anything because at this time Jesus was riding a wave of popularity that began on that Sunday when all the people cried, Hosanna. So they decided to get them another way. They conspired to figure it out. They wanted something they could use against them, something that the multitudes could use against them. And and you know, enemies make strange bedfellows, as the saying goes. And so these two groups got together. There were the Herodians and there were the Pharisees who got together to try to find something that they could do against Jesus. Look down at verse number 15. Then when the Pharisees Then then went the Pharisees and took counsel how they might entangle him in his talk Verse sixteen, and they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true art true, and teachest the way of God and truth, and neither carest thou for any man For thou regardest not the person of men. Here these two groups get together, the Herodians, which is really the political leaders, they were the ones who followed Herod. Herod was loyal to Rome. And the Jews hated the Herodians, especially the Pharisees. And the Pharisees were the religious leaders. They hated each other. And yet here they are getting together. Because they have a common enemy and Jesus, and they pick out some of their best minds, their best thinkers. They want to try to impale Jesus on the horns of a dilemma. They want to trip him up So after they offer some serious hypocritical flattery to Jesus, they ask a question to the Lord designed to trip him up. Look at verse number 17. Tell us therefore What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar or not? Here's the question. Jesus, should we pay taxes? Should we give tribute to Caesar? Now this was a trick question because if Jesus answered yes, the Pharisees would accuse him of being assault towards Rome. Certainly then he could not be the Messiah, the one that would lead them away from Roman oppression. And besides that, the people hated paying the Roman tax. It could turn all the people against Jesus. And this particular tax that they're referring to was the Roman poll tax. This was a tax that went straight to the emperor, straight to the Caesar. It was levied on every male. If you were 14 to 65, you had to pay it. If every woman, every female, when you were 12 years old to 65, you had to pay this imperial tax. And again, the Jews hated this tax. So if he said yes. It would look it would turn the people against Jesus. If he said no, then the Herodians could go to Pilate and say He is opposing Roman rule. He's guilty of treason and sedition, and the Roman government could kill him. So this group thought they had Jesus right where they wanted him. They thought he's not going to get out of this one. How is he going to answer this question? They were already patting themselves on the back. They were already congratulating themselves. But then Jesus stunned them with his response. Look down in verse number 18. But Jesus perceived their wickedness and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites? Verse 19, show me the tribute money. And they brought unto him a penny, or literally a denarius, that was one day's wage and a coin. And he saith unto them, Who is this image and superscription? And they said unto him, Caesars Then saith he unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and unto God the things which are God's. Again, this answer stunned them. It only took him one sentence to put them all on the defensive and send them running. And what was Jesus doing? Jesus was showing that God and Caesar each have legitimate realms of authority with corresponding responsibilities. There is a realm of authority that government has in our life There is a realm of authority that God has in our life. And if there is ever a conflict between these two realms, God is supreme over Caesar. And by asking this question, Jesus was already pointing out that, you know, by asking him to bring him a coin, he was pointing out that you are enjoying some of the benefits of Caesar's government The government does give to its citizens many benefits. For example, the Israel and the Jewish people had several important benefits given to them because of Roman rule They used Roman coinage or the monetary system which helped them. They enjoyed travel on the Roman roads that were built all throughout the empire. They enjoyed the Pax Romana, or we could say the Roman peace. There was peace all over the world which because there was no war, it gave them more opportunity for stability and their own welfare and and and good and good life. The Romans built aqueducts that would bring in fresh water in the dry region, something that was especially needed in the area of Judea and Palestine, where Jesus was ministering at that time. So the people in turn were obligated to give to Caesar his due. And so Jesus was saying, give to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. But then he also said, look at the second part But render unto God, give to God what belongs to God. On the other side of the image stamped with by Caesar, had Caesar's image On the other side, there was the saying that was actually onto the coin, Tiberius Caesar, son of the divine Augustus. By making this statement, give to God what belongs to God, Jesus was implying that it was wrong to go along with the blasphemous idea that was etched on the coin. Caesar divine Augustus. That was wrong. That was absolutely wrong. It was wrong to go along with this blasphemous claim that Caesar was God or Caesar was deity. And so there he was saying we must never go so far as to give Caesar what belonged to God. And by even making that claim, Caesar Augustus was violating his responsibility, his role. He was trying to take that which only belonged to God. Caesar is not above God. God is the supreme ruler. You give to Caesar what belongs to Caesar, but you give to God what belongs to God. Now, let's look at this a little bit closer. Let's look at the first part of this. What is Jesus telling us? We must submit to governmental authority. Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's. By this statement, Jesus is acknowledging that God has ordained civil government. And God has ordained civil government for the good of society. Therefore, there is a legitimate claim that Author that the government authority has over our life. Now you might be asking the question, what if the government is corrupt? What do you mean, what if? There's never been a human government in this world that has not been corrupt. Every form of government under man is corrupt. The reason for that is because there are corrupt people occupying those positions of authority. You know why? Because they're always Led by sinners, people who have a sin nature. Our American form of government is far from perfect. Government is never perfect, and sometimes it is tragically imperfect. But human government still has a legitimate authority even when that authority is exercised. Paul explains this in Romans 13. He said, Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. And please keep in mind that when Paul wrote that in Romans, the man who was on the throne at Rome at that time was Nero, a man who we would say was very less than perfect. And the idea is that since God ordained government, we as Christians have we have obligations to that government, even when that government is less than perfect. And so, what are our obligations? So let me just give you a few here. First of all, we are to submit to government and cooperate whenever it is possible. Whenever it is possible. Peter wrote to the church in 1 Peter, a church that was being persecuted by a corrupt government. He said to submit yourselves to the Lord for the Lord's sake to every human institution. whether to a king as one of authority, or to governors as sent by him, for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of those who do right. And Peter was telling these believers, even these believers who were suffering under an unjust government, look, submit yourself. For the Lord's sake, submit yourself. Peter recognized and he gave a reason for the vital role of human government. This is why he could say this. What was the function? To punish evildoers and for the praise of those who do right. The Bible teaches us that there are basically three reasons, primary reasons, for the role of government, three functions, we could say. What is the function of human government? It's to protect It is to punish, it is to promote. First of all, protection. You see, from the moment Adam sinned in the garden, it was obvious that civilization would need some form of restraint to restrain the evil now, the sin nature that was now in man. Man is a sinner, man is depraved because of his fall into sin. Man doesn't live out the full measure of that depravity, and you know why? Because God has built restraints in man and in society to keep man from living out the full measure of his depravity. What are those restraints? Well, first of all, there is the conscience. Right after Adam fell in the garden, you know what he felt? He felt shame, something he had never felt before. Because before that he was in innocence. And with the sin and the fall came this feeling of guilt and shame. You know why? Because one gift that God and his mercy gave to fallen man even after his sin was the gift of conscience. And God has put the conscience in man to restrain the sin nature, to keep us from doing wrong. I call it that inner traffic light. It flashes red when we're doing wrong, or flashes green when we're doing the right thing, or gives us a yellow light and tells us to be careful. That inward lamp of the soul, as the Bible says in Proverbs 2020 seven, searching all of the most inward parts. But you know what? Man can ignore the conscience, and we know that We know that the conscience can become hardened to where man ignores it. But then God also gave command the family. That's another institution that God used to restrain evil, parents are responsible to teach their children a sense of right and wrong. They're to teach them to obey the law. The Bible tells us this very clearly in many places in Scripture. You remember in the Old Testament when Eli did nothing about the lawlessness of his children, God held them accountable And what did God say? You have honored your children above me. When you fail to teach your children right and wrong, when you fail to restrain them, you've honored them above me. You've put them above my own law God holds parents accountable to do that very thing. But then there's also not only the conscience and the family, there's also the church. And by the way, the greatest force against evil in this world is the gospel of Jesus Christ, which when a person gets saved, they have the Holy Spirit dwelling in them. That restrains that sin nature. There is the conscience that God gave, there is the family, there is the church, but then there's also human government. Because in order for a society to function reasonably, If we're evil to be restrained, there must be government. There has to be submission to governmental authority. Now again, even when the government is less than perfect and even sometimes abusive, it still serves to some measure to restrain the evil, the depraved evil that is in man. Both but then the second second function is punishment. This goes along with it. Paul said that the the government, God's servants, they bear the sword, and they bear not the sword in vain. Peter also said the same thing. He said governors are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers. That's one of the primary roles of human government is to protect the citizens and to punish evildoers, the scripture says And what would happen if we didn't have that restraint? What do you think would happen to society? What would happen if there was no government If there was no police on the streets, if there was no city council, if there was no mayor, if there was no governor, what have happened if all governments shut down and we had no more laws to obey What would happen? You would see the depravity of man unleashed in a way that you've never seen before. Because of the restraint against evil. is now gone. The conscience will fail. Even families sadly have failed. And also sadly, even the church has failed because many churches have ceased preaching the gospel in the Word of God. If if uh there were no government you would see evil unleashed. But also another function of human government is promotion. Human government is to promote the general welfare of the community where its laws are in effect. First Timothy 2. 1, Paul prays for us tells us to pray for human leaders that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. However, when governments become corrupt and fail to enforce laws with sufficient punishment to deter crime What happens is law-abiding citizens suffer. And that government comes under the judgment of God. And there are times and have been times, and we have seen it. When the government has failed, it's failed to fulfill its God-given responsibility, and they are accountable under God. Governments fail to protect the innocent. If you ask me, the most innocent thing there is is a baby in his mother's womb. And we have a government that has legalized abortion, the killing of innocent babies. When that government is supposed to protect the innocent Governments fail to punish those who need to be punished. Governments can become tyrannical. They can become abusive as we have seen. Governments can try to usurp. God's law and to usurp his word, and when the government oversteps its jurisdiction and commands or tries to force its citizens to disobey God or disobey his word, we disobey the government. What did Daniel do when that all was passed that you couldn't pray? Daniel went wait right to his room and he prayed just like He always did. When Peter and John were told not to speak about Jesus anymore, you know what they said? They said, we must obey God rather than man. If the government steps in and tells the church what to preach and how to preach, then the church should say, we will obey God rather than man. I'm not going to stop preaching the Bible just because the government might try to outlaw preaching against certain sins. I'm not going to do that. John Bunyan was put in jail because the government told him how and what to preach, and he refused. He said no And he went to prison because of that. But I want to tell you something, beloved. We can thank God that at least we have a form of government here in America where we can protest legally. We can protest. We can hold people accountable. In some countries they don't have that. The countries are so tyrannical, they're so uh They're so uh got the people in such bondage and imprisonment that people can't even protest. But here in America, we can protest legally. We can hold people accountable. We should be thankful for that So we must submit to government and hold it and cooperate whenever it's possible. But here's the next thing: honor government leaders when possible. Peter said in first 2. 17, honor the king. And again, Nero is on the throne. When he wrote that. So we should honor our leaders when possible. And the reason I say when possible is because sometimes there are times when uh when we have to uh hold leaders into accountable into account for what they say and what they do. There are times when government leaders deserve censorship, or they deserve rebuke and not honor. In Luke chapter 13, verse 32, Jesus called Herod a fox. Which meant he was a liar. He was a deceiver. John the Baptist denounced Herod for his immorality. You go to other places in the scripture, you'll find God's men doing the same thing. We should not be afraid to rebuke government officials when they are violating their responsibilities before Almighty God. But here's the third thing. Jesus was telling us submit to government, honor government when possible, but also pay your taxes. Pay your taxes. I know this isn't very popular preaching here today. That's what he meant when he said render to Caesar. What belongs to Caesar? Taxes are an important part of any developed society. Without them, government can't function Seems like we're paying more and more. Understand that. In nineteen thirteen, the sixteenth amendment brought federal income taxes into existence. One senator spoke opposition to this new tax, this is what he said. Listen. He said if we allow this 1% foot in the door, at some future date we might have to pay 5%. Anybody playing just 5%? Did you know that when you put the words the and IRS together, it spells theirs? Albert Einstein said of all the things in this universe the most difficult to understand is the income tax. And one IRS agent said this, when you make out your income tax return this year, we trust you remember that it is better to give than to deceive. Jesus is very clear. Pay your taxes. Paul said in Romans 13, 7, give tribute to whom tribute is due, tax to whom tax is Do. But here's here's another responsibility we have. Christians should pray for their government leaders. Pray for our leaders. Paul told Timothy, I exhort first of all, that there be supplication and prayers and intercession and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings. For all who are in high positions or positions of authority. Why? So that we could lead a peaceful and godly life. We pray for them that God will give them wisdom so that they'll do their job correctly so we can have a peaceful life. And then here's another thing. Christians should evangelize and disciple government leaders when the opportunity arises. Whenever Paul stood before government authorities, he used that opportunity to preach the gospel. You know if you read through the New Testament, he bore witness to Felix, he bore witness to Festus, he bore witness to Agrippa. He led many and Caesar's household to Christ, the Bible says in the book of Philippians. Here at Grace, we've had the privilege of having government leaders. uh come and visit our services. We want them to hear the word of God. We want them to be saved and know the Lord Jesus Christ. But here's another obligation. Christians should respectfully confront government leaders who are unrighteous. We have this obligation as the church. On one hand, the church preaches the gospel, and on the other hand, the church is the conscience of the state. Whereby when the government does wrong, we have an obligation to stand up and say that is wrong, that is not according to the word of God. And you cannot usurp your authority over God and violate the word of God. Some people say, well, separation of church and state. The church shouldn't meddle with the affairs of the state. You know what? I'm so fed up with hearing that You know that phrase separation of church and state never appears in the Constitution. It is found in Karl Marx's Communist Manifesto, however. You know where you get the phrase separation of church and state? It was used one time by our third president, Thomas Jefferson. who's writing a letter to the Baptist Association of Danbury assuring them that he would keep the government out of the church, not the church out of government. If it is separation of church and state, it's a one-way street. It's the government stays out of the church, not the church out of government. You see, check it out for yourself. What does the First Amendment say? Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. And so Thomas Jefferson essentially was saying, never again will there be will there be a government-sponsored church like you had back in England. There is where everyone is forced to attend, forced to support, there is the separation of church and state. The government will not infringe itself into the matters of the church. But our founding fathers never intended to keep the church. out of the government. That was never the intention. Even from the very first president who, when he was sworn into office, George Washington is the one who added the phrase, so help me God. To the uh swearing in of the president. And then he kissed the Bible. And then the first official act that he did after being president was he had a prayer meeting with both houses of Congress. That was his first official act. They never intended for the church to stay out of the state. In fact, it is the church's responsibility to call into account the government when they are wrong. When they are wrong. And we have failed on many times to do this very thing out of fear. And then I would say this, Christians should be involved using their gifts. You know what? You know what we need? We need Christians in government positions. We need God called people in positions of leadership that have the fear of the Lord that will have an impact on our society if God is so gifted a person to do that, we need to get them in positions of government authority that people who fear the Lord. Now let me just I only have a few minutes left. Actually I'm already over time, but will you give me about three more minutes? Everybody okay with that? We would have rendered unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's But then we have to defer to God. We defer to the sovereignty of God. We render unto God the things that are God's. And Jesus' statement implies that just as the Roman coin Has Caesar's image stamped on it. Every person has God's image stamped on him or her. Just as the image of Caesar on the coin shows ownership of the coin, the image of God stamped on every person shows Ownership by God. We owe God everything. We owe Him our very existence. He owns everything. He rightfully owns everything. He possesses everything, all our possessions, all of our money, all of our time. He is the sovereign ruler over all The government has no right to ever usurp his authority. He deserves all of our worship. He deserves all of our obedience. Our allegiance to God takes precedence over any other allegiance ever. We are primarily citizens of the kingdom, secondarily citizens of this country. But our greatest citizenship is in the kingdom of God. Our greatest allegiance goes to God Almighty. And what we must recognize is that beloved, He's sovereign over all things. And we must bow to His sovereignty. Which means that he's sovereign even in putting people in positions of authority. Remember what Daniel said? The Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and he giveth it to whomsoever he will, and he sets it up even over the basis of men. God will at times allow even the basis or people of the worst character sometimes to occupy positions of authority and government. You say, why? I don't know why. I'm not God. But I know that God has a sovereign purpose and a reason for everything He does. And He will use even wicked men. By the way, God has no sinless people to choose from. But I think what one country preacher said, God can make straight licks with crooked sticks. The Most High rules in the kingdom of men. And he gives it to whomsoever he will. And at times he even sets it up over the basis of men. And we must recognize God's sovereign hand in all of these things. Now, no one illustrates this principle of submitting to the sovereignty of God, even in the face of a corrupt human government Like our Lord Jesus Christ. Let me show you one passage and I'm done. Just go to 1 Peter chapter 2. I want to show this to you and we'll be done here today. Look at 1 Peter chapter 2. And I want you to look down in verse number 21. Look at these verses. They're so very important, especially in this time. First Peter 2. 21. For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us. Leaving us an example that ye should follow in his steps. Here's Peter saying, you as God's child must follow in the steps of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now we like to think that thought. It's a very nice thought. Footprints of Jesus, you know, wherever he goes, I'll go. But you have to remember the context of this. The footprints of Jesus in this particular passage was leading him to Calvary, was picking up his cross. And it was in the context of being Crucified by a corrupt government. In fact, you know what we see in First Peter? This happens in this And the uh here, I don't know where uh happens anywhere else in the New Testament where Peter points to the cross, and he points to the cross not with respect of evangelism. He's not pointing to the cross for salvation. He's pointing to the cross to believers as an example of how we are to suffer Even in the face of injustice. Because never has there ever been injustice like it was in the life of our Lord Jesus Christ. Never. A corrupt government, led by a corrupt governor, sentenced him to die. He was the most innocent, the most holy. the most sinless person who ever lived. He never violated a law. He never wronged a soul. His trial was held in the middle of the night, in the early morning hours. It was an illegal trial that brought in false witnesses. And even when they could find no fault in him, did they release him? No, they beat him. He was scorned. How did he respond? Well, Peter tells us, look down in verse 22, who did no sin. Neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously. How did he respond? And by the way, Peter is quoting Isaiah 53, he was silent. When they scourged him, he didn't retaliate When the soldiers pushed the crown of thorns in his head, he didn't curse at them. When they drove the nails in his hands and feet, he didn't threaten them. When the bystanders spat at him, he didn't spit back. When they swore at him, he didn't swear back. What has Peter said happened? Four things. He did not commit sin. He always obeyed. He was never in any guile, no deceit in his mouth. When he did argue, he presented truth very graciously. When he was reviled, he didn't return the insults. He uttered no threats. He never said, just wait, I'll get even with you. You remember in the garden what Jesus said? I can bring legions of angels if I wanted. He submitted himself. Vengeance is always wrong for the believer. We give that to God. You say, how could Jesus do all that? How could he suffer injustice this graciously? Well, the answer is in verse twenty-three at the end where it says, He committed himself to him who judges righteously. And that's the key right there. He recognized that God the Father was ultimately sovereign over all of these things. And he knew that God will right every wrong. And he committed himself to God. He put his life and his soul in the hands of Almighty God. He knew that he could trust his Father to write this in his time. And by the way, let me just say this. I want justice just as much as anyone else, but let me just say we will never have real justice until Jesus Christ comes back. We're just never gonna have it. Not until he returns. Jesus didn't get it, but you know what he did? He committed himself to God, the one who judges righteously, the Bible says. And this is what Peter says, that we the church, we the people of God, what is our calling? Our calling is to follow in his steps. Our calling is to follow the steps of our Master and to be like Christ and let the world see that in us. It doesn't surprise me that those who don't know God or acting the way that they do. It doesn't surprise me at all. In some lot of a lot of ways it's it's it's just it's right. It's understandable. But God has called the church to a higher calling. He's called us to follow in the footsteps of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, I pray that you'll help us as your children to follow your word, to follow in the steps of our Savior. To recognize the words of our Lord who said, Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's. Give Caesar that rightful place. Caesar has his legitimate claim, but it's a limited claim. We render unto God the things that are God's. Our primary allegiance, Father, is to you. We bow, we worship you, we commit to obeying you. And obeying your word. Lord, help us all to follow in the footsteps of our Lord Jesus, to heed his counsel, especially in days like this. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Then