Take your Bibles this morning, open to the book of Second Corinthians, chapter three, as we continue our study through Second Corinthians Second Corinthians chapter three, and uh we're gonna look at verses one through three of Second Corinthians three this morning. You don't have to stand today. Let's just get right into our text. Look in verse number one. Do we begin again to commend ourselves or need we, as some others? epistles of commendation to you or letters of recommendation from you. Every once in a while I will receive a packet of information from someone. It's a PR portfolio perhaps from an evangelist or from a missionary and uh they want me to know that they are uh authentic, that they can be someone that can help me or our church or wherever they go in the mission field. And so what they'll do is they'll have this beautifully put together packet of information, a portfolio. I call it a PR portfolio. And in that portfolio, it'll have information about this person. It'll tell me about their education, their background, their family, their ministry experience And uh normally they'll also include in that a bunch of letters from other pastors that are letters of recommendation. that this person is evidently solicited from these pastors so that wherever he may go, uh he can give these letters of recommendation to a prospective church. so that I will know that this person is legitimate. Now this practice is not new because did you know that they did this all the way back in the first century in the early church? Um w when traveling missionaries would go, uh they would hit those Roman roads back then and th they didn't sta stay in the hotels. They would be dependent upon the hospitality of believers And uh but believers were also warned about false teachers that were traveling. And so how do you know whether a person was authentic or whether they were false? There's a lot of warnings in the New Testament about this. In fact, 2 John is a warning that John gave to a woman who was receiving ministers into her home, into her house, and Paul said, look, be careful not to receive anyone into your house if they don't agree with these doctrines about Christ. And back then houses also were places where churches would meet. So it might be don't receive them into your church, don't receive them into your house, be very, very careful. And so letters of recommendation were a big part of the early church In fact, we see this in the New Testament. There's a whole vocabulary about this, about receiving and sending and so on missionaries. An example of this would be in Philippians, where Paul said to the church of Philippi, he was planning on sending Timothy there, and he gave him a recommendation. He said, I have no man like minded. There's nobody like Timothy who will naturally care for your soul. The book of Philemon is a letter of recommendation from the Apostle Paul. about Onesimus, a a person who was newly saved and receiving Onesimus back into his church Well, evidently the Apostle Paul didn't participate in this practice, and his empty public relations portfolio caused him some trouble. In fact, they were using this as an opportunity to criticize Paul. Remember I told you the church of Corinne, there were some in the church that were false apostles. And they were criticizing Paul at every opportunity. And one of the things that they were criticizing Paul over was the fact that he didn't have any letters of recommendation. They said he's fake. He's not real. He's a hypocrite. And just to demonstrate that to you, where are his letters of recommendation? You know, it's hard enough to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. There are so many challenges. Um one pastor who pastored for over fifty years wrote this. He said, the pastoral ministry is more than any other profession demands the best, the most spiritually qualified the most skilled men. The standards are high for many reasons. Because the spiritual dimension of life is more important than physical, because serving God is more demanding than serving anyone else. Because his kingdom and glory are at stake And because his servants face the most stringent evaluations for their service. And that's very true. It's challenging enough. So much so that Paul said earlier In chapter two, verse sixteen, he said, and who is sufficient for these things? That's a rhetorical question. None of us are None of us are sufficient for this. We can't do this on our own. Who's competent to take on this monumental challenge, this eternally significant duty of preaching the word and leading people and so on? But really what Paul's going to do is he's going to point out that our sufficiency comes only from God. It's hard enough to be in ministry as it is, but let alone to be criticized and questioned by people about you being authentic and able, that well that just adds to it. And so here they're criticizing Paul, and they're saying he's not an authentic minister of the Lord. He's not competent to do ministry. And so what Paul does here in these first few verses is he offers a defense. of being an authentic minister of God. And what I want you to show show you here from this passage are four distinct marks of an authentic minister of Christ. And we can it's good for us to know this Because we need to use discernment and listening to ministers and uh maybe having ministers or so on, it's good for us to know who's true and who is not. and be able to discern. So here's the first one. Number one, an authentic minister does not peddle the Word of God. Look at this his defense really begins in chapter two, verse 17. Just back up one verse. And notice what he says, for we are not as many which corrupt the Word of God. Paul said, I'm not like the many that are out there that are peddling the Word of God. The word for corrupt here is kapelas. Kapelas was a huckster, was a con artist, was a street hawker, was someone who cleverly deceived unwary buyers in that day. They offered a cheap imitation of the real thing. And I think Paul here is referring to the false teachers at Corinth who adulterated the Word of God. who just did ministry for profit just to pad their pocket. Paul said, I'm not like them. Again, Paul uses the word we in verse 17, kind of the editorial we, because he doesn't like to say I, I, I. He doesn't like to talk about himself. In fact, during this whole letter, we're going to find out he hates defending himself. He feels like he shouldn't have to be put in this position of defending himself. So rather than saying I, he says we, it's kind of humbler. It's more gentle to say we. And so, but he says, we're not like, we are not as many which corrupt the Word of God. I'm not like them. But notice what he says in verse 17, but as of sincerity But we as of God, in the sight of God, speak we in Christ. Paul says, you know, we're sincere. The word sincere comes from two Greek words. One means sunlight, the other means judge. It has the idea of holding something up in the sunlight and judging it. And Paul says, you know, my life is open to any evaluation. You could look at my life. And you could see it's it's it's available for the closest scrutiny. The message that I preach is an unadulterated message, and there's nothing in my life that I know of that would disqualify me from being a minister of God. And so Paul says, I'm not like the Kapelas. I'm not like those that go out there and they peddle the Word of God for money. These those false teachers, they lack spiritual power. The word that I give you, I give you the true gospel, and I give it in the power of the Spirit. Because if you give the Word of God in its purity, you go, guess what? The Holy Spirit's going to use it, and He's going to empower that message. And people will be transformed. So Paul wasn't in it for money. He wasn't in it for selfish reasons. Our world today is filled today with so-called ministers who make a merchandise of spiritual things. This goes all the way back to Paul's day, but also during the, uh just before the Reformation, you know, I uh the story that comes to mind is the story of Pope Leo who wanted to uh uh to do a renovation project for the Catholic Church and he needed money and so he put out a special dispensation on indulgences. What is it, indulgence? It's a piece of paper stamped with the authority of the Pope that says, if you buy this indulgence, you can get your loved ones out of purgatory or out of hell. And you had to pay money for it. But there was a special sale on indulgences back then. In fact, the Pope put out a A uh a special salesman, his name was Johann Tetzel, and he had a little jingle that said something like, Whenever a coin in the coffer rings, a soul from purgatory springs. That was his sales pitch. And people back then, not knowing the Word of God, believed that message and they began to give money, thinking that those those gifts of money would spring their loved ones from purgatory and even their own soul. They could buy their way out of hell. That was the idea there. That they were making a merchandise of spiritual things. And by the way, that thing still goes on today. There are still people out there today that are trying to take advantage of people using spiritual things. Paul says, we're not like that. We don't we're not like the Cape Las. An authentic minister does not peddle the Word of God. But number two, an authentic minister will see transformed lives as a proof of their ministry. Look in verse 1. Do we need to begin to commend ourselves? Or do we, as some others, epistles of commendation to you or letters of recommendation from you? Again, this was the criticism leveled against Paul. He has no letters of recommendation. And so Paul's response is very simple. Do I honestly need to give you a letter of commendation? The word commendation literally is a Greek word for introduce. Do I need to reintroduce myself to you? Haven't I been among you for a long time? Haven't you watched my life? Haven't we been through so much together? Do I honestly need letters of recommendation in order for you to know who I am? The person kind of person I am? You know, for 40 years, Grace Bible Baptist Church had a man of God as a pastor, Pastor Earl Johnson. His life was above reproach. He preached the word of God in power. Many lives were transformed. Some of you here today are a result of that. I know I am. I know him from the time I was a teenager. And we watched his blameless life and we watched his integrity. Can you imagine after Pastor Johnson had been here for some time, for someone to come up to Pastor and say, You know, Pastor, in order for you to continue here, we're gonna need some letters of recommendation from you. That would be ludicrous. That would be ridiculous to ask for that. That's what's going on here. How can they ask Paul for these letters, these letters of recommendation? But again, they were They were attacking Paul and they wanted to know his credentials, you know. Now Paul, if he wanted to, he could have produced those letters if he wanted to. And by the way, you know, he did at one point give out a resume, and that was in Philippians chapter three, we see it. You might remember where Paul said, you know, if anyone has the right to have confidence in the flesh, I more He said circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews, is touching the law of Pharisee concerning zeal, um persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is of the law, blameless and on. Paul had a pretty good resume. It was above all others. But you know what he thought about that resume? You know what he did with it? He threw it in the garbage. Because he said What things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. In essence, what he was saying is all of my ego symbols, all of my degrees, my successes, my Church Planner of the Year Ward, my all those things, they are a pile of garbage compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Jesus Christ. And it was even implying in all that that there's seen it can get in the way. Now I'm not against education, obviously. It's good that we get a good solid theological education. But Paul's saying that is not the way to know whether or not a minister is authentic. That is not the standard. Well, we would say, okay, Paul, if that's not the standard of what a minister's authenticity is, what is the standard? And uh I love Paul's imagery here. Paul doesn't deny letters of recommendation. He says, look, it's not like I don't have these letters, it's just that I don't carry them in my briefcase. He has letters of recommendation. They're just not the same ones that other people have. Oh, so you want to see my letters of recommendation? Well, let me show them to you. Look in verse 2. You, ye are our epistle, written in our hearts, known and read of men. You're the letter of recommendation. The the ye there in the Hebrew is emphatic. You. We can say it like this. You yourselves, you are The letter of recommendation. The converts whom Paul won the Christ, then discipled. Those are his reference letter, he says. And that's all Paul needs. It fascinates me that in all his epistles, 12 or 13 of his epistles in the New Testament, Paul never gives us uh statistics from any uh the attendance statistics from any of his churches He never tells us how many baptisms he had a year. He never reports on the number of new programs he started. He never even tells us how much giving was going on during the year. Never gives us a report of any of that. The only thing that mattered to Paul was that he was preaching the Word of God in sincerity with the help of the Holy Spirit. Depending completely upon God, not his own sufficiency, but on God, and to know that the lives of those that heard the word of God were transformed. That's the only thing that mattered to Paul. That's the only thing that he was concerned about His letter of recommendation were those people. But we need to ask ourselves that question. What about us? Do we have any letters of recommendation for us to know that we are gods? And what I mean by that is, are any people around you that you have influenced? Anyone that's been able to become a part of the kingdom of God because of your life? Any colleagues at work, any neighbors, any family members, anyone that you're discipling and encouraging to grow in the Lord Jesus Christ? So Paul says, yeah, I have letters, but it's people. So let's evaluate Paul. I mean, let's let's give him some questions here to answer. All right. First of all, where is this letter? Where is this letter written, Paul? You say you have them. Where are they written? Look again in verse 2. Ye are our epistles, written in our hearts. Where are they written? They're written in our hearts, Paul said. These young believers are not just notches on Paul's bottle. They're not Bible. They're not just numbers that he enters into an attendance book. They're not just names on a spreadsheet. There are individuals that he loves and he prays for, that he's poured his life into. You are the ones. You are the the w the letters. They're written on your your your our hearts, Paul said. Um that's where the letters are, right here. Written on our hearts But then, okay, Paul, well who reads these letters? We're looking in in verse number two. Known and read what? Of all men? Paul said these letters are read by everybody. You know, most reference letters are only read by a certain few. They're kind of private, only a select group, maybe a committee that reads letters like this. But Paul said, not so with these letters. The reference letter Paul talks about. It's public. Anyone can read these letters. Anyone that sees your life. They can see that so-and-so has been transformed by the power of the gospel. And don't forget that the church of Corinth, that was an eclectic group of people that had a difficult life. In 1 Corinthians 6, Paul said, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves of mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revowers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. Listen to this, and such were some of you But you're washed, you're sanctified, you're justified in the name of the Lord. Apollos is listening to membership there at the church at Corinth. What they were before they came to Christ. Some of the pillars of the Church of Corinth, they were former addicts. They were struggling with alcohol. Some of them were converted out of the gay lifestyle. But their lives have been changed in a profound way. And if anyone required proof that Paul was an authentic, able minister, all they had to do was to look around at that congregation in the church at Corinth. Those letters could be read by everyone. Everyone could see them. Okay, Paul, well here's another question. Who writes these letters and who sends these letters? Well look at verse 3. For as much as ye are manifestly declared to be the epistles of who? Christ Ministered by us? You want to know who writes the letters? Christ is the one who actually writes the letter. If it weren't for his sacrifice on the cross, if it were not for his righteousness that he imputes to those who put their faith in him. Then there could be no transformation. But there's a dual authorship here. It's Christ is the ultimate author, but he ministers through us, Paul said in verse number three. Ministered by us. Whenever there's a birth, there has to be a midwife. And so Paul's kind of saying, you know, we're the ones that God used to help, but Christ is the one who writes the letters, but he used us. There has to be a preacher. Remember, Paul said, how can they call on him when they have not uh heard or believed? And how shall they hear? Without a preacher. There has to be someone that goes. There has to be someone that'll do it. God could have used angels to share the gospel, but he doesn't. He uses his church. He uses people. He uses us. Well, okay, Paul. What is the letter written with? If you have these letters, we'll look again in verse number three. It says, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God. They're not written with ink. Ink is temporary. The Spirit of God, what he does, is eternal. Especially the ink back in Paul's day, which only kind of sat on the paper and you could wipe it off. It could be easily pushed aside and that paper used again. Ink is temporary, but when the Spirit of God writes on a person's heart, It's eternal. It doesn't go away. In fact, the Spirit of God just keeps writing that epistle. It keeps getting bigger and bigger. And he adds chapter by chapter. And the writing is even more distinct. And if you're truly saved, you know what? The Spirit of God is writing on your heart. You're a living epistle. And that chapter grows, and it grows because you become more and more Christ-like. It's written by the Spirit of God. And he writes about the characteristics of the Holy Spirit in our life, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, goodness, faith, gentleness, meekness, and so on. So I have to ask you, what does your novel look like? What is is the Spirit of God writing on your heart? Okay, here's another question then, Paul. What are what are these letters written on? Look again in verse number three. Written not with ink, but with the spirit of the living God, not in tables of stone, but in fleshly tables of the heart. You know, people in the ancient world wrote on stone all the time. Paul might be thinking about the Ten Commandments here when he says this. But I think ultimately the point he his making comes from the Old Testament and Ezekiel warrior. Ezekiel said this Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean from all your filthiness, and from all your idols will I cleanse you. A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you, and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh And give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes. Ye shall keep my judgments and do them. You know, the problem with the people in the Old Testament was their hardness of heart. And God knew that in order for them to ever be able to walk in his ways, God would have to give them a new heart, not a heart of stone, but a heart of flesh. And what he's talking about there is the work of regeneration in the heart of someone who is truly saved. So this letter is not written on stone. It's not written on paper. It's written on fleshly tables of the heart, the Bible says. And so this is the work of God in the hearts of all of the people. Now Paul recognizes that People could interpret what he's saying here as being kind of egotistical. And so Paul wanted to be very careful not to give the wrong impression. Paul wasn't bragging here. Again, he's offering a defense. You want my letters of recommendation? You're the letters, not written with ink, but by the Spirit of God, can be read from everyone. And God is the I'm the minister that God used to do all this. So but he doesn't want to give the false impression that he's bragging, so he's quick to point out that all the work that happens is of God. Paul says it's not of me. So here's the third point. An authentic minister rejects self-sufficiency and finds all his sufficiency in God. And God alone. Look at verse 4. And such trust have we through Christ to Godward. Verse 5. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves. But our sufficiency is of God. Paul says: whatever trust or confidence I have is through Christ. I don't have any confidence in me. I have confidence in Christ. It's not self-confidence, it's God confidence. I'm confident in the work that God can do, not in me. That's why Paul earlier said, who is sufficient for these things? It's certainly not us. It's all of Christ. It's all of God. Paul knew that any effectiveness, anything good that happened in ministry was not because of his natural gifts or ability. It's all done by the work of the Spirit. And that's why we have to be absolutely, totally dependent upon the Word of God and the Holy Spirit to do the work. Not on natural giftedness. Remember what Paul said earlier in the first letter to the Corinthians and 1 Corinthians chapter 2 when Paul first came to Corinth? to preach, he said this in verse 1 of chapter 2. Brethren, when I came to you, I came not with excellency of speech or wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. Paul said, When I came to you, you didn't hear a great loquacious speech of eloquence from me You weren't captivated by my rhetorical skills? That's not what gets it done. Sometimes I wonder if preachers really understand that. That if if I get up here and put on some kind of show, it's going to help people get into the kingdom any better. You know, run back and forth, you know, and speak in a certain way, in a certain manner, you know. As if that's going to do anything. I'll tell you what it does, it takes away from the message of the gospel. Paul said, all I did was I simply preached Christ. Now we need to do it clearly, and we need to do it boldly. But we we don't need pulpiteers. We need preachers of the word. You can preach the gospel in a way that robs the gospel of its power, robs the cross of its power. And Paul said, I didn't do that. When I came to you, I I determined not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And when I was with you, I was with you in weakness. And in fear and in much trembling, and my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of men's wisdom, but in demonstrations of the spirit and power of God, that your face should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God Paul said, man, when I spoke, I was I was kind of trembling. I was a bit afraid. I can relate to that. You know, you're nervous sometimes. And you don't know exactly how it's going to go over, but if you just make the word of God clear, you trust that God will use it. And Paul said, Look, I don't want your faith to rest in my natural ability or any man's natural ability. I want your faith to rest in the power of God. I want your faith to rest in Christ. And so Paul knew that his sufficiency was completely of God and God alone. But let me give you the last thing about an authentic minister. An authentic minister does not peddle the Word of God. An authentic minister will see transforms lives as a proof of his ministry. An authentic minister rejects self-sufficiency and finds all his sufficiency in God. But then here's the last thing. An authentic minister focuses on the new covenant message. Look in verse number six, where he said this, who also hath made us able ministers of the New Testament. Notice God is the one who makes us able It's not of ourselves. Who also has made us able ministers of the New Testament, or we could say the New Covenant, not of the letter, but of the Spirit, for the letter killeth, but the Spirit gives life And so notice Paul's basic argument. Notice how he kind of ties this in to the letters that they were wanting. Paul is saying, look, I have letters of recommendation. They're not what you think. They're not in my briefcase. They're not written with ink. They're not written on paper. They're written with the Holy Spirit. It's the hearts of men. It's you. You are the letters. Not written on stony hearts, but on fleshly hearts. Written by Jesus Christ. Anyone can read these letters. They're the lives of transformed people. But besides all that, follow his logic here, besides all that, God hasn't made me to be a minister of the letter anyway. That's not why I'm here. Notice how he connects that thought. Those who are concerned about the letter or ministers of the letters. They are ministers of the old covenant. I think what Paul's doing here is he's taking a shot against the false teachers in Corinth, who are Judaizers, who are emphasizing and trying to mix the law with the gospel of grace. Paul said, they're ministers of the letter. Paul said, God made me an able minister of the New Testament or the New Covenant. What is the new covenant? The new covenant is the death of Jesus Christ that paid for all of our sins. We just honored the new covenant here at the Lord's Supper. We're in the new covenant. We're in the new covenant community. We come to Christ by faith and what he has done for us on the cross. And the Old Testament talked about this new covenant that would come where God's law would be written on our hearts. The work of regeneration would come by the Holy Spirit inside of us, not on tables of stone, but on as Paul said on the hearts of flesh, and that goes back to Jeremiah chapter 31. What's the difference between the old covenant and the new covenant? Paul said the old covenant is of the letter The new covenant is of the Spirit. Under the old covenant, Israel as a whole received the law, but only a few received the Spirit, and that only temporary, and the law without the Spirit to energize is lifeless, he says. Excuse me. But when Jesus sealed the new covenant with his blood, he promised that he would send the Holy Spirit to live permanently in us. God's law would then be eternal internalized. This letter kills, but the Spirit gives life Now, there are a few statements in the Bible that have been subject to more misinterpretation than this one. So let me just tell you this real quick and we're done. The church in the Middle Ages used to justify allegorical interpretation of Scripture by this verse here. They said the letter, that means the literal. There's a literal interpretation of scripture, and then there's the spirit. That's the allegorical. Beneath the literal, there's a spiritual, mystical meaning of the Bible. And you know what? People use that all the time to come up with things in the Bible that are not there. They're not interpreting the Bible the way it was meant to be interpreted. That's not what that means there. And so um there's that. And then there are others who say, well, you know The the letter here uh is you know there are certain charismatics in our day who use it to say the Bible on ink on paper is lifeless and it's it you know we need to get words of faith and knowledge from the spirit but that again is not what he's talking about here That's a bogus idea. When Paul is contrasting the letter and the spirit, it's a contrast between law and the gospel, those two periods of redemptive history. The law is said to kill. Why? Because the law demands from you absolute, completely, total obedience. If you want to go the law route to heaven, good luck with that Because God demands absolute total obedience. And if you don't give that, then it kills. The letter kills. But the gospel, on the other hand, gives life. When we realize that we're sinners, you know the actually the law, when it's used the way God intended, humbles us, it beats us down, it lets us know that we are nothing but sinners. There's no way we could ever earn our own salvation. And then we're humbled. And then we're ready now to come to the cross of Christ and say the only thing that could save me is what Jesus did on the cross. And we're humbled and we bow before the cross of Christ and we say, Jesus, be merciful to me a sinner and save me. That's the Spirit, the law, the letter kills But the Spirit gives life. And the moment you kneel and you put your faith in Christ, the Holy Spirit enters inside of you, and that work of regeneration is done, and you're a new person now. Paul said, we're ministers of the new covenant, not the old. There's still people out there preaching religion, preaching, working your way into heaven by doing some religious ritual. By doing something rather than putting your full faith in the finished work of Christ, they are not authentic ministers of the gospel. Paul said an authentic minister is a minister of the New Covenant who preaches salvation by grace through faith plus nothing else. So in closing, what is your what does your portfolio look like? What where are your letters of recommendation? When you stand before Jesus at the judgment seat, what kind of letters will you have there to show him that you're real? That you're his. May God help us to pour our energies and gifts into people. So that their lives can be transformed not by us, but by the living Word of God, by the power of the Word of God. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, as we come before you, we're humbled by the words of Paul. We cannot help But to measure our own life next to what Paul says here and see how we measure up Where are the letters of recommendation in our life? Where are the people, Lord, that you have used us to influence for the gospel? And Lord, that's why we're here. That's why the church is in this world. We are all ministers, every one of us, if we're saved and we know Jesus Christ, we are all ministers of the new covenant. And we are to be taking this message out across the street around the world. We're to be taking the message out, the true gospel. This is the only message that saves. The only hope for this fallen world is the message of Christ. Help us, Lord. Help us to evaluate our own heart and our own life in light of what Paul says here. And I pray especially, Lord, for those that are here today. That may not have ever put their faith in Christ for salvation. I pray for their soul that they'll realize That the first thing they need to do is succumb to the cross. Stop trying to get to heaven through religious means But recognize that they're a sinner and come to Christ in true repentance and turn to Him and reach out in prayer and say, God, save me. God save me. Father, save souls with heads bowed and eyes closed. Anybody here like that today? I need to be saved. I've been trusting in my own works or traditions or religious deeds. I need to put my faith in Christ In Christ alone. Would you reach out in prayer? Just tell the Lord that. Pray. Say, Lord Jesus, save me, please. I turn to you today, Lord Jesus. I turn from my sin. I turn to you Wash me, cleanse me. Lord, you promise to save those that would come and I'm coming right now. Save me. Just tell the Lord that And let us know, friend, if you decided that. We want to encourage you along. If you're a believer here, make a commitment that give your life to Christ so that you can be used. To transform the lives of others. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name