Matthew chapter 10. The book of Matthew chapter 10. Now I've been doing a few messages out of this chapter, and this will be the last one tonight And we'll push on to something different. But we've been talking about discipleship, and this is really the whole theme of Matthew chapter 10. Jesus is talking about the high cost of being a disciple of Christ. It was the great preacher, J. C. Rile, who wrote, I thoroughly approve of offering men a free, full, present, immediate salvation in Jesus Christ. But then he went on to say this. He said they ought not to be pressed into the ranks, however, of Christ's army, without being told what the warfare entails. And that's so true. You need to know that there's a cost for following Jesus Christ. There's a cost for being a disciple of Christ. And you should know that In fact, this is what Jesus is telling his disciples in Matthew chapter 10. Now, we can really divide the chapter into three parts, the duties of disciples. Jesus gives instructions to them in the first part of chapter 10. And we already looked at that. Jesus would send them out on short-term mission projects and they would come back and report and Jesus would teach them more and he'd send them out again And he was teaching them how to share the gospel, spread the good news. He was preparing actually for the time when he would no longer be with them. So we see the duties of disciples And then last week we looked at the dangers of disciples. Jesus said, I send you forth. Look in chapter 10, verse 16. Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. And he reminds them of the dangers that are there for being a follower of Jesus Christ. And now here in the rest of chapter 10, he's going to talk about some of the demands of being a disciple. And what I want you to see tonight are what I call four marks of a genuine disciple of Christ. You know, not everyone who says I'm a follower of Jesus is a true follower. Sad to say. However, a true follower of Christ will have these genuine elements or marks, we could say. So if you're taking notes, write down number one. Just write down confidence in the sovereignty of God. Confidence in the sovereignty of God. Look in verse 29. Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your father. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear ye not, therefore. You are of more value than many sparrows. Now remember the context of this, Jesus is warning about the dangers That they will encounter as they do, follow the uh do the work of God and follow the Lord Jesus Christ. And again, if you're truly a disciple at some point in your life, you're going to suffer At some point in your life, you're going to pay the price of being a disciple of Christ. The Bible says all who will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Even if you have the desire to be godly or to live for Jesus. Then Satan will aim his guns at you, and the Bible says you will suffer persecution. Because Jesus said, look, the disciple is not greater than the master. Jesus said, if they called me, if they said I do miracles by Beelzebub, what are they going to say about you? If they persecuted the master, they're going to persecute the disciple. And so, but despite this, Jesus says, don't be afraid. Don't be afraid when evil men come at you. Don't be afraid when you're hated. And hounded. Now this seems unreasonable to uh to say this, but Jesus gives them something that would grant them peace, and it's the truth of the sovereignty of God. Now we touched on this a little bit last week, but I want to talk about it just a little bit more before we push on. Jesus says, listen, don't be afraid of evil men. Don't be afraid of those who can kill the body. And yot yet not destroy the soul. Why? Because God is sovereign over all of your life, and no one can do anything to you unless It be by the will of God. God's not going to let anything happen to you unless it be according to his will. And even then, God has a great purpose. The Bible says God works all things together for your good and for ultimately God's glory. And that's why we're here. We're to live for the glory of God. That's Romans 8. 28, right? I was reading about during the reign of Bloody Mary, the evil uh queen of England, who was trying to stamp out the gospel and Protestantism in England. And she would burn preachers at the stake, and one preacher was imprisoned for preaching the gospel, preaching the word of God, and he was condemned to die at a place called Smithfield, where they burned preachers at the stake And on the journey, the guards made fun of them. They said, You're condemned to death. How do you feel about that? And the preacher said, All things work together for good. And on the way, they treated him so roughly they pushed him down, and he broke his leg, and he was on the ground writhing in pain. And one of the guards said, What do you think about that? And he said, All things work together for good. Well, because he'd broken his leg and he had to get it mended a bit, he had to wrap it up before they continued their journey, they were a day late when they arrived at Smithfield During that time, bloody Mary had died. Queen Mary, or excuse me, Queen Elizabeth, who loved Protestant preachers, who loved the gospel, she ascended to the throne. And when she found out about this preacher to be burned at the state, she immediately pardoned him. And as the man walked, or hobbled, I should say, past the guards, he looked at them and he smiled and he said, All things work together for good. All things work together for good. Now, but the truth of the matter is sometimes preachers don't get pardon And sometimes people don't get well that we pray for them to get well. Sometimes things don't happen just like we want or hope. Now, when Peter was in prison, the church prayed for Peter, and what happened to Peter? Miraculously, the doors of that prison opened up. Peter was miraculously saved from death. And the church rejoiced, but the church also prayed for James to get out of jail. And James didn't get out of jail. James was beheaded. So what are we to believe? Are we to believe that when uh Peter got out of jail, God was on the throne, he was in control, yet when they prayed for James to get out of jail and he was beheaded, that God was not in control There are some people that have this theology. When everything is good, when everything is great, God is on the throne, God is in control, but when things don't go well, Then maybe God was not on the throne. Maybe he wasn't sovereign over that. Maybe God is no longer calling the shots. There's a story told about an airliner which began to have trouble in mid-air. One engine began to smoke. The passengers were afraid, but they heard the reassuring voice of the pilot saying, don't worry, we have four engines We still have three to fly with. Everything is fine. But the second engine caught fire. And again the pilot came across the w uh the speaker and said, it's okay. We we we still have two engines We're still fine. And then the third engine caught fire. And the pilot came over the speaker again and he said, ladies and gentlemen, it's okay. We are having some trouble. The third engine failed, but uh we will land somewhere shortly. We won't make it to our destination, but everything is fine. Don't worry about it. And then the fourth engine caught fire. And the people looked out the window and they saw the pilot and the crew parachuting out of the plane. Well, they still heard a very calm, uh reassuring voice. Come over the loudspeaker. And it said, ladies and gentlemen, we're having a problem with the airplane. We're going to need to make an emergency landing. The pilot and the crew have abandoned the ship. And they have parachuted to safety, but there's no need to panic. The plane is operating on automatic pilot and everything is under control. Control. Control. You get that right? It was malfunctioning. Well, there are times in life when things seem to be out of control. And at those times there are some people that are convinced that the pilot has bailed out on them and leaving them to face these dangers themselves. When the bottom falls out, when things don't go the way we think they should go, does that mean that God has bailed out That he's no longer in the Pilot's seat. There are some who actually believe that, who think that. But here Jesus shatters that kind of theology By using two illustrations, look at the first one. Look in verse twenty nine. Are there not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your father. Two sparrows for a farthing. A farthing is the word of Syrian, which is basically a penny. One penny could buy these two little birds. Now, what kind of birds were these? Well these were just little birds. They were roasted and they were used as an appetizer or an hors d'oeuvre. They were really just cheap finger food. And you could buy two for a penny. And Jesus says, not one of these little birds falls to the ground without God's permission. No little bird falls to the ground except it be by the will of God. Now what was Jesus teaching us there? Nothing happens by chance. God is in control If something bad happens to you, it is not because God has bailed out of the cockpit, because he is in control. He's always in control. And Jesus went on to talk about this. Now look in verse 30. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. And the word numbered here, arithmeo, where we get our word arithmetic. Each hair is numbered. I didn't know this till yesterday, but did you know that November 5th was uh redhead celebration day? It was redhead redheaded day. I I didn't know this. I saw it on Facebook myself. It was National Redhead Day. I didn't even know we had such a thing. So I kind of Facebooked all of my family and said Happy Redhead Day. And I read one Facebook article that told us in this article how redheads are a bit odd, unique we could say, special. And they talk about the number of hairs on the head of people who are generally redheaded. I didn't know that we have less hair than normal people, but that our hair is normally thicker, so it looks like we have more hair. It's a little trivia for you. You didn't know you were going to get jewels like this when you came to church, did you? But the truth of the matter is, I'm again reminded what Jesus said right here, that the very hairs of your head are numbered. Now friend, that's not hyperbole. That's literal truth. Jesus cares about you so much, He knows everything about you That when a hair out of your head falls, it can't be except it be by the will of God, and it's numbered, Jesus said. So the Bible is making very clear here that God is sovereign. Over all of the details of your life. Now again, there are some people that think God's sovereign over the big things, but not the little things. But friend, just like big doors swing on small hinges, big events swing on small details. We've read the little poem, for one of the nail, a shoe was lost. For one of the shoe, the horse was lost. For one of the horse, the rider was lost. For one of a rider, the battle was lost. For one of a battle, the kingdom was lost, all for the want of a nail. One little nail determined a kingdom that fell. One little detail can control a lot of big things. And that's why God is sovereign over everything in our life. He's in control of every circumstance in our life. This is why the great general Stonewall Jackson that in the battle he was so courageous And his soldiers came to him one day and said, how could you be so courageous in battle? And he said, because my theology teaches me to feel as safe in battle as I am in bed. And that's that's someone who's confident in the sovereignty of God in their life. Think about the boldness of Jesus. Remember when Jesus stood before Pilate? Listen to John 19, verse 9. And went again into the judgment hall and said unto Jesus, Whence art thou? This is Pilate talking to Jesus. And verse 9 it says, But Jesus gave him no answer Then said Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, or power to release thee? And listen to what Jesus said. Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all against thee, except it were given to thee from above. You couldn't have any power in my life except God the Father allowed it. There's nothing you can do to me Except God allows it or God wills it. Earlier in the ministry of Jesus, some people tried to grab him. Some people tried to push him off a cliff. The Bible says you just walk through them. You know why? It wasn't God's time for that to happen He was on a divine timetable. Nothing could happen to Jesus except God the Father allow it. And Jesus is saying the same thing to his disciples here, listen, even in this evil, sinful, ungodly world, I'm sending you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves, but don't be afraid. Why, Jesus? Because nothing can happen to you unless God the Father allows it. Unless he ordains it, he permits it. And even when he does, he has a sovereign purpose for it all, for your good. And for God's glory. Look again in verse 31. Fear ye not, therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows. And the you there, fear you not, is in the emphatic position here in the Greek. You are important to God, you matter to God, you're much more valuable than many sparrows. And so Nothing in your life is left a chance. God is in control of your very life. You know how we survive in this world? We know that God is in control. It doesn't matter what happens this week at the polls. God is in control. He's in control. He didn't jump out of the airplane And it's not on automatic pilot. God is in control. So number one, confidence in the sovereignty of God. But then write down number two. Here's another mark of a genuine disciple. Not only confidence in the sovereignty of God, but write down number two, committed to the Son of God. Commitment to the Son of God. Look at verse 32. Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess also before my Father, which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father, which is in heaven. Now notice so therefore in verse thirty three. And again it points back, just like I said this morning, whenever you see that word you've got to look back. Verse thirty two rather, where he says, Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men. Since God is sovereign over all our lives, and He's not going to allow anything to happen to us that's not ordained by Him, then we should be willing to confess Christ even in the most hostile environment. Even in the most difficult situation. And again, remember the context here is danger. And notice the contrast between confess and deny. You see, here's the deal. This is what Jesus is saying. Those who confess me, and by the way, this is continually confessing Christ. We don't just confess Christ one time and that's it. It's a continual confession. And Jesus says, those who confess me reveal that they are genuinely mine. But those who deny me, Jesus said, I will deny. Now notice in the verse 32 we see future tense, I will confess. I will deny. If you confess Jesus here, one day God in uh Jesus in heaven is going to confess you before the Father. But if you deny Jesus here one day in heaven, Jesus is going to deny you. Now what's this talking about here? Again, this is talking about those who are truly his and those who are not. And this points to final judgment. And friend, any person who denies Jesus here on this earth, one day in the final judgment, Jesus is going to say, Father, I don't know him I don't know who this is. Remember, we saw that verse this morning, Matthew chapter 7, verse number 22, where they say, Lord, Lord, haven't we done all these works in your name? And Jesus will say, What? Depart from me, I. Never knew you. And here, a true committed disciple will not deny Jesus. In this world, he will follow Jesus. He will be loyal to Jesus. He'll be faithful to Jesus. Now, one night we were studying this verse in our family uh devotions, and one of my children said, Well dad, what about Peter? Peter was a genuine disciple, right? And yet he denied Jesus. That's a good question. You remember the story of Peter? He cursed and he swore? And he denied Jesus. But what did Peter do after that? The Bible says he went out and he wept bitterly. And later on, Jesus restored him. That wasn't the end for Peter. He he he slipped, he fell, he denied Jesus, but he got back up. And if you look at the life of Peter, Peter was faithful to Jesus for the rest of his days. And you know the story. In fact, Jesus prophesied him in John 20. He said, Peter, one day you're going to stretch forth your hands For me, what was Jesus talking about there? Jesus was predicting and prophesying how Peter was going to die. And stretching forth the hands was a technical term for crucifixion. Peter, one of these days You will be crucified in my name or for me. And by the way, history and tradition bears witness to that During the first of ten persecutions from Rome to the church, when Nero was on the throne, his rage against Christians was so fierce, Eusebius records this, he said, A man might see cities full of men's bodies. The old lying together with the young and dead bodies cast out in the open streets. That's what Eusebius said. This is under Nero. And Nero was the one, he was so cruel that the early church thought he was the Antichrist. And it was under Nero that Peter was put to death. And tradition tells us that Peter was to be crucified. And when he knew that he was to be crucified, he said, don't crucify me like my Lord. Crucify me upside down. I'm not worthy to die like Jesus died. Now Peter may have slipped and denied the Lord once, but ultimately his whole life he confessed the Lord Jesus Christ. And this is what Jesus is talking about. The pattern of a person's life who's a genuine disciple is someone who's going to confess Jesus. That doesn't mean that a person at a time of weakness might not slip And fall or have fear, but ultimately you're going to stand for Jesus Christ. You know, most people don't know. We think talk about Martin Luther and the Reformation, how he stood at the at the diet of of worms. I don't know if you know that in history. You say, what's a diet of worms? That's not some kind of specialized exotic way to lose weight, is it No, uh it's actually a deity, that was a church council. Worms is really pronounced Worms, it was a city there in Germany. He was called in before the church council and asked to recant All that when he had written about the gospel and justification by faith, and most people don't know that on the first day when he stood before that council, he faltered. We always hear about the great statement, you know, here I stand, I can do no more. But most people don't realize on the first day he faltered. And he spoke so softly that they couldn't hear him. And they said, speak up. And he said, I would like 24 hours to answer so that I don't endanger my soul. He was afraid. And so they said, we'll give you 24 hours. And Martin Luther went out and he prayed and he prayed. And the next day he went in, it was a different Martin Luther He stood and he confessed Christ. And that's where we get the famous expression that he would not recant. He would not go against his conscience. He said, here I stand. I can do no other. God help me. Ultimately, he confessed the Lord Jesus Christ. And again, what Jesus is saying here is this is the mark of a true disciple. They will be committed to the Son of God. So they are confident in the sovereignty of God. Number two, committed to the Son of God. But then write down number three, content with the sufferings of God. Look in verse number 34, and notice what it says there. Think not that I am come to send peace on the earth. I came not to send peace but a sword. For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's foes shall be they of his own house Verse 37: He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And he that taketh not his cross and followeth after me is not worthy of me And he that findeth his life shall lose it, and he that loses his life for my sake shall find it. And here Jesus again sought to correct some wrong thinking. You see, because many think when they get saved they come to Christ, everything from now on is going to be trouble free, no problems. All roses, no thorns, no problems, now that I've trusted Jesus. Everything's going to be great. And Jesus is dispelling that whole idea. Jesus said, no. In fact, when you follow me, when you become my disciple, your problems may be just beginning. Because what will happen is that many things will happen that you didn't think were going to happen. First of all, the fracturing of the family. Look again in verse 34. Don't think I've come to send beasts, but a sword. Some will say, now wait a minute, isn't Jesus the Prince of Peace? And doesn't he bring peace? And Jesus said, My peace I lead with you Uh yes, he says absolutely all that. And when you get saved you have peace with God, and you have the peace of God, and your relationship with God is good, but friend, that might also mean that your relationship with some of your fellow man is not going to be good. You know why? Because and when you pledge allegiance to Jesus Christ and you're committed to him, people who are not committed to him they may not want to be anywhere around you. They don't want any part of you. You see, when I first got saved, my friends, I didn't have to say, I didn't have to make a decision to leave my old friends. They left me. They didn't want to be around me. They said, man, since you got saved, all you talk about is Jesus. We don't we don't want to attend church with you every day. And they left. You see, and Jesus said this. He said there could be a division. Notice the word variance there in verse 35. For I'm come to set a man at variance. And the word variance means to cut apart. Jesus said, to follow me, to be committed to me, might mean a division between parent and child. He said, I've come to set a variance against a man against his father and the daughter against her mother and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. Jesus said, following me means there may be some separation in your life. If you love Jesus, if you follow Jesus, if he is the main person of your life And that means that there are some people around you, family or friends, that are going to cut away from you. Jesus said, I've come to bring a sword. I'm going to cut those things away. If they don't follow Jesus, if they don't follow Christ, they're going to want to get away from you. Division between a man and his family, even between a husband and wife. I've counseled some men where they got saved, they fell in love with Christ, they served Christ passionately, and suddenly their spouse wants nothing to do with them. I counseled one man who got saved. His wife was an Orthodox Jew, and she said, I am not going to stay in this relationship with you and your Jesus. She said, I'm out of here. And she divorced him. And Paul says that in 1 Corinthians 7. The Corinthians actually asked him Now that we're saved, if our spouse is lost, what should we do? And Paul said, listen, if your spouse is pleased to dwell with you, then let the believer go ahead and dwell with the unbeliever. Why? Because an unbelieving mate Sanctifies that whole our believing mate sanctifies that whole household. It only takes one person to make a Christian home. One person who accepts Jesus, who trusts Jesus, brings Jesus into that home and sanctifies that whole home. And Paul said, if an unbelieving mate is pleased to dwell with you, a believer, then stay as you are But on the other hand, if the unbelieving mate wants to depart, they want out. What can you do? Paul said, let them depart. God has not called you to war, he has called you to peace. So following Jesus might mean the fracturing of a family. It might that also mean the carrying of the cross. Look at verse 38 And he that taketh not his cross and followeth after me is not worthy of me. Jesus said, you're going to pick up your cross. And follow me. And again, the disciples knew exactly what he was talking about there, because these disciples were all from Galilee. And when Jesus was about ten years old. There's something that happened. There was a man named Judas of Galilee who revolted against the Romans. And when that happened, He he he had a war against Roman soldiers and he lost that war, according to Josephus. And you know what the Romans did to make an example of him and his followers that would not be forgotten. The Romans crucified over 2,000 Jews, placing crosses along the roads of Galilee. And if you were a young child walking through the roads of Galilee back then, when Jesus was about ten years old, when these disciples were kids, they would walk along those roads and they would those roads and they would see these crosses all alongside the roads. And men crucify on those crosses. So when Jesus said to these disciples from Galilee, if you want to follow me, you need to pick up your cross. Because each of these 2,000 Jews who were crucified had to pick up their own cross. And they were ultimately crucified on it. And so Jesus said, you've got to be willing to die Die to self, pick up your cross, lose your life. Look at verse 39. And he that uh verse 39, and he that findeth his life shall lose it. And he that loses his life for my sake, the same shall find it. Find his life refers to someone who chooses his own selfish agenda and reason and ambition above. The purpose of Christ. If you're living for yourself, if you're living for your own agenda, then ultimately you're going to lose your life. You know why so many people are miserable? They're living for themselves. Jesus said, if you're going to be my disciple, you can't do that. He that finds his life shall lose it. And he that loses his life for my sake, the same shall find it. If you forget about yourself You forget about your own ambitions and an agenda, and you just follow Christ and you do what Jesus says and forget about your own life, you know what will happen? You'll find yourself You'll find satisfaction, you'll find fulfillment, you'll find true life because you've lost your life for his sake, and then Jesus says you will find it. And so a true disciple is confident in the sovereignty of God. A true disciple is committed to the Son of God. A true disciple is content with the sufferings of God. But let me give you the last and final thing real quickly. A true disciple is crowned for the service of God. Look in verse number 40. He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward, and he that receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward. And so this really ends on a positive note. It's the idea of receiving reward. But Jesus is establishing a principle here, and that is whoever receives one of God's servants You ultimately received God, the one who sent him. In fact, there was a Jewish proverb that was popular in Christ's day. It went like this, a messenger for a man is the man himself. Here's a messenger that represents a man. That messenger is the man himself. And Jesus is playing upon that proverb. He's saying, listen, if you receive a prophet, Then ultimately you receive the one who sent him. And then he goes on to talk about a righteous man. If you receive a righteous man. And again he's talking about one of God's servants. You're going to receive a righteous man's reward. And then he talks about a little one in verse 42. And whosoever shall give a cup, a drink, unto one of these little ones. Now what's the little one there? That's not talking about a little child. This is in reference to disciples, and a little one is someone who looks at their life as not being some someone big or or great They're not proud, they're not arrogant, they're humble, and they see themselves as someone who's little in the sight of God. Because they know that anything that they are, it's all by the grace of God. And so they're a little one. A prophet, a righteous man, a little one, that's a follower of Christ. And in essence, Jesus is telling us, if you want to see if a person is truly sent by God, listen to their message. Do they speak the word of God like a prophet? Look at their life. Do they have a righteous life? Look at their attitude. Are they humble? Do they see themselves as a little one? And Jesus said, if you receive someone like that, you receive me. And also you will receive the reward. And even if you give them a cup of water You're going to receive a reward for what they do because you are a partner in what they do and helping them in the gospel. William Barclay talks about a story of a young man in a country village. And after great struggle, he finally was able to go into the ministry. But there was a shoe cobbler in that village that really helped him. In fact, this man uh basically helped with money to supply this young man to get the education and ultimately to go into the ministry. And when the young man was ready to go into the ministry on the mission field, the cobbler said to him one day, he said, listen, I'm I want to make some shoes and I want you to wear these shoes. That's what you can do for me in return. And the young man said, why is that? He said, because when you wear them, when you go and you share the gospel, Then I'll feel like you're preaching the gospel that I've always wanted to preach and you'll be standing in my shoes. It's as if I'm the one doing it. And the man said, I'll do that. And the truth of the matter is, anytime we give to a servant of the Lord, anytime we give to a missionary, Who's out there serving God, whatever reward they get, you'll also get. That's what Jesus is saying here. And you'll be crowned for serving the Lord. So confident in the sovereignty of God, committed to the Son of God, content with the sufferings of God, crowned for the service of God. You say, now what does all this do? Jesus is challenging us To be the right kind of disciple. And again, I tell you, we're living in a day of weak Christianity, weak followers of Christ. And God help us, we need to be more committed to our Lord than we are. And when we read passages of Scripture like this, it should bring conviction to our heart. Now close with this. When I was over in Israel, I got to go to a little a city called Bethshean. It's really like a little Roman colony And it was destroyed by earthquake, and a lot of it's still there from the earthquake that destroyed it. Pillars are falling over. But there was a huge Colosseum there in that s uh Roman city And it was just really incredible to watch that Coliseum. And when I saw that Coliseum, I thought about our forefathers, our Christian forefathers. And I want you to just picture in your mind, let's just say that you were in Ephesus, that great city. There's a great avenue called the Corso, with and it's lined with um white marble sculptures of the emperors and it goes all the way into the arena and there's this huge arena Just just go back with me. Just say that you're there one day and you're in that huge arena, you say, what would you see? You would see under a purple canopy, the Roman governor of that region. You would see the the uh the steps lined with people, thousands of people there in that arena. People would love to go. You would look down into the arena, you would see boxers You would see men throwing javelin, you would see people fighting with a net and with a sword. And there would be a day of games and the and the way it would end, the climax Would be the shout that went up, bring in the Christians. Bring in the Christians. That was the chief spectacle of that time and that day. And they would bring in a crowd of Christians, perhaps in the crowd an older man, a young man who had recently confessed Christ, a young woman in the bloom and beauty of her youth. A mother with a child in her arms, and they would all gather together in a little circle there in the arena And the shout would go up, as the mob that was in the Colosseum with would thirst for blood. Bring the lions. And lions that had been starved for a week were waiting for the gate to open up. And there in the center of that Colosseum, you would hear a hymn. That it is said, tradition tells us that Christians that were persecuted in places like this would say this faithful hymn. And it's in 2 Timothy 2, 11 and 12, for if we be dead with him We shall also live with him. If we suffer, we shall also reign with him. But if we deny him, he will deny us. And they would sing that little hymn, and then the gate would open and the lions would rush out and tear them to shreds. They didn't complain. They were content to die for their Lord. Content that whatever happened to them was in the sovereign will of God. Content to suffer for the Lord and beloved, they are the heroes of the faith and they're crowned in heaven today. And they are our forefathers. What A standard they set for us. When I think about stories like that, and by the way, when I was there in Beshein and in that Coliseum and just looking around, I thought about our forefathers. Many that perhaps had died in that very place. And I have to ask myself, what kind of disciple am I? What kind of follower of Jesus am I? Jesus is calling for full commitment. From us, from those who are truly genuine disciples of Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this challenge. Lord, may these things mark us. May we be totally confident in your sovereign will and purpose in our life. May we be fully committed to our Savior. May we be content to suffer if that's what you call upon us to do. And I know, Lord, here in America, this this so sometimes just falls upon deaf ears because we have it so good. But I think about so many of our brothers and sisters in other places that are suffering. Would we be as faithful as they? And Lord, may we be so faithful that one day we'll be crowned for our service. Lord, let this passage of Scripture, this challenge from you, provoke in us a desire for greater commitment to live up to our calling. May we not take your name in vain. May we live as Christians ought to live. Lord, let people, when they see this group, this congregation here at Grace, may they see Christians who are committed to their Lord. And may you be glorified. And how many will say, with heads bowed and I suppose God has spoken to my heart And I want to be this kind of disciple of Christ. Pray for me. That I'll be faithful to Jesus right here God bless you. Set your prayer. Lift your hands. That's me. I want to be faithful. You know, sometimes it's harder to be faithful in a time of ease and comfort. Friend, don't let the comfort of this world cause us to be lukewarm. Father, bless these who have raised their hands. And Lord, help me as well to truly be a genuine disciple, to follow in the footsteps of our forefathers who are so committed to you. That they were willing, Lord, to lose their life that they might find it in Christ. Bless these words to our hearts, we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.