It's good to see you here tonight. And uh would you take God's word, please? Open to the book of 1 Timothy. As you know, we've been studying this wonderful letter that Paul wrote to Timothy and getting nourishment for our own soul. And 1 Timothy chapter 4, verse 6 is where we are tonight. And uh I want to just read a few verses with you as we start out. If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the words of faith and of good doctrine. whereunto thou hast attained. Now, let me ask you, what are your expectations of a good minister? Everyone seems to have their list of expectations. One person wrote this, he said the ideal pastor Preaches exactly twenty minutes. He condemns sin, but never hurts anyone's feelings. He works from 8 to midnight, 8 a. m. to midnight, and he also serves as a church janitor He makes $40 a week, wears good clothes, and donates $30 a week to the church. He's 29 years old and yet he has 40 years of experience. He's both tall and short, thin and heavyset, has one brown eye and one blue eye. He makes fifteen house calls a day and he's always, always in his office. That would be a very special minister indeed. that could do all those things. And people today seem to have a list of standards and things where they evaluate ministers and they say, well this is a good minister here You know, they use numbers and books and conferences and yada yada and all those other things. And yet none of those standards seem to be in harmony with what Scripture has to say. You know, I was just in India and um was doing a pastor seminar to um about sixty men that you know you've never heard of, but they're faithful to the Lord. And they just, you know, under difficult circumstances, with the threat of persecution, they are just faithful to do what the Lord has called them to do. Um maybe they wouldn't measure up to the standards that we have here in America of being a good minister, but they certainly, in my opinion, measure up to the standards of God. And so the question is, what are God's standards for a good minister or a good servant of Jesus Christ? And in this section of the letter of 1 Timothy, Paul is going to emphasize the character and the work of a good minister. And the key phrase is the phrase that we read in verse number six, if thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister. The word good calos That's noble, that is uh admirable or excellent. This should be the goal of every minister to be called a good minister, not by the world standards, but by The standards that God gives by his expectations. I hope one day when I get to heaven I can hear the Lord Jesus say, You've been a good minister So what are the qualities? I want you to notice the marks here that Paul gives. First of all, number one, a good minister reminds God's people of God's word. Look again in verse number six. If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things. Now remember in the context of this, Paul is writing to Timothy and he is talking about apostasy. He warns about false teaching. And he exhorts Timothy to pass along the things that he's learning from Paul, the things that Paul wrote, and he says, just remump remind them, put them in remembrance. The word here to re uh remembrance to remind It's a verb that doesn't have the idea of commanding people or of uh forcing obedience, but rather it kind of refers to a gentle humble persuasion. And it's a present tense verb. You heard me talk about present tense Greek verbs. Continual action. Timothy was to continually remind God's people of what the Word of God says. A good minister is someone who simply does that. He is constantly reminding people of the Word of God. You know, I'm so grateful that I don't have to come up with my own message every Sunday. I would not be able to do that. I'm not creative enough to do that. I'm not original enough to do that. I my calling is simply to remind people of what God's Word says Paul said uh rather Peter said it like this, 2 Peter 1 12, wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things. These things talk about the Bible. Listen to what he said, though ye know them, and be established in the present truth. Peter understood that his responsibility was simply to remind God's people of these things Talking about the Bible, God's Word. I'm to remind you of these things, even though you know them. You know, sometimes people say, you know, I I've heard you preach on this before. And you preach on it again, yeah, that's right. I'm going to remind you of something I've already said. You say, Oh, I already know these things. I know it. There's I I probably can't preach anything that you don't already know. But you know what? God's people have a tendency to forget some things they already know, and they need to be reminded of things again and again and again. And so Peter says, I'm not gonna be negligent. To put you in remembrance, even though you already know this, because it's the reminding of what God's Word says that will establish you and put you into the present truth. I'm glad I don't have to come up with something new or something that you've never heard before. If it's new, it's probably not true. If it's true, it's not going to be new. I remember one time being in a mega church, listening to a pastor of that church saying, you know, you have to y'all, he's talking to his church, he said, y'all have to admit that the Holy Spirit has revealed himself to me in a very unique way. And what he meant by that is every Sunday he tried to come up with something new that no one's ever heard of. Or maybe a a certain slant or or twist on the truth that people have never heard of. And and I would have to agree with them. He he he has you know a unique way of presenting truth. The only problem is a lot of that stuff wasn't in the Bible. And it was so bizarre in the way that he misused scripture. He was twisting scripture. You know, he would come up with his own original thought and then he would try to find a verse in the Bible to support his idea. And I want to tell you folks, that's not preaching God's word. We're not to read into the Scripture our own ideas, but we are to bring out of Scripture in a very clear way the intended message that God had in God's Word. Listen, the meaning of the scripture is the scripture. If you get the meaning wrong, you get the word of God wrong. And you're not preaching the word of God. And so God ha has called us not to find a new message, but simply to remind God's people of the old message that we have the tendency to forget. And in doing this, Paul says, Timothy, what you'll do is you will You'll be nourished yourself. Look in verse number six. Look at the next part. Thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the words of faith and of good doctrine. In other words, Timothy, this will nourish you spiritually, and you in turn can nourish God's people. I can't nourish you spiritually in God's word if I'm not nourished myself. I can't feed you if I don't feed myself. And that's why I love expository preaching because expository preaching demands that the pastor dig into God's word And get the understanding of it. then um I'm not going to be able to see you. Sometimes people say, what are you reading in devotions? What did you hear on Sunday morning? That is part of my devotions. That is, I mean I I don't have time to go all over the place I gotta dig deep into the verses and the passage that I'm gonna be preaching out of, and I through that I nourish my own soul so that Hopefully, by the grace of God, it'll nourish your soul and that you'll be fed spiritually. So that's what Paul said to Timothy. It'll nourish you and it will it will nourish God's people and you know and as you grow and as you learn more of God's word you become more uh uh uh adept in the word of God and it will help you. John Scott, the great evangelical minister, once said this. He talked about preachers and he said, when a minister does not study, he said this, he will by midlife become a sentimentalist in his preaching. Depending primarily on a repertoire of cliches and sappy stories that tug at the heartstrings. But that's not God's word. What you have to do is dig deep. You know, there's a lot of contemporary preaching today that is weak and it produces weak churches because it reflects a lack of biblical knowledge and a minimal commitment to the study of God's Word. You know, for some pastors, uh you know, studying hours, that's an intrusion into their weekly schedule. You know, they only study enough to make a sermon not to feed their own hearts and to think deeply and carefully on divine truth. And so the result is they have weak sermons that really don't fall on uh soft hearts, but but rather um they they have no effectiveness on people. And so we freaking makes weak saints. Um The model, I think, the biblical model for a pastor is not a CEO. I know some people like to use the term CEO. I don't like that term. I think that the simple term is a shepherd. A shepherd slash theologian. You know, the word theologian is not a bad word, beloved. It just simply means a study of God. And it's a broad word that means the understanding of the theology of the Bible. If you look at church history, you'll find out that the best pastors are those that were theologians. They knew God's word. They studied it in depth. Look, you can't study God's word in depth and not become a theologian. And by the way, everyone's a theologian. You're either a good one or a bad one. Alright? Everybody here tonight, if you're a Christian, raise your hand. Alright? Put your hand down. You're also a theologian. Alright? You're either a good theologian or you're a bad one. You know you have a theology. The question is, is it the theology of the Bible? Is it good theology? And so every good pastor will be a good theologian. You look at the leaders of the The English Puritan movement, men like John Owens and Richard Baxter and Thomas Goodwin and Thomas Brooks and others, and you'll find that they were students of the scripture. They were pastors, but they were also great theologians of the Word of God. I love the story of William Tyndale He was a translator of the Word of God, the 16th century English Bible translator. He was an example of a man who had a burning desire to study and to understand God's Word. And some of you might know that he was thrown in prison. He was hunted down because um uh back then the King of England didn't appreciate his translation of the Bible. And he was finally hunted down and thrown in prison and he was sentenced. He was going to die. But while he was in prison, he wrote a letter to the governor and a and this is what he asked where I'm quoting from me. He said this Would you give me a warmer cap he was in a very cold, dark, d damp prison, a warmer calf, a candle, a piece of cloth to patch my leggings, but above all I beseech and entreat your clemency to to be urgent that he might kindly permit me to have my Hebrew Bible, my Hebrew grammar, and Hebrew dictionary, that I may spend time with that in study. Here he is in prison and he's begging for his Hebrew Bible that he could just simply study. He wanted to study the Word of God. And so it's to that expert study of Scripture that Paul calls Timothy. And he says, Timothy, if you will nourish up yourself in these things, then other people will be nourished. So number one, a good minister reminds God's people of the word of God. But number two, along with that, a good minister teaches people to reject bad doctrine. Look again in verse 7. But refuse profane and old wives fables. Now, notice it doesn't say old wives fables, but rather old wives fables. You say, what does that mean? Does that mean that when your wife gets older you shouldn't listen to her stories? Is that what that's talking about there? Old wives fables. Honey, I can't listen to you because the Bible says I'm to reject old wives fables. Um, I don't think that's what that's talking about, all right? Now please don't ladies don't give me any dirty looks. That's not what that's talking about there, all right. You say what does that mean? You know, you can also translate like this, Fables fit for old women. Now, why this term? Well, this was a term that was used in Paul's day. And the Ephesians to whom Paul is writing this letter to Timothy, they would have understood this expression. It was an expression used in that day. Women were not usually allowed the educational opportunities that men had. So this phrase kind of comes out of that context and out of that situation. More so in philosophical circles, kind of as a term of disdain for a viewpoint lacking credibility. That's what it really talked about. uh some kind of idea that was not credible or maybe unsophisticated, maybe an idea that you would hear from an elderly woman that was going senile. I know that's not very kind uh in our culture. I'm trying to smooth uh soften this some. But that was the expression that was used. Look, I'm just preaching the word, folks, all right. That was the expression that was used. Again, this is not something that we uh be Nice to say in our culture today. Actually it wasn't nice in that culture either. But it's it's the idea that this is a this is a this is an idea That was uh, you know, no intelligent person would listen or put up with this kind of idea. That was really the uh mention or the expression there and what it means. And again, the Ephesians would have understood this. The word fables here, muthos, is where we get our word myth from. Profane, that's biblios. It's not talking about the Bible, but a word that describes what is radically separated from what is holy. We could translate that unhallowed. anything that contradicts the word of God. And so Paul is saying, you know, teach the people to reject any idea any myth, any fable, any story that is out of harmony with the scripture. So when you hear something taught The first thing that you should ask yourself is, what does the Bible say about that? Or is that in harmony with the scripture? If it's not in harmony with the Word of God, reject it. Just throw it out. No matter how um you know tenable the idea might sound, no matter how appealing that idea might be, if it's not in harmony with the Word of God, it is to be rejected. And so a good minister will teach God's people to reject bad doctrine. A good minister reminds people of God's word. Teaches people to reject bad doctrine. But here's number three. A good minister practices spiritual disciplines. Look again in verse 7. Refuse profane and old wise fables, and exercise thyself rather on the godliness. Verse 8, for bodily exercise profiteth little But godliness is profitable unto all things, having the promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come And so the call here is to train yourself to be godly. This is a very highly expressive uh phrase here. The word exercise is a translation of the Greek word gymnos, where we get the word gymnasium or gym. Uh it's actually a word that meant in that day uh naked because uh they would actually train, the Greeks would train uh in a gymnasium without clothing. so that their their movements would not be hindered and they were uh exercising, they were getting themselves ready to compete. This is really a a a word that was used in the athletic world of Paul's day. You've heard me say this before. I think Paul was a uh a sports fan because uh he mentions uh these phrases that are athletic words so much. And the Greek the Greco-Roman culture was a culture that loved sports. You know, we love sports today, but I I think in comparison it's nothing compared to the way they were obsessed with com competition and athleticism back in Paul's day. And Paul's Day, you know, w we have uh different uh you know sports that we follow after. In Paul's day they had basically um the Olympic Games that were close to Thessalonica and Mount Olympus. They had the the Plythian games at a place called Delphi. They had the Ishmian Games at uh Corinth. And these games were always, you know, staggered so that everyone could attend. And they had all kind of uh events that people could uh that athletes could uh compete in, wrestling. Paul said he used that we wrestle not against flesh and blood. They had boxing. Paul referred to that in 1 Corinthians 9 27 when he said, I fight not one who beats the air. I'm not shadow boxing here. I'm delivering real blows. They had team sports, Paul used that expression in Philippians 1. 27, striving together, and that's soon at Leo, like an athlete working together. striving together for the faith of the gospel. Running was pro perhaps the the event that was uh favored by most. They had the marathon. They had uh the the 100 yard dash uh or something equal to that that we have today. There was always they had these massive Coliseums Uh every city seemed to have a Coliseum where they would watch these games go on. And again, we hear phrases that what people would use in the Coliseum from Paul where he said, you know, looking on the Jesus, the author and finisher, the idea of f fixing your eyes on a goal like runners would put fix their eyes on a goal running in a race. Paul said, I press towards the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. So here Paul is using another athletic metaphor, and the whole idea is, is that just like an athlete has to discipline himself to train to compete. Even so in the Christian life, we have to use the same discipline to live out the Christian life. To live a godly life in this world, we have to discipline ourselves like an athlete competing for uh a prize. Knowing that one day we will finally finish our race. Remember what Paul said when it he knew he was going to die? He said, I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. Again, from the athletic world of a runner who ran his course. And so the idea here th then is that we need to discipline ourselves, uh we need to train ourselves For what purpose? For godliness. Again, look in verse number A. For bodily exercise profit is little. But godliness is profitable unto all things, having the promise of the life that now is and of that which is to come. And Paul is comparing physical training and discipline for an athlete to spiritual training and discipline. And comparing the two, there's really no comparison If it's good to exercise yourself physically for a goal, it's so much better to do that spiritually. You know why? Because physically, um, it's only a temporary uh price. And and no matter how much you discipline yourself physically, it's only going to profit you a little bit for the here and the now. But if you discipline yourself spiritually, there's the promise for the life now and of that which is to come. So if a person is disciplined in their physical life, how much better is it to be disciplined in your spiritual life? You know why? Because, you know, no matter how much you discipline yourself physically, you're still gonna die. Uh hate to, you know, r remind you of that. But you're still gonna die. I mean go ahead and take care of yourself. Go ahead and take your vitamins exercise. Do all those things. It's not wrong to do that. It's good to do that But if you think that's going to keep you alive for eternity, you're mistaken, friend. You're still going to die. In fact, God's already marked out the day of your death. Just like he marked out the day of your birth, he marked out the day of your death. And there's nothing you can do to change that All right. Now again, I'm not being fatalistic. I'm just I'm not saying don't take care of yourself. Do take care of yourself. Do all those things because it's the right thing. God's given us a body We can't serve God without it, so we better do our best. But remember this is temporary. And you know, I th I just the reason I mention that is because we live in a day when people are obsessed with their outer men. They're obsessed with their physical being, and um, you know, and they have no thought about their spiritual life. You know, the great evangelist George Whitfield once told us seeing some criminals riding in a cart on their way to the gallows that were going to be hung. And they were arguing like a bunch of kids going on a trip about who would sit on the right hand of the cart. Here were these men condemned to die that very day. But their focus was who was going to get the best seat on their way to the execution. I mean think about that. But isn't that exactly like everyone who's living for this life now and they have no thought about eternity? You know, have no thought about the afterlife. You know, you see people and this beauty-obsessed culture that have little re- or no regard at all for their eternity You know, they eat all the good the proper foods, they take vitamins and minerals, they work out to keep them in good shape, but the fact is they're still gonna die. They're still going to die. And the question is where will you spend eternity? All their efforts might extend their lives a few years, you know, if they don't get cancer or die in a car crash or something like that But they're foolish because they're living as if that's the this is all there is. And friend, this is just not all there is. This is just a small time compared to eternity. And they may physically be doing really well, but spiritually they're flabby. And by the way, there may be some Christians that are not working on their spiritual life. They may be spiritually flabby because they're caught up into this temporary obsessive culture that focuses on the outer man. Paul said, my outer man might be perishing, but my inner man is being renewed day by day, day after day. And so we need to focus on that. You know, the Bible is clear. We're members of a fallen human race, and we're in that cart on the way to the gallows. And friend, we better be prepared for what lies beyond. We better have our souls ready because eternity is a fact, and we should discipline ourselves for the purpose of Godliness. That's why spiritual disciplines are so important in the Christian life. Now, what are spiritual disciplines? You might remember that a while back I did a series on spiritual disciplines. Now what are they? Let me just remind you, these are the personal or corporate disciplines that promote spiritual growth in our life. They're practices, things that we do regularly, daily in our life that God will use to sanctify us, to make us more like the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the whole goal. Um we need to have these godly habits. Now I know when I talk about disciplines, immediately people think about, oh, that's legalism. Legalism. No. Legalism is self-centered. Spiritual disciplines are God-centered. Alright? The legalistic heart says, I'm going to do this thing to gain merit with God. The disciplined heart says, I'm going to do this thing because I love God and I want to please him. There's a difference. I'm not doing this to earn favor with God. I'm doing this because I love God. And he's already saved me. I'm not doing this like I said this morning to earn salvation or to make God love me more. Listen, he cannot love you more than he already does. He will not love you less. But spiritual disciplines are God focused because we want to please the Lord. Paul knew this difference very well. He never gave an inch to the legalists when he was challenging them, but he did say to Christians Discipline yourself unto godliness. And that's God's great purpose for your life. What is God trying to do in you right now? He's trying to make you like Christ. That's the goal of his life. And God will use several things to do that. He has several tools. He uses other people. The Bible says in Proverbs 27, 17, as iron sharpens iron, Uh so one sh man sharpens another. God will use people in your life to help you. He'll use older, wiser saints, he might use peers, friends. New believers remind us that we need to be an example of godliness. God will even use enemies in your life to smooth out the rough edges. Now we we just got done a study of 2 Corinthians. Remember, that was all about Paul's enemies. And attacking Paul. And Paul prayed to God, God remove this thorn in the flesh, and what did God say? No. I'm not going to remove this thorn in the flesh, Paul, because my grace is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in your weakness. God was using even Paul's enemies. to shape them and to mold them and to make them more Christ-like. Now, I don't have control over the people in my life, that God might bring those people around, but I also don't have control on the circumstances of my life And God uses circumstances to make me more godly. Romans 8 28, and all things work together for what? Good. But what's the good that he's talking about there The good he talks about is being conformed to the image of his dear son in the very next verse. That's the good that God's trying to bring about. And he'll use all these circumstances in our life. to make us more like Christ. Again, I don't control people, I don't control circumstances. But a third tool that he uses are sp is spiritual disciplines. Now I can control that. That's something that I can have a part of. When I bring spiritual disciplines into my life, it helps me to be more like Christ. This is what Paul wrote to the Philippians. He said, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it's God who works in you. And so this is this sanctification that will take place. Look again in verse 7. Exercise thyself rather unto what? Godliness. That's the goal right there. Or we could say Christ likeness. So why do we have disciplines in our life to be Christ like? The Bible calls us to holiness. And so and by the way, exercise Present tense imperative. Keep on continuing to exercise yourself in Godly. It's not a suggestion, it's a command. It's a command. Are you reading God's Word every day? Are you praying and seeking God's face every day? Are you disciplined in your worship, your public worship? Are you uh saying no to the to the world? Are you meditating in scripture and all these other things that we need to Uh make sure that we make a part of our life as we discipline ourselves. But also we do it to be an example. Look at verse 12. Drop down to verse 12 of chapter 4. Let no man despise thy youth. Talking to Timothy. Timothy, let no one despise the fact that you're younger. But be thou an example of the believers in word and conversation and charity and spirit and faith and in purity. The word example, tupas, where we get our word type, and it means to strike repeatedly with blows. It has the idea of a An awl and a hammer, where a guy will strike the hammer and leave an imprint. Perhaps, you know, those Paul was a tent maker, and this may have been a term that came out of the tent-making world. If you wanted to put a seal or a brand on a piece of leather, you would take uh maybe a a a little mark on the end of a all and hammer it in and it would leave an impression or an imprint there on the leather. That's the whole idea here behind this word. This is the same word used uh by Thomas when he doubted the Lord. He said, I will not believe until I see the what? The prince Uh in the hands of the Lord Tupas, a mark left by a hammer. Same word there. But here it's talking about leaving a pattern. Leaving an imprint there. And Paul says, Timothy, you need to be a type. You need to be an example to other believers. This is another reason why we need to exercise ourselves unto godliness so that we can be an example to other believers. But also to demonstrate spiritual progress. Again, drop down to verse 15. Meditate upon these things, give thyself wholly to them, that thy propheting may appear to all. Profiting here is the idea of an advance, making an advance used of a pioneer who blazed the trail. You're making an advance spiritually, and it's so obvious that other people can see it. You know, it's wonderful from my perspective as a pastor when I see someone just grow. When I just see them just flourish and blossom. spiritually. It's so evident. And I see it, and no doubt other believers see it. And you know what? That's an encouragement to the body of Christ. And that's what he's talking right here, talking about right here. You know, so that you're profiting can appear to all what a joy this brings, but also to save yourself unto others. Drop down to verse sixteen. Take heed unto thyself, unto the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt save Both save thyself and them that hear thee. And the word saved here is used in the sense of sanctification, not initial justification, where saved, but sanctification. And this is the second stage of our salvation, again, becoming more Christlike. And and Paul is saying to Timothy, Timothy, if you do these things It's going to sanctify you and it's going to sanctify others. They'll see this. So a good minister reminds God's people of God's word. A good minister teaches people to reject bad doctrine. A good minister practices spiritual disciplines in order to be godly, to be an example to others. He does it to demonstrate progress in his life and to uh to bring sanctification in his own life, but also in the life of others. But here's the fourth and final thing. A good minister strives to share the gospel. Strives to share the gospel. Look in verse number nine. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. For therefore we both labor and suffer reproach because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those that believe. These things command and teach. Now when Paul says Faithful saying here. This may have been part of an early church creed or maybe even words from an early hymn that people love to sing. But Paul's affirming this. What is the faithful saying that he's referring to here? This is a faithful saying worthy of all acceptation, worthy for you to embrace this and hold on to this. What is it? What's in verse number 10? That Jesus Christ is the Savior of all men, especially those who believe. And that's a summary statement about the gospel. Therefore, servants of Christ, we strive and we labor because we have confidence in the power of the gospel. We have confidence in the fact that Jesus is the Savior of all men. Especially those who believe, those who put their faith in Christ. So therefore we labor. The word labor here means to work to the point of exhaustion. That you're working for the gospel till you're until you're just literally exhausted. Suffer reproach in some in some places this is translated strive. It's the Greek word agonizami. Where we get the word agony, to agonize. Again, I think this is a word that comes out of the athletic world. Talking about an athlete that's training, using every mm, fiber of his muscles to to get victory. You know, we strive, we labor that way in the gospel Why? Because it's motivated by the conviction that Jesus is the Savior of all men. And the gospel will work. We just need to preach it. Now, let me clarify here where it says He's the Savior of all men does not imply universalism or it doesn't mean that everyone will be saved. Would to God that everyone would be saved. I wish that that were true. But we also know that Jesus said that there's a broad road that leads to destruction. There are many on that road. There's a narrow road that leads to life everlasting. Few there be that find it And so I I wish that all would get saved, but we know, according to the Bible, not all men will get saved. Sadly, that's a reality. But Jesus, nevertheless, is the Savior of all men. He died that that people would come to Christ. And I would just say it like this that the death of Christ on the cross, the nature of it, is in that it was sufficient For anyone who believes, you know, it's but it's only efficient for those who do put their faith in Christ Not all are going to be saved, and that Jesus is the Savior of those who put their faith or those who believe in him. You see. Um and so any lost sinner that wants to be saved can be saved. Friend, if if they're hungry, just come to the bri to the table. It's loaded with bread. You know, if they're thirsty, here's the fountain of life, Jesus Christ. Come and drink of the water and be saved. The great, I call it the queen of all Bible words is the word come. Just come. If you're hungry, come. If you're thirsty, come. If you're weary and laden down with sin and you want forgiveness, just come. Anybody that wants to come can come. He's the Savior of all men, but only those who believe. are the ones who will be saved. And so it's that conviction that causes us to labor and to strive. And to be committed to proclaiming the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so these are the qualities that should mark us We remind God's people of what the Word of God says. We teach people to reject bad doctrine. We practice spiritual disciplines. We strive to share the gospel with all. Knowing that those who believe will be saved. And so that's the qualities of a good minister of Jesus Christ. I pray that I'll be marked by these things, and I pray that you will too. But now remember, you say, well, this is a sermon for pastors. No, it's a sermon for everyone. Because God wants pastors to reach this level because He wants people to follow in that path. God wants the same thing out of you. He wants you to do these things as well. He wants you to know God's word. Remind others of what the Word of God says. He wants you to re- teach others to reject bad doctrine. He wants you to practice spiritual disciplines in your life. He wants you to strive to share the gospel. Everyone in here needs to be committed to sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ so that people will come to know the Lord Jesus I'll close with this quote from Robert Murray McChane, that great Scottish preacher, who died relatively young, but he wrote a letter in to a a man who was being ordained, and this is what he said. He said, in great measure, according to the purity and perfections of the instrument, will be the success. It's not great talents, God blesses so much, as great likeness to Jesus. And then he says this: a holy minister is an awesome weapon in the hand of God. And may God help us to be just that, weapons in the hand of God that God can use for his own glory. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. Again, I want you just to think about your own life and ask yourself, uh are these things true of me? Do I study the Word of God? Is it a part of my daily life? Do I know the scripture? Do I dig deep? Do I pray? Do I reject teaching when I compare it to what the Word of God says and I realize It's not scriptural. And I reject it. Do you do I practice spiritual disciplines in my life? Am I striving to share the gospel? All of us need improvement in this area. All of us in these things. None of us have reached the mark yet. If we're honest, we would all say we fall short on some of these things. And may God in his grace help us to measure up, to do better To be an example of the believers in word and conversation, charity and spirit and faith and purity. May God help us in all these things. Father, thank you for the reminder. Lord, I certainly need this. I certainly need to be reminded of this. And Lord, I pray that you'll use it in every heart of those that are here tonight and those that may hear through various means. Lord, speak to our hearts And help us to strive. Help us to exercise ourselves on the godliness. For your honor and for your glory, Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.