Please to the book of Luke, the Gospel of Luke, and I want you to go to chapter one in Luke's Gospel tonight. And we're going to look at verse number 46 down to verse 56. And look at this beautiful, beautiful song that's here. Look at verse 46. And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord. My spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. For he has regarded the low estate of his handmaid. For behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed For he that is mighty hath done to me great things, and holy is his name. And his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. He has showed strength with his arm, he has scattered the proud and the imagination of their hearts, he hath put down the mighty from their seats and exalted them of low degree. empty away. He had hope in his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. And as he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed forever. And Mary abode with her about three months and returned to her own house. Now when Robert Ingersoll, that might be a name that is familiar to some. Robert Ingersoll was a militant skeptic and atheist who criticized and tried to debunk the Christian faith during his lifetime. But when he finally died at his funeral, there was a printed notice in the bulletin that said, there will be no singing. And when I read that, I thought, how different for the child of God. Salvation through Jesus Christ brings us joy and it brings us singing. In fact, Christianity and singing are inseparable. Did you ever notice that? You can't be a child of God without having a song in your heart, without singing and enjoying music The Bible says that when we're saved, God gives us a new song. And all along the Christian journey we are to sing. You remember if you were here on Wednesday night, we looked at the pilgrim songs about songs that pilgrims would sing on their journey to Mount Zion, which speaks to us as Christians along this journey. We are singing because the Lord has put joy in our heart. And we'll sing all the way until we get to heaven. And then when we get to heaven, guess what we're going to do? We're going to sing in heaven. You say, I can't sing here. Wait till you get to heaven. Everybody will be able to sing well there. And the Bible says we will sing worthy Is the Lamb there in heaven among many, many things? Martin Luther said the devil takes flight at the sound of music, just as he does the words of theology. And I agree with that. And then he said, after theology, I give the highest place and greatest honor to music. Now the reason I bring all that up is because we're going to study tonight these verses that we just read. We were not going to be able to go down in depth with these verses. We're just going to kind of get a summary look at this song here, and this is the song of Mary. There have been times in biblical history when the Holy Spirit has inspired people to sing. If you look in the Old Testament, you'll find the songs of Moses. After the children of Israel were delivered from Egypt, you'll find the song of Deborah in the book of Judges, the songs of Hannah in the book of 1 Samuel, and on we can go through the Old Testament where God has put songs in the hearts of his people. And one of the unique things about the Gospel of Luke is that as he begins his gospel message, it begins with really inspired songs. And these are all centered around the birth of Jesus Christ when he comes into the world. These are what I call the first Christmas songs In the very first part of chapter 1, we see the song of Elizabeth after she received tidings from the angel Gabriel through her husband Zechariah. And then we see the song of Zechariah in chapter 1, verse 67 down to verse 80. He sings after the Lord opened his mouth. And then in chapter 2, the song of the angels, and we know that very familiar passage of scripture where the angels sing on the night that Christ is born. And then later on, after the birth of Christ, there is the song of Simeon. But what we're going to focus on tonight is the Song of Mary and the verses that we just read, verse 46 down to verse 56. This song has been called in the uh in the church history the magnificate. And the reason it is called that, uh, and oh, and by the way, let me back up and say that this song here has played an important role throughout the history of the church for over 2,000 years. We may not refer to it much, but there are places in the world where this song is sung every worship service. Now think about the style of this song. Look in verse number 46 where it says, And Mary said, My soul does magnify the Lord. Now the reason this song is called the magnificate It's because of that word magnify that we see there in verse number 46. In fact, in the Latin, which is where what a lot of people get this title magnificent from, in the Latin version of verse 46, the very first word In that Latin version is the word magnificate, which of course is the word which means magnify. And she wants to magnify the Lord And so this whole psalm is about magnifying God. It's about Mary pouring her heart out and worship to God. And by the way, worship is what Christmas is all about. It's just as we had already heard said that we worship Jesus year round, right? But I think at Christmas time we kind of amp it up even a little bit more. And we worship the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so clearly Mary wants to magnify the Lord. The word here, Magdaleno, to make great, to declare great. Now by singing, we don't make God great, but we just declare his greatness. He's already great. We just reveal that greatness. We just sing and praise that greatness. She desires to tell others what God has done in her life and what he is going to do Especially through the coming one, the Messiah, the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice that she uses the phrase, he hath so many times. Look at verse 51. Or actually verse 49, for he hath regarded the lowest state of his handmaid. Verse 51, he hath showed strength, and he hath scattered the proud. He hath put down the mighty. And verse 53, he hath filled the hungry. And verse 54, he hath hope in his servant Israel. Eight times she recounts what the Lord has done. Now, that's the style of this song. But also I want you to think about the setting of it and this preliminary thoughts that we're giving here. The setting. Now, remember that in Luke One of the things that Luke does, as I pointed out to you last week, is that Luke on purpose sets these narratives side by side. Specifically the visit from Gabriel to Zachariah, he puts it right next to the visit of Gabriel to Mary. And why does he do that? Because there's a sense in which these are parallel accounts. They run as parallel. They share the same kind of progression if you look at the narratives very closely. Some of the same elements are in both of these. The uh the obstacle of childbearing with Elizabeth, it was her bearingess. With Mary it was her virginity. The appearance of Gabriel, and if you hold these side by side, as we said to Zachariah, the angel said, Don't be afraid to Mary, the angel said, Don't be afraid. To Zacharias. He said, you'll bear a son, that is your wife of Elizabeth. To Mary, he said, you'll bear a son. To Zacharias, he said, your son will be great. And to Mary, the angel said, your son will be great. So there's a parallel count, and only goes down through the text, except there's one glowing difference. There's a lot of similarities, but there's one, however, huge difference between the account of Zacharias and the account of Mary. And what is it? It's the response. Because when Gabriel comes to Zacharias, how does Zacharias respond? Go back to chapter 1 and look at verse number 18 and notice how he responds. And Zecharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? For I am an old man and my wife well stricken in years. As the angel appeared to Zacharias while he was in the holy place, offering incense on the altar of incense And the angel appears there and says, You're going to have a son, his response is, how is this going to happen? And Eugene Peterson paraphrases it, do you expect me to believe this? Which captures the note of doubt and skepticism. How can this happen? I'm old. My wife is way beyond childbearing years. The angel doesn't appreciate his response. Look at verse 19. And the angel answered and said unto him, I am Gabriel that stands in the presence of God. And that's it, Zachariah is saying, I need some kind of a sign. Show me how this is going to happen. Because he didn't believe. And Gabriel's response was, look, do you know who I am? I'm Gabriel. I I come from the presence of God. What bigger sign do you need than an angel that just came from God's presence to come and give you this? And it says the punishment for his unbelief in verse 20, what happens is he's stricken to be dumb. And behold, thou shalt be dumb and not able to speak until the day these things shall be performed. And in fact, this is exactly what happens. He can't speak until the time when his son, John the Baptist, who is the forerunner of the Messiah, and all these things are happening to prepare the way for the coming of the Messiah He will not speak until John the Baptist is born. Now there's the contrast. There's Zachariah's unbelief with Mary's faith. And so this is the setting of the song. Look at verse 26. In the sixth month of the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto the city of Galilee. uh named Nazareth to a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph of the host of David and the virgin's name was Mary Now here is the setting of this. Here's the situation. Six months later, after Gabriel visits Zacharias and Elizabeth now. Gabriel visits Mary and he announces the birth in this very small village of Nazareth, which is a city that's really on the other side of the tracks, a despised small city to a peasant girl who's probably in her late teens and announces to her who is a virgin and look in verse 27 Luke is very careful to emphasize to a virgin a spouse to a man named Joseph She's a virgin, and the angel says you're going to have a child. A virgin, she'll conceive, this has been the prophecy of the Old Testament. And now it's coming to pass. She's espoused to Joseph, which means she is his legal bride, in the sense that the contract has been signed for him to marry her, but Joseph hasn't yet come to claim his bride. As is in Jewish tradition, there's the signing of the contract, and later on he comes to collect his bride, and then there's the celebration and the culmination of that marriage. That hasn't taken place yet. What's happened is the betrothal stage, there's an espousal where they're engaged, we would say it, but it's a legal binding relationship already And so she's espoused. And notice what the angel says to her, to the Virgin Mary. And in verse 28, the angel came to her and said, Hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of citation this should be. And the angel said, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God. And verse 31, and behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus, and he shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. This is the culmination of all of what the Old Testament has had to say regarding the coming son of David, the Messiah. And now here is this angel announcing to Mary that she will be the mother of the Messiah. And look at verse 34. This is a key verse. Then Mary said unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? It's very clear that, again, Luke is establishing the virginity of Mary. And Mary's saying, how is this going to happen? Saying, I don't know a man, I'm a virgin. How am I going to have a child? And the angel answers in verse number 35. The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. And therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. This is going to be a miracle by the power of God. It'll be God who does this. And as I said before, God can make a body however he wants. He can make a body out of dust He can make a body just with a man as he took the rib from Adam and made Eve. He can make a body just with a woman as he does here with Mary or with a man and woman. God's power, God can do anything. Look at verse 37. For with God nothing shall be what? Nothing's impossible with God. God can do this. This is a small thing. Now you say, now what's the difference between Mary's response and Zachariah's response, which is really the focus of Luke here? Mary, she believed. She said, How's this going to happen? She wasn't unbelieving. She wanted understanding. Zachariah wanted proof. He wanted a sign. Mary just wanted to know how is this going to happen? And the angel said, It will be by the power of God. So notice her response in verse number 38. And Mary said, Behold, the handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy Word. And the handmaid is of uh feminine form of doulas, I am the Lord's servant. I am the Lord's slave Whatever he wants from me, I submit. And so this is an incredible statement of faith. In fact, verse 38 is one of the incredible statements of faith in all of the New Testament, where Mary says, I'm submitted. Let the Lord's will be done in my life. Whatever God wants, I will do it. Now, right after that in verse 39, what does Mary do? She takes the long journey to the hill country of Judea. to see her cousin Elizabeth. Now this is a journey of about eighty miles. You say, why would she go eighty miles? She wanted confirmation. In fact the angel prompted her to do it In verse thirty-six, he said, If you have any doubt of a miraculous conception, think about your cousin Elizabeth, who is very old, and yet she's going to have a child If you need confirmation, why don't you go and see her? It kind of prompts her. And so Mary takes the journey in verse 39. She goes this long way, and when she's there, she visits with Elizabeth in the house of Zachariah, and they begin to compare stories. And as Mary begins to tell Elizabeth of what the angel said to her, she gets a lot of confirmation. In fact, she gets more than she bargained for. You know why? Because look what the Bible says there in verse number 34 uh 43 I should say. Um and whence is this to me that the mother of my lord should come. Here's Elizabeth, and she gives verbal confirmation. Here's the mother of my Lord She's hearing Elizabeth say that. What you have in you is the Lord. The mother of my Lord has come. And then look at the next verse, verse 44. For as lo, as soon as the voice of the austeritation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. And there's another confirmation right there, physical confirmation Because inside of her was John the Baptist, inside the womb of Elizabeth, six months old, and here's his first prophecy right here. And it's not with words, it's with movement. This is a divine kick right here. Because as soon as Mary announces that she's going to be the mother of the Messiah, John the Baptist leaps for joy. That's what the word literally means And this was his first prophecy, his first ministry duty. You say, how can you say that? Well remember the angel said to Zacharias, this baby that you're going to have, John the Baptist, will be filled with the Holy Spirit from what? From his mother's womb. Why would God fill a fetus with the Holy Spirit unless he had a ministry job for him to do? And the job was to bear witness that Mary is the mother of the Messiah, and he leaps for joy. And then Elizabeth, she sings the first song, as we saw, in verse 40 uh five, blessed is she that believes. That's really kind of the end of it. She really begins to speak it in verse 42, where she speaks blessing. Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. And then in verse 45, blessed is she that believes These are just beatitudes here. She's just blessing and thanking God. And that's really the first song, which leads us up to Mary's song. And it's her turn now. And so she opens her mouth in verse 46 and she begins to sing this song of praise to the Lord. Now. Again, we can't get into real depth with this. This is something for you to do. In fact, during the Christmas season, it wouldn't be bad for you to just study over this. And look deeply into what she's saying, because there's such a tremendous message here. It's so rich in theology. In fact, if you look at what she says here and you compare it to the Old Testament, what you're going to find out is that Mary's psalm is really nothing more than Old Testament scriptures that are woven together in a beautiful tapestry while she is filled with the Holy Spirit, she's led with the Holy Spirit, and she just breaks out in praise and what she has to say just comes straight out of the Old Testament. Which tells us that she was a woman who knew the Word of God. And in fact, if you compare what she says in these verses to what Hannah says in 1 Samuel chapter 2, you're going to find incredible parallels. In 1 Samuel chapter 2, Hannah said, My heart exalts in the Lord, and I rejoice in thy salvation. Mary says in verse 46, My soul magnifies the Lord. My spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. Hannah says there is none holy like the Lord. Mary says holy is his name. Hannah says the bow the the bows of the mighty are broken and the feeble girdle on strength. Mary says he has put down the mighty And exalted those of low degree. So you see all these parallels, and really there's a sense in which she's just alluding to everything Hannah says, but she embellishes on it even more. And there's more Old Testament scripture. For example, in verse 48 she says, Behold, henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. And that kind of echoes with the words of Leah in Genesis 30, verse 13. Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed. And so it's so filled with theology. It's so filled with doctrine. In fact, it is has so much of this in it, you get the understanding that Mary, she knew the Old Testament. Not only did she know the Old Testament, she knew theology in the Old Testament, she knew all about the covenant of Abraham, she knew all about the history of Israel, because she brings it all out right here And this has so much depth to it that you know that scholars even doubt that Mary Of course they will, some of these liberal scholars, they're always doubting some things. But they doubt that a a a young peasant teenage girl could come up with this. Because it has so much depth to it. But what they don't take into account was that Jewish girls were steeped in the Old Testament, and Mary particularly, she was devout. A godly woman. And not only that, she was filled with the Holy Spirit. She was inspired by the Holy Spirit. And so that's the substance of this. But let me just talk to you a little bit about the structure of it. Because really what this is is in this song, it's just two stanzas. In verse 46 down to verse 50 It stands in one, and Mary is reflecting on what the birth of the Messiah means to her personally. And then in verse 51 down to verse 55, That stands at two, and she is reflecting on what the birth of the Messiah will mean to the rest of the world. And that's really the whole structure of this Now what's the subject of this Psalm? Did you know that there are some who have said, for example, uh E. Stanley Jones, the Methodist scholar, he said this. that this song was the most revolutionary document in the history of the world. That's quite a statement to say about this Song of Mary. The most revolutionary document Another writer said this, he said, when you read the lyrics of this song, you sniff the powder of dynamite, he said. You say, why did they say that? Because this whole psalm here, the subject of it, is all about reversal. It's all about doing we could say like this that when the Messiah will come into the world, he's going to literally turn things upside down. And the values of the world will be reversed. What the world values will be opposite of what he will value. It's going to be a reversal. This whole song is about a reversal of fortunes. That's what's going to happen when the Messiah comes. A reversal. Now, perhaps you've read this story once of the Prince and the Pulp Rit. You ever read that story by Mark Twain? How many have read that? All right, some of you have never read it, so you're gonna make me say it here tonight? Let me give you a real quick summary of it. The story of the Prince and the Pulper, written by Mark Twain. There's a pulper, a boy who lives in England, a very poor boy, his name is Tom, his father is abusive. And then there is a prince, and his name is Edward VI, and he is the son of King Henry VIII. A young prince who's destined to be a king. And what happens in the story? That these two boys through circumstances meet And they they look they could be p uh they're like twins. They could uh you know they look so much alike, they could be uh regarded as twins, and they're intrigued by each other's lifestyle And so they decide to reverse their life. Edward becomes the pulper, and Tom becomes the prince. And that's how the story goes. The prince and the pulper. Now there's a sense in which that's what Mary is saying that's going to happen when the Lord Jesus Christ comes to this world. Those who are poor will be made princes. He will bring down the mighty, those who are proud will be brought down. Those who are poor will be brought up, will be exalted, will be blessed. Now let me ask you a question. Isn't that what salvation is all about, anyway? Salvation is all about God blessing us, making us princes And kings and queens. Jesus, the prince, came into this world and became a pulper. That we who are pulpers would be royalty. And that's what the coming of Christ would do for the whole world. And so this whole song is about a reversal And by the way, Luke's gospel is all about pointing out that very thing. In fact, Luke's gospel is a gospel that really focuses on the fact that when Jesus comes All those who are social outcasts, all those who were rejected by society, will be exalted because if you read Luke's gospel very closely, he's always focusing on the poor the lame, the blind, those who are outcasts, even women in that society back then who didn't have a real rightful place. He's always pointing out how the Lord blesses them and exalts them. Uh to give you an example, look in Luke real quick. Go to Luke chapter uh sixteen and uh Look at verse number 25. Look Luke chapter 16, verse 25. Just flip over there. Luke sixteen twenty-five. And notice what he says here. That's not the verse I'm looking for. But it's the verse uh maybe it's thirteen twenty-five. I'll email it to you. Uh And you know the verse, really, you don't even need to look at it. You look it up later. I'll give you a little homework here. It's this verse. They that are first shall be what? And they that are last shall be And we see that in those gospel. In fact, Matthew mentions the same thing, and Jesus has said that. They that are first shall be last, and they that are last shall be first. And that's what happens when you come into the kingdom. You say, man, I look at my life now, and compared to the world standards, I look like I'm coming in last Uh uh you look at my my bank account, my lifestyle, and this is how the world judges success, I'm in last place. But I'm going to tell you something. When you came to know Jesus Christ, guess what? You were put on the winning team. And now you're in first place. I who was in last place, when I came to know Jesus Christ, I was put in first place. I'm coming in first place, beloved. And so are you. Why? Because that's what the coming of Christ means. It means a reversal. Now, with that in mind, just look at uh look at the uh go back to Luke 1. And look in verse number 46. I want you to look at the first stanza real quick, and again, we don't have time to dwell on it. But look at what the coming of Christ meant for Mary personally. Look at verse number 47. We'll just go to verse 46. And Mary said, My soul does magnify the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior. There's the first thing. What did it mean for Mary? Why is she rejoicing? Because the coming of Jesus Christ into the world meant that he saved her. She now has a Savior. Now Mary is a great woman in many respects, but unfortunately there are people out there and theology out there that's bizarre that exalts Mary to a place that the Bible never intended. And we know that. She's going to be the mother of Jesus. And she's a d a godly young woman. And in many ways, she's a model for us to follow as a Christian. She knows the word of God. She submitted to God. She has faith in what the Lord says. She has faith in God's word. And she deserves honor for all those things. But there are some, unfortunately, that per pervert the place of Mary and to a place where, according to Roman Catholicism, we should be worshiping Mary, which we know that that's wrong. And let me just say that Catholicism really, in some, is just nothing but a Mary cult. It's a cult of people that worship Mary. It's devoted to worshiping her. In fact, in many cases, you will find that in Catholicism, Jesus is somewhat incidental, and Mary is the one who's exalted. And we don't see in this passage here, Mary is not the one being worshipped. She is the worshiper. She's the one doing the worship. In fact, there's just a few things that Catholicism teaches, and let me just touch on them. Number one is called the the doctrine of an immaculate conception of Mary. And what does that mean? That means that she was immaculately conceived. This is not to be confused with the virgin birth of Christ. The virgin birth of Christ teaches that Jesus was born of a virgin, he was virgin-born, but the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception teaches that Mary herself was virgin-born, that she was born of a virgin. That's the difference there. And so it has nothing to do with the birth of Christ, but there's another doctrine that is taught, and that is the sinlessness of Mary. Did you know that the Roman Catholic Church teaches that Mary was sinless her entire life. She never sinned. It also teaches that she was a perpetual virgin. And also it teaches that Mary never died. She just ascended up into heaven. This is called the assumption of Mary. She never died, she just went up to heaven and she took her place there. And now there's another doctrine they teach based on that, and it's called a position of authority and sovereignty. That is, she assumed her place in heaven as the queen of heaven, and in many instances, according to them, she's sovereign even over what Jesus does and Jesus so many times has to refer to her. And I want to tell you, beloved, that's nothing but heresy. It's not what the Bible teaches. And you know what? Mary debunks all of that bizarre theology with the one statement in her song where she says in verse 47, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my what. My Savior. You know what Mary was confessing when she said that? That I need a Savior just like everybody else. That means that she, in a sense, Well she was, not in a sense, but she was confessing her sinfulness and how that she needed a savior. And we all need a Savior. And so she rejoices that now she has a Savior. She is carrying the Savior, not only for her sins, but the sins of the world within her. He saved her, but then he chose her. Look at verse 48. For he has regarded the low estate of his handmaid, for behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. She praises God because she says, Lord, you chose me. You regarded me. The word regarded there means to look upon. You looked upon my low estate And here she's speaking about her poor and her humble existence. She was a peasant girl from a despised city called Nazareth. Her background, her age, her social status, she would have been considered insignificant and unimportant to the people in the world in that day. And yet here she says, God, you exalted me. You chose me. And you've chosen me for this. Of all the girls in Israel, you have chosen me. Who am I that you would do this to me? And again, friend, I think about the grace of God. That's what the grace of God does for us. And then she says, You exalt me in verse 48, for from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. She understood that this was the greatest privilege that God could ever bestow upon a woman And she's right. All generations have called her blessed. We know of her today. Can you name another mother in Israel at that time besides Elizabeth? Along with Mary? And the answer to that is no. We don't know of any others. But we know the name of Mary because she has been exalted, because the Lord exalted her. He chose her. He exalted her. And again, this is the paradigm of all those who would come to believe on Jesus Christ after. And the way we apply this to our life is this, friend, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ, It's because he saved you and in his grace he came to you. And by saving you, you know what he has done to you? He has highly exalted you and highly exalted me. You know what the Bible says? God has chosen the what? The foolish things of the world to confound the wise. The apostle Paul said to the church of Corinth, he said, You see your calling, how that not many mighty, not many wise Not many noble or called, but God has chosen the foolish thing. You know what Paul is saying to the church at Corinth? He's saying, and they had a tendency to be a little proud. You know what Paul is saying? You need to go look in the mirror You need to get a good look at yourself because you know why? Because if you look at yourself, you're going to realize that you're not the wise of this world. You're not the mighty, you're not the noble. God has chosen the foolish things of this world to confound the wise. I thank God he's done that because he chose me. Because you're looking at a foolish thing right here. You say, what would you be doing if you weren't saved and you didn't know the Lord Jesus Christ? I would be a mess. I would be a failure. I would be messed up. My whole life would be messed up. I want to tell you, friend, when he saved me, it came into my heart, and then he placed me in ministry, you know what he did? He highly exalted me, someone who was a foolish thing. That's what salvation salvation does for all of us. Paul said, not many wise, not many mighty, not many noble. One lady, a lady by the name of Lady Huntington, she was won the Christ by a British evangelist named Roland Hill, and Lady Huntington was from the highest ranks of British society, extremely wealthy, extremely smart, very cultured, and yet she was saved and she was giving her testimony and her testimony was this I was saved by an M Because Paul said, not many mighty or wise or noble. He didn't say, not any. So I was saved by an M. And that's so true. The Lord chooses the foolish. And he uses us for his glory. And he gets the glory for it. Now let me just look at the second stanza real quick and we'll be done. But we see what the coming of Christ meant for Mary. It exalted her, but also what it means for others. Look at verse number 50. For his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. Verse 51, he has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud and the imagination of their heart. And so this is what it means also to others. It means that he will exalt others as well. His mercy is on all those who fear him. If you fear him, then you can be a recipient of his mercy, and fear is the idea of of submitting to him, submitting to his lordship. This is really a concept, I think, of bowing to him and salvation and repentance, and you will be a recipient of his mercy. But notice who he's going to reverse things for. Notice the reversal in verse 51. He has showed strength with his arm. He scattered the proud. What's he going to do to the proud? He's going to bring them down. He's going to scatter them. I love that phrase where it says, he has shown strength with his arm. You know when uh my kids were smaller, they used to come to me and they used to say, Dad, let's arm wrestle. They actually thought they can beat me. Arm wrestling. Look at that arm. They can't beat me. And the of course they were little back then. I wouldn't do it today. I wouldn't arm wrestle them today. But back then they were little. And they'd grab it with two hands, my arm. Sometimes they hop one and try to pull it with all their weight And I'd act like I was losing, oh you're beating me, and then finally when I wanted to, I'd just flop it over. I I love that because in this verse here When it says he has shown, talking about God, strength with his arm. And he's talking about the proud in this world. Those who are the princes of this world, those who are the leaders, the political leaders, the national leaders. Those who think they don't need God. They actually think that they can arm wrestle with God, and they think that they can win. And that's what they're doing now. They're trying to wrestle with God. Remember we looked at Psalm two on Wednesday night. So many out there are doing their own thing. They're trying to wrestle with God. And you know what, friend, they're doomed to lose. And one of these days, God is going to say, that's enough. Enough. And He's going to flip them off. He's going to basically take them down with His strength. You can't by the way, how do we know that that's going to happen because of the birth of Jesus Christ? The birth of Jesus Christ is God's assurance that in the end those who are proud are not going to be the ones calling the shot. They're not going to be the ones who are going to win. He has scattered them, the Bible says, with his mighty arm. He's showed strength with his arm. He scattered the proud. Look at verse 52. He has put down the mighty from their seats. And here's the next part, and Mary's just continuing on, talking about the proud and the mighty. She continues in the same train of thought in verse 52. And really, this is just characteristic of Hebrew poetry where a thought is presented and then you build on that thought and it's kind of climactic parallelism where she's giving parallel thoughts and ideas, but it's building on that thought, it's elaborating that thought even more He's going to scatter the proud. He's going to bring the proud to an end to where they can't boast anymore. No more boasting. Because the mighty are going to come down I was reading one time where Muhammad Ali and his prime was on a plane and the stewardess said, fasten your seatbelt. And he said, Superman don't need a seatbelt. And she said, Superman don't need no airplane. Fasten your seatbelt. An end of boasting. And that's what she's saying here. The proud Will be brought down, will be scattered, the helpless will be brought up. She's saying the the the mighty will be scattered, the humble, God will exalt Look in verse 52 again, and has exalted them of low degree in verse 53, and he has filled the hungry. The helpless, the humble, and the hungry are the ones that he will minister to, that he will bring up, that he will exalt. And then look at verse 54. He had hope in his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. And there's the other thing that she says, the hopeful, those who have been hoping in the coming of the Messiah. Mary's saying he's finally coming. And she says in verse number 55, and as he spake to our father Abraham, and to his feet forever. And in the Psalm she says, this is the very thing that Abraham prophesied, that said was going to happen. Now think about this. From the time that Mary got the news that she was going to be the mother of the Messiah, she was 2,000 years removed. From the promise that God gave to Abraham. That is, 2,000 years, Israel had been waiting for the coming of the Messiah. Now think about that in our day. You know what? We believe that Jesus Christ is coming back again. Don't you believe that? You say, how long has he that then promised two thousand years? Did you know what? God has his own timetable And just like Mary and Israel had waited for 2,000 years for that promise to be fulfilled, here we are now, and we've been waiting for 2,000 years for the promise That Jesus is going to come again. And I want to tell you something, friend, just as sure as he came the first time and fulfilled the promises of God, he's going to come again the second time And we're waiting just like Mary was, just like all Israel was, and she's saying, you know what? This is the very thing that God promised would happen He said it to our father Abraham. God has not forgotten. God will remember his servant. Look at verse 54. I'll show you this and we'll be done. Where it says, he had hope in his servant. That word there means to g to embrace face-to-face anti, which means face-to-face, lumbano, which means to take hold of. So it's like this, you ever see someone and you see them face to face and you just hug them? That's really what the verse means here And so the coming of Jesus Christ into this world, what does it mean to all of the people of Israel? It means that God the Father has hugged them to himself. And by the way, that's what the coming of Christ means to you also. That God has He's He's embraced you. He's loved you. And you know what He was saying? I haven't forgotten you. And I haven't forgotten the promise that I made to my people. And friend, I want to tell you, maybe you're here tonight and you've you've been you say, man, I've claimed promises from God and nothing has happened. And I've been waiting. Well you keep waiting, friend. That's called faith. Because I want to tell you something, God will always fulfill his promises. And one of these days, you know what will happen as you're waiting for God to fulfill his word to you, maybe a word that God has given you from the word of God, a promise that you've claimed and you've been praying and you've been waiting. You know what's going to happen one day? God is going to embrace you. And he's going to say, you know what? I never forgot you. I'm still going to fulfill my promise to you. That's what he's saying. That's what the coming of Christ means to the world. It is God the Father embracing the world. And saying, I love you. I have not forgotten you. So then, in summary, what does this song of Mary's mean? It's a song of reversal. Where God is going to put down the mighty and the proud. And He's going to reach out in love to those who are the lowly, the forgotten. The helpless, the humble, the hungry. And by the way, that word hunger there, it's not talking about just physical hunger, but a spiritual hunger So let me ask you a question. Are you hungry tonight? I'm talking about a deep hunger that nothing can satisfy in this world. There's only one who can, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. And he came for those who are lowly, humble, hungry, broken. And he's come to embrace you and to exalt you. That's what Christmas means. And that's what really Mary is talking about here in this song. Friday night I had the privilege of going to the Symphony Orchestra and listening to Handel's Messiah. The whole thing. You know, sometimes when you go to those things they just play a few songs. This was the whole thing. And it took, I don't know, maybe three or four hours, I guess. And when they're playing the whole thing, they give you the program, and you know what it is? All it is is it's it's beautiful music, except to scripture. All the verses are right there. And they're and they just and you just go through that whole thing. And really, it's the whole life of Christ, from his birth to his earthly ministry, to his crucifixion, to his resurrection. to his ascension in heaven and his glory, his exaltation. It goes all through the life of Christ. And it's beautiful the way the words, or excuse me, the music will just exalt the words of Scripture. Really nothing like it. It's really a masterpiece. And the fun of it is just following along and those verses and seeing how the music brings out what those verses are saying. I felt like I was exegeting a song, you know, when I was there listening to it. But you know one interesting fact about Handel's Messiah, you know, the the story behind that, he wrote that. In just three weeks and twenty-one days. And it was just an incredible feat. But after he wrote the song, he didn't immediately bring it out. And you know why? I was reading that It was nine months after he wrote the song before he actually had it performed in public. You know why Because he looked at the people of London in that time, and he saw people who were proud, self-sufficient. And he thought that the people in London were not worthy to hear this song. Not because he wrote it, but because what it was about. And so the very first time this song was ever done in public, you know who it was performed for? It was done for orphans, the lowly. The forgotten. That song was performed for orphans, and he allowed people to come and pay a fee so that all that money will be directed to those orphans so that they would be blessed. And that was the whole spirit of that song. It was so appropriate that that song, the very first time it was performed, was done to those who were the lowly. And I guess when I think about that, I think about Mary's song. Because she again is saying, when Christ comes, and by the way, he has come, and his coming means that we who are the forgotten are now exalted in him. Exalted. Do you realize how rich you are? Do you realize how blessed you are to know the Lord Jesus Christ? You realize that when you came to know Jesus Christ, You're now on victory's side. You're now in first place. Isn't it good to be in first place? Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for the beautiful song of Mary. We thank you for all the meaning of it, and we just really didn't even scratch the surface of the depth of it. But Lord, we can take in our heart the basic meaning of this song with us. We can realize that because of Jesus Christ, we are exalted. We're blessed. That, Lord, we don't have to follow the ambitions of the world. We don't have to be like the world. We don't have to assert ourselves. We don't have to push to be forward. Because in your kingdom, your way, Lord, is humility and trust in you and putting our faith in you. And through that, Lord, that's where we gain victory. That's where we gain blessing. That's when we become highly exalted, Lord, not through our own self-assertion, our own ambition, but simple faith in Jesus Christ. He's our captain. He's our victor. He's our king who has made us all princes and made us all royalty by coming to this world. Father, help us to remember these things. Help us to rejoice with all our heart because of what Christ has done for us. And with head bows and heads bowed and eyes closed, maybe tonight it's perchance you're here. I know on Sunday night it's people that come back to hear the Word of God and Christians that are hungry for scripture. But you know, it could be that there's someone here tonight and you're not it's no accident that you're here, someone invited you to come. And perhaps you're you've been considering Christ. You've heard people talk to you about Christ. You've had friends witness to you, but you personally have never made a decision. I want to tell you the greatest decision you could ever make. It's to turn from your sin and turn to the Savior. You know what? They that are last shall be first. Jesus said. When you come to know Jesus Christ, you know what happens. All of your sins are forgiven. You have peace with God. You have assurance of eternal life in heaven. You have His presence, you have blessing, you have peace. All these are things that you get when you turn to Christ. You say, How do I do that? You just turn from your sin. You say, I'm I'm I I'm burdened with sin. I'm done with it. I'm turning to Christ now I'm asking for his forgiveness. And the Bible says to them who receive him, to them gave he power to become the children of God. So I want to ask you tonight, have you trusted Christ? Are you sure? Do you know him? If not, would you be willing to pray? Just pray this prayer. Just say, Lord Jesus. Say it in your heart. Lord Jesus, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. Lord, I'm hungry. I'm hungry for something real. And this world offers me nothing. So tonight I'm turning to you. Save you, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you'll pray that in meaning, he'll save you right where you are. And if you have prayed that, would you tell us afterward? Just pull us aside and let us know that, yes, I've prayed, and I've trusted Jesus. We want to rejoice with you and we want to encourage you in the greatest decision you've ever made. Father, bless these words to our hearts. We'll praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.