Would you take your Bibles, open to Luke chapter 1. We're studying the characters of Christmas, and we're going to study the character of Mary today in Luke chapter 1. And I want to read a few verses with you. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Verse 26 of Luke chapter 1 is where we will start. Verse 26. And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee named Nazareth. To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And the angel came in unto her and said, Hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. And he shall be great. And shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. And Mary said unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. And behold, thy cousin Elizabeth, she also has conceived the Son in her old age. And this is the sixth month with her who was called barren. For with God nothing shall be impossible. And may God bless his word. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's holy word. May we listen to it in a worshipful way. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for this beautiful narrative today that we're going to look at. Lord, help me to make it clear. And Lord, may it draw us into wonder, love, and praise to you who has given us your son and has. from the foundations of the world enacted this beautiful plan of redemption. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, our God is an awesome God, and He's able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or that we think. This story here of Mary reminds us of that reality. She was chosen to be the mother of the Messiah. And the Old Testament promised that a virgin would conceive and would bring forth a son. This was prophesied in Isaiah 7. 14, behold, a virgin shall conceive and shall bear a son and shall call his name Emmanuel. Now here in this narrative that we looked at, God is about to fulfill that very promise. Humanly speaking, it's impossible for a virgin to to bring us forth a son. That's why in Isaiah 7 14 we just read, it uses the word sign. Actually in verse 15 it says it uses the word sign. This shall be a sign. It's the Hebrew word that means something miraculous. In order for a virgin to conceive and bring forth a son, it would take a miracle. And this is why some people don't believe in the virgin birth, because they simply don't believe in miracles. Some people believe that this was a myth that was fostered by the early church. Many years ago there was a German scholar whose name was Randolph Bultmann, and he came up with a procedure, it was a hermeneutical principle that he called it demythologizing the Bible. And what he meant by that is that he was going to do all of us a favor by going through the Bible and just taking out all of the myths of the Bible. And the problem was is that he didn't believe in the supernatural. He didn't believe that God could do miracles. You might say that he was myth staken. But if you don't believe in miracles, then you don't believe the God of the Bible And if you don't believe in the miraculous virgin birth of our Savior, I wouldn't give half a hallelujah for your salvation. Because all of our faith is based upon that pillar there some pillars of our faith and that being one of them, the pillar of the deity of Christ. Jesus came as God. He was virgin born. Calvary is a pillar, the resurrection of Christ. But this is certainly one of those pillars And this is also, by the way, why the this doctrine has been attacked throughout time, because Satan knows how important this is. And so from the very beginning, there have been those who have attack the doctrine of the virgin birth. It goes all the way back to the Pharisees who said to Jesus in John eight forty one, We be not born of fornication. The implication there is your mother uh was uh uh She was not a virgin, that she sinned. And John, it also says that they said, You art a Samaritan, that is, your mother uh had an affair with a gentile. That was a a devilish blasphemy. It goes all the way back to the Pharisees. But even today, did you know there are many ministers who stand in pulpits all around the this country and others and do not believe in the virgin birth of Jesus Christ. They try to explain it away in various ways. Harry Emerson Fostic said, I want to assure you that I do not believe in the virgin birth of Jesus Christ. And that's a very sad thing. But when the angel made the announcement to Mary that she would be the mother of the Messiah, a key verse that we saw, look at it again, verse number 37, it says, For with God nothing shall be impossible. That's key in this whole narrative. Nothing shall be impossible. And unlike many people, you know what? Mary believed the word of God. She believed what God said. And she's an example to us on how to respond when God's promises are made and circumstances might look like that it's impossible But despite that, she believed in the promise of God. In fact, what we see here in this narrative here in Luke is that this narrative is placed Side by side to the narrative that we looked at last week, which was Zacharias. And you remember that When the angel came to Zacharias and made the promise that he was going to have a son, Zacharias, his response was different from Mary. And I think Luke sets these narratives side by side as a way to emphasize this In chapter 1, verses 5 to 25, Gabriel appears to Zacharias. In chapter 1, verses 26 to 38, Gabriel appears to Mary. And again, he's contrasting the responses of the two. They're like parallel accounts. And you'll see this. He says when the angel comes to Zachariah, the Bible says he was troubled. When the angel comes to Mary, the Bible says she was troubled. Same exact Greek word there. A little bit of a different nuance of meaning, however. To Zacharias, the angel said, Do not be afraid. To Mary the angel said, Do not be afraid. To Zacharias, he said, you shall bear a son. To Mary the angel said, You shall bear a son. To Zacharias, he said, You will name him John. And to Mary the angel said, You will name him Jesus. To Zacharias the angel said, He will be great And to Mary, the angel said, He will be great. And then we have the response. Zacharias responded to the angel, and then later on we're going to see here that Mary responded to the angel, but there's a glaring difference between Zachariah, Zacharias I should say, and Mary, Zacharias was skeptical and he didn't believe. If you were here last week we talked about that, that when the angel appeared to Zacharias and said, You're going to have a son, well, how did he respond? Look back in chapter 1, look down at verse number 18. Remember he said, and Zechariah said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? How am I going to know this? And again, Peterson offers a paraphrase, do you expect me to believe this? That kind of captures the doubt there. And then he asks for some sign. He's basically saying, um, whereby shall I know this? In other words, he's asking for some kind of sign. Now the angel doesn't appreciate this because here's an angel that just came from the presence of God. And you're asking for a sign? And so the angel responds by saying, Do you know who I am and do you know where I came from? And to rebuke Zacharias for his lack of faith, he has to suffer the shame of silence. And he's not able to announce uh the impending good news that's that's going to happen. But now we have uh the contrast of Mary Now the angel has come to Mary. And now the angel has basically said the same thing. You're going to have a son. And this is incredible. Mary, her response is not one of skepticism. Her response is not one of unbelief. She doesn't ask for a sign. She simply believes. That's incredible Now think about it, contrast the two. Here's Zacharias. He is a priest. He is steeped in the Old Testament scriptures. He's a man who studies the word. You would think that if anyone had faith in this this comparison, it would be Zacharias. And then here's Mary. She's probably a teenage girl, maybe in her late teens, and she also gets to do she's going to have a son. She's going to conceive a son as a virgin And here she has faith. I mean, which out of the two, which is harder for an older couple to have a child or a virgin to have a child? And Mary, she doesn't doubt, she believes. Sometimes the lay people have more faith than the pastor does. She believes, whereas Zacharias did not. And Mary demonstrates the kind of faith that believes that with God nothing is impossible. When God says he's going to do something, no matter how impossible it might look like, beloved, you can just bank on it. God is going to do it. He will always fulfill what he says. And so what I want you to see from this narrative as we look at it are three clear marks of a faith that believes that With God nothing is impossible. We're going to see, you know, what uh that kind of faith is marked by what she refuses, what she recognizes, and how she rejoices over this news. So notice that when you have this kind of faith, number one, you will refuse to let circumstances cause doubt Let's go back. Let's look at it. Look in verse number 26 of chapter 1. And in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God. Unto a city of Galilee named Nazareth to a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. This is six months later. This that is six months after the visit that the angel made to Zacharias in the temple. Six months later, he makes a visit, this angel Gabriel, same angel, he's kind of busy here, and he makes a visit now to Mary. And this is the most significant birth announcement the world has ever heard. He comes to this small village named Nazareth. It says city here, but really the Greek has no word for small village. It's really not a city city, it's a small village. And the people that lived in this village were despised because Jews felt like the people that lived in Nazareth were not kosher because they had contact with Gentiles there. And so people that lived in this village were somewhat looked down upon, were somewhat despised. And that God in his grace chose a little peasant girl from Nazareth to be the mother of the Messiah. Notice in verse 27, twice it uses the word Virgin. She was a virgin. She was espoused to Joseph. What is espousal? Well, that is a Jewish uh kind of a marriage contract. We would compare it to engagement today. The only difference is is in the Jewish mind, when a woman was espoused to a man, that was a legally binding marriage at that time. And it was normally three stages. If a man wanted to marry a woman, he would go to her father and they would negotiate a contract and he would pay a purchase price for the bride. I I'm sad that that custom is no longer practiced. I could have made some serious money with that. But after they would negotiate the contract and agree on a price, a purchase price They would sign the contract and a cup of wine was normally shared and they were legally married at that point, although the bridegroom and the bride would had not come together. They were legally married, and in fact, the bridegroom would go back to his father's house and begin to prepare for his bride. And then he would come to get her at some time. She didn't know when he was coming It could be a year, it could be two years, it could be three years. But however long the bridegroom felt necessary to prepare for her and then he would come and get her. That was the second stage. That was the claiming stage. He would come and he would claim his bride And then he would take her back to his father's house, and there would the the marriage would be consummated, there would be celebration, there would be a marriage supper that would last normally for seven days But in the stage of marriage, Mary was espoused to Joseph. That is, the contract was signed, and yet he had not come to receive his bride. And so she was still a virgin. Again, verse 27 makes it clear that she was a spouse, but she was a virgin. And notice that the salutation in verse 28. And the angel came to her. And said, hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying and cast in her mind what manner of citation this should be. Mary was the recipient of a special divine favor. You're highly favored, Mary, the Lord is with you. She was troubled. It's the same word as youth about Zachariah only has a different nuance and meaning here here. It's just really talking about amazement and wonder and shock, not necessarily doubt like She's really expressing her honesty before God. She's overwhelmed that she will be the mother of the Messiah. She responds really with humility And the angel begins to explain this good news even more. Look at verse number thirty. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God, and behold thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son and shall call his name Jesus And he shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. In verse thirty-one The angel really affirms the humanity of Jesus. And in verses 32 and verse 33, I think there's a meaning there where the angel is referring to the deity of Christ. And in verse 35, he's careful to point out that what Mary is carrying is holy in verse 35. That therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God Now Mary in verse 34, she asked the question that anyone would ask in this circumstance. What does she say? How shall this be? How's this going to happen, seeing I know not a man? I'm a virgin. How is all this going to come about? She asked the question that many skeptics ask today. How can that be possible? How can that happen? Now, of course, the angel gives his answer to Mary in verse 35. It will be through the power of God. It'll be the work of God. It'll be a miracle of God. God is going to do all of this. And that's all she needed. She believed at that point. Now, of course, skeptics today, that's not enough for them. But it was enough for Mary back then. And someone said faith is reason at rest in God. And Mary's faith was at rest in God. And she accepted that. Now I know there are people that say, well, a virgin birth is a biological impossibility. It's an impossibility. Well, again, the angel says, with God nothing shall be impossible. You just have to believe in a God who can do anything. You see, people say, well I don't explain I can't explain it. I don't understand it. Listen, if you could explain it, it wouldn't be a miracle. You can't explain miracles. There's a lot of things I can't explain. There's a lot of things I don't understand. I don't understand electricity, but I'm not going to sit around in the dark. I don't I'm not gonna use that light, I just don't understand it. There's a lot of things that we don't understand. But to put it plain and simple, God did it. And God can do anything. God created the world out of nothing just by His Word. God created the first man out of the dust of the ground. That's a biological impossibility. But that's how man came about. And so this is a work of God. And Mary believed because the key verse is here in verse 38. And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy She just simply submitted. We see her submission here. She didn't doubt. She just believed. She believed with no doubt. And this is the kind of faith that is admirable. This is her heart attitude. Just whatever you want, I'm here. I submit. So this kind of faith, when you have it, you'll refuse to let circumstances cause doubt. Mary didn't doubt. But number two, you will recognize God's providential confirmation. And this is the next thing that we see here in this narrative is that Mary now when she hears this, what's the first thing that she wants to do? She wants to go and talk to Elizabeth about this. Elizabeth is her cousin And so what we see here is that God's going to confirm what he said through the angel, and he's going to use this next visit that Mary has with her cousin to confirm that. In fact, God's going to use a baby to confirm a baby. Here in this next story. So we see Mary's journey. In verse number 39, notice what it says, and Mary arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste. into a city of Judea. She now takes the long trip from Nazareth down south into the hill country of Judea, which is right there around Jerusalem, is where she would end up. And and beloved, this is not a an easy journey. This is about eighty miles. An eighty mile journey into the hill country. So she's ascending upward into The heights there. We would say here in America, you know, I when you go to Denver, I'm going up to Denver. You know, that high the mile high city, you know. Here she's she's ascending into the high hill country on this long journey, but she's anxious She wants to talk to Elizabeth. I mean if they had mobile phones back then, she would have already been on the phone with her. Something about women love to talk to other women. and and and encourage one another and she wants to talk to Elizabeth. Now why would she make this long journey? Well first because the angel kind of prompted her in verse number thirty-six. He said, you know, your cousin Elizabeth, she's going to have a child. She's six months along Even in her old age, she's going to have a child. Second, this is at this point probably the only person who would believe her story at this point in time. It was Elizabeth But I think that this trip in and of itself reveals Mary's faith because she knew what God was going to do and she wanted to go tell her cousin about it. And I think all there's also a sense in which she wanted confirmation She wanted to kind of have her strength her faith strengthened, I should say, and she's gonna get more than she bargained for because notice what happens. We see Mary sh journey in verse thirty nine. But then we see Elizabeth's joy. Look at verse forty. And and entered Mary entered into the house of Zacharias and saluted Elizabeth. And it came to pass that when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary The babe leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost. This is incredible. When she comes in and she greets Elizabeth. And the baby that Elizabeth is carrying in her womb six months along at this time, it was John the Baptist the Prophet. The Bible says that when He hears the voice of Mary that the Bible says the babe leaps in her womb. The special word here for leap is a word in the Greek that means to leap for joy. It's the same term used in Psalm, Psalm 114 verse 4 in the Septuagint, when it translated the word skipped. Why did John re- Here's John in his mother's womb, hearing the voice of Mary, and he leaps for joy. Why did John react this way? Well, he's a prophet. Not just any prophet, but one of the greatest whoever live. And here is John's first prophecy here from his mother's womb. Now, by the way, this fulfilled exactly what was told to Zacharias. Go back to chapter 1. Look in verse number 15 And notice what it says there. When the angel is announcing the birth of John to Zacharias, he says, For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord. And shall drink neither wine nor strong drink, and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost from his mother's what? From his mother's womb. He'll be filled with the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb. Now, why would he be filled with the Holy Ghost while he was in his mother's womb? There wouldn't be any purpose in it unless he had a service to perform while he was still yet in his mother's womb. And the service here is recognizing the voice. And I think this was something that God did. And here John the Baptist leaps for joy. When he hears the voice of Mary, and this again is the first prophecy of John the Baptist. And by the way, let me just say, I don't want to turn this into a sermon on abortion, but God doesn't fill a mass of tissue with his spirit. Only a person does he fill with his spirit. This tells us here that what was in Elizabeth's womb was not just a mass of tissue, but a person, a child. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes 1-5, as you do not know the way of the Spirit that comes to the bones in the womb of a woman with child, so you do not know the work of God who makes Everything. God gives life to a child in the mother's womb. And Solomon acknowledges that there's a mystery about this that we can't comprehend. Much much like we can't comprehend many of the works of God. They're incredible. And this is one of those awesome works from our Creator. But notice that, you know, the scripture, every time it mentions a pregnant woman, it always says that she's with child. She's with child. Not just a mass of tissue, as some would emphasize. And the reason I'm emphasizing this is because I read this week where the Supreme Court Justice, Justice Sotomayor, In an abortion rights case, she compared a fetus to a brain-dead person. And she said that fetal movement does not prove consciousness. That's a quote from her. And she went on to say that there's a lot of people who are dead people who if you touch their feet, they'll recoil. It doesn't mean they're conscious. It doesn't mean that they're feeling anything. And so therefore she proposes from that that a baby in his mother's womb does not warrant protection. But I think she's the one who needs to be compared to a brain-dead person, not a baby. John here is a child, he's a person, and he leaps for joy. This was a providential confirmation of what God was going to do. And Mary recognizes this, and Elizabeth recognizes this, and this bolsters her faith But I want you to see the third thing. When you have this kind of faith, you will refuse to let circumstances cause doubt. You will recognize God's providential confirmation. Those ladies knew that that wasn't just a coincidence That wasn't just some kind of a movement from a massive tissue. That was a sign from God that God was going to fulfill his word. And then here's the third thing. You will rejoice in what God is about to do. And then we come down to verse 46, down to verse 46, down to verse 56. And this portion of scripture. is the song of Mary, Mary's joyful song. It's called Mary's Magnificon as uh named in church tradition. And this is an amazing song. And now she's filled with joy. She's absolutely totally confident about what God is about to do, and she just she she gives this song of joy, and this is really an amazing uh passage of scripture because it's so rich in theology and doctrine. In fact, it is so filled with scripture and allusions to the Old Testament that many scholars think that Mary didn't write this that She could never write this. This was probably written later, they say, and inserted into the account of Luke because this has too much doctrine and theology for a peasant girl to write. But what they critical scholars forget is that Jewish girls were steeped in Old Testament scripture, and she was under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. And so she weaves together this beautiful tapestry of Old Testament scripture. It has parallels to the song of Hannah in the Old Testament. In verse 47, she says, And my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. That echoes Isaiah 45, 21. There is no God besides you, a just God, a Savior. And again in verse 48, she says, Behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. This echoes the words of Leah in Genesis 30, 13. Happy am I For the daughters will call me blessed. In verse 49, she says, He that is mighty has done unto me great things. This echoes Psalm 126, verse 3. The Lord has done great things for us. Whereof we are glad. And then in verse 49, she says, Holy is his name, directly quoting from Psalm 111, verse 9, holy and reverent in is his name. And so she's very well versed in the in the Bible. This is a godly young girl here. She understands also the theology of the Abrahamic covenant because she mentions that in verse 55. And he spake to our fathers and to Abraham and to his seed forever. She understands all that is going on here. And so this is just a beautiful song. Now it's divided into two stanzas. The first stanza in verse 46 to 50. This is reflects on reflects on what the birth of the Messiah will mean to Mary personally. In verses 51 to 55, that's the second stanza of the song, and that reflects on what the birth of the Messiah will mean to the rest of the world. First of all, what did it do for her? Look at verse 46. And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God, my what? Savior. What? Mary needs a Savior. Yeah. She was a sinner and she needed salvation like everyone else. Now we see here that Mary's a godly woman, she's a great woman, but the Catholic Church wants to exalt her and say that she's co-redemptress. In fact, Pope John II, Pul John Paul II, or Paul John, I get those guys mixed up, but He asked a group of theologians to do a study about the role of Mary, and the proposal he made was that she be called co-redemtress with Christ. And the Catholic Church teaches some bizarre things that are not in the Bible. For example, did you know that they teach the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception of Mary? That's not to be confused with the fact that she was a virgin and she gave birth. The doctrine of the Immaculate Conception of Mary teaches that she herself was virgin-born. It also teaches that, that means that therefore Mary did not have original sin. And it also teaches that Mary was sinless all of her life, that she was a perpetual virgin all of her life. By the way, you know archaeologists a few years back they found a ossuary, a bone box. Um this is where Jews would after decomposition would take place in the body, they would take the bones and put it in a a box about eighteen inches long, a stone box, and they would write on the side the name of the person that was in that box. as they were placed back into the family tomb. And they found this ossuary, and on the side they found written in first century Aramaic, Ya'akov Bar Yosef, a kiesus. James, the son of Joseph, brother of Jesus. And when the archaeologists found that, they They they thought it was authentic. In fact, I spoke to some of the archaeologists that were involved in that and they said, yeah, it's authentic. But then right after that, there was an up uh upheaval. from the Roman Catholic Church. That can't be authentic because if it is authentic, that erases this doctrine of the perpetual virginity of Mary. They couldn't have that. So from then on out, there was this massive program to debunk the James Ossuary and now No one will believe that it's authentic because of the political uh maneuvering that went on. But we don't really need that anyway. We know what the Bible teaches about that, and the Bible says that Mary was not a perpetual virgin, but this Nevertheless, is what the Roman church teaches. And they also teach that Mary never really ever died. That she simply ascended into heaven. This is called the Mary's ascension. And when she ascended into heaven, she was coronated as a queen of heaven, and she took her position in as her sovereign position in authority And there are times when Jesus has to go to Mary to get something. That's the Catholic system. But that totally is not what Mary said. In verse 47, she said, My spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. She understood that she herself needed a savior. Mary is a godly woman, but this is really Mary worship. It's the cult of Mary, it's really what the Roman Catholic Church is about. We have to stick to what the Bible says. There's only one Redeemer, his name is Jesus Christ. There's only one that was virgin born, his name was Jesus Christ. And he is the sovereign. He is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. But now Mary also, not only is she rejoiced because of her salvation, But God exalts her. Look in verse forty eight. For he has regarded the lowest state of his handmaid, for behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. She understood that by being the mother of the Messiah That God is taking this poor humble girl, peasant girl, from a despised village of Nazareth, and now God is exalting her. That just what how God is using her is going to exalt her, and indeed that's true. We still talk about Mary 2,000 years later. Can you name any other mothers around that day? Besides Elizabeth, we know. Anyone else can you name them? No, we don't know. But when you still talk about Mary. God highly exalted her. And God's going to use her to take away the stigma from motherhood. It was through a woman that came to downfall of the human race, now through a woman, a godly mother. God is going to bring salvation to the human race. And so she's highly exalted. But then notice what the coming of the Messiah will mean to the world. Notice what she says here. And I'll just touch on this because we're running out of time. But look in verse 50 it says the verse 49, for he hath for he that is mighty hath done to me great things. Holy is his name. Verse 50, and his mercy is on them that fear him. from generation to generation, and he has showed strength with his arm, he has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He hath put down the mighty from their seats and exalted them of low degree. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he sent away empty. You know what she's saying by all this? That with the coming of the Messiah, there's going to be a reversal. Things are going to be reversed in this world. The mighty, the arrogant, they're going to be brought down. And the lowly, the humble, they're going to be exalted. He's going to reverse things. Literally, he's going to turn this world upside down when he comes. And of course, indeed he did. And that's what salvation is all about. Salvation is taking us and exalting us. When we've come to know Jesus Christ, we are blessed, we are exalted. You know what? We who are poor, he has made rich. Spiritually, you understand how rich you are in Jesus. You understand how blessed you are because of Jesus. And this is what she's saying. What God did for me, the Messiah is going to do for everyone. He's going to exalt the lowly. That's what salvation does. That's what salvation is all about. Turning things around. Reversing things. You might be sitting here thinking, my life's going in the wrong direction. I'm going down. Well, that's why Jesus came. He came to turn that around for you. He came to change your life. He came to transform your life. He can take sinners and make them righteous. He can take people who are wrecked with guilt and he can forgive them and give them peace. He can take people whose lives are in turmoil, and he can take and make beauty out of ashes That's what he does. He can take those who are on the road to hell and he can put them on the path to heaven. And Jesus wants to turn your life around. He wants to transform your life. You might be sitting here and saying, Well, my life is so messed up I'm so hopeless. It's too late for me. Beloved, with God, nothing shall be impossible Nothing. Let me show you one thing and we're done today. But look, go back to verse number forty five, when Elizabeth is speaking and she she she blesses Mary. Look at verse 45. And blessed is she. This is Elizabeth talking. That belief. Mary, you're blessed because you believe. You're blessed because you have faith in what God is doing. For there will shall be a performance of those things which were told of her from the Lord. She pronounces this blessing on Mary because she believed in the word of God. But the she there is third person. And so what that means is it's really extended not just to Mary, but to anyone. So we can say it like this: blessed is anyone who believes this. Do you believe this? Do you have the faith that Mary had? Because anyone who believes that God's going to fulfill his promise, you're going to be blessed. You know why? Because if you believe that, you believe that Jesus is the virgin born Son of God. That means you believe he's God. That means you believe he's the Savior. That means you believe everything he said. And one of the things he said is, I am the way, the truth, and the life. There's only one proper response. If you believe this, the right response is to repent and to put your faith in Jesus Christ. And you'll be blessed. And friend, that's what Christmas is all about. And you could say, like Mary, my soul magnifies the Lord. My spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. Let's bow for prayer together. So with heads bowed and eyes closed, I would just ask you today, do you believe, beloved, do you believe this? And if you do believe, have you put your faith in Christ? Is He your Savior? And if he's not, I would invite you here right now. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. Don't let another day go by without knowing for certainty that you've put your faith in Christ. You see, Mary needed a savior, and so do you. So do you, friend. Would you be willing to say to Christ, I'm a sinner. I need you, Lord Jesus, to save me, please. Forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart. Save me. And if that's your prayer today, I want to pray for you. Could you just lift your hand? Let me pray for you today. Say yes, me. I want to today I want to receive Jesus I want to trust him as my Savior and my Lord. Anyone here that way? And if that's your prayer, know that we are here Even right after the service, we'll all be here. I'll be here in the front. Come talk to me. Let me encourage you. Let me help you along in your faith. Father, thank you again for this beautiful narrative and what it reminds us of in this beautiful story of redemption. Thank you for the faith of Mary. And we thank you, Lord, that with you nothing shall be impossible. We pray in Jesus' name, amen