Would you take God's word, please, open to the Gospel of Luke this morning, the Gospel of Luke, chapter two, and uh I'm gonna Talk a little bit about from Luke and then also from Matthew, but let's stand for the reading of God's Word as we read the first seven verses of chapter two. Luke chapter 2, verse 1. And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria. It all went to be taxed everyone into his own home t his own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be taxed with Mary his espouse wife, being great with child. And so it was that while they were there the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swollen clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's word. May we pay attention and give heed to it today. May God help me. To make it clear. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the Word of God. Thank you for how you use it to sanctify us. And to teach us of Christ our Savior. Bless us this morning. Open our eyes that we might behold wonderful things from your word. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. When I was over in Israel just uh this month, I was reminded of something that I had seen before. When I was there years ago, there was uh some billboard signs and po and banners of a man, a a Jewish rabbi that was being posted all throughout the city of Jerusalem. And I asked someone what the stir was about this one individual And uh they basically said that uh this was a very devout Jewish rabbi, and many people believed that this man was the Messiah. There are many people that had hopes that this was finally the Messiah that some people were waiting for. And then this last time when I visited, a few years later, uh, in between the first that visit and this last visit, this m this this rabbi died. And uh and yet still his face was on still on some banners and billboard signs, and there are still some people that had hope. And yet there has been no resurrection of this supposed Messiah. And all that seems very sad to me because Here are people that are looking for a Messiah, and the reason that they're looking still, there are some people still looking for a Messiah is because they missed the real Messiah when he came. Or they refuse to believe that the real Messiah has already come. And uh there are people that are still hoping for the coming of a Messiah. Well, this is nothing Surprising for us because we remember the words of our Lord Jesus who told us that even in the last days there would be false Christs and false messiahs. And yet it's so very sad to me because you can meet miss the meaning of other holidays. And really not it not cost your uh soul, but if you miss the meaning of Christmas, it'll cost you your eternal soul. If you miss the real coming of the real Messiah, then my friend, you are in dangerous ground. You're in a dangerous situation. And yet today the world is filled with people who may celebrate Christmas and yet miss Christmas because they miss uh un the understanding of of the meaning of Christmas and they miss celebrating the real Messiah. Our society day wants to take Christ out of Christmas. They want to celebrate. They want to have a a Christmas, but they want to take Christ out. They want to say, instead of saying Merry Christmas, everybody wants to say happy holiday. But holiday simply is a short and firm of uh form of the word holy day, and the only way any day can be holy is because of Jesus. And also I I noticed that uh before Christmas this year there was on social media um kind of a social media Twitter war broke out among some pastors because there are some churches that canceled their services on Christmas Day because Christmas fell on Sunday, and so there was a battle going back and forth about all of that. And so many churches this morning are not having service. um so that they can celebrate Christmas, but I don't understand how you can celebrate Christmas without worshiping the Lord Jesus Christ. The thought of canceling worship on Sunday because it fell on Christmas Day, to me just seems ludicrous. In fact, if I had my way, I would prefer that Christmas Day happen every Sunday, uh every year on Sunday. That would be my preference, but no one's asked me about that. And some people just seem to forget that the word Christmas actually comes from the word Christ Mass. or a Mass for Christ. And this was coined by the early church because they wanted to have a special worship service commemorating the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well Missing Christmas is nothing new. As I look in Scripture, the very first Christmas story, I find people that missed Christmas, even in that very first Christmas. And I want you to look in this passage with me. I want to point out some folks that just seem to miss the real meaning of Christmas or the real celebration of Christmas because they miss uh the Messiah, Jesus Christ. And it starts out here in Luke chapter 2, verse number 7, where it talks about Mary. She brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now this town of Bethlehem was overflowed with people at this time, and of course, as we read in the passage, the crowded conditions were due to the taxing that was taking place by the government of Rome. Every man had to return to his ancestral home to be taxed. And that's what caused Mary and Joseph to leave Nazareth, which was about eighty miles north in the area of Galilee, to come down into Judea. Joseph was a descendant of David, who was born in Bethlehem. And this was in fulfillment of the prophecy that was given in Micah 5. 2, but thou Bethlehem, Aphrata, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, out of these shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel, whose goings forth have been of old from everlasting. God providentially brought Mary and Joseph there to Bethlehem, but when they got there, they they found uh that the end was full, verse number seven. It says that she brought forth her son, her firstborn son, wrapped him in swaddling clothes, laid him in a manger because there was no room for them in the inn. Now, you've heard me talk about this before, and I don't want to belabor the point, but when you see the word end there, we have images in our Western mind of a motel six, you know, a hotel. And so we assume that there was an innkeeper since there was an inn or a motel and many plays portray this innkeeper. But actually the innkeeper is never mentioned here in the story. Um we just assume the innkeeper from the story, from the mention of the word in here, but the the Luke uses the word in here, but it's the Greek word, it's kataluma, which actually means a guest room or a upper room. In fact, Luke uses this word one other time in his gospel. When Jesus met with his disciples in the upper room and had the last supper with them there before Jesus was to go to the cross. And so I think in fact if Luke wanted to talk about a motel, he would have used a different Greek word pen uh uh dokion Which basically is a motel. He used this word in the story of the Good Samaritan, the man who came from J Jerusalem down to Jericho. He fell among thieves. The Good Samaritan came and he took them to a Pandocion an inn, a motel alongside the road, where a pandochias, an innkeeper, basically was charged with taking care of them by the good Samaritan. So Luke uses those words there in that story, but we don't see these words here. And so this makes me I don't want to ruin your Christmas story here this morning, but This makes me believe that this was a guest uh room and a home because many homes, even the homes of poor people, had a guest room. And when Mary and Joseph came to Bethlehem that day, They came perhaps to the home of family members, the family of Joseph, and they were looking for lodging. And you can just imagine this, here's a woman who's nine months pregnant with her husband Joseph, and they're looking for a place to stay, and the family of Joseph has a decision to make, they can make room for her and Joseph there A a woman especially who's about to have a child, or they can just turn them away and say you're on your own to find something else. And Of course, we know the story. The Bible tells us here in verse 7 there was no room for them, and so they were basically turned away. This to me is very unusual. It's very surprising because Jewish people were people who were very sensitive about hospitality. And they were also taught in the Old Testament to be very hospitable, especially to uh women with child It was unusual for a woman who was going to have a baby to be turned away, especially by family. Think about that Why did they do that? Why did they turn them away? I think that there can be only one answer to that, and I think it's just plain pure selfishness A decision was made. We're going to take care of our own, ourselves, rather than someone else. And rather than making room, they were turned away. And so in doing so, they missed a wonderful opportunity of hosting the coming of the Savior, the Messiah. The Lord Jesus Christ. And today our world is filled with selfish people that are too preoccupied with their own selfish interests and selfish pursuits, and they fail to give Jesus priority and property place in their life. There are some people that miss Christmas because of selfishness. But then there's another person in this Christmas story, I think, who missed Christmas, and that is Herod. Go to Luke chapter, excuse me, Matthew chapter two. We're in Luke chapter two, but just Go over to Matthew chapter two, go back um to the first New Testament book, and let's look at another man who missed Christmas And verse number one it says this, Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying Where is he that is born king of the Jews, for we have seen his star in the East and are come to worship him? And when Herod the King had heard these things, he was troubled in all Jerusalem with him Matthew here gives us the story of another man who missed Christmas, and this is Herod. And it says in verse number three, when Herod the king had heard these things, he was what he was troubled. He was troubled. That's the word that means to be shaken up, to be agitated. It has the connotation of fear or maybe a bit of panic. He was troubled over this coming one, this this this one who would be called king of the Jews. And isn't that like our world today? Even today there are people that at Christmas time Rather than there being peace and joy, there's they're troubled about Christmas. They're troubled about this one called Christ. So much so that they don't even want to mention the name Christ. They want to block Christ out. They're troubled by all this. People go want to do away. There are some people that want to do away with Christmas. Because I'll tell you why, friend, because if Jesus is the Christ, is if he is really the one that the Bible says is, and by the way he is, that means these very people will have to give an account of their life to Jesus Christ. They'll have to submit to his authority. But men refuse to believe. They don't want a king reigning over them. Their whole life is at stake. And this is the way it was for Herod. Herod was a man who was well known for his paranoia. Let me give you a little bit of background on Herod. Herod was not a Jew. His father Antipas had done some favors for Rome, so in return, as a payment, the Herod family was given the right to rule Judea and was under that which under Roman occupation But Herod was a politician. He was constantly wanting to please Rome. And Rome in return gave Herod an army. And Herod called himself the king of the Jews. That was the title that he used for himself. And so when he heard about another one coming, who was called King of the Jews, he panicked. He wanted to get rid of any rival in his life. Herod was ruthless. You know, when he took the throne, he murdered anyone that was a threat to him. History tells us he murdered the Hasmoneans. This was the sons of the Maccabeans who had revolted against Greece. He wanted to make sure they wouldn't revolt against him, and so he he had them murdered. He had ten wives. One of his wives had a brother who was a high priest. Herod was afraid of him, and so he murdered him. And then he murdered his wife. He was afraid that one of his two eldest sons might take his throne, so he murdered both of them. Five days before his death, he executed his eldest son for plotting against his throne. And one of his final acts of his evil life when he was sick and he knew that he was going to die, he commanded that the most distinguished citizens of Jerusalem be put in prison. And he commanded that when he died, those people be put to death. He said like this, he said, When I die, people won't weep for me, but I want people crying even if it's not for me when I die And so when he died, there are other people put to death. This is the kind of man he was. And so notice here in Matthew chapter 2, verse 4. It says, and when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, and thou Bethlehem and the land of Judah. Art now the not the least among the princes of Judah, for out of these shall he come a governor that shall rule my people. The religious experts, they knew exactly the passage from Micah 5-2. Herod demanded to know where this one king of the Jews would be born. And we can understand why this man who was so paranoid He wanted to get rid of any rivals, but he pretended to want to worship Christ. Look at verse seven. Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search diligently for the young child. And when you found him, bring me word again that I may come and worship him also. Oh, I want to worship him. Yeah, that's a lie. He just wanted to get rid of this one that was to be a rival, this king of the Jews And so the Lord appeared to the wise men in a dream in verse number twelve, and God warned them that they should depart another way. Don't go by and see here. It says, and when they departed, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise and take the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I bring thee word, for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. So Joseph is warned they have to flee to Egypt. About a year ago, I was in Egypt and went to the supposed spot where they stayed there in Egypt, running from the wrath of of uh Herod at that time. And then Herod became so enraged. Drop down to verse number sixteen. Then Herod when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding wroth and sent forth and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem and in the coast thereof, from two years old and under according to the time which he had diligently inquired of the wise men. This again shows you how ruthless, how evil Herod was. Being F deceived by the wise men, he took matters into his own hands and decided that he was going to kill all male children in Bethlehem from two years old and under, and and a s a great slaughter took place at that time. Did you know that you can go to Bethlehem to the Church of the Nativity there? And archaeologists have found beneath the church there in Bethlehem is a catacomb and they found places where they found ossuaries of the bodies, the remains of little children that they believed were the little children that were slaughtered by Herod at that time. And so Herod represents those. Who view Christ as a threat, who will not allow any king to reign over them. Who will not allow anyone to take the throne from them? They want to be king of their own life. They sit themselves upon their own throne, and they will not have the Lord Jesus Christ. There are people all over like that. They don't mind celebrating Christmas. They just don't want to celebrate Christ. They don't mind even uh Praying when they get into trouble. And they may even call themselves Christians, just as long as Jesus isn't their king. They will not have any king over them. The world is full of people who cry out. Like the people in Luke 17, 14 who said, We do not want this man to reign over us. And there are some people that miss Christmas because of fear. They are afraid of Christ. They are paranoid about Christ So the family of Joseph missed Christmas because of selfishness. Herod missed Christmas because of fear. But there's another group that missed Christmas here, and we already read about them. But go again to chapter 2, verse number 4. When it talks about the chief priests and the scribes, how that Herod had gathered them together, and he asked them, Hey, where is this one king of the Jews going to be born? And they tell him in verse number five, in Bethlehem of Judea They knew exactly what the Old Testament said. They had a clear understanding of it, of where Christ was to be born. These were the theologians, these were the doctors, these were the PhDs of the day, these were the religious elite. They knew the Old Testament well enough to say right out, Micah 5. 2, he's going to be born in Bethlehem Yet, if you read the accounts of the gospels of Christ's birth, you'll find that nowhere do you see these religious leaders in Bethlehem celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ. They knew it in their mind Why didn't they go to Bethlehem? Why were they not there? Because they were proud. They were puffed up with pride. They had a great grasp of the Bible. They knew their Old Testament scriptures. But you know what the Bible says knowledge puffs up. These religious leaders were were smart. They knew the scripture and they were proud of it. They thought that they kept the law. They knew their theology. They knew all what the Bible said, but they just didn't know Jesus Christ. And they had no heart for the Messiah. They were religious, but they were lost. You see, the problem with them was not their head. The problem with them was was their heart. They again they didn't want Christ over them. In fact, go to Matthew chapter sixteen. Let me just show you this real quick. Look at Matthew chapter sixteen, verse number one. These are the same religious leaders In Matthew 16, verse 1, the Pharisees also with the Sadducees came tempting, desiring him, and tempting, desiring him that he would show them a sign from heaven. Now this is later on, obviously, in the ministry of Jesus. Jesus had already been in his public ministry for over for over two years. It was getting close to him going to the cross. In fact, Jesus had done so many miracles. He had healed so many sick people. There in that area, all around the Sea of Galilee and those little towns and villages. He had done wonders. He had done miracles. He had performed signs, you could say. And what did the Bible say that they said of him? The lie came down from Jerusalem from these people, and they said, you know, just tell everyone that he does miracles in the power of Satan. That's the worst blasphemy against Christ you could ever give. And Jesus, after that, you'll notice in his in the Gospel of Matthew that his whole demeanor And his tone of ministry changed. He didn't focus on them anymore. He simply focused on his disciples, getting them ready for what was to come. And after that, Jesus traveled all the way up north. In the Galilee, all the way up to Caesarea Philippi. He visited the cities of the Decapolis, the Bible says, and did miracles there. In fact, when he was up north, In Gentile territory. That's where he elicited the great confession from Peter, where Peter said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. But then he comes back down. And notice in chapter 15, back up to verse number 39, it says, and he sent away the multitude and took ship and came into the coast of Magdala. So what Jesus did is he went all the way up north. He was kind of getting away from the people, and then he starts coming back down, making his final pilgrimage in Jerusalem. He does another feeding. This is the feeding of the 4,000, not to be confused with the feeding of the 5,000 At the feeding of the 4,000, this was for the Gentiles that he did this, which was a message. Jesus would be the bread of life not just for Jews, but also for Gentiles. And right after he did that miracle, he gets in a boat, he comes down the Sea of Galilee, he gets off at a place called Magdala. Those of you that were with me on this trip to Israel, that will sound familiar because we were there. We saw Magdala, we saw the first temple or first century temple that was discovered there that Jesus taught in there. But it was at that very place, Jesus gets off the boat, and these religious leaders come to Jesus. And they, what do they say? Welcome back, Jesus. We missed you. No, the Bible says they tempted him, or really it's the word test. Give us a sign. And verse number sign, or excuse me, verse number one, give us a sign from heaven, they said. In other words, this was an insult. Everything that Jesus had done up unto that point they said, Well, it w really isn't legit. We need a sign from heaven A sign from heaven. You see, some Jews believe that uh a miracle of the earth could be duplicated by the the kingdom of darkness by Satan and his demons. But a miracle from heaven, a sign in the heavens, only God could do that. So Jesus, give us a sign from heaven. A sign from heaven. Again, the very request is arrogant, is proud. And you know what it also implies? They've missed all the signs already. There were signs all around the ministry of Christ. And the very first signs were when he was born, when the glory of God appeared in Bethlehem. And a virgin gave birth to a son. In fact, in Matthew's gospel, he is very, very careful to point out every time there was a sign that was given. Every time Jesus fulfilled an Old Testament prophecy, Matthew would point it out And he was pointing it out for the sake of these religious leaders. And yet they pushed it all away and they said, We don't believe, we want to sign from heaven, they said to Jesus. And you know why they did that? Because not because of their head. It was because of their heart. Their hardness of heart. You know why some people don't believe in Jesus? Because they don't want to believe. Not because the evidence isn't there, because it's there. They don't want to believe Give us a sign, they said. And Jesus, look what he answered in chapter sixteen in verse two. He answered, he said unto them, When the when it is evening, ye say it is we be fair weather For the sky is red, and in the morning it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red, and l lowering. O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky, but ye but ye cannot discern the signs of the times. Can you not discern the signs of the times? He said. And so what he was saying is, you know, you you can tell when a storm's coming. You're good meteorologists, but you're terrible theologians. Because you the signs are all around you and you don't see it. You know why some people miss Christmas? It's simply because of pride. Pride. It's not because of knowledge. It's not because they don't you don't know the scripture. Anyone can learn the scripture and know what the Bible says. There are many people that know the plan of salvation, they just don't know the man of salvation. They've never come to know Jesus Christ. They've never submitted to Him. They've never repented and put their faith in Him. And the reason they don't do it again is because of the same reason for these religious leaders. Pride in their heart. You have to humble yourself to come to Christ. You have to humble yourself to come into the kingdom. Well there's a fourth group that missed Christmas. The family of Joseph missed it because of selfishness. Herod missed it because of fear. The rel religious leaders miss Christmas because of pride. But the people of Jerusalem is another group that I see that miss Christmas, and you know why they missed it? Because of just simple apathy. Because the Bible tells, again, in chapter 2 of Matthew, verse 3 that when they heard about these things, all Jerusalem was troubled. Herod was troubled and all Jerusalem with them. And if you look again in Luke chapter 2, It tells us in verse 17 and 18 of chapter 2 that the shepherds they came to Jerusalem and they reported all the things that they saw. And the Bible says that they just, the people there in verse 18, that they heard it and they wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. When the shepherds announced the birth of Christ, they were really were the first heralds of the good news, you could say. They came in talking about the birth of Christ. And I imagine that they did it with joy. I don't think they were quiet when they came into Jerusalem. I think they came in shouting. I think they were they were like Paul Revere's midnight ride, you know. They were running all through Jerusalem talking about what had happened. They did it with passion. But despite the announcement of the shepherds, no one from Jerusalem came to see the Christ child in Bethlehem, which was really just a short walk. From Jerusalem to Bethlehem. It just says they wondered at those things. It's remarkable that Jesus The Messiah, the long-awaited Messiah, was born in walking distance from the people, and yet they didn't even care to make that journey to see for themselves. Why did the people of Jerusalem miss Christmas? Apathy? They just didn't care. Again, we have many people today that are just like that. They just really don't care to worship or know anything really about Christ. The greatest miracle Among mankind in salvation, history took place in walking distance, and they they didn't care. The people there were apathetic. Someone said the opposite of love is not hate. The opposite of love is apathy. And if we're not careful, our hearts can grow apathetic to holy things, to the things of Christ. We can get so accustomed to doing these things that our hearts can grow cold and apathetic. Don't let that happen. I remember when uh I moved to Tennessee, we bought a house down there in Bartlett, Tennessee, and um We were so happy to have this new home. We forgot to ask the realtor how close the railroad tracks was to this new house Because I remember the the w the the first night that I was in that house when the railroad came the railroad train came by at two in the morning. I mean, I literally jumped up And thought someone a tornado was coming or or someone had run into the house with a car. I mean it was just so close by and I realized why we got the house for such a good price. But you know what? Um yeah I got to the point to where after being in that house for so long I didn't hear the trains anymore. I mean it would come by two AM and I wouldn't even hear it. I got so accustomed to hearing that sound that I I just kind of it I became deaf to it. And that's the way some people are with holy things. You get so accustomed that you can grow hard And that's what happened to the people at Jerusalem. They lived in a holy city. They had a temple, a holy temple, they had all these holy priests always walking around. They had a history of holy prophets there. They had holy days all the time. Everything in the city was considered holy and sacred. And they grew hard and careless of holy things, so much so that when the most holy thing of all came, they were apathetic and they really didn't care. To go see the Christ child. Emerson said if the stars came out only once a year, everybody would wait up to see the stars come out. But the fact that they come out every night, we no longer wonder at the beauty of the stars, you see. And we have to be careful that we don't take God's blessings for granted. Don't become apathetic and miss the real meaning of Christmas. And miss the joy and the peace and the and the wonder of the miracle of Christ coming into this world, God becoming a man that we might have salvation, that we might have redemption. Now in this story here is in closing, not everyone missed Christmas. I look at the shepherds. They didn't miss it God announced the birth of the Messiah to these shepherds. And by the way, that was in fulfillment of prophecy. Last Sunday night I spoke about this where Jeremiah the prophet gave a prophecy prophecy that said the Messiah would come in days when shepherds were watching over their flocks. That's exactly what was fulfilled here in Luke chapter 2. Luke gave attention to that very thing, and then the angels, of course, appeared to the shepherds and gave the story, and the Bible says they believed in chapter 2 verse 15. They believe the story so much so that they they went to Bethlehem from the field. They went to Bethlehem to see this thing, the Bible says. They believed They worshiped in chapter 2, verse 20 of Luke, it says that they glorified God, they praised God for all these things that they had seen, they believed, they worshiped. And they also shared Christ. As I said before, they were the first ones to make Christ known. And that's the way we celebrate Christmas. We believe. We believe that the Messiah, Jesus, has come, the Redeemer, the one who would die for our sins. We worship him. And we share Christ with others. We tell others about this one Jesus Christ. That's how not to miss Christmas. Believe. Worship and witness. That's what we're to do. And so I hope that for you and your family, this is a wonderful Christmas that you will indeed Do that and that you'll understand the real message and the real meaning of Christmas is Christ our Savior who has come. On December the seventeenth, nineteen oh three, Orville and Wilbur Wright made their first flight of an airplane at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. You know that history. On their fifth attempt The plane under the control of Orville embarked on a 12-second flight. And Wilbur rushed to the local telegraph office and he sent this message, the exact words, we have flown for 12 seconds. We will be home for Christmas. Upon receiving the telegraph, their sister, Katherine, went to the newspaper office And she told the editor her brothers had flown for the first time. She gave them that very message and and that they would be home for Christmas. And she told the newspaper editor, listen, please make sure you report this And he said, no problem, we will report this story in the paper. And on December 19th, a local paper placed the following headline on the sixth page of the paper. This was the headline. Wright Brothers Home for Christmas. They missed the whole important part of that story. That man for the first time had flown for 12 seconds. He totally missed it. He missed the whole message. There are some people that miss the message about Christmas, and we must not. And so here's the message. Christ, the Messiah, the Son of David, the virgin-born son of God, came into this world. To redeem us from our sins, to save us from our sins. That's the message of Christmas. Don't miss it Make sure you get that message. Make sure that you believe, that you worship, that you share Christ. Let's bow for prayer together today. So, Father, we thank you for this glorious message of the gospel. We thank you again for Christ the Messiah, our Savior, our Redeemer. Our hope of eternal life, all that is in Christ, how we thank you for that. We thank you, Lord, that our sins can be forgiven, that we can live in eternity in heaven with Christ. In the presence of our loved ones who know Christ, and in the presence of those that have gone on before us, we thank you, Lord, for the salvation that we have. And Lord, I pray that no one here under the sound of my voice today will miss that. Because if they miss the Messiah, if they miss the meaning of Christmas, they They miss Christmas completely to the peril of their eternal soul. And so, Lord, I pray that every person in here will know Christ. Will put their full faith in him and his finished work. This baby born in Bethlehem would be the Savior who would die in Jerusalem, just outside the city walls. He would be wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace would be upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. I pray, Lord, that every person here will put their full faith in Christ if they haven't done that. And friends, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask you directly, have you done that? Have you put your faith in Christ the Redeemer? Come to Him right now, right where you are. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. There's gonna come a time when it's too late. But it's not too late right now. Reach out to him in simple faith. Say, yes, Christ. Yes, I believe. I believe you're the Messiah. I believe you're the Redeemer. I believe you you came and died for my sins. I'm a sinner. You died for me. I believe I put my faith in my full faith in you, and I worship you as Christ, the Messiah, the Savior. Pray and ask Jesus to save your friend and He will. And if you've done that, please let us know. We want to encourage you along in your Christianity. life. Father, thank you again for the Word of God. I pray for blessing for every person here, every family represented. That they would have a blessed, meaningful Christmas. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.