And take God's word, please, and open to uh the book of Philippians, chapter two. You know we've been uh studying Philippians on Sunday evenings and we come to chapter two tonight and I want us to look at verse nineteen And tonight I want to talk about modeling the mind of Christ. Verse 19. But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy as shortly unto you that I also may be of good comfort when I know your state. In the 17th century, the Puritan Thomas Brooks once wisely observed, example is the most powerful rhetoric. As Christians, we all need godly examples. These are examples that help us understand and illustrate biblical principles. They kind of live out those principles in action for us and show us how to walk the way God has called us to walk. And what we're going to look at here in Philippians chapter 2, this last part of chapter 2, are really just two examples that illustrate the very principle that Paul has been teaching and emphasizing in chapter 2. The context of Philippians 2, of course, is the mind of Christ. Paul had just given an example of supreme selflessness in the life of Jesus Christ. We see that in Philippians chapter 2, verses 1 through 11. And he did that to address some problems that were rising up in the church. There was some division that was brewing there. There were some not getting along. And uh Paul heard about it. He heard about it because uh Epaphroditus brought this generous gift from the church of Philippi to Paul while he was there in that room in prison. But also along with that he brought a report of some things that were taking place in the church, possibly a little division that was happening. And Paul identifies the problem as being focused too much on self. And so Paul's basic message then in chapter two is don't be selfish. Don't be self-centered. Division had come about because of pride and selfishness. And Paul wants to change the way people think. He wants to teach them how to think of others. He wants them, in short, to teach them how to think like Christ, to have the mind of Christ. And so He does how does he do this? Well, right in the middle of this epistle, again, he points to the incarnation of Christ. Christ laid aside his rights, his privileges, and thought only of others. That's the mind of Christ. So his solution was point to Jesus. Point to the cross. Remember I told you that in the New Testament, normally when a New Testament writer points to the cross, it's with respect to evangelism. But Paul does something very unique here. He doesn't point to the cross as a way of as a means of evangelism, but he points to the cross as a means of showing absolute total selflessness. as how we are to live. He he points to the cross to show a submissive mind, a selfless life. And this is what Paul wants to develop in the Philippians. This is the greatest expression of Christ-likeness. If you want to be like Christ, this is the greatest way to be like Christ. Christ is to be selfless. That's the goal that we strive for. That's the pattern that we have to emulate. That was what Paul was talking about when he writes later in chapter 2 work out your salvation with fear and trembling. What are you to work out? Well, it's Christ-likeness. He is our whole pattern. It's being truly submissive. That is being spirit-filled when you are like Christ and you are selfless. in the way that you live. I I was talking to a a believer a while back and they attended church where they pro that church prided themselves on being spirit filled and uh led by the spirit And this person was saying that there was one person there that is respected as being someone who's very spirit-filled and spirit-led. And yet this believer was uh new in the church and this spirit filled, spirit-led person was doing everything they could to kind of discredit this person because they were threatened by this individual because of uh people liking them and uh uh you know, perhaps taking away some of his influence. And so this person went around to try to discredit him and he was manipulating others and this person was greatly ex respected and this believer understood that, you know, uh He needed to be careful because this person was losing their power base. And this person said in the course of the conversation, you know, I don't want to upset things in the church, and I don't want to really mess with this person because they're really spirit-filled And I said, really? How do you know they're so spirit-filled? He said, well, it's the way they worship. And the worship service, man, they're so demonstrative and it's very evident that they're a spirit-filled person. And I said to him, look, you can't tell how much gas is in the tank by the honk of the horn. It's not what you do in a worship service that makes you a spirit-filled believer. or identifies you as being a spirit-filled person. Spirit-filled people don't place their own selfish agendas at the head of the to-do list. They will exhibit the mind of Christ. They will exhibit a Christ-like humility, a selfless life. And that's exactly what Paul describes in Philippians chapter 2. in verses 1 to 11, we see the selflessness of Christ and the way he renounced his own glory and privileges as being God and came from heaven down to earth. He uh at his incarnation, he humbled himself by adding to himself humanity, and he was obedient unto the death, even the death of the cross. And so then Paul goes on in chapter 2 to say, look, work out your own salvation. Christ is the example. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. And another way Paul does this is he gives us a description of the submissive or selfless mind in chapter 2, verses 1 to 11. Then he gives us the dynamics of the selfless mind. And chapter 2, verses 12 down to verse 18. Christ will be your pattern, you will obey, you will do all things without murmuring and complaining, you'll live a blameless life in the midst of a crooked and perverse world. You'll shine like lights in a dark world. You'll hold forth the word of life and run in the race that God has for you. Run a good race. And so Paul said, and also like Paul, by the way, Paul was in prison, and Paul said, look, I'm ready to be offered. I'm ready to pour myself out, like a drink offering at the altar. And so even Paul himself points to himself as an example of selflessness. Now on the heels of everything that Paul has said, When you get to chapter 2, verses 19, all the way down to verse 30, Paul begins to talk about his travel plans. Now someone might say, well, that's kind of, how does that fit into everything Paul's talking about? That seems to be an anticlimactic way to close out this chapter, which focuses on the mind of Christ. But what Paul does is he strategically weaves throughout these verses. um the mind of Christ, even though he's talking about his travel plans and what he wants to do, he he still is weaving in this same idea. And what he does is he introduces to us two men who exemplify everything that he had just been talking about. And so he holds up, first of all, Timothy and then apaphroditus. That's exhibit A and exhibit B. If you want to know what it is to be selfless, then Paul says, I have two men that I want you to know about, uh Timothy and Epaphroditus. Now Paul knows what the Philippians are probably thinking. He knows what probably you and I are thinking when When we read this, when you read all of this in chapter two, you're probably thinking, man, it is impossible to have the mind of Christ. I mean, I know me, I know my nature. I'm a very selfish person. I mean uh this this is kind of a high standard. I I I don't think I can live up to that. Have you ever had those thoughts? Okay, well maybe it's just me. I mean that's just a high standard. How am I going to be able to have the mind of Christ? I mean, I'm selfish to the core. Selfishness is in my DNA. I can't live out this supremely selfless life. I mean, uh we expect that of Jesus. I mean after all, he is the Son of God. And we expect that of the great apostle Paul. I mean, he's God's chosen apostle. He had a special calling and a special grace on his life. He had special experiences where Christ appeared to him on several occasions. Yeah, they can live out that kind of life, but what but me, I I'm just an ordinary person in this world. I mean this is a dog eat dog world. If I don't look out for number one, who's going to And Paul is proving that you know what? You can live with the mind of Christ. Not only is it possible, it is expected. For you to live that l to live this way. And just to let you know that, Paul says, I'm going to give you two illustrations of ordinary men, both of whom live this way. They live, they model the mind of Christ. These two mentioned are not super saints. They're made of flesh and blood, just like us, and they perfectly illustrate how an ordinary person can live with the mind of Christ. I I I might not can be Paul, but you know what? I can be Timothy. I I can be an Epaphroditus So I want us to look at just the first of them. We're not going to have time to do with deal with both of them tonight. We'll look at uh Timothy first and then we'll look at Epaphroditus. But first of all, let's look at Timothy and see what does uh What is the mind of Christ, if it's lived out, what does it look like? And I want us to look at seven characteristics that Timothy illustrates. Here's number one. If you have the mind of Christ, you will be committed to the will of God. You'll be committed to the will of God. Look at verse number 19. But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothea shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort when I know your state. And Paul was concerned about the church of Philippi. Along with the threat of division, there was also the threat of false doctrine. That was another thing that was reported to him by Epaphroditus. And so Paul needed someone to go to this church. He needed someone to go to Philippi. He needed a faithful, mature believer that was willing to make the long, hard journey from Rome. uh or really anywhere that he could make contact and go to to uh to uh Philippi, which was about 800 miles away. So Paul was called upon someone that was dependable. This was someone that he had called upon many times, that always came through. Timothy was always willing to stop whatever he was doing to help others. And so here Paul needs them. Again, Paul is in prison. He could not go to Philippi himself, which is what he really wanted. So he sends Timothy. And notice what it says again, but I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus. shortly unto you. And the Greek sentence here, the name Timotheus is in the emphatic position. I can't come, but Timothy can come. Timotheus, Timothy is able to come. And notice when Paul says, but I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy. Paul in essence is saying, you know, if this is what Jesus desires, I mean, if God wills this, I'll send him. You know, as in all things, Paul deferred to the sovereign will of God. He knew that God was in control of all things. And so if it was the Lord's will, Paul said, I'm going to send Timothy. Timothy was willing and committed to do the will of God, and Paul knew that. So Paul says Timothy will come if the Lord wills, if this is God's will, he's committed to doing God's will, and if God providentially allows it. Then he'll come. That's the mind of Christ. The mind of Christ is someone who is in their whole life absolutely, totally committed to doing the will of God. I mean, that's what we do as Christians. We are people that are absolutely submitted and committed to doing God's will. And so this is what Paul says here. Everything Jesus did in coming to earth, his whole life can be summarized by that one thing. He was absolutely totally committed to doing the will of the Father. Everything, every word that he spoke, every deed that he did, it was all in submission to the will of the Father. In John six, verse thirty eight, he said, For I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him that sent me. No, a lot of times Christians wrestle with God about the will of God for one or two reasons. First, they don't know the will of God and they're trying to find it That's one reason why Christians wrestle with the will of God. And secondly, they know God's will and they're trying to decide whether or not they do it. Some people are that way. But someone who has the mind of Christ never wrestles with that. They said, no, I'm absolutely committed. I'm going to do whatever the Lord's will is. You live to fulfill it. And and God's will is not an uh an itinerary, it is an attitude of life. It is an attitude that we carry every day. The will of God is not something that you add to your life. It's a course that you choose. You either line up yourself with the Son of God or you capitulate to the principle The principle that governs the rest of this world. A selfless servant of Christ will be committed, absolutely committed to doing God's will. But here's number two. You will emulate others who have the mind of Christ. Look at verse 20. For I had no man like minded. Like-minded here, interesting word, issa, which means equal, sukas, so we could say equal in so or one in so Literally, I have no one equal in soul is what Paul is saying here. This is the goal of discipleship, right? When you are discipling someone, you want them to be right where you are. And this is what Paul is saying about Timothy. You know, Timothy is someone who is one with me. He's equal in soul That's a disciple who has learned from his mentor. Jesus said this in Matthew 10, verse 25: it is enough for a disciple that he be like his teacher and a servant like his master. We learn to be like Christ and have the mind of Christ by learning from others who have that mind. And Timothy had been under Paul for a while. He saw all of that in the Apostle Paul. So he learned to follow that attitude and that example in his whole life so much so that the Apostle Paul could say, I I don't have anyone equal in soul like Timothy. He absolutely gets it. I read a very touching story about a 12-year-old named David Withhof. He wore the same Green Bay Packers football jersey every day for four years. Think about that. Same jersey every day four years, that's 1,581 straight days. Every day he would put on that jersey, it was uh his hero. It was a quarterback for the Green Bay Packers, Brett Favre. Week after week, month after month. School year after school year, his schoolmates did not have to wonder what he was going to wear to school. They knew what he was going to wear. For four years every day he wore that same jersey. Why did he do that? Well because Brett Farr was his hero. And when people looked at little David, they knew they were actually looking at Brett Farr because he was wearing that jersey all those days. And when I read that, I thought about, you know what the Bible tells us? Put on the Lord Jesus Christ. We should be putting on Christ every day. So much so that people around us already know what we wear. We wear Christ and people when they look at us they should see our hero and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. The apostle Paul said this in 1 Corinthians eleven one, be ye followers of me even as I am of Christ. And so followers is from the Greek word mimetes, where we get the word mimic. Mimic me, Paul said, as I mimic the Lord Jesus Christ. Now Paul had discipled Timothy, and he had become like uh Paul Timothy he'd become like him in ministry. He met up with Paul and as Paul was taking his missionary journeys and he learned from Paul. And so Paul said, I have no one like-minded. He loved God's people. He loved the church. But here's the third thing. You will genuinely care for others You'll genuinely care for others. Look at the other part of verse 20. For I have no man like-minded who will naturally care for your state. Naturally, here is a word. It carries the idea of being legitimate or sincere. Timothy legitimately, genuinely cared about people. He was not a fake. He was not only showing affection because he was trying to get a following. No, he was legitimate. He had a genuine, sincere love for people. Notice where it says care For I have no man like-minded who will naturally care for your state. It's an interesting word here, care. Merimneo, which is the Greek word for worry. And in other places it's translated worry. For example, if you look in Philippians chapter 4, verse number 6, look at that verse. But be careful for nothing. Look at the word careful there in verse 6. You know what it is? Same exact Greek word. And here Paul is saying, look, worry about nothing. I don't want you worrying about anything. Okay? It's not right for you to worry. But then here in chapter 2, verse 20, Paul says, Boy, I have no idea like Timothy. I really like him because he worries. You say, wait a minute, that sounds like a contradiction here. Um it's really not a contradiction. Uh there are two kinds of worry. I don't know if you could really call the second one legitimately worry, but There's a sinful worry where we doubt God's provision, uh where we doubt, you know, the Lord in some ways. We worry over our material earthly things like clothes and food and and home and car and bills and and the Bible says, look, don't worry about those things. Jesus said you know, don't worry about tomorrow. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Take no thought for yourself. In that sense, don't worry about those things But there's a sanctified worry where one worries over the people of God or the things of God or things about the church. And uh you remember when Paul was cataloguing in 2 Corinthians all of the sufferings that he had gone through, how he was beaten with rods and stones and suffered shipwreck and And perils of water and perils of robbers, and Paul goes on down the list. But at the very bottom he says this in verse twenty-eight of second Corinthians eleven. He says, And besides all those things that are without That which cometh upon me is the care of all the churches, exact same Greek word. The worry over all these churches. I mean I worry about, and he wasn't talking about buildings. He was talking about the people. All the people. I I'm concerned about all of these people. This worry is not a worry to fill out filling out a denominational statisti uh statistics survey sheet. It's not about reputation among other ministry brethren about what other people think. It's a worry over the spiritual state of people to whom you have responsibility. People that are under you. Like a mother worries over her children. If a if a child is sick, a mother has out of that love a motherly love and concern. And Paul says, that's Timothy. Timothy, he loves the people of God. He worries. He has a genuine care for others. That's the mind of Christ. But then here's number three. First of all, I said you'll be committed to God's will. You'll emulate others who have the mind of Christ. You'll have a genuine care for others. But here's number four, rather. You will put the things of Christ ahead of your own things. Look at verse number 21. For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ. Seek here means to strive. Present tense. They continually strive. The idea of earnest devotion. And what are they striving after? Not the things of Christ, but their own. For all seek their own. How could Paul make a statement like that? For all seek their own. This is quite a contrast to what Paul wrote earlier when he said, look, do nothing from selfishness. or vainglory. Don't don't do things from that, but look out for the interest of others. Put others ahead of you. But here Paul's saying, look, but you know, my experience is it's just It's hard to find people like that, for all seek their own. They seek their own. And I think that maybe it was because he'd been looking for someone to help in the Lord's work, maybe perhaps help in this one mission of going back to to minister to the people at the church of Philippi. Paul again was concerned about that church. He wanted to send someone to convey his concern and get the facts. And there were Christians all around in Rome. I mean there were hundreds of believers in Rome. In fact, when Paul wrote his letter in Romans chapter 16, he greets 26 of them by name. But yet when it came time to really do something where it would c it was really required commitment and sacrifice and putting God's work first and putting your own things on the back burner, Paul said Uh all seek their own. It's hard to find anyone really that's willing to serve the Lord uh and put the things of God first. And sadly, that's still true a lot of times in churches today. It's just hard to find people who will be committed to serving the Lord. and be faithful and do it with excellence unto the Lord that you can really depend upon. In a very real sense, we all either live in the mindset of Philippians 1. 21 or Philippians 2. 21 What is Philippians 1. 21? For me to live is what? Christ. And to die is gain. If I live this life, it's all going to be Christ. And if I die, that's all the better. That's living for Christ. He comes first. His kingdom comes first. That's my whole life. To live and serve and glorify him, to put the kingdom of Christ first. You either live in Philippians 1. 21, or sadly, some live in Philippians 2. 21, where all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ. So most have their own agenda that most make decisions based on what's best for them, not what's best for the kingdom of God, not what's best for the church. They seek their own. And so it's a very, very sad thing. Dietrich Bonhoeffer wrote this. He said, we must be ready to allow ourselves to be interrupted by God. God will be constantly crossing our paths and canceling our plans by sending us people that with claims and petitions. It is a strange fact that Christians frequently consider their work so important and urgent that they will allow, excuse me, nothing to disturb them. But Timothy was different. Paul said he's not like that. Here's another characteristic of the mind of Christ. You'll be committed to the will of God. You'll emulate others who have the mind of Christ. You'll have a genuine care for others You'll put the things of Christ ahead of your own things. But here's number five. You will endure hardship for the cause of Christ. Look at verse number 22. But ye know the proof of him, that as a son with the Father, he has served with me in the gospel. And the word here know is knowledge by experience. Paul said, look, you know Timothy by experience. You know of him. You know the proof of him. The word proof is docimas. And it it's uh it's really the idea of being tested and found to be qualified. Tested and found to be real or legitimate. This was a word that was used to talk about testing precious metals. When it speaks of a person, it means they have been approved after passing the test. This is a word that describes a proven character of someone. They have proven character. You it's the idea that under pressure they have demonstrated their character. They had the right stuff. And Paul is basically saying, look, Timothy has been tested many times and he has proven his value and his character. Now how did how did Timothy prove himself? Well, I mean he had to travel with Paul. I imagine that wasn't an easy thing to do back then. You know, to be right at Paul's side through thick and thin. But Timothy volunteered to tackle the hard jobs. He refused to cut and run when things got difficult. He didn't mind doing the menial things, the hard work, the dirty work. That's the kind of proving That doesn't happen overnight. This is proving after a while, a long pattern of consistent, steadfast faithfulness. You know, too many people want instant spirituality, instant maturity I got news for you. It doesn't happen overnight. It's over the long haul. God doesn't work that way. Producing character takes time and it takes effort. That's why when Paul said to Timothy, preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering. and doctrine. That means you have to be patient. You have to keep giving the word of God, let it do its work, and be patient. Why? Because character development takes time. People don't change, you know, quickly. It takes time to develop Christ-like character. And so but Paul reminds the Philippians I'm sending someone to you who has proven his character. You know his experience. You know how he's been with me. Three times in the book of Acts, Timothy is seen ministering to the church at Philippi. When agitators from Thessalonica forced Paul out of Berea, Timothy was left behind in Berea, and he was entrusted to carry on the work there. He was faithful to the gospel in a hostile environment. A short while later, Timothy accompanied Paul into Macedonia, and Timothy was with him in Philippi. So Timothy had already ministered in that church. They knew him, they saw him. They understood that. The church was well acquainted with them. In fact, later in his life, Timothy, he'll be faithful all throughout his life, at the end of his life. He'll give his life and sacrifice for the gospel. According to the historian Eusebius, Timothy was the first bishop of Ephesus. This is where Paul wrote in his letter 1st and 2 Timothy. Timothy was there at Ephesus when Paul wrote those letters. He was the first bishop of Ephesus. And you how did he die? Well, he was clubbed to death. At a feast of Diana, why was he cloved to death? Because he was preaching against the licentiousness that came along with all of that pagan worship. And because of that, he was clubbed to death. I would just encourage you to read the biographies of great saints who have gone on before us and see how they have had to endure and be faithful over difficult times. So you endure hardship for the cause of Christ. Here's number six. You'll work cooperatively with others. Look at verse 23 and verse 24. Him therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see how it will go with me. But I trust in the Lord that I sh also myself shall come shortly. Paul says, Look, I'm going to send Timothy to you. He's going to come. I'm hoping myself to come. I mean that was really Paul's desire. He wanted to be released. I I guess so. I mean he had been in that Roman prison for two years. He was anxious to defend the gospel before Caesar and then, Lord willing, be released and go uh uh to to the church himself, but he he knew that his situation would not allow that. He couldn't do that at that time So for the set for in the second year of Paul's imprisonment, something happened in Rome that also led him to believe he's going to be there longer. And what was it? Well, there was an upheaval, a political upheaval that took place in Rome. Nero divorced his old wife, Octavia, and he married a woman who was a Jewish proselyte. Her name was uh Papia. And this woman arranged for Nero's old wife to be killed. And she hated Christianity, she hated Christians, and so in addition to a new prefect Uh addition to that I should say there was a new prefect that was appointed because the old one had died, and this new prefect was also considered a monster of iniquity, and basically he ignored Paul's case completely Totally ignored it. And so therefore the outcome of what was going to take place with Paul, Paul didn't know when his trial was going to be. He didn't know what the outcome of his trial was going to be. And so the future was totally up in the air. He had absolutely no um assurance of anything that was going to happen. However, Paul was not looking to Nero. He wasn't looking to the political upheaval in Rome. He was looking to God. He knew God was sovereign over all things. But so he says, but I trust in the Lord, verse 24. Again, Paul knew that God was sovereign. The situation is in God's hands ultimately, not in Nero's hands. The bottom line is he couldn't do at that moment what he desired. He just couldn't do it. You know, there are many times in ministry when we don't we don't the things don't happen the way we want them to happen. You know, that's part of the hard things to deal with. Some people think, you know, the pastor always gets exactly what he wants. Do you actually think I get what I want? That's rare when that happens. I mean, uh there are many times in ministry when things just don't go. the way you hope and the way you pray at times. And so we're forced to wait on God to accept his timing, to accept the outcome that he is going to give in his time. Things don't just things just don't turn out the way we plan. That's why we have to submit everything to God. Be absolutely submitted to the Lord's will, knowing that God has all these things in control. And so Paul wasn't sure how it was going to go, so he sends Timothy. He needed Timothy. Verse 23. I hope therefore to send him just as soon as I see how it will go with The context made clear that Timothy is willing to do whatever Paul asked. And Timothy was at his disposal. Paul, you just tell me what you want. You tell me what I can do to help. What do you need from me? He had no agenda of his own. He was available to the to to do whatever was necessary. He didn't care about his reputation or glory or getting a name. Nothing like that He was just simply serving. You might say to Timothy's playing a backup quarterback, so to speak. There was a lot of people in Rome, a lot of preachers in Rome, we we learned in Philippians chapter one that were preaching Christ out of contention and strife. and jealousy. Some were jealous of Paul. Some wanted the affection and attention and uh that Paul got. And that and so they were preaching Christ. Paul said, not sincerely, there are Supposing to add affliction to my bonds. They were on one hand criticizing me for being in prison and then they were preaching Christ on the other hand. They were trying to gain a following for themselves. But Paul's whole attitude was really, I don't care. So what What then? Doesn't really matter to me. As long as Christ is preached, I rejoice. That was Paul's attitude. I don't care who gets the glory as long as Christ is preached. And that attitude evidently was contagious for Timothy because Timothy had the same kind of attitude. It doesn't really matter who gets the glory, it's just what can I do for you? How can I help you? Paul, how can I serve you? I was reading about uh what uh Leonard Bernstein, who is the worldwide famous uh conductor for the uh New York Symphony Orchestra. And one time he was being interviewed and they asked him, they said, you know, what's the most difficult instrument to play? in the orchestra and he said without hesitation, second fiddle. Everybody wants to play the first fiddle. Nobody wants to play second fiddle. It's hard to get someone to do that with enthusiasm. Second fiddle But it's amazing what you can accomplish if you don't care who gets the credit. But that's the mind of Christ. You work cooperatively with others. But then here's the last one, number seven. You will be honored by God. You'll be honored by God. If this is your mindset. Because of his selfless service and putting others ahead of him, Timothy was honored by God. You say in what way Well, first, the very fact that Paul calls upon him in itself is an honor. Paul is saying, I can count on Timothy, he can take my spot. That is an honor. To say that Paul saying, Timothy can fill in my shoes. The fact that Paul trusted Timothy to stand in his place, wow. Paul mentions Timothy 24 times in his letters. 24 times. Warren Wormsby writes this, but perhaps the greatest reward God can give to Timothy was to choose him to be Paul's replacement when the great apostle was called home. Paul himself wanted to go to Philippi, but had sent Timothy in his place. But what an honor. And that's true. Timothy was not only Paul's son. and Paul's servant, Timothy became Paul's substitute. And in doing so, his name is highly regarded among Christians even today. I don't think Timothy ever dreamed that we'd be talking about him today. Because of his servant's heart. But you'll be honored by God. So what does this teach us about the mind of Christ? Well, if you have the mind of Christ, you'll be committed to God's will. You'll emulate others who have that same mind. You will genuinely care for others. You'll put the things of Christ ahead of your own things. You'll endure hardship for the cause of Christ. You'll work cooperatively with others, you'll be honored by God. That's the mind of Christ. And it's not the product of an hour sermon or a week or a seminar or a year's service. The mind of Christ grows as we, like Timothy, yield ourselves to the Lord to serve others. To be selfless, to be sacrificial in our service. In a bygone era when a prominent soldier was returning home from of foreign duty, a newly hired driver was uh sent to pick him up, but before he left, uh he asked, how am I going to be able to recognize this soldier to pick him up and bring him home? And the soldiers ate his mother said, Look for a handsome young man who's tired wearing a uniform. And uh the driver said, Yeah, well, ma'am, uh with all due respect, there's gonna be a lot of young men wearing the uniform Uh how do I recognize your son? She said, here's how you recognize him. He will be the one helping someone else in need. That's how you recognize him And sure enough, when the train pulled in, the driver saw a man in uniform assisting an elderly woman. And he said, You must be so-and-so. And he was. He was that soldier. You see, there are many ways to wear the uniform of a soldier of Christ, but the real way to be a soldier of Christ is to be identified with a selfless life. To have the mind of Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, help us in this. Help us, Lord, to follow the example of first, primarily our Lord Jesus Christ, to be selfless, to loving, concerned for others. And behind him the Apostle Paul who uses himself, who's willing to be poured out like a drink offering in his service to you. And then Timothy, who learned from Paul. Lord, help us to get in line, to line up behind a long line of servants who have the mind of Christ that stretch all the way to Christ Himself. Help us to join that army of soldiers of Christ that wear the uniform, that selfless sacrificial uniform. form that you call all of us to put on. And in doing so, Lord, may we glorify you. And we pray in Jesus' name