Open to Matthew chapter 21. And on Sunday morning I'm doing a series through the Passion Week. We're going to go through each of the days of the week. of leading up to the crucifixion of our Lord and then his resurrection. Nothing that Jesus did was insignificant, but that's especially true in this week, this last week of his life on earth. Everything that he did had value and something for us that we can learn from. And uh today we're going to talk about what happened on Monday. When Jesus purified the temple. And one of my favorite groups in church history are called the Puritans. They're a group of ministers from England who believe that the church needed desperately to be purified from a lot of the greed and corruption. that had taken hold of the church for the uh in that area in that region at that time in the church history of the church. And so they were men who believed that the Bible was the word of God. And they believed that the Bi the church needed to return to the Scripture And uh to hold fast to God's word, and they wanted to purify the church. And of course you know that many of them left England and came here to America, and they were very instrumental in the shaping of our country in the early days One could argue that the first Puritan was Jesus himself. Because Jesus, here in Matthew 21, is going to purify or cleanse Now, if you were here last week, you saw that on Sunday Jesus went into Jerusalem and he presented himself as the rightful king. the king of Israel. This was his formal presentation to Israel as the Messiah. And following that, he's going to do several things that will demonstrate his authority. That will uphold his claim to be the Messiah. Later on, we'll see in chapter twenty-one, he will curse the fig tree Then he'll get into a debate with the religious leaders and he'll give a series of parables all that support the fact that he is the king, the authority. But before he does that, what he's going to do is he's going to purge and cleanse the temple Now, write down your notes, Malachi 3, 1 through 4. What I want you to see is that this was prophesied in the Old Testament. This is something that should not have been a surprise to many of the Jews that knew the Old Testament, because the Bible says in Malachi, listen to this, and the Lord whom you will seek shall suddenly come to his temple. And then it says this, and when he appears, who can stand, who can endure his coming? That is when he comes to the temple. Who's going to be able to endure? Why? For he is like a refiner's fire, like fuller's soap. That is, when he comes, he will cleanse. What does soap do? It cleanses. And so this was a prophecy about the Messiah. Now the Jews in this day, they knew this prophecy. And so when Jesus comes, then on Monday. to cleanse the temple, those who knew the Old Testament should understand what he was saying here. He again was presenting himself as the Messiah When he he officially presented himself on Sunday, but Monday he's going to uphold that claim by coming in and by cleansing the temple. You know, in essence, what Jesus was saying when he did that? He was saying, This is my temple I'm claiming ownership of it. I have authority over all of the religious life of Israel. It was really a culmination of his claim to be the Messiah. Now, I want you to see several acts that took place that he did that actually affirm his authority. Number one, I want you to think about, first of all, the wrath he displayed. Look in verse 12. And Jesus went into the temple of God and cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple. And overthrew the tables of the money changers and the seats of them that sold those. Now this section deals with the anger of Jesus. Did you know that there's such a thing as a righteous anger? It's not always wrong to be angry. There is a holy anger. In fact, you can tell a lot about a person by what it takes to make them angry. What do you get angry at? I think the problem with some Christians today is they don't get angry at anything. We ought to be angry at sin. We ought to be angry at injustice. What we get angry at tells us a lot about our character. And here really what Jesus is displaying is the holiness of God. We see his anger when he comes into the temple. Now, a lot of times when we talk about Jesus, we talk about his love, his compassion, and rightfully so, because he was a loving and compassionate Savior. But friend, there's another side to Jesus that sometimes we don't see And that is, he is a God of wrath and judgment and anger. And we see that. Notice the three action verbs in verse 12 that really kind of are set off by the conjunction and that talk about uh these this what he's doing here. It says, first of all, he went in to the temple. And notice where it says temple of God. What's interesting is this is the only time this phrase is used here in the New Testament. And it's the emphasis is this is God's temple. This was a temple for worship. And it was his temple. And Jesus now is coming into this temple to take ownership of it. He's not coming in to pray. He's not coming in to worship. He's coming in for judgment. Did you know that actually on Sunday when Jesus presented himself as the king, he visited the temple that Sunday? Mark tells us that, that he went in, and Mark says he just went in and he kind of looked around And it was late in the evening. He didn't do anything. He went back to Bethany. He said, What was he doing? Came in, looked around. He was casing the place. He knew what he was going to do the next day. He went back to Bethany, I think that righteous anger began to stir in him. And so he comes back to the temple the next day. Why? He's coming now. to judge. Do you know the Bible says judgment must begin at the house of God? Peter said that. Whenever God begins to judge, he starts first at his house. And Peter says this, 1 Peter 4. 17 And it says that if it begins with us, what will the outcome be for those who don't know the gospel? When God judges, he starts in his house, and then he moves outward, and as he moves outward, the severity of that judgment begins to increase It begins with his house. What's it going to be like for those who don't know the Lord? And so he comes first to judge. He comes to the temple. Now look at the word temple there. There are two words used in the New Testament for temple. One is Naos, which means the inner sanctuary, the Holy of Holies. The other word is Haran, which talks about the outer court. And this is the word that's used here And so when Jesus comes to the temple, first he comes to the outer court of the temple. And this is important because at the outer court was called the court of the Gentiles. And this is where people who could come to the temple who perhaps were not Jews that could be introduced to the God of Israel. Really, the outer court had more of a missional purpose to tell people about their God. But it was in that outer court where the money changers set up their temple, or their their tables rather, in that area of the temple. It's at that outer court where A lot of things went on that angered the Lord Jesus. And we're going to see. In fact, it was more like a religious market. Instead of being a missionary business, it was a mercenary business. They were trying to take advantage of people, disadvantaged people, desperate people, and this angered Jesus. He wasn't happy about what was going on. So he enters into the outer court. He goes through the Holda Gates, named after the prophet's prophetess Holda. He climbs a series of steps. He looks in, he sees that they're changing money at the table. And he's filled with righteous indignation about what is going on there in the temple. And notice where it says in verse 12, the next phrase, and he cast out, he enters into the temple of God. And cast out all of them that sold and bought in the temple. Now this word cast out is a very strong word. It means to forcefully throw out. I mean to take a person by the lap of the neck and just push them out, throw them out. What if some ushers here this morning just started grabbing people and throwing them out? Say, wow, what kind of church is that? And this is Jesus. It's hard for us to picture Jesus grabbing someone, throwing them out of the temple, but this is what the word means. And why was he so angry? Because of the commercialization of what was going on there in the house of the Lord. So he just starts casting them out. Now what's amazing about this to me is that there were temple police there And these temple police had authority. In fact, Rome gave them a lot of authority to keep order in the temple. They even had authority from Rome to do whatever was ever necessary to keep order, even to kill someone, put them to death If they were disrupting things in the temple. And so these temple guards had total authority to even kill someone. And yet none of these men put their hands on Jesus. You know why? No one could until it was his time. And it shows his complete total authority. No man could lay hands on him. They were powerless Here he comes in righteous indignation. He sees what's going on there, and he's throwing these people out of the temple. And Mark, its gospel says he was in such control that he wouldn't even permit anyone to walk across the temple carrying goods. This was God's house. And it became a place of merchandising, religion. And notice not only did he go in, he cast out, and notice also it says in verse 12, and he overthrew the tables of the money changers. And the seats of them that sold doves. Now, why was Jesus' wrath particularly directed at these money changers and their tables? Because they took advantage of the poor. And they did it in two ways, let me tell you how. First of all, they had to exchange currency. If you wanted to buy an animal for sacrifice. You couldn't use your own national currency if you're from another country. You had to come in the first thing you had to do is exchange your currency for the temple currency, the temple tax they called it We understand that right when I went to London just a few weeks back. We landed there. The first thing I had to do was in the airport go to a currency exchange place Give them my American dollars and they gave me in return British pounds. And I want to tell you that I gave them a whole lot more than they gave me in return. I felt like overturning some tables myself. It was not a fair exchange You just imagine this when a Jewish worshipper came to Jerusalem from their country, the first thing they would have to do is exchange their money, their currency For the temple tax, and listen to this, the money changers charge twenty-five percent to change their money. And if the and if the coins were of greater value than required for the half shekel they got, they charged an additional six percent for giving change. So the total charge of exchanging money, one scholar said, was about a half a day's wage for a working man. So they were getting money through this currency exchange That was an abuse. But then there was another abuse. And that was with respect to the animal sacrifice. Worshipers would come to the temple, they would bring an animal to sacrifice as part of the worship But that animal had to be approved. It had to be an animal that was worthy of sacrifice And so if you are a worshiper and you came to Jerusalem and you brought your animal and you came to the temple expecting to be able to use this animal and sacrifice, the priest there would inspect that animal and almost always they would say, We're sorry, sir. This animal's not good enough. It's not approved for the set for the sacrifice. However We happen to have a large group of animals over here to you can select from that are pre-approved for sacrifice animals The only problem is they jacked the price up on those animals. A person had to pay ten times the normal price for the animal. And keep this in mind. In the Old Testament, God, for poor people who couldn't afford a lamb, to bring it to the Sacrifice. God made a special provision. He said, look, if you can't afford a lamb, just bring a dove. If you can if and and even a poor person could afford a dove. And bring a dove to the sacrifice, but doves, they would jack the price up fifty times higher. So even the poor couldn't afford to worship there. One scholar said temple commerce was at times notorious for exploiting the disadvantaged people. Now you think about it. How many people came to Jerusalem? How many sacrifices were made? Someone calculated there were 260,000 lambs sacrificed. Not including other animals such as doves and so on. So these priests, they were making a lot of money. I mean, they were getting a lot from this anger. The Lord. Remember in the Old Testament, 1 Samuel, the two sons of Eli, Hotni and Phineas, they were ripping the people off when they brought their their uh sacrifice, they were keeping the best cuts of meat, they were making a profitable little business on the side, and the Bible says they caused the people to abhor the sacrifice of the Lord. Same thing was going on here. Gentiles would come in and they would see this going on, and rather than saying, man, this is a place where God is worshipped, they say, man, that's a place where people are getting ripped off. It's nothing but a religious business. And this provoked the anger of the Lord Jesus That's why he went into the temple and it began to just throw them out, to cast them out, to overturn the tables. Because of what had happened. Not only do we see the wrath he displayed, but notice also the word he declared. Look in verse 13. And he said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer. But you have made it a den of thieves. And here Jesus is quoting from the Old Testament scriptures. Actually, he's quoting from two different places. First he said he said, This shall be a house of prayer. Here he's quoting from Isaiah 56, My house shall be called a house of prayer. In other words, the house of God is a sacred place And the word for prayer here is a word that means all kinds of worship that goes on there. It is a place of worship It's sacred. Did you know that in the Old Testament when they built the temple that when they carved the rocks, they did it miles away in a quarry? And when they brought the rocks to the temple, you couldn't hear the sound of a hammer or a chisel on the temple site. It was silent as the temple went up. You ever heard of a building being built that way? Total silence Why was it done that way? Because this temple was so sacred. It was going to be used for such a sacred thing. And now here. It's a bizarre atmosphere. There's people running and there's people making money and salesmen out there trying to sell their wares. It's no longer a house of prayer. Notice the rest of what Jesus said, but you have made it a den of thieves, he said in verse 13. The sinful perversion of the temple. And he's quoting here from Jeremiah. When Jeremiah said this back in his day, some of the same things were going on. And Jesus said, this sacred temple, this place for worship, has now become a den of thieves. What is a den of thieves? That's a place where thieves go to hide. That's their hideout, right? Jesus said the temple's become a den of thieves. What are they saying? People that are there, these priests, they're hiding. They're crooks, hiding from their sin in the temple. It's it's t it's terrible. They were misusing the house of the Lord. And when he says has may have may, that's perfect tense. You are continually making this uh uh a a place where uh it's like a den of thieves. You've perverted the use of the temple so much so that when people come now, they see what's going on, they walk away and they shake their heads Instead of coming and embracing God. What if this morning you came to church and set up all in the back were casino machines here in our church? What if, yeah, there's a blackjack table over here? There's a casino machine over here? There's g buying and selling. And you brought a visitor to church that day. Well I want you to come to my church. See what a wonderful church I have. And you see people gambling, you see all this going on. That visitor would walk away shaking their head, say, why would I need a church? Why would I need to go there? I could do that in the world. That was happening to the temple. By the way, you know what I would do if I saw that? I would take an action. I would start breaking those things down. And if I saw you sitting there, I would throw you out. Friend, just just just multiply that. And of course, God forbid the thought, that would never happen. But that's how reprehensible this was. That was what was going on here. This buying and selling. And he said, You've made it a den of thieves. Notice thirdly the works he demonstrated. Look in verse 14. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple and he healed them. This is amazing to me. Right after he cleanses the temple, he quotes the word of God. The blind and the lame come to him. Did you know that in this day the blind and the lame were not allowed in the temple? That was a law, a man-made law, I would say. But they come to him. They, you know, they knew that Jesus wasn't angry at them. And notice in verse 14 where it says, they came to him. They weren't just coming to the temple. They heard Jesus was in there. They knew he was there. And they came to him. They knew the compassion of Jesus. You see, not only is he a God of wrath, but he's also a God of compassion And by healing these people there in the temple, you know what was happening here? This was God the Father giving divine approval to what Jesus just had done. Whenever a miracle took place in the ministry of Jesus, that was heaven's approval Of what he was doing. And here's God the Father approving the actions of his son by cleansing this temple, by doing these miracles of healing there. But it also fulfilled Old Testament prophecy because the Bible says when he would come to his temple, Isaiah 34, 5, then shall the eyes of the blind be opened, and the lame shall leap like a deer So again we see Old Testament scripture being fulfilled, upholding the fact that he is the Messiah. And also Jesus was showing by healing these, he was showing what the temple was supposed to be for. It was to minister to people. It was not to be a place of business. It was not to be a place of money-making, a bizarre atmosphere. It was a holy place, a sacred place where people were ministered to and loved. And so he upholds his claim as the rightful Messiah. But notice the fourth thing. There's the wrath he displayed. There's the words he declared, the works that he demonstrated, but then notice number four the worship he deserved. Look at verse 15. And when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did And the children crying in the temple and saying, Hosanna, the son of David, to the son of David, they were sore displeased. Well, when the chief priests and scribes saw this, they got angry. They understood the implications of what was happening. I mean they saw the triumphal entry, they heard the messianic praise from the crowd They saw the authoritative cleansing of the temple that Jesus did. And by the way, these are men who knew the Old Testament. They understood the claims that he was making by doing all of these things And then they see the miracles that he did. Now, you would have thought they would have said, Wow, here is the Messiah. He's upholding all of what the Bible says, the Scripture says. These miracles affirm him. And now the children begin to praise him. Children that were there in the temple. You would have thought that they would have realized who he really was. In fact, it says, notice where it says, and they saw the wonderful things that he had done in verse 15. The word Tumezo, miraculous. Things that cause all, these incredible things that Jesus was doing, that in itself should have caused these men to say, He is the Messiah. And it should have caused them to worship him. But it no, they were blind. They were hardened. In verse 15 it says they were sore, displeased, they were angry. And notice what they said in verse 16. And he said unto them, he said unto him, verse 16, Hearst thou what these say? That is, they hear these children beginning to praise the Lord Jesus. And they say, don't you hear what they're saying? Stop them from saying that. You understand what they're doing? Notice Jesus' response in verse 16. And he said unto them, and Jesus saith unto them, yea, yeah, I know what they're doing. Understand it. And then he quotes the scripture. Have you never read, out of the mouths of babes and sucklings, thou hast perfected praise? He was quoting from Psalm 8. 2 here, referring to children giving praise to God. Have you ever noticed that children have the most pure praise? To God. Comes from a a a a heart that is pure in their motives to praise the Lord. And the bi and he's quoting this scripture here. And by the way, that's why I love to hear children sing, because of the purity of that praise. And Jesus is quoting this scripture here, Psalm 8. 2. And by doing this, you know what he's saying? He's actually saying three things. Number one, these children are fulfilling scripture about me. And this was the biblical basis for Jesus' refusal to silence these children. He was saying, I'm not silencing these children. Don't you understand they are fulfilling the word of God? The word perfected here means something arranged by God. God had arranged that these children praise Him. You see, secondly, this is a claim to deity. Because Psalm 8:2 is talking about giving praise to who? Giving worship to God. And when these children began to worship Jesus, they were worshiping God. And Jesus, by not silencing them, what was he saying? I am God. And what they're doing is the right thing. I'm not going to silence them. They are fulfilling Old Testament scripture. You don't believe, but they do. This also reminds us that if you want to come to Christ, if you want to have salvation, you have to become like a little child and just believe Here, these children were giving evidence of real faith in the Lord Jesus. And so We see the worship he deserved. Let me give you the last thing. We see in this event the wrath he displayed, the words he declared, the works he demonstrated. The worship he deserved, but write down number five, the withdrawal he desired. The withdrawal he desired. Because after that he leaves. Look at verse 17. After this, and he left them and went out of the city into Bethany, and he lodged there. Now again, nothing is insignificant here. Why didn't Jesus just stay in Jerusalem? Why did he just stay there? I mean, he's gonna have to be there all week. Why did he just leave? You know, again I I was in Jerusalem. Last summer, and I know the distance from Jerusalem to Bethany, I know that there's a big long sloping hill that you have to climb Every day, if you're going to walk out of there and walk five miles through rugged terrain to get to Bethany, it just seems to me it would be a whole lot easier for Jesus just to stay where they are. But when Jesus left His leaving was a statement. The word used here to leave behind, a very strong word. He left in disgust. He left in righteous anger after this confrontation. This same word is used here in Matthew 16 when people ask for a sign. Lord, give us a sign. And Jesus had already done so many miracles and they're still asking for a sign. And so in Matthew 16, he just leaves in disgust. What else do I have to do? What else do I have to do to prove to you who I am? And this is the idea here. Jesus left And one of the reasons he left is because he's not going to stay where he's not wanted. They didn't want him. And so he left. And when he left, he was really basically saying this, I reject this whole religious establishment. I reject the Judaism of this day. You know, think about it. Jesus didn't get one of his disciples from the religious establishment. Not one of them were priests or Levites. They were just ordinary men. Why? Because Jesus was rejecting that religious establishment of that day that had corrupted the Word of God. He just rejected all of it. And by leaving here, he was doing the same thing. And by leaving, he was also saying, I'm not going to stay where you don't want me. Reminds me of something that happened in Matthew 8. Remember Jesus went through the country of the Gatarenes? A demon-possessed man and he cast the demon out of the man? And the demons went into the herd of swine? This is in a Jewish village. What are Jews doing raising pigs? That's one thing you want to ask. And they these these these these demons went into these pigs and they ran down the hill like one preacher said they committed suicide and jumped into the water. Sorry, that's a bad joke And you know what the people said to Jesus? They came to him. The Bible says all the people came and they said, We just want you to leave. Leave our coasts. Leave our town. And you know what the Bible says that Jesus said? He said nothing. He got into the boat and he left. Because Jesus is not going to stay where he's not wanted. And so he leaves Jerusalem. He goes back to Bethany because the people didn't want him there. Now he'll come back, of course. Each day of the week, up until his crucifixion. But everything that he did had significance, all the actions that he did. And let me just give you a few lessons in closing here. about this. First of all, re what do we learn from this? Jesus is not just the Savior, he's the judge. I heard about a man back in the days of the horse and buggy. who uh was stepped out into a street and a team of wagons with a horses with a wagon a wagon, a team of horses with this wagon come rushing down the street. And someone grabbed the man and pulled him out of the way at the last minute and saved his life. That same man whose life was saved committed a crime that day and the very next day he was in the courtroom before a judge and he recognized the judge. He knew who the judge was. The judge was the man who saved him the day before. And the judge was ready to sentence him And he said, wait a minute, Judge. He says, don't you know who I am? Yesterday you saved my life. And the judge said, yesterday I was your savior. Today I'm your judge. Today Jesus is the Savior. My friend, one day when he comes back, he's going to be the judge. We learned that he is the judge. The Father judges no one. The Bible says in John 5. 22, but has given all judgment to the Son. Second thing we learn is that God hates sin and He deals with it. A third lesson is we must purify our lives. Now Jesus purified the temple then, but you know, what's the temple of God now? It's you, it's me. Our bodies. The Bible says, don't you know 1 Corinthians 6. 19, that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit of God. Now you are the temple of God. And you know what? The Lord still wants purity in your life. He still wants you to deal with sin. He wants you to live a pure life. And our temple is to be a house of prayer. It's to be a house of worship. God is to be our priority in our life. And we're to keep our lives clean. But then the third thing again, Jesus will not stay where he's not wanted. And I want to tell you this, Jesus up until this point, he's still offering salvation to anyone who wants it. Still offering it. And friend, he's offering it today. But I want to tell you, if you don't want Jesus, he's a gentleman. He's not going to force his way into your life. So the question is, do you know him? Do you want his salvation? I was reading a story about Art Linkletter in his book, Yes You Can. He told a story. One day he went with Walt Disney to a property in a certain area of California. And Walt Disney was telling him all what he wanted to do, and he said, You know what, you should get in on this and buy some of this land. If you do, you'll become rich And Art Linkletter says in the book, he says he didn't really think that dream was a possible. He thought it was really fantasy. So he rejected his offer. Later on, he says he estimated that by Rejecting that offer, he lost one million dollars per step that day when he walked around that land. Let me tell you something. There's a far greater offer being given you, friend. A far greater offer. And it's given by the Lord Jesus Christ. And he yet again says, Come unto me that you might have life. This is what Jesus was still doing in this week. He was still making the claim of who he was, offering salvation to whoever wanted it. And you know what? Jesus is still doing that today. But one of these days that offer will be no longer valid But friend, today is a day of salvation. Thank God it is. Do you know him? Let's bow for prayer today. So Lord, we thank you for The wonderful salvation that you give to us. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that has never trusted Christ, if they've never really understood who He is. Or perhaps they've been debating it in their mind. They've never come to Christ in repentance. They've never actually believed that He is the Savior, the Messiah. Lord, I pray that they today would see through the scripture that He's everything He claimed to be, and that He is able to give them eternal life, to forgive them of their sin. Lord, I pray that you'll draw that person nearest to eternity. You'll draw them unto yourself, those who don't know you, that may be here today. Lord, save souls. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to. Again, I ask you, do you know the Lord Jesus, friend? Do you know him? And if you're not absolutely certain, would you be willing to pray right now where you are Say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me. Cleanse me, Lord, as you cleanse that temple, I'm asking you today to cleanse this temple from sin. Come into my heart. Even though the chief priests didn't want you in their temple, I want you in mine. And I'm asking you to come into my heart. Save me, Lord. How many of you say that's my prayer? Would you pray from anyone here? Any soul here that says, I'm not sure of my salvation. I'm asking Jesus to come into my heart today. Father, bless these words to every hearing heart. Thank you and praise you, Lord. For all that you've done for us in Jesus' name, Amen