Well it's good to see you in God's house tonight. I'm going to preach the last sermon in this series on Jeremiah tonight. I promise. But actually it's not going to be out of the book of Jeremiah. It's going to be out of the book of Lamentations. So if you take your Bible, open to uh Lamentations in the Old Testament, that's right after the book of Jeremiah. And I want to see I want you to see that there's a connection tonight. And really the sermon tonight is going to be more like a Bible study, perhaps more than a sermon But I want you to see lessons from Lamentation. I went to Israel the last time I was there. I went to the Western Wall. It's called the Western Wall. Wall. It's a wall that's a remnant of what's left of the temple that was built by Herod during the time of Jesus. It's called the Western Wall, of course, because it's on the west side. There are the temple complex. But it's also called the Wailing Wall. And the reason it's called the Wailing Wall, named that by other people, not the Jews, because when people would go to that wall they would hear Jews And so thus it became known as the wall of tears or the wailing wall because of the wheel of the Because those who wept there wept over the destruction of the um of the wall. it is. I'll just. So it's the anyway, it's called the Wailing Wall there. And um and it's a place of great sorrow for many Jews. That goes there. Because this book is a book that uh really speaks about sorrow. Now you probably haven't heard a lot of sermons out of this book of the Bible. Uh in fact, uh can I take a survey? Anybody Okay, that's zero. You're gonna have to cancel that out now because you're gonna hear one tonight. And the reason that a lot of people don't Uh hear sermons out of it is probably because this is a very sad book of the Bible. Familiar with its contents. Lamentation is truly the orphan book of the Bible. And why is this so? Perhaps because the book is perceived to be extremely sombre And gloomy. And so that's one reason. It's a sad book. Why? Because it deals with the sufferings of the people of God. Nevertheless, it's in the Bible. And if it's in the Bible, it's because God wants us to know about it. There's nothing in the Bible that's incidental. Uh and so I want us to look at it tonight. I want to kind of give an overview We won't look at all the verses of these five chapters. We're just going to kind of touch on it. And you might even feel like you're kind of in an Old Testament survey class tonight. Uh and maybe you are in my Old Testament survey class. But we're just gonna look at a few things about the book and then I wanna give a few lessons that we can learn from this book. First let's look at the Title of the book, Lamentations. Where does that come from? Well, look in chapter 1, look in verse 1. Look at the very first word in verse 1. It is the word how. And it is the Hebrew word ikah And it it's translated how here it could also be translated alas. And it was characteristic of a loud cry or an exclamation. And the word is usually After he had died, it says in second Samuel one nineteen, How art the mighty fallen. That was around. He used the same word when he said, Alas, Master, what shall we do? So this is a word that it is it talks about great emotion of sorrow. Great Crying. Later on the rabbis called this book the the book of loud cries. And later on the uh that Latin Vulcate took the name of the book to be Lamentations and English uh versions copied that, and so that's where we get our title from. Let's talk about the author of the book. Who's the author? Because there's been a lot of debate about who the author Some out there that don't believe that Jeremiah is the writer of the book. But let me just give you some uh evidence as why I think he's the writer. First of all, the Septuagint, you say, what's that? That's a Greek translation of the Old Testament, which was written in Hebrew. Seventy scholars got together and translated into Greek. But when they wrote this uh the translation to Lament Patience. Uh the beginning of verse one says this and it came to pass after Israel had been carried away captive, Jeremiah sat weeping and lamented and said. The Septuagint begins. Jeremiah said, so that kind of tells you what those seven day scholars believed who wrote the book was. It was it would they think it was Jeremiah. Jewish tradition is And besides, writing laments was nothing new. Jeremiah wrote laments. The Bible tells us that when Josiah the king died, The Bible says Jeremiah wrote a lamentation for him. Jeremiah was kind of a poet prophet, and from time to time he would write funeral poems. But there's also So internal evidence, some of the expressions that we see in the book of Jeremiah, we see some of those same expressions in the book of Lamentations. uh talks about in Jeremiah how his eyes flowed with tears. We see the same thing here in the book of Lamentations. And also, uh whoever wrote this This book was someone that evidently ha was an eyewitness to the fall of Jerusalem because that's what the Lamentations is about. The fall of the city of Jerusalem. Book it becomes very obvious that whoever wrote it saw with his own eyes what was going on there. In fact, there are some who argue that the last chapter of the book of Jeremiah is an introduction to the Book of Lamentations because Jeremiah 52 records the facts of history regarding the Did you know that there in Jerusalem there is a cave that is called Jeremiah's Grotto or Jeremiah Cave. You know where it is? It's right on the hill called Golgotha or Golgotha, however you want to pronounce that. And this hill overlooks the whole city of Jerusalem. If you're there and you go uh you can still see this hill. It's called Golgotha because it's the shape of a skull. That's what it means. Uh Golgotha means the shape of a skull. And uh it's It's in a place where uh it was Mount Moriah in the Old Testament, and that was the place where the Lord would be crucified in Jerusalem. But if you look at that hill, it looks like a skull because of the cave And the way they're formed on that hill. One of those caves is called Jeremiah's Cave or Jeremiah's Grotto. And why is it called that? Because tradition says That Jeremiah sat in this cave and he wrote the book of Lamentations, and there he wept and he cried when he saw the destruction of the city of Jerusalem. Uh and he wrote down the words to this book. It was almost as if Jeremiah was commenting on the things that were going on while the city was Commentator can be very vivid in expressing the events that are going on and also express the sorrow that is happening with uh the the survivors of some tragedy. In fact, some of you perhaps We're watching the news tonight when we heard of this horrible tragedy down there in Florida. These these young people that were killed and more in the hospital. And even on the way to church tonight, I was listening to it on the radio What's the purpose of the book? What's the purpose and message? Again, the major theme is suffering. And really, he's describing the 9-11 for the city of Jerusalem. Only much You just just imagine in your heart seeing your hometown suffer a two-year siege at the hand of enemies. Imagine people around you that you love, your family And your friends literally starving to death before your very eyes. And you witness the death and destruction of people that are very dear to you. What Jeremiah is saying here. And he's learning to deal with the sorrow of it. And so there's a sense in which the Book of Lamentations helps us to come to grips with deep sorrow that comes Now let me talk a little bit about the style and the structure of the book. Now, when you read Lamentations, uh what you're going to find out is that there's a series of pictures There's really no line for line argument that it presents. It's not really a narrative. This is really poetry. Uh it's not prose. And what you see are Or say this, a person who has lost someone who has been very close, be it a husband or a wife or a child or friend, will keep talking almost disjointedly about their sorrow, coming back again And again to say the same things about that loved one. Uh with a desperate need to share it with anyone who is listening. So it is, he says in Lamb. Lamentations. That's what this book is about. And as far as the structure, it's there's five chapters in Lamentations, which is five poems or five funeral poems we could say. And another thing about this that you don't see in the English is it's an acrostic. These are actually chapters one through four are four acrostics You say, now what's an acrostic? An acrostic happens in the Bible when the writer, in a very poetic way, goes through the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet You say, wait a minute, we have twenty-six letters in the alphabet. Well yeah, in our English alphabet we have twenty-six letters, but in the Hebrew alphabet there are twenty-two letters. And basically And what we see if in chapter 1, verse 1, if you could read in the Hebrew, the first word begins with Aleph or the letter A. Verse 2 begins with letter B or B Verse 3 begins with letter Gimel, which is G, actually. And then it just goes on all the way through until the last letter in the Hebrew alphabet, 22 letters Uh it's it's just alphabetical. That's part of the artistry of this. So chapters one, chapter two, and chapter four have these twenty-two letters through the Hebrew alphabet Alphabet, 22 verses. But chapter 3 is a bit different. You say why? Well, because this is the heart of the book. And if you look at chapter 3, it has 66 verses in it. And in this chapter, there are three verses The first three verses begin with the letter A. The second three begin with a letter B. The next three begin with the letter Gimel or our letter G And again it goes all the way through the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet, every three verses giving those letters. And then in chapter five, it's not an acrostic at all. There are still twenty-two verses in it, however. Now why? Why does the writer arrange the the verses like this in this alphabetical acrostic? What's the purpose of that? It's been argued there are two reasons for it. Number one, this could be a mnemonic device or that is a memory device. You know, nowadays we can write everything down, but you have to remember back in that day they didn't have And so many times the writers would do things that would help people to remember what they read. We see this same a little Do you remember reading Proverbs thirty one verses ten to verse uh twenty-two? That that uses an acrostic. Remember the writer is saying saying, if you want to find a the uh a really good woman, let me tell you what she's like. And then it goes through the twenty two letters of the alphabet saying, here's what she's like, and I'm gonna put it in this arrangement Like this, so you will remember. Psalm one nineteen uh is an across stick. Every eight verses begins with a twenty two letters of the alphabet. So it could be for memory. There's a some another reason described for this, and that is that this is to emphasize the complete nature of suffering. As if the writer is saying, we're gonna consider Are suffering from every possible angle, from every way you can think about it. We're gonna look at sorrow from every perspective, from A to Z. We're gonna look at sorrow and suffering. One scholar, Gottwalt, wrote this He wished to play upon the collective grief of the community in its every aspect From Aleph to Tav, that is from A to Z, so that the people might experience an emotional catharsis. He wanted to bring about a complete cleansing of the concept Through a total confession of sin. And so it's venting the sorrow that they're feeling at that particular moment. Now let me give you the next thing, and that is I want you to see that there are different views in these chapters, different voices we could say. Chapter one is called the outside view And I want us to look at look at chapter 1. And what we see here is the narrator approaches the city and describes the city. And I want you to notice what he says. Look at verse 1. How doth the city sit solid How has she become as a widow? That she was great among the nations, and princes among the providences. How has she become a tributary Now, what he's doing here is he's giving a personification to the city of Jerusalem. The whole city of Jerusalem is pictured as a female, a woman And by the way, to give uh a city uh the gender of a of a woman is not uh unique in the Bible. We know that In the book of Revelation, the city of Babylon is called the Great Harlot. Jerusalem has been pictured as a beautiful woman, as a virtuous bride, but here now she She's a suffering woman. And so we're going to see the city of Jerusalem from the suffering of this woman, this female. And verse one, she is empty and alone and vulnerable And she had she was a princess, but now she has become a slave in verse one. In verse three, or by the way, she's also called a widow there in verse one. How has she become as a widow? The idea was at first the city was bustling with people. Now she's alone. Now she's desolate. Just as a widow. And verse three She's exiled and homeless. Look in verse 3. Judah is gone into captivity because of affliction and because of great servitude. She dwelleth among the heathen. She findeth no rest All her persecutors overtook her between the straits. She's a woman who's in exile. In chapter 1, verse 5, she is a woman who's forced to watch her children taken into captivity And verses eight through ten, she is a woman that is suffering sexual abuse, assault, and rape is taking place. And verses eight down to verse Verse number 10. And then in verse 12 she begins to speak. Look what she says in verse 12. Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by, hear Jerusalem speaking? Behold and see if there is any sorrow. And so basically she just calls upon passers by to Mighty can't help her. There is no one that can help her, none of her neighbors. The priests and the elders could not help her. And so we see her sorrow Now in chapter 2, this is called the inside view of the book. And here the role of God is emphasized in the destruction of Jerusalem. In fact, if you look in chapter two verse one begins with anger, the Lord's anger. How hath the Lord covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in his anger? And then if you go in to verse 22, the the last verse of the of the chapter. It also again talks about the Lord's anger. It says so that the day of the Lord's anger none escape nor remain. And so it's kind of sandwiched in between these two verses. It talks about God's anger against the city. And the Lord is the primary actor in chapter 2. In fact, the key word there is he Talking about the Lord. Look in verse 2. The Lord has swallowed up all the habit inhabitants of Jacob. The habitations of Jacob, rather. He hath not pitied. He has thrown down And the end of verse 2, he hath brought them down to the ground. Verse 3, he has cut off the fierce anger. Verse 4, he hath bent his bow. Verse 5, the Lord Was as an enemy. He has swallowed up Israel. And on through the chapter, we can see that the role of God is emphasized in chapter number Number two. And then we come to chapter three and what do we see? In chapter three, this is called the upward view. And this is a lone male figure who offer w offers Words of hope. Look at chapter three, verse one. I am the man that has seen affliction by the rod of his wrath. Now the voice in chapter three, this lone male Is debated as to who it is. Who is this one lone male in chapter three now that gives his view of things? Now, obviously I I tell you who I think it is. I think it's Jeremiah Jeremiah, because I believe Jeremiah is the author of the book. I think it's Jeremiah, but if some who don't believe Jeremiah is the author of the book, they attribute it to some unknown person In fact the word for man there in verse one is the Hebrew word gebor, which can refer to a warrior. And so there are some who say this is a lone warrior, perhaps after the battle. And he's walking Walking through the city and he sees the destruction and he sees the desolation. There are some who take that angle that this is the voice of a lone defeated soldier. I think this is Jeremiah. Jeremiah is there in the city. And again, you want to see the word it's emphasized. It's the word He takes all the suffering around him that he sees personal. In other words, he's saying, whatever has happened to these people in the city, this has happened to me. Look in verse number two. He hath led me and brought me into darkness. Verse three, surely against me is he turned. He turned His hand against me all the day. Look at verse four. My flesh and my skin he hath made old. Verse five, he hath uh built it against me and compass to me with Verse 6, he has set me. Verse 7, he has hedged me. And on we could go. He talked about my ways, my reigns, me. He's taking all of this personal All the sorrow and suffering that's happened in the city, it's happened to me. Again, I think this is Jeremiah. It'd be very easy for Jeremiah to divorce himself from the Suffering that he sees from others and stand back and say, Well, that's what you deserve. But that's not Jeremiah. Now let me also just say now chapter three has sixty-six verses, but it's the kind of the pen Of the book, because right in the middle of chapter three, there's the greatest message of hope that we see, and verse number twenty-two, it's the l it's because of the Lord's mercy Merci that we are not consumed because his compassions they fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. So we see that uh there's hope there in the The mercy of God, right in the middle of chapter three. But then it kinda after it kinda leaves that pinnacle, he kind of descends back down into this idea of suffering. Now chapter four, we call this the overall view because in chapter four it's various segments of the population are now describing the suffering That they're going through. Here in chapter 4, it's not Jerusalem talking. It's not God. It's not Jeremiah. It's the segments of the people that are left over. That are talking about the suffering that is going on. And that's why you see in chapter four a good portion of this chapter is written in the third person. And uh but look in chapter four Verse one How has the gold become dim? How has the most fine gold changed? The stones of the sanctuary are poured out in the top of every street. And what he's talking about here is the fact that he uh you know why worry about the gold When there's nothing to buy. Why is there nothing to buy? Because the city has been surrounded when it's been under siege. No one can get in, no one can get out Can you imagine somebody surrounding your home for two years and not letting anyone in or anyone out? I mean we would run out of groceries pretty soon, right? I know in my house we would run out of groceries after two days. Under the way my boys eat, you thought it was me, right? It's my sons. But can you imagine them surround the city for two years. No one can go in or go out. Now you have all these rich people in the city and they got their gold. But what good is the gold if you can't buy anything It's like going to Walmart and all of the shelves being totally empty. There's nothing to spend your gold on. And what happens is the rich now eat garbage in the street looking for Verse five, they that did feed a feed deliciously are desolate in the streets. They that were brought up in scarlet embraced dung hills. And verse ten As horrible as this sounds in verse ten, mothers cannibalize their own children. The hands of the pitiful woman have soddened their own children. So he's describing a complete total collapse. And all the segments of the population is totally collapsed. Then you get to chapter 5 And this is what we call the future view. In chapter 5, it is just one long prayer. It's the voice of the people, it's the voice of the community crying out For God to remember them. Look in chapter five, verse one. Remember, O Lord, what has come upon us, consider and behold our reproach. And so there just one long frame Turn thou unto us unto thee, O Lord, and we shall be turned. Renew our days as of Of old, they're praying and they're seeking the Lord for restoration during this time. And so that's kind of a general overall view Of the Book of Lamentations. Y'all still with me? Okay. And what I want to give you now are just three lessons. In closing, three lessons That we learn from it. Now again, this is a book that's filled with sorrow. It's filled with the consequences of sin. And that really is the first lesson. What does he write want to emphasize the consequences of sin. Why is the suffering so bad? Because man's sin is so bad. It's the consequences of disobeying God. All the unspeakable terrible suffering is result of man's disobedience and man's sin. And go back to chapter one, verse five. It kind of makes that clear Clear here. Chapter one verse five. Her adversaries are the cheap, her enemies prosper. Watch this, for the Lord hath afflicted her for the multitude of her transgressions. It was Her sins. Look at verse number eight of chapter one. Jerusalem has grievously sinned, therefore she is removed. And the lesson we learn from this is that sin always Always brings sorrow and tragedy. God's no longer their friend. He was the one that was protecting them from all of their enemies. But because of their disobedience and God once fight fought their battles and now He is the one fighting against them Jerusalem lost her joy. Jerusalem lost her beauty. Jerusalem lost her wealth. Jerusalem lost her testimony. All the heathen laugh at her in chapter 2. And despite all of the warnings that God has given The people didn't believe him. None of those warnings were taken to heart. Look in chapter 2, look in verse 17. Notice this a key verse here. The Lord has done that which he has divined Christ, listen to this. He hath fulfilled his word that he has commanded in the days of old. For forty years Jeremiah went around warning the people: stop this obeying God, because if you continue to disobey God, you're going to pay the penalty for it. And you know what they did? They laughed at him. And they not only did they laugh at him They persecuted him. And not only did they persecute him, they tried to kill him. They would rather hear the message of the false prophets that said, Oh, peace, peace, everything's alright And so they turned Jeremiah off and they wouldn't listen. But actually the seeds of of their destruction was sown not just in Jer through Jeremiah's preaching, you can go all the way back to the Old Testament in the book of Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter 28, and what you see is already in chapter 28, God warned Israel what would happen if Israel turned their back on him. Do you remember what happened in chapter 28? Let me just repeat Mind you. You remember this is Moses with the people, and and and God said, Here's what I want you to do when you get to the promised land through Moses, divide the tribes up, put half of them on Mount Ebal, half of them on Mount Hiroshima Some read the law and then read the curses of the law. What will happen if people disobey God and let people on one side that are on Mount Ebal say Amen to the to the curses? And let those on Mount Girzm say Amen to the blessings. And it was one big gigantic object lesson to the whole nation, which basically said, if you obey God You'll be blessed. If you disobey God and His word, you will be cursed. You will reap the curses for disobeying the Lord. And you know what? Let me give you some spiritual homework. We don't have time to do it tonight. Go and read Deuteronomy chapter twenty-eight, read Lamentations, and compare and what you You're going to find out there's an exact parallel. Let me give you some example. Look in Lamentations verse 3. Judah is gone into captivity because of affliction. And because of great servitude she dwelleth among the heathen. This is a direct fulfillment of Deuteronomy 2865, where it says, And among these nations shalt thou find no ease And the Lord will give thee a trembling heart. And it says exactly that. She dwelleth among the heathen and finds no rest lament Lamentations 13. And Lamentations 1 6 is a fulfillment of Deuteronomy 28-25. The Lord shall cause thee to be smitten before thine enemies. And verse number six, again that's That's the same thing. They're running from their enemies. And you can go all the way through and find out that everything that God said would happen in Deuteronomy 28 if they disobeyed him is mentioned right There in Lamentations, he just goes through it systematically and shows how that the reason for the people's great suffering is they disobey God. God fulfilled his word uh just like he said he would. So lamentation is just the fulfillment of the pomice uh excuse me of the punishments that God promised if his people stubborn So what's the message to us, beloved? We had better take God's word seriously. And realize that sin brings consequences That are horrible. It's not worth it to disobey the Lord stubbornly. Now let me give you a second lesson: the character of God. He emphasized The consequences of sin in this book. He emphasizes the character of God. What is he emphasizing? First, that the Lord is holy. Look again, look in Lamentation. chapter one verse eighteen the Lord is righteous for I have rebelled against his commandment again he's saying here that When God punished us, the Lord was right and holy in what he was doing because we have rebelled against God. By the way, that's what confession is Confession is saying, God, I deserve your punishment for my sin. My sin is evil in your sight. You remember in the Old Testament when Achan in the book of Joshua stole the Babylonian Garment and wedge of gold. And when they found out that it was Achan, remember what Joshua said to him: My son, give, I pray thee, glory to God, and make your confession unto him What did he mean by that? Achan, if you confess that what you that your sin, it glorifies God and it shows everyone around that God is righteous in the way that He has Punished us. What happened to Israel? They just lost to Ai. And people were wondering: has God forsaken us? And the answer is no, He hasn't. The problem is not God. The problem is you sinned. And by confessing that sin, it exalts the righteousness and holiness of God. And so here that's what the Writers doing God is holy, God is righteous. We deserve the punishment. Even though it's so very severe, we have brought this upon ourselves because of our own sin. And that's why we confess Not only that, but also to have fellowship with God again. And this is what the Lord wants. This is why He punishes them. Look in chapter 3, look in verse number 40, and notice where it says there. Let us Search and try our ways and watch this and turn again to the Lord. Let us lift up our hearts with our hands unto God in the heavens. And the whole purpose for God's severe punishment is so that they would turn back to God when we experience God's severity in our life Many times it's because the Lord wants us to turn to Him, to repent, to confess, and turn to the Lord with all of our heart. That's what's happening here. God is holy. God is sovereign. We already saw that in chapter two. He's over it all. And also God is compassionate. Let me show you this. Look at chapter three. Look at verse number twenty-one. Now as Jeremiah is describing Look at verse 22. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Because his compassions they fail not. They are new every morning Warning. Great is thy faithfulness. And this is what gives Jeremiah hope. The faithfulness, the compassion of God. And when he says faithfulness here, he's saying, God, you're someone And what he's saying is that we know that your mercy is available. Your compassion Passion is available. How available is it? It's new every morning. It's as available as the sunlight every morning You know, all you have to do is go out and bask in it because it's there, it's shiny. If you want it, it's there, it's available for you. And I want to tell you here tonight for anyone who may be going through difficulty and suffering The mercy and compassion of God is available if you want it. If you turn to Him, He will give it. God would rather show compassion and mercy than And so Jeremiah is reminded of that, and so therefore he has hope. He hopes in the compassion of God. But let me give you the last lesson that I see From this book. We see the consequences of sin, and they are so very severe that it makes us never want to disobey the Lord stubbornly. We see the character of God. God is God is holy. God is sovereign in his judgments. And God is full of compassion to anybody who wants it. But here's the third lesson. I call this the comfort of prayer. The comfort of prayer. Because Lamentation is also a book that emphasizes to the believer seek God. Seek God. Especially in times Of sorrow and suffering. That's what he wants you to do. Notice chapter 2 and look, notice verse number 19. Notice where he says, Arise, cry out in the night. In the beginning of the watches, pour out thine heart like water before the face of the Lord. Lift up thine hands towards Him Here's what he's he's encouraging. Get up, arise in the night. Don't go to sleep. In the beginning of the night watches in the Old Testament, there were three Three watches in the night. This was the beginning of the first watch. He's saying, Look, listen, don't give sleep to your eyes. Get up, arise at the very beginning of the night watch, and then pour out your heart Before God. Tell God everything that's on your heart. Pour it out before Him, before the presence of the Lord. Simply tell God. And I want to tell you, beloved, this is Where we derive our greatest comfort from going to God, pouring out our heart. And you know what God does? God responds with grace. God responds with And so, and then in chapter five, and again I tell you, chapter five is not an acrostic, it's just one One big final prayer that that the community all together praise as they turn to the Lord. That is Deuteronomy 28, they violated God's word, and so therefore they're reaping the curses. But there's another thing. And Deuteronomy 30, God promised, He said, Look, when all these things come upon you, When all these things happen and you turn to me, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to restore you. That was a promise in Deuteronomy chapter 30. Again, add that to your List of homework, all right? Read Deuteronomy chapter 30. And it talks about this restoration that God was going to give if they turn back to the Lord. And so therefore the The prayers in chapter five are based on that understanding, that idea right there, where if they turn to God, God would turn back to them. And so the idea is turn to the Lord in prayer, claim his promises, and you know what? He'll he'll give you his grace. He'll give you his mercy. He'll give you his compassion He will restore you. He will bless you. There is no situation that is so desperate that God can't rescue you from. There is no sin that has thrown you out of the world. That God can't bring you back if you go to Him and you pray and you ask Him. There's the comfort of prayer. And so that's what we learn from Remember that sin is not worth it. Remember God is holy, He's sovereign, and He's also compassionate. And turn to Him with all of your heart and pour out your heart before him because God is indeed faithful. His mercies are new. Let's let's bow for prayer tonight. And so Lord, we we uh we come before you Lord and as we consider these things, we consider what the the prophet Jeremiah wrote in this book where he just in sorrow wrote these funeral dirges, these poems, where he's dealing in with the suffering that he sees And he's venting. And he's pouring out his heart. And he reminds us of the consequences of Sin and the character of God who is a holy God. Lord, you are holy, you are sovereign, and you're merciful. And Lord, the comfort of prayer, I pray Lord, that we will take these things to heart. And Lord, I don't know. There may be someone here tonight that needs to do what Jeremiah said. To go to you, Lord, and pour their heart out. Maybe there's someone here that has to Repent of some stubbornness in their own life. It may be that there's someone here that's under your chastisement even now. They they know that what's happening in their life is because they haven't yielded, they haven't submitted. That there they have been turning away from your word. I pray, Lord, that we will be reminded of how severe the consequences of sin are. That we would turn to you with all our heart and repent. Again, Lord, we thank you for your mercies. And Lord, we are in people who are in need of that right now. And I again I pray for people here at night that may be going Going through sorrow, and they need your mercy. They need your grace. Lord, I pray you'll bless them with it. And how many here with heads bowed and eyes closed will say, That's my prayer tonight? I pray for his mercy in my life, his his grace, his help. Father, bless these, your people. And again, use your word, Lord, to warn us and to Challenge our heart and to draw us close to you. We pray in Jesus' name, amen