Would you take your Bibles tonight? Open to uh 2 Kings chapter 5. We are going through the this Old Testament book of Kings and we're in 2nd Kings chapter 5 tonight and we're going to look at uh this story the the first 19 verses in this chapter And I want you to look at verse number one of chapter five. Let me read a few verses with you. Now Naaman, captain of the host of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master. And honorable, because by him the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria. He was also a mighty man in valor, but he was a leper. And the Syrians had gone out by companies and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel, a little maid, and she waited on Naaman's wife. And she said unto her mistress, Would God my Lord were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. There's only one God, and that God is the God of the Bible. There's only one way of salvation, and that's the way that is prescribed in the Scripture. Help and salvation for mankind doesn't come from the wisdom of man. It comes from the power of God, the power of his word, the word of the one living and true God. And this is the message, uh you heard me say it before, but this needs to be repeated over and over again in this day of religious pluralism. What is religious pluralism? This is the view that all religions in the world are valid That you can find God in any religion, any major religion, or minor religion for that matter, that Buddhism and Hinduism and Islam and all these others are just as valid as Christianity. And some people might think, well, this is man in his religion trying to find God. There's something noble about that. On the contrary, man in his own religion is not noble, it's the fullest expression of the depravity of man. It shows the the uh the sinfulness of man. That's because man isn't trying to find God, he's trying to replace God. This is Romans 1. In Romans 1 it says because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither were they thankful. And it goes on to say they changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man, and to beasts, and birds, and four-footed animals, and so on. It is man rejecting God's revelation about himself and replacing it with his own God, a God of his own making and his own mind. And so God hates religious pluralism. God hates idolatry. Second Kings was written to a people who had committed this monstrous sin of idolatry. They had forsaken the true God, and they had began to wash worship false gods, the gods of the pagans in the lands around them. This is the very thing that God warned them about when they came out of Egypt and they went into the promised land. It's bad enough for a pagan Gentile to worship a false God, but it's it's even worse for a people who have been given special revelation about who God is. To learn about who God is, and then to turn away from that true God and to be turned to false gods that are not real and to idols. This is exactly what happened with Israel. And the worst part about this whole thing is it was the kings of Israel that led them into this erroneous way. It started with Solomon. He planted the seeds of idolatry by dibbling in that because of the wives that had stolen his heart. And after that the seeds that were planted by Solomon came to full fruition, and all the kings that followed along after Solomon. And this is the reason that Judah and Israel ended up in exile, scattered among the nations, in exile in Babylon. That's why the temple was destroyed in Jerusalem because of this incredible sin, this monstrous sin that the people had committed in forsaking the true God And to emphasize their failure, to make this point clear, God raised up prophets. That's why we see in the book of Kings. It's about the kings. We we see the failure of these kings, but alongside of that parallel throughout the books of 1st and 2nd Kings, we see the ministry of prophets who come along and they point out the sins of these kings and the sins of the people. They kind of stand in in contrast to all that the people are doing. We see the the ministry of two great prophets, Elijah. We learn that his name means my God is Yahweh, in the midst of all this idolatry where Judah and Israel forsook the real God the real God and began to worship Baal. Elijah comes along and his name means my God is Yahweh. There's only one true God and it's Yahweh And then after him there was Elisha, what his name means my God of Salvation. In the midst of all these people trying to find deliverance and salvation through these other false gods. Here comes Elijah and he says there's only one way of deliverance, there's only one way of salvation, and it's through the true and living God. Now all the miracles that we see in the ministry of Elijah and Elisha are designed to drive home this point. They demonstrate that Baal is a false God. He's weak. He's powerless. He can't help anyone. And it's shameful that God's people have turned to these worthless idols. There are times in Scripture when God will use the faith of a pagan Gentile to shame his people for their lack of faith. God will use the faith of a uh of a gentile, the conversion of a pagan gentile to provoke uh God's hit Israel to jealousy or to shame them. We see this in Romans 11. Paul talked about the salvation of the Gentiles And part of it was to provoke the Jewish people to jealousy. God uses the salvation of Gentiles to shame Israel for their unbelief and idolatry, to wake them up, and to demonstrate that salvation is not just for Jews. That all the way from the very beginning it was God's intention to share the message of salvation to the whole world. God would bless Abraham, that he in turn would be a blessing to the world. That was God's original intent. In the New Testament, when a centurion came to Jesus and asked Jesus to heal his servant, you might remember that story. Jesus said, Yeah, I'll come and heal him. And the remember what the centurion said? He said, Lord, I'm not worthy that you should come under my roof. But just speak the word only, and the servant will be healed. And after all, I I'm a I'm a centurion. I have authority. I tell a person go do this and he does it, or go do that and he does it. I know what authority is. And I recognize that you have all authority because you are the Son of God, and whatever you says is true, you speak is true, so just say the word, and he'll be healed. Remember what Jesus did? The Bible says when Jesus heard this, he marveled thumaizo. He was amazed. When you amaze Jesus, you're really doing something. He was amazed. And then he said to everyone standing around, the Jewish people standing around, he said, you know what, I haven't found this kind of faith in Israel. I haven't seen this kind of faith. And then he said this, and I say unto you that many shall come from the east and the west, and shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. That is to say, what you're going to find, again he's speaking to all the people that are round, Pharisees included What you will see is that in the kingdom, there will be people, Gentiles from all over, and you know what? They're going to have a seat at the table in the kingdom of heaven. Because they have faith. But then he said this But the children of the kingdom, that is, those who think that they're they're going to be part of the kingdom just by virtue of their heritage, just because they're Jews, shall be cast out into outer darkness Where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. In other words, salvation is not just for Jews, and just because you're a Jew doesn't mean you're going to automatically inherit the kingdom. The message of salvation is for everyone, Gentiles included, it's for anyone who will exercise faith in the true and the living God. That's who it's for. Now, this story here in 2 Kings 5 illustrates this very thing. Because just like the centurion came to Jesus And bow to the true God. What we're going to see is Naaman, the Syrian general, he comes to Elijah and he embraces the true God. And this story teaches again the folly of placing faith in false gods for help. It demonstrates that Yahweh is the one true God and there's salvation in him and no other. It shows the weakness of man's wisdom versus the power of God's word. And it reveals that God's grace cannot be bought. It's freely given. It's a beautiful picture of, a beautiful illustration of salvation So there are three parts to this story I want you to see. Number one, there's the condition of an honorable man. In verse number one, we are introduced to Naaman. We see first of all Naaman's character. The Bible calls him a great man, Gadol. That's the idea of someone who is wealthy, that has influence. This is the word that was used for the wealthy woman in 2 Kings 4. You remember that story He is a uh his name actually kind of fits his character. The name the name Naaman means favored one. And he had the favor of God because it says in verse 1, because the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria. God had already used this man, a pagan man, to give deliverance to his people Syria. So God had already had some measure of favor on this guy He lived in Damascus, the capital city of Syria, performed these heroic feats in battle. He was favored. It says in verse number. four of one rather excuse me he was honorable the word honorable is nasal literally lift lifted up a face it's the idea of being favored someone who has a good reputation he was loved he was highly respected he was favored Yet none of that could protect them from a terrible disease. Notice his condition in verse one where it says that In the end, but he was a leopard. He was a mighty man of valor, but he was a leopard. Now this was a serious condition. If a person had leprosy back in this day It was really a basically a sentence of death. In Isaiah chapter 1, Isaiah uses leprosy as a picture of sin. In the Bible, leprosy illustrates sin. You can go to Leviticus 13 and see that if a person felt like they might have leprosy, they would go to the priest and the priest would examine them And he would look for the characteristics of leprosy, and when you look at those characteristics you see a parallel with sin. It was deeper than the skin. In Leviticus 13, 13, the priest would examine them if he saw that this This was deeper than the skin, he he knew it was leprosy. You know something about sin it goes deeper than the skin, doesn't it? It goes way down into the heart It's a heart problem. It's a sin nature problem. But also it spreads. Again, the priest would examine them. If it was spreading, he knew that it was leprosy. And again, that's just like sin. Sin doesn't stay isolated. Sin spreads. And then it defiles. If he was a leprous man, the priest would pronounce him unclean. He was forced to bear a mark and let everybody know that he was unclean. It defiled him. Everything that he touched was defiled. It isolated him because according to Leviticus thirteen, if a man had leprosy, he had to dwell alone, he had to dwell in a camp. He couldn't live with his family anymore. It says he shall dwell alone outside the camp You know what sin does? Sin isolates people. It takes them away from their family, their friends, and ultimately it separates them from God, where they spend eternity in hell. Which is the next thing, it it destined things for fire. In Leviticus 13, they would burn whatever garment Or thing that this lepros person had come in contact with. Any garment that was found defiled with leprosy was burned. There's only one place for sin, and it's in the fires of judgment. It's sad to think of millions of spiritual lepers being consigned to eternal fire. So Naaman was facing a serious problem, and Naaman is really a picture of all of us. We all are sinners. But then we see Naaman's captive here. Notice what happens in verse 2. And the Syrians had gone out by companies, and are brought away captive out of the land of Israel a little maid, and she waited on Naaman's wife, and she said unto her mistress, Would God my Lord were Israelite slave girl that she had been taken in captive during a military campaign. Now she's a slave in a foreign land. Sh uh she is a a youth. She has several things going against her Not only is she a she a foreigner, she's a slave, she's a she's a y youth in a culture that valued old age and looked down kind of on inexperience in youth, she was a female in a society that gave everyone Uh gre gave prerogatives I should say to males. And finally she's nameless. We don't even know her name. This poor little alien slave girl was not even important enough to have her name written down. She had no home, no freedom, no experience, no power, no identity. She was the lowest person on the social scale. One scholar wrote one could scarcely find a person lower in the sociological hierarchy of ancient Syria. And yet this little girl was very important to God because she was a woman of faith. And while she's serving in the household of Naaman, she was a servant to Naaman's wife. She's just walking around doing her thing with her little feather duster, you know, cleaning things up. And she just happens to make a statement. She said, would to God that my master would be able to go to Samaria to the prophet that is there. That was the r that was the real answer. You know, this this little girl, she is a beautiful illustration of 1 Peter 3. 15. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give an answer of every man that asks you of the hope. Oh, the reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. She's a good little apologist. You know why? She just points to the prophet who gives the word of God. That's the proper proper method in apologetics. If you're in my apologetics class, it's a little bit extra free here for you. She doesn't use reason, she doesn't use philosophy, she doesn't use, you know, um her Brilliant uh intellect. She just points to the word, she points to the prophet, their salvation and the prophet who gives the word of God. So she kind of just sows a little seed there that's going to bear fruit. A hundredfold. You know, I think if God ever allowed us to look at the book of life, to scan the names that are there and look at all the names recorded, we would probably find some names that were influenced by famous preachers, but I suspect that a far greater number of people will be in heaven because of the faithful witness of humble, unknown people who just simply Spread the word. Who put a word in? Who plants a seed and God uses it? I wonder how many seeds God would use if we would plant them. So we see the condition of an honorable man, but here's the second thing. We see the cleansing of a haughty man Because what happens is we the witness of this little unnamed maiden now begins a chain reaction. And in this we're going to learn more about naming. We're going to see the pride of this man. And some of the things that he does here are are born of pride. He's like many people. He thinks he can solve his problems on his own. He thinks he can get help from men. Now he does take What this little girl says, and he he kind of acts on it. So look down in verse number four. And one went in and told his Lord, saying, Thus and thus said the maid that is of the land of Israel, And the king of Syria said, Go to, go, and I will send a letter unto the king of Israel. So he makes several mistakes here. Like some people, he's still trusting in the wisdom of man. He thinks, you know If this is true, I could just go to my king and have him write a big a formal diplomatic letter. The first mistake is he turns to the wrong person He's still thinking that he can use political power to help him overcome his problem. And so He goes to his king. And by virtue of the response, we can assume that he's asked for this kind of help. In verse 5, it says, I will send a letter to the king of Israel. Oh, that should do it. A letter from the King of Israel? I mean his problems are over. You think political power is going to help take care of this Now this seemed like the logical and wise thing to do, but this is again to me an illustration of depending on man's wisdom or power. But man's wisdom is not able to bring true salvation. It's not able to bring true deliverance or true change. We have a tendency to turn to powerful people. when we want help. But the Bible says it is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. So he turns to the wrong person. He trusted in the wrong procedure. Look down at verse number five. And the king of Syria said, Go, and I will send a letter unto the king of Israel. And he departed and took with him ten thousand Of talents, six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of raiment. Wow, when he makes this journey to Samaria, his camels are fully loaded. He takes 750 pounds of silver, 150 pounds of gold, ten rich festive gowns trimmed with gems and embroidered with gold, like the priestly gowns of Syria I mean his ri his riches were vast. I mean the silver alone is incredible. It amounted to five times the sum that Amri, king of Israel, had paid to purchase the entire city of Samaria. This is a lot. Today's prices, this would be well over a million dollars. He took his entire investment portfolio with him to Israel. To put it in our terms, he closed out his bank account, he emptied his pension plan so he can cover all of his medical bills. At least that's what he thought. He thought in his own mind that he could pay for a cure, that he could buy his way. into deliverance. But God's grace cannot be purchased with silver or gold. Remember Simon the sorcerer in Acts chapter 8? He thought that he could buy the grace of God? And remember what Peter said, thy money sh thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money. God's grace cannot be paid for. That's why it's called grace. You can't buy it with silver or gold or fancy garments. It is absolutely free. It was all purchased by the Lord Jesus Christ. And so here's another thing. He traveled to the wrong place. When he finally gets there, he goes straight to the king of Israel, verse six. And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent name in my serpent to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy He went straight to the king of Israel who was Joram at this time. He gives him the letter from the king of Syria. There's no mention of Elijah in the letter. The king assumes it was all up to him to cure this man of leprosy. And here we see the failure of the King of Israel. You know, as King of Israel, he should have understood that it was his responsibility. to bear witness of the true God Yahweh. Remember that's what God called them to do, the people of Israel. They were to be a light to the nations around them. Isaiah 49, 6 says, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the earth. You are to be my light in a dark world. You are to bear my witness to the pagan nations. And the king is supposed to lead out in that. He's the leader of this nation. He should have known that. But Joram was an ungodly man, and his concerns were not spiritual at all. They were just political. He failed to see God's hand in this. He failed to see that this was an opportunity to point to the one true God and the one true way of salvation. All he sees in this is a is a plan from the king of Syria to start a war. He's trying to pick a fight. That's what he says in verse Number six, and he brought the letter to the king, saying, Now when this letter is come unto thee, behold I herewith my sent my servant name him my servant to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy. And it came to pass when the king of Israel had read the letter that he rent his clothes and said, Am I God to kill and to make alive? That this man does send unto me to recover a man of his leprosy? Wherefore consider I pray you and see how he seeketh a quarrel against me. He's just trying to f Pick a fight. He's just trying to start a war. And again, this shows the weakness of man's wisdom. Uh Joram just he just didn't get it. He didn't he forgot his spiritual responsibilities. That's because he's lost. He's he's an apostate king. Paul would later write that none of the princes of the world knew, that is, they don't comprehend, the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. But here's the next thing. Another mistake that Naaman makes. He he turned to the wrong person, he trusted in the wrong procedure, he traveled to the wrong place, and he thought with the wrong perspective. Look at verse 8. And it was so that when Elisha, the man of God, had heard that the king of Israel had rent his clothes, that he sent to the king, saying, Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? Let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel. Elisha hears about this king's pitiful response, and he instructs him, send name into me, and send his entourage to me And he will know, this is a key phrase, that there is a prophet in Israel. Now Elijah didn't say that to brag about himself He's pointing to, again, the one true God. If there's a real genuine prophet in Israel, what does that imply? That the real true living God is the God of Israel. That's the whole point. And in case you don't believe that, if you doubt that, if you think Elijah's point appointing to himself, when Naaman goes to see him, Elijah doesn't even go to the door. He doesn't even meet the guy. Look down at verse number nine. So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot and stood at the door of the house of Elisha. Here's Naaman and his entourage, and they arrive at the humble home of Elisha in the city of Samaria. And Naaman is so proud he won't even get down off his chariot to lower himself to enter into such a humble abode. He's waiting impatiently at the door. But Elisha doesn't even bother to go out and meet him He sends his servant out with a message. Go wash seven times in the Jordan. I can just picture that. Servant goes back in the house, shuts the door, named his standing there. Here is this great general with his entourage, this simple response, and he gets mad. Look at verse 10. Elijah sent a messenger to them saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. But Naaman was wroth and went away and said, Behold, I thought he would surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of the Lord his God and strike his hand over the place and recover the leper I mean this really reveals his pride. His anger is because he felt he was treated rudely. Elijah doesn't even come out He doesn't even show the basic protocols to a man of his stature. He expected to be recognized publicly. He expected to have gifts lavished upon him. He expected some kind of exaggerated appreciation that that uh he would dare come to even visit Elisha. That's the way they did things back then. And he also had a preconceived notion of how he should be healed. He should come out. He should do some great religious A miraculous demonstration for a man of my stature, there should be at least some kind of display here, some kind of fanfare. But that's not what happened. You know, before sinners can receive God's grace, you know what? They have to submit to God's will. And they have to humble themselves. God resists the proud, but he gives grace unto the humble. He might have had his own way, but God has his way. Donald Gray Barnhouse used to say everybody has the privilege of going to heaven God's way or going to hell their own way. So Elijah, why did he do this? Well he wanted to know, he wanted Naaman to know That he personally, Elisha, had nothing to do with the cleansing that he needed. It wasn't him It would be God who would heal him, not him. So he doesn't even bother to show to s to meet him. What he needed to do is just exercise simple faith in the word of God. Elisha knew that Naaman also needed to be humble before he could be helped, and God was working on Naaman's pride here. King Hurim wasn't able to heal him. The prophet didn't come to the court, or even Come out to greet him. He had to dip seven times in the Jordan River. That's a dirty river. Not once, but seven times. And here he is, this great general over all the land of Syria. And he also had another problem. He thought the rivers back in his place were much better than the Jordan. If he had to dip into a river, why couldn't it be his own rivers? Look at verse 12. Are not Abana and far far far far far excuse me rivers of Damascus better than all the waters of Israel? May I not wash in them and be clean? And the truth of the matter is, if you've ever been to Israel and you've been to the headwaters of the Jordan, where that pure mountain water is coming down from the snow melting there at the headwaters, it is much purer, it is much more beautiful. I can testify. He's right. But that's not the issue. You see, he's still thinking that water is the thing that's going to do it. I mean if water is going to cleanse him, it would be logical that he would go to the better water, better for healing But he's still not thinking in the right way. He still has the wrong perspective. He's so close to salvation and yet he's so far away. But here's the other thing, he turned from the wrong posture. Now here's the first thing that Naaman does that is actually right here. He will humble himself. Because in verse 12 he turns away in rage. But in verse 13, and his servants came near and spake unto him and said, My father, If the prophet had bid thee to do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? How much rather than when he saith to thee, Wash and be clean. So once again, God will use the counsel from a servant to accomplish his purpose. And the servant, after naming kind of calms down a little bit, comes to him and says, Look, if he didn't ask you to do something really hard or difficult To be cleansed of leprosy, wouldn't you do it? How much more? He's asking you to do a very simple thing here. And this reminds me of what Paul said in Romans 10. You know, salvation is so simple that proud people stumble over it. Remember what Paul said, but the righteous which is of righteousness which is of faith saith on this wise, say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven, that is to bring Christ down from above, or who shall ascend into the deep, that is to bring Christ again from the dead, but what saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth and in thy heart. What's Paul saying? That look, in order to get salvation, God doesn't require you to do some incredible incredible religious deed like going up to heaven and knocking on the door and asking Jesus for help or going into the grave and tr and bringing Christ back again from the dead Obviously Paul there is using hyperbole, and his whole point is salvation doesn't come through some big religious ritual or exercise or it just is simple faith. You just obey God's word. What word? The word that you just got. The word that was just preached to you. The simple message. And it Naaman had been given a very simple message. Naaman, go down to the River Jordan. It's 32 miles from here. Go to the river, dip seven times, you'll be clean. That's the word of God. And what you need to do is you need to exercise faith in what God said. That's what faith is. Faith that doesn't lead to obedience is not faith at all. Salvation comes to those who are humble. over their condition, and who will humbly obey the word of God. And so he repents of his anger and his pride And verse 14, then went he down and dipped themselves seven times in Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God. And his flesh came again like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean. Boy, I'd love to have been at the Bank of Jordan when that happened. Can you imagine? The amazement. The Bible says his flesh was like that of a little child. In New Testament language, he was born again. Remember what Jesus said, I say unto you, unless you're converted and become like little children, you'll now wise enter into the kingdom of heaven. His obedience By his obedience, he demonstrated his faith in God's word, and the Lord cleansed him of his leprosy. Whereas the wisdom of man failed, all the plans of man failed, the word of God has power to change. The wisdom of God is so much greater than the wisdom of man. Let me give you the third thing here. We see the condition of an honorable man. We see the cleansing of a haughty man, but number three there's the conversion of a humbled man Salvation changes a person. And this narrative here reveals that Naaman was not only changed on the outside, not only was he cleansed outwardly on his skin of this leprosy, but his heart was changed too. I mean all the pride was gone. And notice the marks. He's overflowing with thankfulness. Look at verse 15. And he returned to the man of God. He and all his company came and stood before him. And he said, Behold, now I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. And that's the point of the whole story right there That's why it's here. There is no God in all the earth but in Israel. Instead of hurrying home to share the good news, he went Out of his way, 30 miles, back to Samaria, back to Elisha. He's so thankful. You know, when a person is truly converted, their heart will be filled with joy and gratitude. He wants to give a gift. In verse sixteen, he he he says in verse sixteen, um, you know, he he would he wants to give something, or actually verse fifteen at the end of verse fifteen I pray thee, take a blessing of thy servant. Let me give you something for this. And Elisha says, no, he refuses. He absolutely refuses the gift because he doesn't want him to think that God's grace is chargeable. Or that anyone can buy favor with God. And later on, Paul will do the same thing in the New Testament when he went out to minister among the Gentiles. Many times he would minister uh without taking any f financial remuneration because he didn't want the gospel to look like in the eyes of these newly converted Gentiles that it was in any way chargeable So he worked with his hands. He wanted them to know that the grace of God was free. But this man's heart was in the right place. He just wanted to give. And this time he wasn't trying to buy his deliverance. He was already delivered. He was already healed. He was giving now because it was a heart full of gratitude. And may I tell you that's the proper motive for giving to God's work or to God's uh servants or and anytime you support the work of God, you give out of a heart of worship and gratitude, and that's what he was doing. He had a humble heart. Notice where it says in verse 15, he came and stood before him. Remember the once pompous Syrian captain? He wouldn't even come down out of his chariot. Now he's contrite. Now he gets down from his chariot. He goes to the prophet's abode. He stands before him. In verse 18, he calls himself thy servant. I'm your servant. Wow. I wonder if he ever said that to anyone. Whereas he was this great general, now he's a humble servant. When you're truly cleansed by the grace of God, it will humble you. It will bring you off any pride. I can't see how a child of God that understands the grace of God could ever be proud or arrogant. He's humbled. And then the the ultimate confession we see again in verse 15, behold now I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. And in verse 18, he will use the divine name. In this thing, the Lord in verse 18. That's all cats. That's the divine name, Yahweh. Now he knows Yahweh. Again, this is the point of the whole story. This is what the Writer of Kings wants the reader to see. By the way, who is the Writer of Kings writing to? He's writing the Jews who were in exile in Babylon. They were in exile because they worship false gods. Because they turned from the true and the living God to worship the gods of the pagans. And that's why they were now in Babylon and they were living in a place that was infested with idolatry. And Babylon had all this this whole pantheon of gods And the writer of Kings is reminding them the reason you're there is because of your sin, because of your idolatry. So don't make that same mistake again. Look at this man here. Look at this pagan, Gentile, Syrian captain who now sees Who the true God is. They needed to learn that lesson. And very frankly, we still need to learn this lesson here living today in this modern Babylon that we live in. Again, I told you a few sermons ago that a lot of American Christians, people who call themselves Christians, still believe that people can find salvation and eternal life in other religions. By worshiping other gods. Forty-eight percent of Christians say that God accepts the worship of all religious people. I mean, that's just shocking to me. Captain Naaman would disagree. And he makes a commitment to worship the one true God exclusively. Look at verse 17. And Naaman said, Still Uh there not then, I pray thee, be given to thy servant two mules burdened of earth? For thy servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto the Lord unto Yahweh. I'm not I'm not offering any more offerings to any other God. I'm not burning uh any incense to any other gods, I'm not making any other sacrifices to any other gods. My God now is the only true God. It is the Lord. And he says, you know, if you won't take my gift, can I take two loads of dirt? I mean I'll load down my two mules with dirt and take it back to Syria. Now why did he want to do that? Well the reason he did that was because in those days people had the idea that the gods of a nation resided in that land And he thought that since the God, the true God, was the God of Israel, that when he left Israel, maybe he would be leaving the true God. Now, obviously, his theology needed to be straightened out a little bit. He was a new convert. Let's give him a break here. He was still thinking in old terms. But again, he had the right heart. He determined that he would worship only Yahweh. So he wanted to take back some Soil. I mean it was holy land to him and he wanted to bring it back and he wanted to put it down and he wanted to build maybe a little a little altar there on it or a place where he could worship the only true God And by the way, I admire this because what would his neighbors think? Looking out the window, hey, what's neamen doing? Oh, he's got some dirt. Where did that come from? Well, he just got back from Israel. What? He's putting down dirt from Israel in his backyard? Why is he doing that? And he's setting up an altar? And he's worshiping the God of Israel? This was courageous stuff, I think. And he even told Elisha, he said, look, I love what he says here in verse 18, in this thing the Lord pardon thy servant, that when my master goeth into the house of Rimam, Rim Rimon, to worship there, and he leaneth on my hand, and I bow myself down in the house of Rimnon. When I bow down myself in the house of Rimnon, The Lord pardoned thy servant in this thing. In other words, he's saying, look, I just want you to know, Elisha, in my position, the man in my position, I might have to do some things in order to please my King, I'm still under him, and there's gonna be times when I'm gonna have to go into the house of a false God. I just want you to know, even though I have to do all those things, just know my heart is devoted completely to Yahweh. I might have to go through some of that stuff, but I'm worshiping only the true God. Now some commentators look at this and they say, oh, he was asking permission of compromise. I see the exact opposite. He's finding ways to honor the true God in a pagan setting. And remember, this guy's he's new. He's doing everything he knows. But we see the determination of his heart. And he wants to worship only Yahweh. To say that there's only one God and that there's salvation in him and no other. That's not a very popular message today, and it takes courage to say it and stand on it, regardless of what your neighbors might say, especially if you live in a pagan land. It takes courage to say there's no God but Yahweh, there's no God but Jesus, there's only one way of salvation, that's through Christ. But guess what? That's what God has called all of us to do. And I pray that we'll have the same courage as Naaman here. Aaron Rodgers, quarterback of the Green Bay Packers, was raised in a Christian home. And soon after he won the Super Bowl in 2011, he began to question his faith. And he told ESPN that he no longer identified with a religious affiliation. He said he now believes, quote, organized religion can have a mind-debilitating effect because there is an exclusivity. That can shut you out from being open to the world, to people, and to love and acceptance. That's what he said. Well, thank God this story here demonstrates just how wrong Aaron Rodgers is If Nam over here, he would say the opposite is true. Worshiping the one true God kept him from being shut out. What was debilitating for him was when he believed the lies of religious pluralism. What was freeing for Naaman was when he began to worship the one true God. And when he came to know the one true God, that's when he found true love and true acceptance. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Lord, we just thank you for this wonderful narrative here. How affirming it is, how it encourages us in our own faith. To see this man come to true deliverance and salvation by simply obeying your word Putting his faith in the word of God and seeing the power of that unleashed in his life. And he was delivered from his sickness. He was healed not only on the outside, but on the inside in his heart. And Lord, I just pray For anyone that may be here, that they will follow in that same pattern. That they would realize that salvation comes, you can't buy it, you can't You can't get it through political maneuvering. You can't get it through the wisdom of man. You get it by simple faith in the power of God In the one true God, the one true God who sent his son to be the Savior of the world and took the sins of the world upon himself and paid for our sins. He took all the leprosy of sin upon himself. He was crucified outside the camp. That we may never be isolated from our loved ones. That we might have true salvation. When we put our faith in him. And I pray, Lord, that you'll help us to stand firmly on that message in this world that is so filled with lies, the lies of religious pluralism that seeks salvation in these vain, empty, false ways. That Lord you'll help us to stand firm. For the truth of your word. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.