All right, good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the book of 2 Kings, 2 Kings chapter 21. 2 Kings chapter 21. And we're going to look tonight in the the life of an Old Testament king, a man by the name of Manasseh. 2 Kings chapter 21 and um let me read a few verses with you. 2 Kings 21 verse 1. Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem. Verse 2, and he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord after the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord cast out before the children of Israel. Some people might recognize the name Jeffrey Dahmer. He was a serial killer, he was a pedophile, an atheist. His crimes were so heinous uh he was called a monster After he was put into prison, he was killed while he was there in prison. Now some people who hear that say, well, he got what he deserved. There's a part of us that wants to see people uh like that get what's coming to them But what if I told you that while Jeffrey Dahmer was in prison, that he got saved? Dahmer professed faith in Jesus Christ. He repented of his sin. He was baptized. while he was in prison. The minister who baptized him, Roy Ratliff, uh, he met with him weekly for Bible studies and pastoral care, and he was absolutely totally convinced about Dahlmer's salvation. In fact, he was so convinced he wrote a book called A Dark Journey, Deep Grace, the book that tells how that this mass murderer, this serial killer, this monster repented and believed in Jesus Christ. Now when some people hear stories like that, uh it it would offend them. Uh I read one college professor said this. He said, if if Dahmer's in heaven, I don't want to be there. Maybe he was uh voicing what other people feel. We have a tendency to think that people like Dahlmer are beyond the hope of God's grace. And if you if you think like that, then you don't truly understand the grace of God. Now I admit that conversions with people like that are not commonplace, but the story of King Manasseh here in the Old Testament shows us that what is impossible with man is possible with God. As we read the life of Manasseh in the Old Testament, he committed just the most offensive sins that you can imagine. He set up immoral bail worship in the temple in Jerusalem. He was into witchcraft. He was into sorcery, idolatry, spiritualism. He practiced human sacrifice. He even sacrificed his own children in the fires of the god of Molech to pagan idols. He he slaughtered many innocent people, including prophets, according to Jewish historians, according to Josephus, he's the one responsible for the death of Isaiah the prophet. It is said that he put Isaiah between two boards like a sandwich and sold him from head to toe. That's how Isaiah died. He caught he caused more evil in Judah than all the nations that were there in the land of the kingdom before the nation of Israel, the Bible says. He was the most wicked king in the history of Judah. And yet he was converted That's good news for those of us who have loved ones that are out there without that are running from the Lord pursuing sin with vengeance. It's good news for those who um Or praying for the conversion perhaps of maybe some of our wicked leaders in our country. God can do it. It's good news for anyone who's committed gross sins and think that God cannot forgive you of those sins. God can forgive and he will forgive. Even if you were raised in a godly home and turned away, that was the condition with Manasseh And yet he found God's mercy when he repented. And so can you, and so can anyone. And so our text shows us tonight that because God is merciful, there's hope, even for the worst of sinners who repent. If anyone could be beyond hope, it was this wicked king, Manasseh. So I want you to notice with me three parts to this story. First of all, number one, notice Manasseh's rebellion. He rebelled against his godly upbringing. Look again in chapter 21, look at verse 1. Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned 50 and five years in Jerusalem. Now, Manasseh came to the throne then when he was twelve years old. Old Testament scholars tell us that he co-reigned with his father for ten years. That means he was kind of a co-king with King Hezekiah. Hezekiah was a uh a godly man. The Bible says he walked in the ways of God. And so for ten years Manasseh had the privilege of watching his father, Hezekiah, reign. Even though Hezekiah, we learned, was a man of pride, and God judged him for his pride, he was still a man who walked the Lord. That was the pattern of his life. And besides King Hezekiah that Manasseh had the chance to learn from, there was also the prophet Isaiah and other godly men in the kingdom. There were priests and Levites, all who taught the people, the law of God. And so you might say that Manasseh was born kind of into a spiritual oasis, but he walked away from it. Why is it that often the most flagrant sinners are those who reject godly upbringing? When they seem to be trying to rid themselves of the things that they were taught when they were young. They're driven to com completely walk away from the faith that they were taught. Uh for example, how many have ever heard of the name Ernest Hemingway? Did you know that he grew up in an evangelical Christian home? His grandparents were missionaries. His father was a devoted Christian. He was a his father was a friend of the evangelist D. L. Moody. And yet when Hemingway got older, he turned away from everything that his family taught him, and he later wrote the poem Invictus. You may have heard of that poem. It's a very arrogant poem that basically talks about I am the captain of my fate, I am the master of my own soul, where he totally completely rejects God and arrogance. And then there's also the story of of uh uh Nietzsche, Friedrich Nietzsche, who was the atheist, the famous German philosopher who came up with the philosophy, God is dead. Did you know that he grew up in a Christian home, his father was a pastor? And Nietzsche was being trained actually to fill in his father's shoes, and for a while he did, but ultimately he walked away from everything that he was taught, and he uh rejected everything about Christianity and later said God is dead. And what he meant by that was that that humanity can only be free if it rejects divine revelation, if it rejects the idea of God at all. That's how humanity gets its freedom. So he led other people to reject the idea of God. Now some people might ask, why do some children raised in a godly home reject their upbringing? And I and I don't know the answer to that. Uh what we do know is that parents are responsible to train their children in the ways of God, but ultimately we also know that That individual has to give an account of themselves before God. They have to make their own decisions. They have to answer to God individually. Some children may grow up in a Christian home They may have parents that teach and model for them the things of God, but there seems to come a point in time where they, you know, they have to make their own decision. They have to trust Christ as their own Savior and Lord. The faith of their parents will not get them to heaven, as the old saying goes, that God has no grandchildren, only children. And we have to uh understand that. We also need to realize that there's no such thing as an innocent child. I adore my grandchildren. They're gorgeous. They're beautiful. The the best looking grandchildren ever. But I also realize that they're little sinners. They have their own way, and that every child is born with that sin nature. My theology teaches me that the sin nature causes them to be all c capable of awful sins. in their life. The Bible says foolishness is found in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction will drive it far from him. In Psalm 58 verse 3, the Bible says the wicked are estranged from the wound. They go astray as soon as they are born speaking lies. So every child born into a Christian home needs to have their own conversion. They have need to have their own salvation. Uh they need that just as much as Manasseh needed it. And as Christian parents, of course, we need to work and pray and look for signs for conversion in our children. It's fine when children say, you know, they've asked Jesus Christ into their heart, and that's wonderful, but we need to make sure and see signs that they're that they're genuinely converted to Jesus Christ. Is there evidence of true repentance from sin? Is there a huge hunger for the things of God? Is there a desire to submit to the Word of God, to obey Jesus Christ? All those things are evidences of true salvation. Even though those who are not outwardly rebellious They they still need to experience God's grace uh through the cross of Christ. But Manasseh, what we read about him is that he totally sinned against all of the godly upbringing that his father gave him. But there's a second thing we see about him, and that is he sinned boldly. He rebelled against his godly upbringing, but he sinned boldly. And we see this in verse 2 and 3. Again, look at verse 2, and he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord. after the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord cast out before the children of Israel. For he built up again the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed. And he reared up altars for Baal and made a grove, as did Ahab, King of Israel, and worshiped all the hosts of heaven and served them. And so the writer begins to list all of the many sins and evils that Manasseh boldly commits. He practices the same abominations as that of the Canaanites. God judged the Canaanites, cast them out of the land because of their sins. Now Manasseh here is doing the same sins, and he's leading others to do it. And notice how the writer of Kings links him with Ahab And that's to show that the southern kingdom of Judah was becoming every bit as evil as the northern kingdom of Israel, which had already been judged. But then also we see he he built the high places which his father, Hezekiah, tore down. Now you remember what high places were if we we studied first and second Kings before, and I told you the high places were these hills around the city of Jerusalem. And th and thereabouts in Israel where the children of Israel would go and they would at at those high places they would commit idolatry. They were there were altars there, pagan altars. where all types of sacrifices took place. Normally there was a stone pillar there. Um there was also other idols that were there And the people would pray to their false gods, make sacrifices to false gods. God hated these high places because it it it c it caused people to worship false gods And it took it stealed it would steal the people's hearts away from worshiping God. And so a king was judged as to what he did with the high places. And uh the good kings abolished them, the mediocre kings tolerated them, the evil kings patronized them. There was only two kings that actually tore down the high places. One was Hezekiah, the other later will be Josiah. But when Hezekiah, Manasseh's father, tore down the high places, you know what Manasseh did? He went right behind him and he built them back up. And people began to worship there again at those high places. And he built pagan altars in the temple. Again, look in verse number four. And he built altars in the house of the Lord, of which the Lord said, In Jerusalem, will I put my name And he built altars for all the hosts of heaven in the two courts of the house of the Lord. He defiantly builds uh altars For idols right in the temple of the of the Lord's house right there in Jerusalem. And he brought Baal and Asherah right into God's holy temple. The Bible says he bowed down before the moon and the stars, began worshiping them, these created things instead of God, the Creator. And so this was just terrible blasphemy before a holy God. But then also he practiced human sacrifice. Look at verse 6. And he made his sons pass through the fire. and observed times and used enchantments and dealt with familiar spirits and wizards. He practiced human sacrifice, offering one of his own sons. to the pagan god Molech. This is the Ammonite God. They would do this in the Valley of Hinnan. This later Josiah will turn this valley, it became such a reprehensible place that Josiah will turn that valley into the garbage dump there for Jerusalem. And that'll be a permanent garbage dump where they will set the garbage on fire and that fire will continually burn, continually night and day. Later that'll be an image of hell where Jesus will point to it and use it to talk about the judgment of hell. But it was in the Valley of Hinnan where they would do this human sacrifice. And as unthinkable as it is, Manasseh had his own son put into the fire. Child sacrifice was a carryover from the wicked practices of the Canaanites. And also the same is true of the witchcraft. And all that was going on, Manasseh multiplied these evils. If it was sinful, Manasseh did it. Everything from divination to child sacrifice, but also he was guilty of murder. Look over in verse number sixteen of chapter twenty-one. Moreover, Manasseh shed innocent blood very much Till he had filled Jerusalem from one end to the other, to another, besides his sin, wherewith he made Judah to sin in doing that which was evil in the sight of the Lord. So he committed mass murder. We don't know the names of his victims, according to Jewish writings. We know that he slaughtered prophets. Uh again, as we had said, Josephus mentions that he killed Isaiah the prophet. But he killed innocent blood, the Bible says. He was guilty of innocent blood. And I can't help but say that we here in America are also guilty of innocent blood. Through through the through the t terrible abomination called abortion. And then he brought down God's judgment on the nation. Back up to verse number 10, and notice what it says in verse 10. And the Lord spake by his servants the prophets, saying, Because Manasseh, king of Judah, had done these abominations. And hath done wickedly above all the that the Amorites did, which were before him, and hath made Judah also to sin with his idols Therefore, thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Behold, I am bringing such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah that whosoever heareth of it, both his ears shall tingle. And I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria. And the plummet of the house of Ahab. And I will wipe Jerusalem as a man wiped a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down. And so it was these sins that sealed the fate of the nation of Judah. Manasseh led the people into this idolatry, and guess what? They filed into all of this very willingly. You would have thought with with some of the godly people in the land that had followed Hezekiah that they would have risen up against Manasseh and said, We're not going to do these things. But that's not what happened. These people people have the tendency to be followers, and they willingly follow along, and because of this, God promised judgment upon the nation of Judah. And in verse eleven it says that Manasseh caused the people to sin worse than the Canaanites that were before them in the land. Notice it says in verse eleven, he made Judah to sin. Of all the kings of Judah, only Manasseh is said to have made other people commit iniquity. Thus he multiplied the guilt of his own sins against God. He was by far the worst King Judah had in every way. And so God promises to judge Judah and Jerusalem. And the judgment that God promises is kind of scary. The imagery he uses here very vivid. God says when disaster strikes this city and this nation The ears of people will tingle. When they hear of all the bad things that I'm going to do, their ears will tingle, God says That is the the bad news will be spine tingling for these people here. But also he uses the image of a plumb line or a measuring line. And what God is saying there is that when God measured the northern kingdom of Israel and Samaria, the same measurement that he used to judge them so severely will be the line that God will also use. The plumb line that God used for Samaria will be the plumb line that God will use for Jerusalem and Judah. It'll be the same justice that God will meet out against Judah that He did against Israel. They didn't learn from the sins of the Northern Kingdom. They didn't learn from the judgment that happened at the Northern Kingdom. And God says, I'm going to use the same measure of judgment. What I did to Ahab's house, I'm going to do also to Jerusalem. But also God says it's going to be like wiping a dish clean. You know, it gives me the uh the the uh image in my mind of doing the dishes before dishwashers, some of you young people. We had to do the dishes ourselves. We were the dishwashers in my family. We all had a different night to wash the dishes. And uh, you know, when you wipe the dish clean, what would you do with it? You would turn it over. And you know, let it dry. And that's the image that God's using here. God says, you know, I'm going to completely destroy Jerusalem. It's going to be like a dish that is totally wiped clean. This is the disaster that God is going to bring down on all of the nation because of this. And Manasseh will bear responsibility for this coming calamity that is going to hit the nation of Israel. Now, just a just a reminder, remember part of the reason for the writing of 1 and 2 Kings is to let the people know why they were carried off in the exile Because many of the people in exile were thinking God failed them, or God failed to keep his promises, or or or the gods of the Babylonians were stronger than the God of Israel. And none of that is true. God is reminding the people here in these books that the reason they're carried away into captivity was not God's fault. It's not because God's not faithful, it's because he is faithful to his word. And God warned them. It's not God's fault, it's the fault of the kings And it's the fault of the people that followed their wicked leadership that brought down both Israel and the nation of Judah. God was faithful to his holy character, and God was faithful to his word. That's why the judgment came. So we see Manasseh's rebellion. But then we see Manasseh's repentance. If anyone was a candidate for hell, you would have thought Manasseh would be it. I mean, he again, he seems like a hopeless case if there ever was one. But the good news is, is because God is merciful, there's hope for the worst of sinners who repent. Just like Saul Tarshius, God delights in saving the chiefest of sinners and makes them into the best of his saints as a trophy of his grace. What the sinner must do is repent. Now you might say, well, now, I don't read anywhere in 2 Kings here, Pastor, where Manasseh repents. There's nothing in 2 Kings chapter 21 of him repenting. Well, that's not the end of the story. I want you to go to 2 Chronicles chapter 33 to get the end of the story for King Manasseh. This records his reign also. However The writer of Chronicles will give us some insights that the writer of 2 Kings leaves out. Look at 2 Kings 2 Chronicles 33, look in verse number 11. Notice where it says. Verse eleven. uh among the thorns and bound him with fetters and carried him to Babylon So God punishes Manasseh by having him carried away by the Assyrians to Babylon in chains. And this was a painful journey for Manasseh. God is punishing him. God is humbling him. But notice what happens in verse 12. And when he was in affliction, He besought the Lord his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers, and he prayed unto him. And He was entreated of him and heard his supplications and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the Lord he was God. I don't know about you, but I find that remarkable Manasseh is carried away into Babylonian captivity. He's so humbled by God's punishment that he repents of his sins. And as a result, God forgives him of his sins. But not only that, God restores them back to Jerusalem, back on the throne there. I mean, that's amazing when you think about that. No one is so far To be out of the reach of God's grace. Manasseh comes as close to the pre personification of evil as anyone does in the Old Testament, or for that matter, in all of the Bible. And if he could repent And get forgiveness from God, anyone can repent. God has grace for the humble. He will grant forgiveness to anyone who comes to Christ. who will humble themselves, who will turn to Christ in repentance and faith. That's what's amazing about this story. And we know what repentance is. It is a absolute complete turning to God. It is being sorry for your sins But it's not just a sorrow that is superficial. It's a sorrow that includes your whole being, where you turn with all of your heart to God. You turn from sin, you turn to God The Bible gives a beautiful definition of repentance in 1 Thessalonians 1 9. Paul said, talking about the Thessalonians, for they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, how that you turn to God From idols to serve the living and the true God. That's what salvation is. That's what repentance is They were turning from all their false idols. They turned away from all that, and they made a 180, and they turned to the true and the living God. Now, the uh Thessalonians were Greeks that were also given to idolatry. That whole area of Thessalonica. was a a place that was infested with gods. Not far from that city was the Mount Mount Olympus, the supposed residence of the chief of the Greek gods, Zeus. So there was all kind of worship of idols there, but when they heard the gospel, the Thessalonians turned from all that and they turned to Jesus Christ That is salvation. Someone said, well I thought that salvation was putting faith in Christ. Listen, repentance and faith are two sides of the same coin. You can't have one without the other If you have true faith, you're going to turn from sin. If you have two true repentance, you're going to turn to Christ. Both of those things are inseparable. Interchangeable. In fact, Paul says in Acts 26, verse 18, where he was relating Christ's uh or or Paul his ministry to the Gentiles. What he was supposed to do, he said this, is to open their eyes so that they might turn from darkness to light, and from the dominion of Satan to God, they're turning from darkness to light, from Satan to God In order that they might receive forgiveness of sins, that's what happens when you repent. You turn from darkness to light, from Satan to God, you get forgiveness of sins. and an inheritance among those who have been sanctified by faith in me. There's the faith part of it. The repentance is turning from light to darkness. The faith part in the last phrase shows that repentance is synonymous with faith. Faith. When you turn from sin to Christ, that is repentance, and faith is when you turn to Him. You truly, you can't truly believe in Christ without turning from your sin. And faith is included in that. And so that's exactly what Manasseh did. So I want you to see the third part of this. We see Manasseh's rebellion, Manasseh's repentance, but also then Manasseh's restitution. Because look at verse number 15 of chapter 33. Now after this he built a wall without the city of David on the west side of Gihon in the valley, even to the entering in at the fishgate. And then go on down to verse number 15. And he took away the strange gods and the idol out of the house of the Lord. And all the altars that he had built in the mount of the house of the Lord in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city. Verse 16, and he repaired the altar of the Lord. and sacrificed their own peace offerings and thank offerings, and commanded Judah to serve the Lord God of Israel. You know what? When a person is truly repentant of their sin, you know what? There'll be works that show the genuineness of that repentance. There'll be works that d demonstrate that it's real. Remember what Paul said to the Corinthians, when you have true repentance, you're going to turn to God. It's going to be a repentance that is without regret. It's going to be a repentance that produces earnestness and righteousness. You're going to want to really prove that your repentance is true by Righteous behavior. It produces a desire to show your repentance is real when you truly turn to God. You want others to know it You want others to see it. That's another sign of it. You're angry over the sin that you once practiced, and you'll have a true reverence for God. And you'll have a desire to have your relationship restored. It'll produce a zeal for holiness, and it also produces a desire for restitution. And again, that's exactly what we see here in Manasseh All the altars that he built up, now he tears them back down. The altars that he tore down, now he builds them back up. Whereas he was pointing people away from God, To worship false gods, now he is pointing people to God. To worship the true and living God He takes the altars and he cat the old false altars and he casts them out of the city, the Bible says, and he commands the people to worship God. What an incredible story this is, if you ask me. That's true repentance. That a monster like Manasseh could be forgiven. Could be saved, could be a trophy of the grace of God. If there's hope for a monster like Manasseh, guess what? There's hope for anyone. There's hope for anyone. Years ago, newspapers carried the story of a teenager named William. He was a fugitive from the police. He had run away with his girlfriend because the parents had been trying to break them up. But what William didn't know was that he had a ailment for which he had been seeing a doctor And uh he was diagnosed just before he ran away, but he didn't know the diagnosis because he had run away. But he was diagnosed with cancer. And he didn't know it. So here was William doing his best to elude the police Lest he lose his love. While they were doing their best to find him, lest he lose his life. He thought that they were after him to punish him, but really they were after him to save him. Maybe you thought of God in those terms. Maybe You're running from God thinking that God wants to punish you, and actually God is seeking after you because he wants to bless you. He wants to bring salvation to you. Even if you've been the worst of sinners, if you will turn to God, He will forgive your sin, and He will bless you No one is beyond hope. Because God's grace is greater than all of our sin. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, I thank you for stories like this that encourage our heart. That helps us to see that wherever sin abounds, grace does much more abound. This is an amazing story, Father, of your grace and forgiveness to a man who is so very desperately wicked. And yet, Lord, that's what all of us are. We're all sinners in your sight. We're all in need of your grace. Father, thank you that you do save sinners like Manasseh, because that means there's hope for me. There's hope for anyone that comes to Christ. I pray, Lord, if there's someone here tonight that's been running from God, I pray, Father, that they would see that you're after them, not to punish them, but to bless them. If they'll only repent of their sin and turn to Christ. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here tonight that has loved ones that are perhaps running from God. Maybe they were taught the right thing when they were young. They were educated into the things of God. And yet, Lord, they're running from that. Now they're they've turned away from all of it like Manasseh did From the feet of his godly father Hezekiah, he ran away, ran headlong into sin. And yet, in the end, Lord, there was mercy, there was forgiveness, there was grace. Lord, that gives us hope to pray for our loved ones, our friends that are in that condition, running from the Lord. That it's never too late. No one is beyond hope. And so, Lord, may this motivate us to pray all the more, to trust in you all the more, and Lord, to rejoice in your mercy and grace all the more. Father, we pray all these things in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen