Would you take God's word tonight, please, and uh open to 1 Corinthians chapter 2 tonight, 1 Corinthians chapter 2, and uh we come to the the last sermon I'm gonna do in this series on um Echoes from Puritan pulpits. This is number twenty one if you're counting. Um you have had a a kind of a little taste of what some of the things that they write, and I hope it's something that'll encourage you to read some of these books. But tonight I want to uh talk about one a lesser known Puritan uh named John Wall. He uh wrote a book, None But Christ. He was the pastor of St. Michael's Cornhill in London from sixteen forty six to six 1652. He only had one book published to his name, and this is the book. But what a book it is. Uh I have the book. It's reprinted, republished by Northampton Press. And uh this this book is uh it's not it's not smaller like some of the other Puritan books. This one has about 33 chapters in it, and it has a lot of great depth to it in about 300 pages And the basic idea that he expounds in this is something that we all would agree with, and that is everyone ought to study and to learn to know Christ. That's basic, that's foundational. But this was a passion with all of the Puritans. So in these 33 chapters, uh he basically teaches why we must know Christ, how we can come to know Christ, and the signs of those who do know Christ. He has a great section in the second half of the book on assurance of salvation. And for those who doubt, I would really recommend reading the second half of that book if you have s if you're someone that wrestles with doubts about your salvation. But he also in the in the second half of the book he exhorts ministers to preach Christ. We have some men today that have basically taken a lot of these Puritan works and they have uh republished them and they've kind of uh uh Put them in somewhat more modern English so it's a little bit easier for folks to read. Don Kessler is one of those men who's part of the republishing John MacArthur wrote about him. Don Kessler seems to have a special gift for rediscovering long-forgotten period and works that are perfectly suited to our time period. This is a compelling exhortation to give Christ his rightful place at the center of our thought our thought excuse me, our thoughts and our words This is a truly edifying and deeply convicting word of admonition to Christians today, seeking to honor Christ. And so none but Christ reflects really the central conviction of Puritan theology, and that is that Christ is to be treasured above everything else. He's to be treasured above everything else. He is the believer's supreme treasure. And uh so I just want to basically kind of sum up this message here. And again, uh it's it's impossible to give you in thirty, you know, thirty-three chapters of the book in a half hour um everything that he said. So I just want to really summarize a lot of his thoughts. But he bases the whole book on the passage, 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse number 2. Notice what it says in verse 2 of 1 Corinthians, for I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. And this verse should be the heart of every pastor and every preacher. That we magnify Jesus Christ. Every sermon should exalt Jesus Christ. I think it was Spurgeon that said, any sermon that doesn't mention Christ is a wasted sermon. Any sermon that doesn't go to the cross is a waste. So we always want to exalt the Lord Jesus Christ. And Wall writes this the heart of man was made for Christ, and it will find no rest until it finds him The world offers a lot of substitutes today for our Lord, but none can replace Christ. And so let me start off by just giving you the context of this passage here in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. But this is what Wall does a little bit in his book, and I just want to kind of give you the full context of what is going on in 1 Corinthians 2. 2. And really the context begins all the way back in chapter 1, verse 18. Look at 1 Corinthians 1:18. For the preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness, but unto us which are saved it is the power of God. Now what's Paul doing here in this letter? He's trying to get the Corinthians to turn from human wisdom to embrace the wisdom of the cross You may have heard me talk about this before, that the problem that the Corinthian church had was the love of human wisdom. There were a lot of surface fruits that revealed the deep root of the problem, and the deep root of the problem was that rather than putting their faith, full faith in the wisdom of Christ and the cross, they were enamored with human wisdom. It was causing a division among the people there, the church. There were philosophical factions in the city of Corinth. Today in America we have Democrats and we have Republicans. Can you imagine having fifty political parties? The kind of division that would cause. In the small city of Corinth, there were as many as fifty different philosophical factions that were all campaigning for people, vying for people's attention and affection, trying to get them on their side. And pe people came became zealous for their leader. There was normally a teacher of wisdom, philosophical teacher, that they would call a sophist teacher. And he would come into a city and he would announce the subject that he was going to speak on, and he would announce the venue and a crowd would gather and he would he would begin to launch into his his theme, his subject. And he often would speak with great words of wisdom. He had a polished rhetorical, uh oratorical skill that would sway the people that were there And the people when they would hear them, they were j they just loved to hear that kind of oratory. It was kind of an entertainment in that day, just like we like uh entertainment sometimes today. Uh they would listen to these men and uh And they were always swayed by them. And so this was the problem that was going on there. The spirit of the city was entering into the church. And many in the church of Corinth were saying, I am of Paul, and other would say, I am of Apollos, and others would say, I'm of Cephas. And the real spiritual ones would say, I am of Christ. You know. And so what was going on was this was c creating division because the same spirit of factionism based on a teacher was permeating the church and this was all based on their love for Greek wisdom. It was an obstacle to their spiritual growth. Human wisdom and philosophy cannot help you grow spiritually. In fact, it'll stunt your spiritual growth. The Bible says this in Jeremiah 17. Thus says the Lord, Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, that maketh flesh his arm, whose heart departs from the Lord. The moment you begin to put your faith And the wisdom of man, your heart begins to depart from the Lord. And so it keeps people from growing, it keeps people from getting divine wisdom. Paul showed that those who trust in human wisdom will never really fully understand or trust in the wisdom of the cross. So it's either man's wisdom or God makes you uh you make you make your choice to be God's wisdom. And so Paul is seeking to persuade the Corinthians to stop listening to the wisdom of man and to put your faith in the wisdom of the cross. Because the wisdom of God starts at the cross. It starts with Christ. And it is so far superior to the wisdom of man. In what way is it superior? Well it's superior in its power. We see this in chapter 1 verse 18, for the preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness but not what they're saved. It's the power of God God's wisdom is power. When Paul says the preaching of the cross here, he's not using the Greek word caruso Or Uangeleon, he uses a unique word for preaching which is logos, and the idea there is the logic of the cross. In other words, the message of the cross, the logic of the gospel, we could say. I think that uh the the sophist teachers of wisdom were all known for their logic. They were known for their reason And they would not they would look at the logic of the cross and they would consider that to be foolishness. How can a a man die upon a wooden cross by crucifixion, capital punishment, and that's a how can that death change anybody's life? It just didn't make sense to those Greeks and their philosophical wisdom. To them it was foolish. It's the word moros, moronic That whole message of the gospel is just, it seems senseless, silly, sluggish to the mind. The foolishness is not referring to the manner of proclamation. It is referring to the actual message itself. The actual message of the gospel. And so these people loved wisdom, but they didn't see that the wisdom of the cross has a power to it. Philosophy never saved anyone. If you don't believe me, just study the great philosophers and then study where they ended up. Study what their philosophy did to them, if you don't believe me. The wisdom of man can do nothing for people. The wisdom of God is so superior in its power. The power of the cross changes lives. And we've seen it change lives, haven't we? We've seen the the the grace of God through the cross of Christ absolutely changed people's lives. It's superior because of its power, but also it's superior because of its permanence. Look at verse number 19 of chapter 1. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Had not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? And I think in verse 20, Paul is imitating one of these sophist teachers who would love to go on a a rant asking these rhetorical questions. That was all part of their rhetorical ability. And here Paul kind of turns the table on them and says, you know, where is the scribe? Where is the wise man? Where is the disputer of the world? Hasn't God made foolish their wisdom? Don't you see that? And Paul quotes in verse 19 a passage, he's alluding to it from the Old Testament, Isaiah 29, 19. And the whole point is that the wisdom of man will be destroyed. God will bring it to nothing And he's referring here to a story in Isaiah. When Isaiah made that prophecy, Sennacherib was the king of Assyria. He was planning on conquering Judah and Jerusalem. And all the people were worried. And God spoke to Isaiah the prophet and said, Look, don't worry. Don't worry about that. I know they're out there. They're they're conniving together. Here's Sennacher, but he's got all his wise men He's got all of his military generals and all of their genius and all of their strategy and they're they're having a meeting together and they're brainstorming and they're getting all the best plans on how they're going to lay siege to Jerusalem and how they're going to destroy This whole city. And what does God say to Isaiah the prophet? I will bring to nothing the wisdom otherwise. I'm going to bring it all to nothing. And Judah will be saved by God's power. And in fact that happened. God destroyed the Assyrian army. You remember the story in the Old Testament? 185,000 soldiers? destroyed by one angel. Didn't take God much. God's probably selected the smallest angel in heaven and said, go take care of my light work. But take care of this. And the wisdom of the wise came to nothing by the power of God. Men are inclined to solve their problems, to fight their own battles by their own ingenuity and strength. But man's own wisdom and strength only gets in the way of God. God's wisdom is superior because of his power It is superior because of its permanence. Man's wisdom is going to be destroyed. God's wisdom is here to stay. But also because of its product. God's wisdom in the cross is so much more superior because of what it produces. Look at verse 21 of chapter 1. For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. The wisdom of God is the preordained way that God uses to reveal Himself to man. You can't know God by going to the philosopher. You can't know God by studying some wise man's great philosophy. That's not how God reveals himself. He doesn't do it that way. Philosophy does not bring salvation. What's the God-ordained way in which to bring about His wisdom? Like it or not, it comes through the preacher. And it's not because I'm wise. Because I'm nothing. But the gospel and the message of God's Word is everything. So that even an average or below average person like myself can stand up and proclaim to you The clear message of the gospel and it has such a profound effect because the power, again, is in the message itself God has ordained that his wisdom, the wisdom of the cross, will be dispensed through the preaching of his word, through preachers of the word. That's the way God ordained it. Look at verse twenty-two. For the Jews require a sign. The Jews are always saying, Give us a sign, give us a sign. The Greeks seek after wisdom. But what does Paul say in verse 23? But we preach Christ crucified unto the Jews the stumbling block, unto the Greeks' foolishness. It's just the simple preaching of the cross, Paul said. The Jews are looking for some kind of miraculous heavenly sign. They had a lot of them in the m in the life of Jesus, but they just didn't recognize it And the Greeks were looking for some new idea, some something that challenged their thinking, that they could wrap their intellectual mind around and and talk about it and debate it on places like Mars Hill. But that's not the message of the gospel. The gospel is a very simple message, and yet it is so very profound. And it is the power of God. It's superior to man's wisdom because of its power, because of its permanence, because of its product, what it produces. It again it produces changed lives. And the philosophy can't do that. But also because of its plan. Because of its plan. Look at verse 26 and verse 28. For you see your calling, brethren. How that not many wise after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise And God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, has God chosen, yea, and the things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are The wisdom of the cross is superior because of what it does for nobodies the unwanted, the weak, the people that the world considers to be foolish, people that are insignificant. Through the cross of Christ, God takes nobodies and he makes them somebody's. What's that old saying? I'm a nobody, telling everybody about somebody who can save anybody. I mean that's true. Here Paul says to the Corinthians, look at yourself. Not a very complimentary thing to say. He didn't meet in that complimentary way. He said, look around you. You don't see a whole lot of wise among you. You don't see the elite, the aristocracy. You don't see the rich among you. You don't see the nobilities. You see the nobodies. I mean you look around you, look at your calling, he says. Not many wise or noble, but God's chosen the foolish things of the world. That's what I am, that's what you are. God has chosen the weak things of the world. That's what I am. I'm okay with that. I'm good because I can hide in the strength of Jesus. God's chosen the weak things of the world, the things that are despised, the things which which are not, to bring the naught to things that are That's God's whole plan. To take people and make them somebody through the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Why does he do that? At verse 28, the base things of the world and the things which are despised as God chosen, yea, the things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are. God can take people that are the cast the castaways of society, and he can change them, and they can stand up and they can speak with profound wisdom. And and the somebodies of this world look at him and say, Wh where did they come from? How are they able to speak like that? How are they able to have this? You know, it reminds me when I was taking uh a PhD seminar at Johns Hopkins. Uh I I could do one, I was studying through Mid America, but I could do one at another university and I sat in a classroom full of Ivy League students and they were all looking around at me like, what is he doing here? What are you doing here? You know, that was the attitude. And I would look around and I would say, What am I doing here? And you know, we would study passages in the in Isaiah, some of the greatest Old Testament messianic passages, and we would have to read through the Hebrew, and then they would have to give uh a translation of that and then an interpretation of that. And there was nobody in that group of PhD students that could see Christ in those passages. None of them. Whenever they gave the translation and they gave some kind of bizarre uh interpretation to the passage, every time it was my turn, I would see Christ in it. Wow, why did God allow me to see that and they couldn't see it? Is it because I was smarter than them? No, they were all smarter than me. They were all brilliant. But you're not going to understand God's word unless the Holy Spirit, in his grace, opens your eyes to see truth, to see the beauty of Christ. And that's what God does for the weak, for the nobodies. God takes us and He out of our weakness, He He makes us strong. And that's the why does God do that? Well look in verse number uh again twenty-nine that no flesh should glory in his presence. None of us have any right to glory or boast about anything. The only thing that we can boast in, like the Apostle Paul said, is the cross of Christ. That's the only thing we can glory in. We can't glory in anything else. And so no flesh Should glory in his presence. And I love verse 30 and verse 31. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us what? Wisdom. You know why you don't need the wisdom of the world? Because you've got the wisdom of God in Christ. What do you need the wisdom of the world for? Well, why are you looking to the world for wisdom? You have all the wisdom that you need because you have Christ. Christ is our wisdom and Christ is our righteousness. We have no righteousness of our own. It's only the righteousness of Christ. And Christ is our sanctification, and Christ is our redemption. So, what's the sum of it all? And verse 31 sums it up. That according as it is written, him that glories, let him glory in what? Glory in the Lord. Just glory in the Lord. That's the only thing we can glory in. And that's all I want to glory in. It's that's the whole purpose. It brings glory to God. The wisdom of man glorifies man, but the wisdom of God in the cross and in Christ, it glorifies God. God is the one who gets the glory for that, so that no flesh can glory in his presence. And then another idea here, again, we're following Paul's thought. The wisdom of God is superior because of its power, its permanence, its plan, its product, its purpose, but then finally because of its presentation. That is to say, it's superior in the way that it is presented. And here Paul is contrasting the way the wisdom of God is presented as opposed to the way the wisdom of man is presented. These teachers of philosophy, when they would present their wisdom, you know what they would do? They would again they would use great swelling words of wisdom. They had such great style. In fact, these sophist teachers, they dressed a certain way, they walked a certain way, they looked a certain way, and parents would would uh Pay a tuition and let their children study under these teachers. And they were encouraged in what the Romans called imitatio. Imitate your teacher. Imitate everything he does. Imitate his style, imitate his voice, imitate his manner They were to imitate everything about them. And they would get up and again they would hold people sway with their words. And when Paul came to Corinth, he saw all that going on. And Paul wanted to be very clear to be to not be that. You know why? Because he didn't want people to think that God's message of salvation, the gospel, was dependent in any way on the wisdom of man. You know what the gospel's not dependent upon? It's not dependent upon style. Style. You know a lot of churches today they're out there, they're trying to be stylish, cool. I mean, cool passed me up a long time ago If I wore jeans and a t-shirt and and slides. I I wouldn't mind doing that by the way. But if I you know, as if that in any way is gonna get people into the church And the church, the kingdom of God will be here quicker because we have spotlights and smoke coming up, that style, that certain style that is so cool, everybody likes. Paul would stay away from all that. That was what was going on in Corinth. These guys had style. They had style, but you know what they didn't have? They didn't have real wisdom. They didn't have the gospel. They didn't have the message of salvation. And so when Paul came to Corinth, Paul said, you know what, I I'm just uh I just wanted you to know it just Jesus Christ and Him crucified Look what it says in verse one of chapter two. We get into the context then. And I, brethren, when I came to you, it came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. I didn't use all of that Greek rhetorical uh stuff that could sway audiences. And by the way, Paul probably could have. He was a pretty smart guy He was a gifted person. One of the criticisms they rendered against him was that his his speech is contemptible. He's not like these other guys. I mean he he doesn't really hold us sway with the way he speaks. Paul said, I didn't come with the excellency of speech or of wisdom. Declaring on you the testimony of God. What was his purpose? Very simple in verse two. For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling, and my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstrations of the spirit and power. Why, Paul That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. And that is something that we need to imitate today desperately as preachers. I don't want your faith to stand in me. I don't want your faith to be in my whatever ability or lack of ability I may have. The power is in the message itself. Why? I don't want your faith to stand in any of that. I want your faith to be in the gospel itself. in the power of the gospel, in Jesus Christ himself. And this is the whole point of 1 Corinthians 2. 2, where Paul is emphasizing this. I want you to know nothing but Jesus Christ and him crucified. Again, Paul was not ignorant of other subjects. Uh Paul could have probably spoken about anything that they gave him to speak about, but all those things are empty and void and nothing in comparison to the message of the gospel Which at the center of it is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. The greatest subject in all of the world is Christ. The greatest thing that you could study, the greatest person that you can know Is Jesus Christ. And that is the whole thrust of the book by John Wall. And John Wall writes: Christ crucified is the treasure of the gospel. And the life of the believing soul. The world, they say, you know, you need more education and uh you need more of what the world can offer. But scripture says our need, our great need is Christ, is to know more of Christ. You know what you need tonight? You need to know more about Jesus Christ. You need to love Christ more. That's the great need of the church. That's the great need of the believer. And so in the beginning of the book, John Wall will write doctrine. The Puritans would always, at the beginning of the book, write doctrine. Spell out the whole doctrine. Here's the whole point. And what does he write? The great lesson that everyone ought, especially, to study and learn is to know Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And that is true. So let me just summarize a lot of what Wall says in just three headings that I give it Again, you know, it's 33 chapters. He has he ha there's a lot of scripture verses. He will refer to other verses that teach these same things, but This is really the whole center of what he's trying to communicate to believers back then and a message that we need desperately today. So think with me about the excellency of Christ. The excellency of Christ, Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Wall's burden is to show the surpassing excellence of Christ Himself. There's nothing that compares to Him, there's no wisdom that measures up to Him. There's no wise man that surpasses Jesus in any way. Christ is excellent. And Christianity is not just some philosophy, it's not just some system of truth. Christianity is Christ. It is Christ. And so the believer is not merely saved by doctrines about Christ. But by union with Christ, by knowing Christ in an experiential way. And Wall writes, there's more worth in Christ than in all the world besides. And he just goes on and you know throughout the book he'll talk about the way in which Christ is excellent and he'll spend time in chapters kind of developing that thought Christ is excellent in his person, and he'll emphasize the full humanity and the full deity of Christ uniting together in one person. The second person of the Trinity, when you study Jesus and know him and his incarnation, you see the beauty and the excellence of Christ as the God man. He writes, All beauty, sweetness, fullness, and desirableness dwell in Christ. Christ is excellent in his work. Focusing on the cross Christ crucified. The glory of Christ shines through Calvary. And since the time I've been saved, I've been saved for a while now and I've studied a lot and I will just tell you like this, I still cannot fully wrap my mind around the cross of Christ. There's so much more that takes place there at the cross that I can fully comprehend in my mind. It's just amazing when you think about all of it together. And what Jesus accomplished there on the cross. But Christ is excellent in his work. It was there at the cross that justice of God was satisfied, that wrath, the wrath of God was absorbed. came upon Christ and sin was punished. And what Law will do is in chapter three he'll he'll talk about the suffering of Christ before the cross all of what led up to him going to the cross. In chapter 4, he'll talk about all the suffering of Christ upon the cross. And he writes, the cross is the highest theater of divine love and justice. And that is so true. And what he does is he he re he repeatedly attacks self-righteousness. By reminding the reader that it's entirely of Christ. Now we know that here that's kind of fundamental to us, but I want to let you know, and the the audience that he was writing to back in that day could were people that had the mindset that that that that th that Christ's righteousness could actually help out their own righteousness That in some way they can make some contribution to the gospel. And there are still people that think that way today. That is if The works that they do in some way contributes to or adds to the righteousness of Christ. You understand that you have zero righteousness? Zero? And there's nothing that you can do to add to what Christ has done? He said, Why do we do good works? Not to earn salvation, not because we can add anything to what Christ has done, but it's all out of gratitude and worship for what Christ has done for us. It is us pouring out our gratitude to Christ. Price is excellent in sufficiency. And while we'll mention that, price is sufficient for every spiritual need. And that is a message that the church needs today. Sometimes I wonder if we've lost that because it seems like Christians are going around trying to find something that they can't find in the gospel or in Christ. And failing to realize that Christ is sufficient. He's sufficient for all of our spiritual needs. Christ is excellent above all earthly things. And while we'll take a long section talking about this very thing. How Christ is so much better than earthly treasure. Money fades, pleasure fades, beauty fades, reputation fades, even life itself passes away, but Christ remains forever. He surpasses all of those earthly things. And then he goes on to talk about knowing Christ. In chapter 9, knowing Christ is the what he calls the sweetest knowledge. And chapter 10. Knowing Christ is the most profitable knowledge, the most profitable thing that you can do is to know Christ. The most comfortable Knowledge that you can have is knowing Christ in times of trial and distress and suffering. And then he spends a lot of time rebuking people for knowing nothing about Christ. And then he rebukes people for knowing a lot of things, but they don't study Christ. He rebukes the mathematician for knowing all about math and geometry and calculus and being brilliant and all that and knowing nothing about Christ. And the scientist who knows a lot about science, and the philosopher that knows a lot about man's philosophy, but he knows nothing of Christ. All of that is vain knowledge without Christ. None of that can help you in any way. Not that it's bad to know that, but how can you know so much about all these other things and not know about the greatest subject that there is, which is Christ? And then he spends time rebuking those who entertain speculations about Christ. And the seminary class I taught this semester, it was in the Gospels, the life of Christ. And we did a a uh a few sessions on what is out there today in New Testament scholarship, which is what is called this um the Jesus Seminar. Have you ever heard of the Jesus Seminar? Some of you hear that? Don't worry if you've never heard about it It's actually a good thing. But there are actually new t New Testament scholars out there, men who claim to be really smart, and they're searching for the historical Jesus. What does that mean? Well, basically what it means is they reject the historicity of the gospels. They say we really can't trust the history of the gospels. After all, it was written by the church, it was propaganda given by the church We do know that there was a Jesus and that he lived in that time. We do know according to Roman records that he was crucified and he did live, and they will Go to all these secular sources and talk about Christ, that there was a person named Christ, but we really can't know who the real Jesus is. And they entertain all these speculations about in twenty uh two thousand and one or maybe it was two thousand, I believe it was. Peter Jennings did a s uh a story on ABC News, maybe you saw it called The Search for the Historical Jesus Pretending to be an objective journalist, and he went all around and he talked to all these scholars and said, Oh, we're we're looking for the historical Jesus. And what is that? That's a backhand attack against the Bible. Because but they're saying the Bible's not reliable. We really that's not really the real Jesus, the one in the Bible. That was the one made up. But we have to find the real Jesus. We have to search. And so we're going to go around and we're going to talk to all these people. And we're going to interview all these scholars, and I listened to it all. These these uh men professing themselves to be wise who became fools. You let me just let me just save you the the hour of watching that You can know nothing about Christ outside of the Bible. The Bible is the source where God reveals who Jesus is. There are a lot of people out there entertaining speculations, and acting like they're trying to really know Christ, but they're not. They're actually running from the true Christ. They're not seeking him, they're running from him. And they're pushing away the truth about who Jesus is. Again, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. So we study Christ through Scripture. But then number two is the elements of truly knowing Christ, and I'll have to hurry up here. He really spends a lot of time saying, you know, how do you know that you know Christ? And he argues that many know about Christ, but they don't know Christ savingly. And true knowledge of Christ is not just doctrinal, not just intellectual. You can know all the doctrine about Christ, you can know intellectually about Christ but not really know him in a experiential way, to know him spiritually. That that that just Intellectual, mental knowledge without knowing who Christ is in a real way is not going to save you. True knowledge of Christ produces faith in Christ alone. So how do I know that I truly know Christ? Is your faith in Jesus and Him alone? Do you believe what the gospel say about him? Is that the Christ that you worship and you accept? And know that your faith is in him and in him alone. It's not trusting in any kind of morality or any kind of religion or good works or membership or personal righteousness True knowledge of Christ produces a love for Christ. It produces a love for Christ. And Wall says where Christ is rightly known, he is dearly loved. And Christ will become precious to you. So do you love Christ? True knowledge of Christ produces obedience. You will obey. Wall writes, the heart won by Christ yields itself to him, and true knowledge of Christ produces communion with him, real true communion. It produces a separation from the world. And a real perseverance in faith. But let me give you the final thing here, and that is the evaluation of knowing Christ. And then again, this is uh we'll give you everything, we don't have time, but th this part of the book he really spends a lot of time asking the reader to honestly evaluate whether they truly know Christ. And I think He does such a a masterful job in this section of the book, just really dealing with people's doubts. And and and trying to help them with a true assurance of salvation. And what he'll do and and Puritans are famous for doing this, they will entertain the question and then give the answer, entertain the question, what about this, and then give the answer, and he'll just go through a litany of those and Basically, it's just examine yourself. Examine your confidence. Are you really confident in Christ alone? Are you empty of any self-righteousness and any trust in your own ability? But Filled with Christ and your affections. Where does your affections reign? What reigns supreme in your heart? What consummates your thoughts? What do you think about the most? That's the thing that you love. Do you think about Christ? Is there a desire in your heart to obey him, a desire for obedience? Because it's obeying your Lord? And do you honestly have fellowship with Him? Do you experience that fellowship that is so very real for the child of God? Is prayer something that is a burden to you? Now if we're going to be honest, sometimes it's hard to pray because our flesh gets in the way. But that shouldn't be the the pattern. The normal thing should be that we we delight in prayer. We delight in communion with Christ in prayer. And Wall says the gracious soul longs after communion with Christ above all earthly comforts. So examine all of those things and ask, do you know him? But the whole message of the book is none but Christ. This is the greatest subject. This should be the passion of our life to know more of Christ. And that knowledge should grow every day. The more that we are saved, the longer that we're saved, the more we want to know of Jesus Christ. And the less the things and the pleasure of the world satisfy us, and the more Christ satisfies us. And if we are satisfied by anything in the world, it's only because we recognize those are gifts from the Lord to us. And in enjoying those things, we enjoy Him. Because we recognize that everything is from His hand. Wall writes finally, Christ is all and in all to the believing soul. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you for your word and all that we can learn about our Savior in it. The written word teaches us all about the living word. And I pray that, Lord, we will take to heart the message that was, these messages actually plural that was preached so long ago by a godly Puritan John Wall. And communicate it again to us in this day and age how we need to make our obsession our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That's what Paul mean uh meant, I think, Father, when Paul said, I'll glory in the cross of Christ. I'll glory in Christ. Christ was Paul's obsession. Paul said that I might know him. The power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings. Lord, may that be the passion of our heart as well, that we know more of our Lord. And we be conformed into his image. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.