Go Psalms, and I want you to go to chapter number 90. Psalm 90, this is a wonderful psalm, and I'm sure it's very familiar to you And while you're finding that in just a few days, I'm going to head over to London to visit my daughter Abby. She's going to have her first baby, our first grandchild. So pray for us. One thing about London that I learned, did you know that the clocks on the the big clocks over there, not all of them, but a lot of them, when they chime, they chime every 15 minutes Imagine that. A clock, big clocks like the Westminster chimes, they chime every quarter hour, every 15 minutes. Think about that. Who invented the chime that would chime for every fifteen minutes uh in an hour. That's a lot of ringing, a lot of chiming. Why did that happen? Well I read recently that that's not an accident. That was an invention that goes all the way back to the Puritans. And why did they invent clocks that chimed every 15 minutes? Well, because the Puritans were so concerned about the way they used their time And they didn't want to waste any of it, that they devised a method for clocks to chime every quarter hour, and that is to remind them that time is continuing to move on and don't waste any of it And so that's where all of that comes from. And why did they do that? Well, because they read Psalms like Psalm 90 and they take very seriously the admonition that we're going to read tonight. And that is that time is a precious gift. We're on the we're in the I was going to say on the verge of a new year. We're actually in it, aren't we? Uh we're in a new year and twenty seventeen And so always when we come to a new year, we are reminded again of the gift of time that God gives us and how we should use our time. And so I want us to learn some lessons here that Psalm 90 will give us. First of all, notice I want you to notice that the writer of this psalm, if you look at the uh above verse one, a prayer of Moses, the man of God. So this is a psalm that is written by Moses. So this is the oldest psalm in the book of Psalms because it was written by Moses. Now, this is the only psalm that we see in the book of Psalms written by Moses. Now, Moses wrote other psalms that are found in the Pentateuch that he wrote, but this is the only psalm that we find in this book that Moses wrote. When did he write this? He wrote this right after Israel's failure, that is recorded in Numbers thirteen and fourteen, in his event that the Bible calls The provocation. Now, why does the Bible call it the provocation? And I know that you know the story, but let me review it with you. You remember when the children of Israel came right to the very verge of crossing over into the promised land They came to the Jordan River. Moses sent out twelve spies, right, on a reconnaissance trip over into the Promised Land, and they brought back a report. And the Bible tells us that of the twelve spies, ten gave an evil report. Joshua and Caleb, of course, were filled with faith, but the others were not. And the Bible says in Numbers thirteen thirty one, but the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. And they brought an evil report. to the children of Israel. Well, that n negative report caused fear and criticism began to spread And the Bible says in Numbers 14, 1, and all the congregation lifted up their voice and cried, and the people wept that night, and all the child children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron. And that's why it's called the provocation. Because they provoked God to anger with their unbelief And the Lord said to Moses, How long do I have to deal with these people? They are provoking me to anger. And if you read that story carefully, the ten men who brought back a bad report got the plague. And they died. And then God judged the rest of Israel. In Numbers fourteen, twenty-nine it says, Your carcasses shall fall in this wilderness. And those who are 20 years old and upward, of course, we know that murmured against God were the ones that died. 20 years old and downward were those who were able to go over and possess the land. And so this was God's judgment against Israel. And God they because they provoked the anger of God Now the very next day, if you read the story, they came back to Moses and said, You know what? We messed up yesterday. We had a bad day. We're ready to go over now. And Moses said, It's too late. God already set the door. You will not go over. And so for uh the next 40 years, that older uh generation died in the wilderness. Now think about this. 1. 2 million Jews is estimated died in that wilderness over the next 40 years. That's a lot of graves. So you think about it, whenever they traveled and journeyed through the wilderness, they left behind a trail of tombstones and fresh graves because people were dying all over. And when Moses saw this, Moses, and you can imagine how he feels, I'm sure people that he knows, people that he worked with, people that he loved, they're dropping like flies all around him And when he sees this, he begins to reflect deeply about the brevity of life, the surety of death the holiness of God, the sinfulness of man. He begins to think about time and eternity and the value of days. And because of all of these feelings, he writes down this majestic psalm that we see here, Psalm 90, and it basically falls into four different stanzas Verses one and two talks about the eternal nature of God. Verses three through six talks about the mortal nature of man, and then God's wrath over man's sin in verses seven through eleven. And finally There's a prayer for mercy that he gives in verses 12 down to verse 17. But the central idea in Psalm 90 is found in verse 12. I want you to look at it, where it says, so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. In other words, since this life is so unpredictable and short Teach us to number our days. You know, normally people number their years. They get out their calendar and they plan out their whole year. But a lot of times we don't necessarily number our days. We need to learn to live a day at a time. Jesus said, give us this day our daily bread. And so that's what Moses means. We need to value each day. We need to number our days. A little boy came to his grandfather and he said, Paul, Paul, he said, Can I live right for all of my life? And his grandfather said, No son, you're not going to be able to live a perfect life for all of your life. He said, Well can I live a uh a right life, a perfect life for a year? He said, no, you're not going to be able to live perfectly for a year. He said, well, what well Paul Paul, what about a month? Can I live a perfect life for a month? And he said, no. You're not going to be able to live a perfect life. And he said, well, Paul Paul, what about a week? You think I can live a perfect life for a week? And again the grandfather said, no, you're not going to be able to live a perfect life for a week. He said, well, what about a day? And again, the grandfather saw it and he said, No, you're not going to be able to live perfectly for a day. He said, Well, grandpa, what about an hour? And again the Grand Paul thought and looked at him and said, Knowing you, no, you're not going to be able to live a perfect life for an hour. And so finally the grandson said, well what about could I live right for a moment? And the grandfather thought and he said, you know what, yes. You can live right for a moment. And so the little boy said, okay, Paul, Paul, then I want to live my life moment by moment That's good. That's really what Moses is talking about here. Teach us, Lord, to number our days Now, let me just give you four quick lessons. If we need to learn to number our days, I want you to see the four lessons that Moses gives us here in Psalm 90 that will help us to number our days And really, we're going to jump into some theology here because that's what Moses does in these verses. So write down, here's the first thing. Think about the timeless nature of God. The timeless nature of God. Look in verse number one. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting To everlasting thou art God. Again, this is some deep thinking here by Moses. And he's learning more. He was a superb theologian, and he says about God, he is eternal. From everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Now, theologians, when they talk about the attributes of God, they like to divide the attributes up into two categories And first they have what they call the communicable attributes of God, and then they have what they like to call the incommunicable attributes attributes of God. You say, what's the difference? What are the communicable attributes of God? That's simply this. These are attributes that God communicates with us, or we could say that God shares with us. These are attributes that God has that He's also given us. For example, God is love, right? Has God communicated that attribute to us? Are we able to love Absolutely. We are creatures created with a relationship nature. And so we are able to love. God is a God of knowledge, and we're also able to have knowledge. God is a God of wisdom. He communicated these attributes with us, truthfulness and mercy and peace and goodness and so on, we can go down the list. However, there are some attributes of God that are called incommunicable attributes, and that is the sense in which these are attributes that are unique to God Himself. He does not share these with us. This is what makes God. This is what makes him transcendent. And Moses mentions one of these we we could call incommunicable attributes of God in verse two when he says, from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. This is called the eternality of God, the fact that God has no beginning or end or succession of moments the way we experience it. He sees time equally vivid Past, present, and future. In other words, God is simply timeless in his own being. He has always existed, he always will exist. Write down Job 36, 26. Behold, God is great, and we know him not. That is, we don't know everything about him. He's uh God is incomprehensible And then he goes on to say, neither can the number of his years be searched out. And what Job is saying there is that to really understand that God is an eternal being is beyond us. I can't comprehend that. That God is eternal, that he has no beginning, that he has no ending, that he always was. Revelation calls him the Alpha and the Omega. The beginning and the end. Now, where did Moses learn this? You remember in Exodus 3 when uh God appeared to Moses at the burning bush, and Moses said, Who shall I say sent me? And God said, I am There's so much depth in that one expression. Talk about incommunicable attributes. So many are wrapped up in that one expression. The independence of God the unity of God, the immutability of God, the omnipresence of God, certainly the eternality of God is all rolled up into that one expression. He is the great I am But here's the thing. We dwell in time, and God dwells outside of time. He doesn't dwell in time. Another way to say it that God doesn't come from time. Time comes from God. He is the creator of time. Because we see in verse number two, Moses describes events that happen in time in verse two, mountains being formed and the earth and the world, and then we see at the latter part of verse 2, uh God being outside of time in eternity, from everlasting to everlasting. Let me give you an analogy to kind of help you. Imagine a clear tube, a clear tunnel, you know, and we can call it the tube of time And uh you ever yeah another illustration, you ever see those hamster cages where they have those clear tubes and you can see the hamster crawling around in there, you know, a little rat running through there, you know. And You can just stand back. You can see this whole tube. You see it all equally vivid. And you can see where the hamster has been. Where he is and where he's going, because he dwells inside that tube called time, we could say, and we dwell outside of that tomb And so we see past, present, and future all equally vivid. And that's just an analogy of how God sees time. He dwells outside of time. Because he is everlasting and he is eternal. And so he sees everything equally vivid In his eyes. 2 Peter 3. 8 says, But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing. What day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. I heard about a man who prayed and said, God, what's a million years to you? And God said it's just a minute. He said, what's a million dollars to you? God said it's just a penny. He said, God, can I have just a penny? God said, just a minute. But here's the point. Since we all dwell in time, we are the ones who need to number our days. Because time is something that God created. It is something that God gives us as a gift. And so therefore we need to number our days. So number one, there is the timeless nature of God. But write down number two, I want you to see another thing in here. There is the temporary nature of man. Not only the timeless nature of God, but the temporary nature of man. Look what it says in verse 3. Now, in contrast to the eternality of God, there's the mortality of man. Thou turnest man to destruction and sayest, return ye children of men. What does he mean when he says, Return ye children of men? Moses is basically saying that man came from dust and dirt and he's going to return to dust and dirt. Why? Because God determines it. The God who created man from dust will ultimately turn him back into dust. And I think Moses here is referring to the curse. that God gave to man in Genesis chapter 3 and verses 17 through 19, when Adam listened to his life and God therefore cursed the earth And the ground for his sake, and then he says in verse 19, In the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat bread till thou return unto the ground, for out of it wast thou taken, for dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return. It's going to happen to all of us. All of us. I read about a man named Arthur Reed. Incredible story. He was 123 years old. And there's some facts about him that are just astounding. He was married for the third time when he was 92. His other wives died. He would walk five miles every day when he was 100. He rode a bicycle until he was 110. He worked until he was 116. When asked the secret of his long life, this is what he said. He said, They made me out of good dirt. That was his response. But you know what? He did die. And he did return back to that good dirt. And here's the point. It doesn't matter how good the dirt is that made you, you're going to return back to it. Man's time is temporary. Look at verse 4. For a thousand years in thy sight, but as yesterday when it is past. and as a watch in the night. Even if it were possible for a man to live a thousand years old, it is still to God like a watch in the night, he says, what's a watch for in the night, the Jews would divide the night up into three groups, three four-hour periods. A watch was a third of the night, not the full night, but a third of that night. And so a thousand years to God It's like a a third of a night watch. It's not that long. And so, and because God says that man will return back to dust. Why? Because God says, Return ye, children of men, verse number three. And again, the implication here of this is that time is so fleeting It goes by so quickly. And then Moses uses several poetic analogies. Look in verse 5. Thou carriest them away as with a flood. He uses the illustration of a flash flood. Death is like a flash flood. It comes suddenly and sweeps everything in its path. We know about that, right? Based on July 30 in Ellegant City. That flood only lasted just above an hour. It came in, it swept things away. It was here. It was gone. It took things with it. Moses is saying, this is what death is like. It comes suddenly like a flash flood It carries a person away. It's like suddenly falling asleep again in verse 5. It says, they are as a sleep. It comes like sudden sleep. You ever you ever get to where you're just sleepy, you can't hold your eyes open? I don't mean right now. Everybody wake up. You ever get to the point where you're just tired? I remember I was working through college, I was working a third shift job. I would go to uh work at eleven, get off at seven, I had an 8. 30 class, I had just enough time to go home, get a shower, get to class. And not too long ago I was looking at all my class notes at that time in my life. First page is illegible, second page is very sloppy, and the third page just has the lines down it where I fell asleep in class. I no matter what I could do, I couldn't help it, sleep came and it came upon me suddenly and I could not resist it. And and Moses in a way is saying that's what death is like. It comes like sleep. on a weary person. You could try to fight it away, but it will win. It will take you away. And then it's like grass that withers. Look again in verse 5 And they are like grass which groweth up verse six in the morning it flourishes, and it groweth up in the evening it is cut down and withered And the arid climate of the Near East, the night rain would often cause a carpet of green grass to spring up in the morning in those otherwise brown hills in that region. However, the blazing sun at daytime would wither that grass, it would scorch it so that by nightfall the grass was gone. All that grass that they saw in the morning. had withered by night. And again, Moses is saying that's what our lives are like. They are short-lived. Someone said life is so short that the wood of the cradle rubs tightly against the marble of the tomb. It is short. And that's what he's dealing with. Now, we don't like to think about that. In fact, mankind doesn't like to think about death. And and science is out there trying to create ways to avoid it. Have you heard of cryo uh cryo uh cryonics, I should say? Cryonics is this science where you they freeze a person's body hoping that in the future science will develop a way to bring them back to life. That they can cure whatever disease they had when they died and that they can have life over again. You say, I don't know anyone who would be so crazy to do that. Well there are 150 people right now in the US that are frozen waiting for science to uh bring them back to life. And not only that, there are 1,000 more people who have instructed companies to preserve their bodies after death I I read of Ted Williams, the great baseball player. When he died, he had his body frozen. His daughter said, some people believe in God. We believe we have our faith in science. We believe that science is going to give us life again. But let me tell you something, beloved, no matter what science does, it cannot defeat death. Only Jesus Christ can defeat death. Only Jesus Christ can overcome death. So we see then the timeless nature of God We see the temporary nature of man. But write down number three quickly, there is the terminal nature of sin Just write down the terminal nature of sin because in the next few verses, verses seven on down, he's going to talk about Sin. Why is it that our lives are so short? Moses will argue that it is God's wrath on our sin that makes our lives so short. Sin robs us. Look at verse 7. For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath we are troubled. God's wrath was killing a lot of people. When Moses wrote this. Again, think about it. He was traveling through the desert, and because they rebelled against God, Moses saw the punishment of God upon unbelieving Jews. Because they would not follow him. They were dying all around them. 1. 2 million people dying in 40 years. Do the math. That's 30,000 dying every year. That's about 90 a day. That were dropping around them every day. And so Moses was looking around. He was seeing God's punishment Because of man's sin. Sin is what cuts our life short, Moses said. And God sees all of our sin. Look in verse 8. Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. In other words, God sees all of our sins. He's watching. This is another incommunicable attribute of God. He knows everything. He sees everything. He knows all. And this is important. You say why? Because the Bible says one of the reasons that man commits such wicked acts is because men actually believe that God doesn't see They have deceived themselves into believing that God's not watching. Now that to me sounds ludicrous that a person would feel that way, but that's what they That's how they reason. In fact, in the book of Job, Job gives us insight in how the sinner reasons in his depraved mind. In Job twenty-two, verse twelve, he says, Is not God in the height of the heaven? And behold the height of the stars, how high they are. God, he's all the way up there. I mean look at the stars. He's way up there. How can he see what I Verse 13, and thou sayest, how doth God know? Can he judge through the dark cloud? Thick clouds are a covering to him that he seeth not and he walketh in the circuit of the heaven. Oh God, he's all the way up there, and there's clouds between us and God, and God can't see through that dark cloud. Right. He can't see through that thick cloud. And so that's how they reason in their mind. God doesn't see. He doesn't care. And Ezekiel A, you say, well that's that's irreligious people. What about religious people? Ezekiel A, God brought Ezekiel to see what the Israelites are doing and they were committing idolatry in their chambers. And God says in Ezekiel 8. 12, he says, Son of man, do you see what they're doing? You see what the house of Israel is doing? And they say the Lord seeth us not. They're saying, even the Israelites, when they were committing idolatry in the secret chambers, they were saying the Lord doesn't see. us. He doesn't really care. And the Bible says that's why man sins. But Moses here says very clearly Verse 8, Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. Verse 9, for all our days are passing away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. He goes on to say sin is what makes life short. It's a tragic short story. And it causes suffering in verse ten. The days of our years are three score years and ten, and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength, labor, and sorrow, for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. Even if you are l strong enough to live more than your 70 years allotted to you, and that was kind of the mortality rate, I guess, in Moses' day. I checked the statistics for the United States. Um the life expectancy for men, the average for men in the United States is 75, and for women is 80. How come they always outlive us? It's eighty. And that's good because that's up five years or uh up five years from twenty five years ago I should say. But still the life standing short. And Moses says, look, even if you have strength enough to live longer than the 70 years allotted to you, there's still suffering and toil and sorrow. that you must reckon with because of sin. Verse eleven, who knoweth the power of thine anger, even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. And what Moses is saying here is that people don't think seriously about God's wrath And they don't fear God the way they should. They don't think seriously about his wrath. But you know what? God is expressing his wrath. Now let me just be clear. I believe that we have a God of love. There's no question about that. Thank God for his mercy. I I bask and thank God and revel in his love for me every day. But I want to tell you something, dear friend, he's also a God of wrath. And he will judge sin. And the Bible says that the wrath of God, Romans 1 18, is being revealed every day, revealed as present tense, constantly being revealed. Why? Because man is pushing away and suppressing the truth. And so therefore God is pouring out his wrath every day. There's eternal wrath. What is that? That's hell? When people die and go to hell. There's eschatological wrath. This is the wrath of the last days that we read about in the book of Revelation. There's consequential wrath, which is reaping what you sow. If you sow to the uh a wild oats, you're going to reap that back. And then of course there's cataclysmic wrath, floods and earthquakes and uh tsunamis and and so on. We could go down the list. All these things take place And these are expressions of God's wrath upon this earth that is quaking and trembling and groaning because of the sin of man that has brought God's wrath down upon it. And so therefore, look at verse 12. Based on all of that, so teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts. to wisdom. Now let me give you the last thing. We talked, these are lessons or motivating factors to help us number our days. There's the timeless nature of God There is the temporary nature of man. There's the terminal nature of sin. But then right down, here's the last thing. There's the transformational nature of prayer. The transformational nature of prayer. Now in this last stanza of the psalm, Moses is praying. And by the way, you know one of the best ways to learn how to number your days is through prayer. Seeking God. Prayer helps you get the most out of your day. It can transform your day. And this is what Moses does. And what we see in verses 12 down to verse 17 are several requests that we should pray each day. Let me give them to you quickly. We'll go through them quickly. First of all, pray that we value each day. In verse 12, so teach us to number our days. That is Help us not to think lightly about each day because each day is a unique gift from God. The psalmist said, this is the day that the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Did you know that there's no other day like today and there'll never be another day like there was today? This day is unique. It was a gift given to us by God, and when this day is over, it's done with. It's gone And tomorrow, you know what? His mercies will be new in the next morning, and he'll give us another day. And that day in itself will be unique. And so we have to learn that each day is a gift from God. And we must learn not to waste time because that's the stuff that life is made up of. Think about the sin of murder. What does a murderer do? You say, well, they take another man's life. Well, that man's going to die anyway Really what they take is their time. They rob their time. And so someone says when you waste time, you're killing yourself by degrees It's a slow form of suicide. And so you should get all of you can out of each day because it's a gift from God to us. I remember I had a college teacher that wore a sponge on their lapel, and the reason they did that was to remind the students to soak in as much as you could Each day that you lived. We should pray that we value each day, but also pray for God's wisdom for each day. Look again at verse 12. So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto what? Unto wisdom. Now, if you were here Sunday morning, you heard me talk about wisdom, the biblical concept. Wisdom is just simply making the right choices. It's making godly choices. It's a reverential attitude that leads to right actions. And nowhere is this more crucial than the matter of time. Each day you need to make the right choices If you want to get the most out of each day, make the right choices. You know, there's all these time management books out there. Go to the bookstore, you'll see hundreds of time management books and they're trying to tell you how to do things quicker and how to speed read and and read faster so you can get more. And and here's how to work faster and work harder. And really that that's not the secret of getting the most out of each day. It's not doing things quicker or doing things uh faster and and and harder It is really doing the right things and getting out of your life the things that just eat up time, that are really inconsequential. I can tell you the equivalent of reading 500,000 words per minute. You want to know how? You find a book that's, or excuse me, 50,000 words per minute. Find a book that has 50,000 words in it that's not worth reading and don't read it. That's the equivalent It's not doing things faster, it's doing the right things. Shh. Don't insult God by saying I don't have enough time. God gives you enough time. To do what He wants you to do graciously each day. He gives you enough time. Pray for God's wisdom for each day, but also write this down. Pray for God's mercy. For each day. Look at verse 13. Return, O Lord, how long, and let it repent thee concerning thy servants. O satisfy us early with thy mercy. that we may rejoice and be glad in all our days. When Moses uses the word return here in verse 13, he's making a reference to what he had previously said in verse 3 He's basically saying, Lord, return to us your mercy before you return us to dust is the idea there. Before we die, Lord We want you to return mercy to us. Now again, remember who's writing this? Moses, and remember the circumstance. He's in a desert. People all around him are dying. And it looks like God has pulled away his mercy From Moses and from Israel. And he prays and he says, Lord, return your mercy to us before you return us to us. That's why he says in verse 13, how long How long? How long do we have to endure your punishment, Lord? Pray for God's mercy. And then look in verse 15. Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil. That is Lord, take the sadness of our day and turn it into gladness. Take all the days of sadness and reverse them. Turn them around to equal out to where we had days of gladness in our life. And you know what? God will do that. If you ask God for mercy, He will give it. He's a merciful God. So we pray that we value each day, pray for God's wisdom, pray for His mercy for each day. And pray to see God's hand at work each day. Look at verse 16. Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children. This is a parallel statement. What is it to see God's glory? It's to see his work, his providential work. And this takes discernment. Moses is basically saying, Lord, give me enough spiritual vision to see your hand at work each day. Do you ever see that? Can you just go into a day and say, man, I see God working here? This is the work of God. And when you see God working there, you know what you want to do? You want to get in harmony with that. I want to go wherever God's working. And I want to get in harmony with what God's doing. I don't want to go over here and do my own thing when God's over here doing this. That's how to uh to get the most out of my day is I see what God is doing and I get in harmony with what the Lord is doing. To me, this is kind of a parallel passage So Ecclesiastes 3 where it says to everything there is a season, a purpose uh uh under heaven, a time for every purpose under heaven, I should say, a time to plant and a time to pluck up You know, if I see God plucking up over here, I'm not going to start planning when God's plucking up. I'm going to, if God's plucking up, I'm going to get right in there with him and pluck up. If God is pulling down, I'm going to pull down with him. If God is building, I'm going to build with him. Whatever God's doing, when I see his work, I want to get involved with that work. That's the prayer of Moses here. Praying to see God's hand at work each day. And then get in harmony with that. And then pray that we experience God's love and favor. Look at verse 17, last verse. And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us and establish our the work of our hands. When he says, let the beauty of God be upon us, that is, look, let the favor of God, let the blessing of God. Each day pray for the favor and blessing of God on your life. You know, the blessings of this world are so meaningless So fleeting, so empty. You don't believe me. Look at look at many famous and wealthy people today, how empty they are. Because the blessings of the world are are are do not satisfy. But God does. I've never met an older saint of God who walk with God Even through all the trials and the heartaches and the burdens, and yet they walk with God. I've never met a senior saint who said to me, You know what? I'm sorry I did all that. It's always been the opposite. If I had a thousand lives, I'd get every one of them to Jesus. I would do this a thousand times Jesus is so satisfying. That's the satisfaction that the Lord gives, his blessings. And so And then finally, we pray that God will establish our work in verse 17. Yea, establish the work of our hand. We don't want our labor to be in vain We want to leave a legacy behind that's enduring, so we pray God establish the work of our hands so we see the timeless nature of man. And we see the temporary nature, or timeless nature of God, I should say, the temporary nature of man, the terminal nature of sin, and the transformational nature All these things are lessons that we need to learn as we learn to number our days and live each one to the fullest. Now, let me just say this one thing. There's nothing that can give meaning and value to life like knowing God personally. That's what gives meaning And value to life. Go back to verse 1. Let me just show you this in closing. Look at the very first phrase in verse 1: Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place. Now think about that. For 40 years, Moses and Israel had no place to call home. They wandered in the wilderness. They were without an earthly dwelling place. They never unpacked. They never really settled. In fact, Numbers 33 mentions 42 places they camped on their whole journey. But in the midst of all that, Moses knew one thing. He said, God, you're my dwelling place. You're my place of rest. You are my home. Not only my home now, but you are my eternal home. You know what? God, knowing God through Jesus Christ is what makes meaning in our life. We, who are temporary creatures, can be linked to the timeless, infinite God through Christ. And that gives us meaning. Let me close with this. I read of a young man who in nineteen eighty-one he was flown into a remote Alaskan wilderness. He was going to take photographs of the tundra there, the beauty of the nature. And he had all the equipment with him. He had 500 rolls of film. He had firearms to protect him. He had 1,400 pounds of provision And as he began his venture, he wrote in his diary about how wonderful it was, how fascinating it was to be out there and to see all those things. But then as you read the latter part of his diary, you begin to see how it turned into a nightmare for him. And then on November He wrote this in his diary. I think I should have used more foresight about arranging my departure. I'll soon find out. And he waited and he waited, but no one came to his rescue. He was found dead later in a nameless valley by a nameless lake. An investigation revealed that he had carefully mapped out his whole venture. Except this one thing. He made no provision to be flown out after it was all over with. You say, wow, that was a bit short-sighted of them. Yeah, but how many people live their lives here in this world? And they're all prepared here, supposedly, but they make no preparation for their departure. And by doing that, they fail. The only way for your fleeting life to have real value is to live it before an eternal God To avoid his wrath in your life because of sin, by taking refuge in the mercy of God through Jesus Christ. That's the way. to find true meaning and to truly number our days in light of God. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we thank you for this majestic psalm. It's so beautiful. There's so much depth to this. And we feel like we just barely scratched the surface of it. But I pray, Lord, that you will help us to apply these things. May we realize that each day truly is a gift. And may we say like Isaac Watts, God, you are our help in ages past. You're our hope in years to come. You are our shelter. From this stormy blast. And you are our eternal home. And if there's someone here tonight that's never come to the cross and make Christ their eternal home. I pray that tonight they'll do that very thing. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And can I ask you this one question before we close tonight? Do you know the Lord Jesus Christ, friend? Are you absolutely certain that if you die today, you go to heaven? If you have not, I want to invite you right where you are. You don't have to walk an aisle. Some do, but you don't have to. You don't have to do anything except right there where you are Reach out in faith by just praying. The Bible says, Whosoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. So right there where you are, with your head down, your eyes closed, in your heart, you can call upon Christ. And you can say, God. Please forgive me for my sins. I know I'm a sinner. And I know that this life here is temporary. I know I'm going to die one day. But I want to defeat that through what you have done for me on the cross. My faith is not in science. My faith is in you, Lord. That you would give me eternal life. So please forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart and friend if you'll pray that. Reach out in face. We have the assurance of God's word that He'll save you. The Bible says, those who come to me I will in no wise cast out. So pray that and mean it in your heart. For those of us who know the Lord, let this psalm be a reminder to us to number our days before an eternal God. That we may use every day for His glory. Father, use these words to bless your people. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.