And I want you to take your Bibles and open tonight to the book of Jeremiah, chapter thirty. We've been studying Jeremiah. And um I want to preach tonight on a a very I think um theologically rich uh messianic passage of scripture Jeremiah chapter thirty is where we're going to be Now it's surprising how rare that Jeremiah is preached around Christmas time. To be this season of the year because there are many great Old Testament prophecies that are used. For example, around this time of year, Isaiah gets a lot of airtime, right? Isaiah 714 A virgin shall conceive and bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Emmanuel. And then of course there's the great verse, Isaiah 9, 6, for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. And even the Minor prophets like Micah get a little bit of time. There's that great prophecy in Micah 5 2, but to you, O Bethlehem Ephrata, who are too little among the clans of Judah, from you shall come Come forth one who is to be ruler in Israel. There is a prophecy about the birth of the Messiah in Bethlehem. Jeremiah I I should say Christmas sermons around this time of year, and that's a shame because I think that some of the great messianic passages in the Old Testament come from Now, most of the messianic prophecies come from chapters 30 to 33. This is a special section in the book. It's typically called the Book of Consolation. Consolation. That is from chapter 30 to 33, the book of consolation or the book of comfort. It has also been called the book of restoration. One scholar said it's the grand hymn of Israel's deliverance Another scholar said this it's an anthology of hope. And it says also it's he says it's moving poetry, solid argument, and eloquent description And so this whole section in the book of Jeremiah, chapter 30 to 33, is really designed to put faith in the people of God and to also look forward to the glory of Glorious future restoration that is going to happen for uh not only the people of Israel, but for others. It goes beyond just the people of Israel, as we'll see, and it goes to talking about all of the people And so really the whole idea in chapter thirty is because of the Messiah that is going to come and rule, he will be able to overcome the impossible. Restore broken people. That's really the message of chapter 30. In fact, one of the uh the major features of this section of chapter 30 is is the idea of Now, as you've been with us and we've been studying Jeremiah, uh you probably have noticed how it's a very sad book, isn't it? There's a lot of bad things that have happened here, and this is because God's people have sinned against God and God must judge them. And so much of the book in the beginning of the book is about judgment. It's about things that are going to come, and it's not very uplifting from that sense because We see the the uh chastisement of God, the severe hand of God against his people. But when you get to chapter 30, it kind of turns everything around. see happening to the first twenty-nine chapters, all those things are overturned. We see in the first part of the book destroyed cities, we see diminished population, we see sickness and death and Exile, but all those things are turned over. And now we see restoration, we see a rebuilt city, we see increasing populations, we see the regathering, we see Healing. In fact, uh the beginning of this section of chapter thirty and the end in chapter thirty-three has the same phrase. Let me show you this Look at chapter thirty and look down at verse number thr uh three where it says for lo the days come, saith the Lord, that I will bring again the captivity of my people Israel. And Judah saith And Judah, saith the Lord, and I will cause them to return. Notice that where he says, I will cause them to return. Now go to chapter 33, and I want you to look at uh another Verse, verse number 26, chapter 33, verse 26, and notice what it says there. Look at the last phrase in verse 26. For I will cause their captivity And so we see here at the beginning of the section and at the end, it is this idea of Of restoration, of redemption, of ransom. This is going to happen to the people of God. And so that's why this is called the book of consolation. Now let me just tell you, when was this section of Jeremiah written? This was written right on the heels of God's people being carried away into captivity. This was right after that terrible event that Jeremiah Jeremiah had been prophesying and preaching just after that happened. The wounds of the captivity are still very, very fresh in Jeremiah's mind. Now what happened at the captivity? The Babylonians came into Judah and Jerusalem, and they were vicious, and they spared not, and they carried many away to the land of Babylon. They destroyed the city of Jerusalem. Jerusalem. They burned the temple. This was just a terrible event. They're trying to put it in our day. Just imagine, let's just say for the sake of illustration, that this a terror group called ISIS, which is very vicious as we know. Let's just suppose they gained in power and they became so powerful that they invaded the United States. They went into Washington DC They burned down the Capitol building. They burned down the White House. They tore down the Washington Monument. They killed many, many thousands of people. They carried people away into slavery. They took over, as it were, the United States, and the United States became a puppet nation under their control. Now you're sitting there and you're thinking thinking, wait a minute, that could never ever happen to the United States. Well that's exactly what Israel thought when God said that the temple was going to be pulled down. The temple was Be destroyed. In Jeremia chapter 7, Jeremiah preached the famous temple sermon, and the people said there's no way that God would ever allow the temple to be destroyed And yet it happened. It was Israel's 9-11, or even worse. It was worse. And so right on the heels of that, that terrible, terrible event. Jeremiah has this message of hope, this message of consolation. Uh really we could say a message about Christmas if I were if I could just say that. And so I want you to notice two things from our passage tonight. Number one, there is the pain of captivity Because as we read these verses, that's one thing that we're going to see stand out. Jeremiah still refers to the pain of this captivity, of these things that happened. There are hints about how greatly the people of God suffered when this event took place. First of all, captivity meant slavery. They were made slaves, they were made exiles. But also captivity meant misery. Look at verse number five. For thus saith the Lord, we have heard a voice of Trembling of fear and not of peace. Ask ye now and see whether a man doth travail with child. And wherefore do I see every man with his hands on his loins as a woman in tremble And here uh Jeremiah again he still sees sees the scenes of battle that were fresh in his mind, and he still sees The men who are holding their midsection is just like a woman who's going to have a baby and she feels the travail of the pains of birth and she puts her hands on her midsection and Jeremiah says that That's what the warriors of Israel are like. They were holding their midsection, and they had the look of pain on their face because of what was going on. And what was happening, there was misery all around And there was that was all happening. Captivity means misery. But also captivity meant anxiety for those people. Look at the word verse number ten where it says Is the word dismayed. Therefore, fear not thou not, O my servant Jacob, saith the Lord, neither be dismayed. And why did God say that? Because they were very dismayed. They were people that were afraid of what was about to happen, afraid of being separated from their loved ones, afraid of death. Captivity meant slavery. Captivity meant misery Captivity meant anxiety, but also here's another thing. Captivity meant loss of identity. These the people of God felt alone in the world. They were rejected. Look at verse number 17 We see another little hint there. Actually, the last phrase in verse 17, it says, Because they called thee an outcast, saying, This is Zion, who no man seeketh They were rejected first by all their enemies. They were called outcasts. They said, This is Zion. Nobody cares for Zion. Nobody cares for you. This is the taunts of the enemy They were rejected by their enemies. Now it's not surprising that to be rejected by your enemies, but what is surprising is to be rejected by your friends, but they were also rejected by By their friends. Look at verse 14 at the beginning of it. All thy lovers have forgotten thee. And the lovers there that Jeremiah is referring to are the alliances That Judah tried to make with all the nations around them when they saw Nebuchadnezzar gaining strength and he was getting ready to come in and conquer them. Instead of trusting the Lord and praying to God, what did they do? They tried to make a lot Alliances with nations around them, they uh they invited Edom and Moab and Ammon and uh Sidon and they invited them in And they made treaties of war with them. They were Israel's lover, but when the destruction and the captivity took place, all the friends left. And Jeremiah is basically saying you were looking for love in all of the wrong places. They were completely abandoned. Now let me just say this: you know, there are people today That experienced these same things. Israel was they experienced their captivity. They experienced their misery, their anxiety, their loss of identity. But you know that there are people Today that are in captivity as well? You see, Israel was in captivity to the Babylonian world system, to an evil king, and this world today is a place where people are also in captivity to this world system that is governed by the God of this world, Satan, an evil king. And he wants to keep people in captivity. And there are many people that experience the same things on a larger scale. There is misery. There is anxiety. There is slavery. You know, people that don't know The Lord Jesus Christ are enslaved to sin, the Bible says. And it may be that you're here tonight and you're struggling over sin in your life. You want to be released from that sin Friend, do you know the Lord Jesus? Jesus is the way to freedom there. But there are people that experience slavery and misery and anxiety and loss of identity, and they're just suffering, and they want suffering. Some way for there to be deliverance and and so on. And so what we see here then is the pain of captivity. Look again at verse number fourteen. All thy lovers have forsaken thee, they seek thee not, for I have wounded thee with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement of a cruel one, for the Why was all this happening to Judah? God says it was because of your sins. Your sins brought all of this. Your sins brought slavery and misery and anxiety and dismay. It was your sins, it was God that was uh chastising them. And it was God that was punishing them. And God said, Your sin was great. And he reminded them of that. And here these captives, instead of being filled with self-pity, they should have been filled with conviction. And repentance. But I want to tell you that today the reason so many people are miserable and they're enslaved is because of the same reason. It's just sin, folks. Just not only our sin, but the sin of others that cause all of these things. Now, that's the first part. There is the pain of captivity. But Let's get to the good news in the chapter, okay? Let's talk about number two, the promise of Christmas. You say, where is that? Well, let me just say that You know what, all of us, we need a savior, don't we? This world needs a savior because the world is in captivity. And we need someone to deliver us from the bondage. We need someone That will take us out of exile. And this is exactly what Jeremiah is promising. He is promising a Messiah that would come, that would deliver his people who would ransom his people from captivity and exile. And he makes a promise. In fact, go back to chapter 30, verse 3, and notice that verse again for Logan So the days come, saith the Lord, that I will bring again the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, saith the Lord, and I will cause them to return to the land. And so I want you to notice, first of all, several elements of this promise. Notice he's talking about the day, a certain day. That's messianic right there. There's the promise of a great coming. Day. Jeremiah's promise meant salvation for Israel. But again, this is not just salvation for Israel. This is salvation for something much bigger than that This is much bigger than just the end of the Babylonian captivity. Let me just read you what Derek Kidner, a great Old Testament scholar, said. He said, throughout this God-given dream of things to come The language and the landscape are those of Jeremiah's day, dominated by the theme of exile and restoration. Nevertheless, a vast ingathering, a An event that would embrace the world, the worldwide sons of the living God, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles. Now, what is he saying there? He's saying, Yeah, there's going to be A res a restoration from exile, but this is not just for Israel. There's the words here, the tone of this is something that is much bigger. It's much broader It includes something that is more than just for Israel. In other words, Jeremiah, we could say, is the first Old Testament prophet to bring the good news That there will be restoration and deliverance for all people, not just Israel, but for all people. And he introduces it by the phrase, the days are coming Also notice in verse number eight where he uses the phrase in that day. For it shall come to pass in that day. He's referring to a specific time. And then in chapter seven Alas, for that day is great. He's saying, how great that day is going to be. How awesome that day is going to be. So Jeremiah, part of this promise, is the promise of a great day that is going to come. But I want you to see another part of this promise It's the promise of the son of David. Look down at verse number nine now. This is a very interesting verse. You might want to underscore it. But they shall serve the Lord their God, and David their king whom I will raise up unto them. And that's very interesting. They're going to serve what he's saying is these people who have been delivered from this captivity Who are they going to serve? They're going to serve David, their king. Now, it's very obvious that this is not referring to the literal King David, the son of Jesse, you say, well how do we know that? Well we know that because this was penned in about five ninety-eight BC and at that time where was David at the writing of this? David Had been dead for hundreds of years. He had already died. He was already in the grave. So how can he say that they're going to serve David, their king? And by the way, what king, if it's not the real David here, what king is he talking about? Again, this prophecy was not fulfilled at the end of the exile, because what happened at the end of the exile? At the end of the exile Nehemiah led the people back into Jerusalem and he rebuilt the wall. But let me ask you a question: was there ever a king put back on the throne at that time? And the answer is no. There was no king that reigned on the throne of David after that. You see, here's the point. This prophecy was not fulfilled until the coming of Jesus Jesus of Nazareth. It wasn't fulfilled until Jesus was born. Jesus the Savior, the true Son of David. You see, all of this prophecy here Refers to the Davidic covenant, the coming son of David who would reign as king. And Jeremiah said, All these people that are delivered from exile and captivity They will serve King David, or we could say the son of David. Or we could say more specifically the Messiah. They will serve the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, that's why the New Testament puts so much of an emphasis on the genealogy of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you read in the beginning of Matthew, Matthew shows that Jesus is the lead Legal son of David. Of course we know that Jesus was virgin born, or I should say legal son of Joseph, who is the son of David. Of course, Jesus was virgin born, so he's the legal son of of Joseph. And then Luke traces the bloodline that he is the son that Mary is also a son of David and Jesus was born of Mary. So from the Legal side and from the bloodline side, Jesus fulfills the qualifications to be the King, the Son of David. So there's a promise of the Son of David, but also Also, there's another thing I want you to see in verse 9. There's a promise of the Son of God, because if you look again very carefully in verse 9, notice what it says, But they shall serve the Lord their God and king Now, what I want you to see here is that serving God and serving David are placed parallel. They're placed side by side So we can say it like this to serve David is to be a servant of God and vice versa in verse 7. You see, I think what this is referring to here is that They serve the Lord their God, they will be serving David, who was be also the Messiah. And so I think that there's a hint here of the Idea that the son of David will also be the son of God. Or we could say God as well, right there in that passage. So therefore to serve Jesus is to serve God and vice versa. Now, so there's the promise of the Son of David, there's the promise of the Son of God, and then there's the promise of restoration. The promise of When the Messiah comes, he will be the son of David. I believe he will be is saying he'll be God, and he will bring total restoration to his people. And this is pictured in several ways Verse. Look at Jeremiah 31:11. I want you to notice the words that are used there. For the Lord God hath redeemed Jacob and ransomed him from the hand of him that was stronger than him. He notice he uses the word redemption and ransom. When God restores his people, it'll be an act of redemption. It'll be an act of ransom. He will ransom his people. Now this restoration, it's pictured in several ways. The broken yoke. Go back to chapter 30, look in verse 8. For it shall come to pass Pass in that day, saith the Lord of hosts, that I will break his yoke from off thy neck and will burst thy bonds, and strangers shall no more uh serve themselves of him. So what do we see here? First of all, what's it going to be like? What's this restoration going to be like? It's going to be like the yoke will be broken off. So what does that mean? Now do you remember I told you that sometimes when Jeremiah would deliver the message of God, sometimes he would use sermons and sometimes signs to get the message across. And in chapter 27, you know what God said to Jeremiah Jeremiah to do one day, he said, Jeremiah, take the yoke and put it around your neck and go through the streets of Jerusalem and just tell everybody this is going to happen to you. This was signifying the fact that when the Babylonians came Cain, the Babylonians were going to put a yoke around them, a yoke of slavery. They will be wearing the yoke of the Babylonians and carried away. So Jeremiah went around and he wore the This yoke. And of course the people didn't appreciate that very much. Uh in fact, there was a false prophet that came and he broke that yoke around Jeremiah's neck, and then God said to Jeremiah, Jeremiah, go get a yoke yoke of iron and put it on your neck now this time. Let's see if that false prophet can break that. So you get the message. The yoke stands for foreign invasion captivity Slavery, but when the restoration comes, when the Messiah comes and he redeems and he ransoms his people, what will happen? That yoke will be broken. It'll be gone. That's the imagery that Jeremiah gives here. God says, I will break that yoke that is on your neck. And again, I say, you know what, there are people that are enslaved to sin. They wear a yoke. They're under bondage. And you know the only way out of that yoke is through Jesus Christ. When you come to Christ He ransoms your soul. He will break the yoke around your neck. And you know what Jesus will do? Basically, he will give you his yoke. Remember what Jesus said in Matthew 11? Take my yoke upon you for my yoke yoke is easy, my burden is light. When salvation is like exchanging yokes, you take a yoke of iron that Satan has placed around your neck and God says, I'll break that and I will give you my yoke. Which is the easy yoke, the yoke of salvation. So it's like the broken yoke, but also it's like the healed wound. Look in chapter 30, look in verse number 12. For thus saith the Lord Thy bruise is incurable, and thy wound is grievous. There is none to plead thy cause that thou mayest be bound up. Thou hast no healing medicine Now Jeremiah said, all the people they suffer from an incurable wound. Now, by the way, this is not the first time that Jeremiah mentioned an incurable wound. Do you remember he mentioned it before in Jeremiah? Jeremiah chapter 8, when he asks this question, is there no bomb in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why are the people suffering from this incurable wound? Well, God here says the wound that they have Is incurable. There's no known cure for this mysterious malady, even the most advanced medical remedies of Jeremiah's day We're powerless against this wound, this mortal infectious disease, and you say, What was that? Of course, again, the answer we know it is sin. Look at verse 15. Why criest thou for thine ini affliction? Thy sorrow is incurable for the multitude of thine iniquity, because thy sins were increased, the cause of this illness Illness is really no mystery, Jeremiah says. The cause of the illness is sin. And you and I suffer from this incurable wound. Not able to do anything about it. But I got good news. Look at verse 17. Look at the last part or verse the first part of verse 17. For I will restore Health unto thee, and I will heal thee of thy wounds. Now here God steps in and God says, You know, this is an incurable wound. I will heal thee. Now that you know I was reading about this section, and you know there are some scholars that uh basically say the these verses blaze Can you believe that? They're not a contradiction, friend. You know what God is saying here? There is a wound. Is an injury that is incurable in the sense that man could never ever cure this wound, this wound of sin. Friend, man could never cure that wound There's nothing that man has that can do it, but the great physician can. God can cure that wound. In fact, this whole chapter in chapter thirty is where God is promising to do what is impossible. It is impossible for man or anything of this world to cure this wound, but God, his Messiah, can And how does he do that? Of course we know that it is because of the The blood of Christ, it is because of Calvary. That is the only cure for man's wound of sin. You know, just imagine if wounds never healed. Imagine how hideous people would look. But let's just imagine that the wounds of the soul that have never been healed, if you could see those And compounded on those wounds are selfishness and ungodliness. And you can look inside of a soul and see that how ugly that would be, uh that soul that is untouched By the grace of God. But friend, once God's grace touches that soul, all of those wounds are completely healed. And that soul is made brand new. And so this restoration Will be like a yoke that will be broken. It'll be like a wound that is completely healed, a festering wound that is completely healed And then there's another image that Jeremiah gives here. It will be the calm after the storm. Look in verse number 23 of chapter 30. Behold, the whirlwind, O the Lord, goeth forth with fury A continuing whirlwind it shall f fall with pain upon the head of the wicked. The fierce anger of the Lord shall not return until he hath done it, until he have performed the Now, this ver this past this very prophecy was given earlier, and it was a reference to what the Babylonians were going to do to Judah, but now here God is saying this is not going to be for Judah anymore. This will be for the latter days uh a storm that will come, but not for Judah. God's going to take away the The storm. The storm will leave. By the way, did you know there is coming another storm in the latter days? God says so. And we read about it in the book of Revelation. There's a storm that is coming. You better be ready for that storm. But here God says, now this is after the storm for Judah. And what's God going to do? He's going to rebuild the city. Look at verse eighteen. Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will bring again the captivity of Jacob's tents, and have mercy on his dwelling places, and the city shall be built upon her own heap, and the palace shall remain after the man Thereof, and out of them shall perceive thanksgiving and the voice of them that make merry, and I will multiply them, and they shall not be few. I will also glorify them, and they shall not be Small. And so what's he saying here is that God's people will no longer be in exile, they'll no longer be under a despotic Gentile lure. They will come back. They will repatriate. God will Rebuild, there will be repopulation, there will be joy again. After the storm, God will rebuild. And again, this applies to anyone who comes to know the Messiah. You know what You say, Man, I've gone through a storm. Well, you know what? If you come to the Lord Jesus, you know what he He can do, he can restore. And everything that you lost in that storm, he's able to rebuild. He's able to give it all back. He's able to bring up back to your heart joy Joy and singing and thanksgiving and gladness because the storm is over. He will come and he will draw near to you. And verse 21 It says, and I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach unto me. I think this is the language of not only Jesus as the king, but the priest Where we are able to draw near unto him in prayer. And so when Messiah comes, he will ransom his people. And it will be like a yoke being broken, an incurable wound being healed. It'll be like the storm being over. It'll be total Restoration in the hearts and lives of those people that trust him. Thank the Lord for that. Now let me show you one more verse. I say one more, actually, I'm going to show you a few more. But look look in verse 11 of chapter 30. Beautiful verse. For I am with thee, saith the Lord To save thee. Isn't that good? I am with thee. This is part of the promise. When the Messiah comes, he'll say, I'm with thee to save thee. What does that remind you of? Name what? Emmanuel. God with us. He came to us to save us. And it reminds me of that verse in Matthew: Behold, a virgin shall be with a child and shall bring forth a son They shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. And friend, he is with us every step of the way Emmanuel is with us when you know the Lord Jesus and he'll always be with you. This is a great promise from God. Now someone says, wait a minute, didn't Jesus I read a interesting story uh about a king by the name of Emmanuel, not Jesus. King Emmanuel III, King of Italy, and one day he decided to go with his troops into battle. And during the battle, one lieutenant was seriously wounded, another soldier tried to minister to him. The lieutenant said to the soldier, Go find cover. My wound is mortal. He gave some keepsakes to give to this soldier who would he was supposed to give to this man's family, but this soldier refused to And they looked up over the field and they saw the the vehicle that the king uh was carried in this this car, and they saw a taking off over the horizon and the The soldier said to the lieutenant, Even Emmanuel has left us. But at that moment he felt a hand on his shoulder. And he turned and guess who it was? It was the king King Emmanuel. You know what he said? He said the car is gone, but Emmanuel is still here. And you know what that reminds me of? The physical body body body of Jesus. Bodily ascended to heaven. His body's not here, but friend Emmanuel, he's still with us. We still sense and have his presence with us. And God says, I'll always be with you, and I will help you. And so we see some wonderful promises here in this messianic prophecy. But let me show you one more verse. I promise this is the last one, all right. Look Look in chapter thirty one and look at verse twenty-six. Thought this was interesting. Chapter thirty one, verse twenty-six. Jeremiah, when he got these words, you know what he Was sleeping. All of this came in a dream. And look at verse 26 of chapter 31. And upon this, Jeremiah says, upon this I awaked and beheld, and my sleep was sweet unto me. I like that. So when we see this great messianic Promise. Really, it's a vision that God gave to Jeremiah. And again, remember when this happened, this was right on the heels of the people being carried away, a time of great sadness. Time of great darkness in the picture of Israel. And Jeremiah lays down and he goes to sleep. And God just, wham, God gives him this vision, this messianic revelation of a coming day And a coming king, and and and ransom and redemption. All this Jeremiah sees, and he Dreams about this, you talk about sweet dreams. This is a great dream that he had, a great vision. He saw the coming of the Messiah. He saw the Ransom, the redemption, the restoration. You might say that Jeremiah went to sleep and God gave him a dream about Christmas of the coming Messiah. Woke up, he said, Boy, that was wonderful. That was wonderful. What a sweet dream that was. And friend, it's not just a dream, it is reality. As we know. When we say dream, the Old Testament prophets sometimes receive the word of God through visions and dreams. And this was the sure word. In fact, what did God say to Jeremiah in the first verse? Verse of chapter 30, he said, uh write this down in verse 2. Write all these things down. Write it down in a book. What you've seen, what these words I want you to Write it all down. Why did God have Jeremiah write this down? So other people can see it. So other people can be a part of it. And these promises now are given to us. You know, this whole passage of scripture reminds me of one of the great Great hymns that we sing around Christmas time. And again, I love some of the Christmas hymns because they have such great theology in them. And we sing a song called Ocome Did you notice some interesting things about that song? Now I love singing this song because it's it's very majestic, I think, very slow, and the theology Of it is very impeccable. But it's really based on this prophecy and others like it in the Old Testament. You say, who wrote this song? You know, we really don't I don't know who wrote that song, O come, O come Emmanuel, but here's something very interesting. Did you know that this song was written sometime before eight hundred AD? an old hymn. In fact, I would venture to say that that's probably the oldest hymn that we sing. In fact, it was written during the Dark Ages, historically. What were the Dark Ages? A time of Uh when man seemed to be in chaos and ignorance and pestilence, people didn't have the word of God. So whoever wrote this, and some historians surmise that the man who wrote this This hymn was a monk who lived in the Dark Ages, and he did have access to the Bible, and boy did he know the Bible well. When that hymn was originally written, there were seven stanzas to that hymn Each stanza began with a different name for Jesus and that him. And and and you know when I was researching this, one of the questions that came to my mind was how how is it that a a a hymn written in the ninth century it was resurrected to where it becomes one of our best loved Christmas songs today. How can that happen? Well, it happened because of an Anglican minister by the name of John Mason Neal. You see, what happened was John Mason Neal was a a very brilliant student. He studied at Cambridge. He knew, you ready for this? Twenty languages. Twenty languages. He was just brilliant. And he should have been one of the brilliant scholars of the church. The problem is is that there was apparently some jealousy in the church regarding his intellectual ability and they didn't love Like a lot of his theology, which by the way was biblical and conservative. And so they decided to kind of get rid of this guy. And so they shipped him off to minister in some Islands north in the northwest of Africa, these obsolete islands, there was a church there. They gave them a uh a very small salary of twenty-seven pounds per year. year which was below poverty. And when he was there at that island, he did not despair. He started an orphanage. He started a school for girls Uh he did so many things. He shared the gospel, he ministered. But one day while he was uh reading old Latin texts, he came up The song, O come, O come, Emmanuel. He realized how old the song was, and he kind of dusted it off and he resurrected it. It was originally written in Latin, so he Translated it into English, and it's the hymn that we have today. One of our greatest hymns. I don't think it was an accident that he discovered that hymn. I think that was probably Providence that God wanted this Him to be resurrected. But I love it because listen to the words. And again, it summarizes perfectly What Jeremiah is talking about here in chapter thirty, O come, O come, Emmanuel, and ransom captive Israel that mourns in lowly exile here until O come, O come, thou Lord of might, who to thy tribes on Sinai's height, in ancient times disgive the law O come, thou rod of Jesse free, thine own from Satan's tyranny, from depths of hell thy people save and give them victory. Oh come thou day spring, come and cheer our spirits by thy advent here. Oh drive away the shades of night and pierce the clouds and bring us Light. O come, thou key of David, come, and open wide our heavenly home, where all thy saints with thee shall dwell. O come, O come Come, Emmanuel. That's a powerful hymn with a great message. And that is the message that Jeremiah was communicating to people that desperately needed And it's a message that we desperately need today. It is the meaning of this time of year, Christmas. Let's bow for prayer together So Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the promises of God. And Lord, I pray that if there's someone here that may be Going through uh maybe a season of exile, their own little exile in their own heart. Perhaps they're filled with anxiety or despair. They may be filled with dismay over things in their life I pray, Lord, that they would realize their their deliverance. They would realize that restoration is available for them if they turn to Emmanuel, who will ransom their captive soul and make them free. Deliver them from sin. Give them a home in heaven. Lord, I pray that we would cling to these Truths with all our heart. And may we be thankful all the more with each each passing season and day, may we love you more. Thank you more for this great salvation that you have given us In Christ. With heads bowed and eyes closed. Just for chance, if you're here tonight and you've never trusted the Lord, just take a moment here and just call out to Emmanuel Pray and ask him to ransom your captive soul. Say the words that we just read, Oh come, Emmanuel. Ransom my lonely, anxious soul. Forgive me. Cleanse me. Draw near to me. Ransom me from Satan's tyranny And pierce the clouds in my heart, Lord, and bring me light. Help me, Lord. And friend, if you pray that, you know what? He will help you. He will come near to you. He will bless you. He will help you. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Pray in Jesus' name. Amen.