Would you take God's word today and open to the book of Galatians, chapter one? The book of Galatians, chapter one. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word? I'd like to read the first nine verses of chapter one. Paul an apostle, not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father who raised him from the dead. Unto all the brethren which are with me and to the churches of Galatia. Grace be to you in peace from God the Father and from our Lord Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for our sins so that he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of God and our Father, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ, unto another gospel, which is not another But there be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. And as we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you, then that ye have received, let him be accursed. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. May God open our eyes to understand the Word of God, His precious word. Pray with me. Father, I pray that you'll bless our time together as we worship around the Scripture now. Help me, Lord, as your servant, to preach in the truth clearly, and I pray in Jesus' name, amen. I was asked by the State of Maryland to give the invocation this coming Tuesday at the Maryland State Senate in Annapolis. I agreed and I submitted my prayer in advance just like they requested The powers that be, after they read the prayer, said that I could not mention the name Christ. They asked if I would change my prayer to a more generic title. So the the prayer that I submitted was not allowed because I was going to pray specifically in the name of Jesus. Now the reason they don't want me to mention the name of Jesus is because it would be considered offensive. They said that my prayer must be inclusive. And this is what they wrote. They said inclusive public prayer in a pluralistic society must be sensitive to a diversity of faiths. Inclusive prayer uses universal inclusive terms rather than particular proper names for divine manifestations. So they gave me some suggestions on how I can replace the name Christ. And possible closing words are hear our prayer, may goodness flourish, or just simply amen. So, I said, you want me to approach God the Father aside from the merits and name of Christ? You want me to just bypass Jesus and not acknowledge him and go to the Father? That kind of prayer is not prayer. That does not bring God's blessing. That arouses God's anger. First John 2. 23 says, Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father. You deny the Son, you don't get the Father. So you want me to offend the father by denying the son? Never. Absolutely not. Any prayer that does not acknowledge Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Savior, the mediator, is a farce. It's a farce. Why would they ask me to do that? Why? I mean I'm a cr I'm a preacher of the gospel. You know, we live in a culture today that is overly sensitive about offending anyone. That is, except God. We don't mind offending God. Politicians say they don't mind offending God in prayers. They just don't want to offend anyone else. In these postmodern days in which we live, sad to say, even Christians, so-called Christians, no longer believe in the exclusive nature of the gospel. You know, it didn't used to be that way. I mean you read the prayers, the early prayers of chaplains that they gave in the U. S. Senate. Read the early prayers. The first official act of the first president of the United States, George Washington, after his inauguration was to have a prayer meeting. And it wasn't in a Moslem mosque, I promise you that. It wasn't in a Buddhist temple. It wasn't in some Zoroastrian religious shrine It was in St. Paul's Church in New York. It was on April 30, 1789. And I assure you that when he prayed, he didn't use generic titles about God. Read some of the prayers of George Washington. This country was founded on the Word of God. Now I know that there are revisionist historians out there that want to blot that out of the history books. They have tried, and in some minds they've succeeded. But the reality is that this country was founded on the principles of Christianity. Let me just read you some facts. The legislature of New Legislature of New York declared in 1838, this is a Christian nation. Ninety-nine hundredths, if not a larger portion, they write, of our whole population believe in the principles of Christianity. It was the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court in 1892 that declared in the court's opinion the United States was a, these are their words, Christian nation. And I can just go on. In 1776, you couldn't even run for political office unless you were a Christian. In 1777, the Continental Congress spent $300,000 to purchase Bibles to make sure everyone had a Bible. We've come a long way from that. If you take time to study and read, you'll find that most of the charters of the states, the original charters, have written in it. The gospel of Jesus Christ, or in some form or fashion, refer to the propagation of what they call the holy gospel. What the government has lost sight of today is that they get their authority from God. The government doesn't get his authority from the people. The government gets its authority from God. It is God who ordained human government. We find that in Scripture. But now our society has reached a place where we don't even want to mention the name of Jesus in government or in the chambers of government. In fact, they don't want God involved at all. They don't want him involved at all. I mean, the prayers are it's pure show. It's political theater. You don't want to mention the name of Jesus. That's not prayer. It's hypocrisy. Back in a year ago, February, a powerful congressman who was head of a committee, the Democrat Congressman Jerry Nadler, he said this, quote, God's will is of no concern to this Congress, end quote. Well, at least he's honest about it. At least they're not he's not hypocritical about it. And his attitude shouldn't surprise us because we I mean the Bible told us about this, right? In Psalm two Verse 1, the kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their quartz from us. I mean that's the attitude. But what does God the Father say? Here's God's response. Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion. I will Declare the decree. The Lord has said unto me, Thou art my son. This day I have begotten thee. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. You better get ready because God the Father is going to put all the enemies of Christ under his feet. The Bible says in verse 9, thou shalt break them with a rod of iron. Thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. So here's some instruction, verse 10. Are you listening, Mr. Politician? Be wise, therefore, O ye kings. Be instructed, ye judges of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear, rejoice with trembling, kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish from the way. When it says kiss the sun, that's the idea of adore God's son, honor God's son, worship God's son. If you don't, then God the Father's wrath is ki is going to be kindled. There's no room in this song for inclusive public prayer. There's no room in this for being sensitive to a diversity of faith. But we live in a society today that's just so given over to inclusivism. What is that? Or we could also say religious pluralism. This is the view that all major religions are equally valid. And all of them lead to God and to salvation. This is the idea that no one religion is inherently better or superior than any other major world religion. And I just want you to know that that's a lie from the devil. There's only one true religion. There's only one faith. Ephesians 4, there's one body, one spirit, even as you are called in one hope of your calling, there is one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all and through all and in you all. And here the Apostle Paul is making this declaration of the exclusivity of the gospel. There's only one God. And there's only one true way of salvation. And every other way is a false way. Every other way is Man's invention or from Satan, Satan satanically inspired religion given to men. Jesus said this in John 10. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth into some other way, the same as a thief and a robber. Then Jesus said, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers. But the sheep did not hear them. I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved and shall go in and out and find pasture. Beloved, the Bible is very clear on this. One God, one divine revelation, one Lord, one Savior, one gospel, one way of escaping hell. And the Bible makes all of these claims. And this is what's so offensive to people. This is offensive to our society today. Listen to the words of God, Deuteronomy 4. 35. The Lord He is God. There is none else besides him. In Deuteronomy 439, know therefore this day, consider in thine heart that the Lord He is God, in heaven above, and upon the earth beneath, there is none else. There's only one God, the Father. He has a Son. His name is Jesus. We have the Holy Trinity. And besides that, there's nothing else. All the other gods are false gods. They don't exist. They're inventions of man and Satan. And I know some people say, well, religious liberty, people, let me tell you something, folks. God the Father wants all the nations of the world to acknowledge that and worship him. Worship him. We saw this in Malachi 1 14, for I am a great king, says the Lord of hosts, and my name will be feared among the nations. And then in 1 Timothy 2 5, there is one God, one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. In John 3 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. You don't acknowledge Jesus as the only way of salvation, then God's wrath is already on you. In 1 John 5, verse 20, and we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding that we might know him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. Now here in Galatians chapter 1, this is Paul's whole point. Paul's whole point is to emphasize the exclusive nature of the gospel. We believe in the exclusivity, excuse excuse me, the exclusivism or exclusivity of the gospel of Jesus Christ. There is no other way. There is no other road. Every other way is false. Jesus, you say, well that's so narrow-minded. Sounds so narrow-minded. There's nothing wrong with being narrow-minded. I want my banker to be narrow-minded. I don't want him saying two plus two equals three. I want my doctor to be narrow-minded. When I go to him, I don't want to hear him say, well, we're not really sure. Let's just take out this kidney and see what happens. I I want my pilot to be narrow-minded when he's going over the checklist before I fly. I remember one time I was on a plane and going to preach somewhere and and uh the announcement said, Well, we're having some difficulties, we're gonna try something. A guy walked down the aisle with duct tape. I was very uncomfortable with that flight. The most important issue in the world is your eternal salvation. You should thank God for preachers that are narrow-minded when it comes to the gospel. Jesus said, the Bible says, neither is there salvation in any other For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. So I want you to see in Galatians here. Just three reasons that the gospel is exclusive. Number one, if you're taking notes, just write down, it's exclusive in its origin. And its origin. We see this in the very reading in verse 1. Paul an apostle, not of men, neither by men. but by Jesus Christ. And he starts off by showing that his calling and the message that he was given, it was not of his origin. It's not human origin. In his very introductory remarks, we see what's on Paul's mind. Not of man, neither through men. There were false teachers that came to Galatia after Paul left. They wanted to discredit Paul. They wanted to discredit his message by discrediting the messenger. They were saying the apostle Paul, he preached the wrong message because he was not really a real apostle. And so the gospel that he preached was man-made. And in fact, the opposite was true. Paul was preaching the true gospel, and they came behind him and gave a gospel that was not True. And Paul starts off by saying, look, my call for ministry was of divine origin. I didn't, this wasn't my idea. The word apostle here means sent one. Paul was sent by God. Officially sent. That's the idea behind the word apostle. And the message, therefore, that he gave was not of his origin. Paul said, I didn't invent this message. There's only one gospel. It's a true gospel. It didn't come from me. It was not of my origin. I mean, think about it. Everywhere Paul went to preach, he got persecuted They hated him. They tried to kill him. Does that sound like a gospel that Paul would create? I mean if I were going to create my own gospel, I would make it one where everyone liked. Where no one was trying to kill me. It surely wouldn't have been a gospel that made people want to persecute him or kill him. In fact, the gospel that Paul preached was a stumbling block to the Jews, and it was foolishness to the Gentiles. And Paul said that in 1 Corinthians 1. 18, for the preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness, but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. We know he preached the gospel that came from God. Because the the world thought it was foolish. They couldn't understand how a man could die on a cross and it could change people's lives, how it could give them eternal life. They didn't get it. It was foolishness to the Greeks And to the Jews it was a stumbling block. They just stumbled over it. They were looking for God and tradition in the letter of the law. They sought for signs. They Wanted some supernatural sign before they would even believe, and they could not comprehend a Messiah that would be crucified. To them someone hanging on a tree was under a curse. And so they stumbled over the gospel. Surely, if Paul was going to invent his own gospel message, it would have been one that his own countrymen, it would not have been one that his own countrymen would stumble over. He would have created a gospel that everyone likes. And that's the problem today. We have all these other gospels. Man-made gospels, man-made religion. That people like. It exalts the pride of man, it brings down the holiness of God. Man-made religion is man rejecting God, it is man at his lowest. It is Romans 1, it is men not acknowledging the true God. Men is a worshiper, and since he's going to worship something, he's going to create his own God to worship. And so therefore in Romans 1, Paul says they resort to worshiping Animals and creatures and four-footed beasts and birds and all these crazy things. That is man at his lowest level That is man expressing his depravity. Man's religion is not a compliment to man. It shows the depravity of man, the darkness of the heart of man. It is a slight against God. It is rejecting the true God. You can go ahead and try to pray in all those other religions. You're not getting anywhere, friend. It's all false. Paul said, I didn't invent this message. Look down at verse number 10. For do I now persuade men or God? Do I seek to please men? For if I yet please men, I should not be the servant of Christ. Verse 11, but I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me was not after man. I'm not around trying to please man. I'm not around to trying to give you a message that you like. The gospel is offensive. It's offensive because it calls man what he is a sinner. No man likes to be called a sinner. That's why people try to trim the gospel and say, Oh, Jesus wants to be your friend. No friend, he is your Lord. He is your Savior He's the one who died for you a sinner unless you're willing to come, realizing there's nothing that you can bring, there's nothing that you could add to your salvation. What you must do is recognize your sinfulness and repent before a holy God And trust in the provision that Christ has made at the cross. If you don't come humble to the gospel, you're not going to get it. Religion is exalts the pride of man. So Paul didn't invent this. This was of God. It was of divine origin. He says in verse 4 According to the will of God, who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil world according to the will of God and our Father. The gospel was God the Father's idea. Jesus was the land slain before the foundations of the world. It was the will of God the Father to send his son. Second member of the Trinity into the world to be the sacrifice for sin. The death of Jesus was not an accident. It was Jesus giving his life. His death was God the Father's plan from before the foundation of the world. In Acts 2 verse 23. This Jesus delivered up according to the divine or definite plan and foreknowledge of God. You crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. And God raised him up, loosening the pains of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it. This was all God's plan. This was God's way of redeeming mankind to send his only son and this is the only way. Jesus said that in the Garden of Gethsemane when he prayed, he said, Father, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. What cup was that? The cup of bearing sin The sins of the whole world. And this was the natural response of someone who is holy. Jesus, who is holy, for a moment shrunk back from the sinfulness of sin But to show you how submitted he was and committed, he prayed, Father, not my will, but thine be done. Listen, if there were other ways of salvation, the Father could have offered that. But there was no other way. And that's why Jesus went to the cross. And this was all God the Father's plan. It is exclusive in its origin. But then secondly, it's exclusive in its object because we see here again in verse 4 Talking about Jesus who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil world. The gospel is about, it's more than a plan, it's about a person, it's about Jesus Christ. The gospel is all about Jesus and what he did for us on Calvary. You take Jesus out of the gospel, you don't have anything. It's like taking numbers out of math, taking words out of a book, taking notes out of music. You're left with nothing. You take Jesus out of the gospel, you take Jesus out of prayer, you have nothing. You have absolutely nothing The whole gospel message is based on historical events by a real person. It's not a an allegory. I heard one time um a news reporter Interviewing someone and and said, you know, about this Bible show they were going to have and they said, Well you're going to show that the suffering and death of Jesus was an allegory, right? What If the suffering and death of Jesus was an allegory, then we don't have any salvation. We have no gospel message if Jesus didn't suffer and die. The message of the gospel is based on literal historical events, the crucifixion of Christ. And this is why people attack the person of Christ. This is why the devil attacks the person of Christ. This is why in Paul's introduction he kind of gives us a preview of the gospel. I mean he gives it right in the introduction. In verse 4 again, who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil world. That's why salvation comes only through Christ. Only Christ could purchase salvation. Only Jesus could deliver us from sin in this evil world. It was a rescue mission. The world deliver here to rescue or to set someone free from danger. And who gave himself for our sins. That's the idea of propitiation. You see, the gospel starts with the holiness of the one true God. We have a God who is holy, and his holiness demands that sin be punished. You understand, friend, that not one half of one sin is going to go unpunished. His holiness demands it. But God is also a God of love and he doesn't want to punish you. He doesn't want to punish me. So God's plan was to send Jesus Who would die for sin. He would be born of a virgin. He would be sinless. He would obey all the righteousness of the law on our behalf. He would bear the sins of the world. And in his death, God the Father's holiness was satisfied with the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't get that in any other religion. You don't get that in any other way. This is the only way of salvation. Christ was our substitute. I love the story of the uh Southern preacher, J. C. Massey. He says that when uh he was a little boy growing up in the South, his mom was a typical Southern woman and she loved her big beds with white sheets. And he was always forbidden from laying on the bed during the day. His mother always loved to make the bed beautiful white linens. He said one day he was out in the back playing in the mud. Yeah, you're getting ahead of me here. He came in the house, went down the hall, looked in the bedroom, saw his mother's beautiful white bed. The temptation was too great. He went in and he flung himself on the bed, rolled around. The mother saw that, she was filled with fury, she grabbed a big old belt, and judgment was about to fall on J. C. Massey. And JC Massey said at the last moment my brother ran in, threw himself across me on the bed, and said, give it to him, Mama. Go ahead, lay it on him. And J. C. Massey said, my brother took the stripes that were meant for me. It's a beautiful picture of salvation. We, through our sinfulness. We spoiled the holiness that God wanted and God's wrath against sin. Had to be poured out, but Jesus was the one who took our stripes. That's salvation. Was God's wrath was not satisfied by Buddha? It wasn't satisfied by Muhammad. It wasn't satisfied by Moses. It wasn't satisfied by Confucius Confucius. God's love and holiness were satisfied by Jesus Christ on the cross. And that's the gospel. And there's nothing that can be added to it. So it's exclusive in its origin, it's exclusive in its object, it was purchased, it was bought by Jesus Christ. Let me give you the third thing here real quick. It's exclusive in its operation. Look what Paul says now. Really, here's the meat of it in verse 6. Paul writes, he says, I marvel. That ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel, which is not another. But there be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. But though we are an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which ye have preached, we have preached unto you, let him be. Accursed. Paul's whole argument, there's no other gospel. Anyone who teaches any other gospel, let him be accursed. They're not doing God's work. They're doing the work of Satan. They're messengers of Satan. And Paul, what he writes, is he's angry. He writes with great emotion. I mean the reason he's angry is because Paul had just gotten back from his first missionary journey there at Galatia, and he already is receiving the news that the people who received Christ are now turning from it Turning from the gospel. They're believing these false teachers. And Paul in this letter shows a sanctified anger. I mean, he throws aside all the traditional writing styles and he just jumps right in here In fact, the whole book of Galatians was written in capital letters. Shows his emotion. We see his amazement at their desertion. I marvel, Fumaizo. I am speechless. I am bewildered. I am astounded. I can't believe that you already just walked away from the the real gospel, the true gospel. That's what amazed him. I'm surprised that you have been removed. Removed here is a word, military word for traitors. Turncoats. You are betraying your allegiance to Christ. And I'm amazed. I gotta be honest with you, I'm amazed today too. I'm amazed at how many people still just don't get it. They just don't get that there's only one gospel. In a recent survey, 66% of American Christians said many religions lead to eternal life. That's two out of three. 52% of evangelicals say many religions can lead to eternal life. 48% of evangelicals say that God accepts the worship of all religious people. This is shocking. How do we get to the point in our country where people who call themselves Christians don't even understand the most foundational truth of Christianity? Either they lack instruction or they're just they lack courage. They don't wanna They don't want to be called narrow-minded or bigoted. It's not very unpopular to say that there's only one way to heaven. And so people cave into all these other religions. They say, oh yeah, they all give eternal life. But the reality is that's impossible. If Christianity is true If Jesus is all he claimed to be, that means everything he said is true. And if everything he said is true, that means it's impossible that any other way of salvation lies in any other religion. And any other man made religion. It's impossible. So Paul is amazed at their desertion. Then he it he admon his notice his admonishment at their deception. In verse 7, he says again. I I marvel that you're removed from the the grace of Christ into another gospel in verse seven he says, which is not another. That looks like a comf a contradiction, but it's not. The word another in verse six is heteros of a different sort. The word another in verse seven is uhos of the same sort. Paul is saying you have defected to another heterose gospel, a different gospel, which is not Alos, it's not the same gospel. You've embraced another gospel that is totally different. And it's been perverted. It's been mixed with man-made law and tradition and religion. The gospel is exclusive. It cannot be mixed with anything, any other religion. Satan would rather you Distort the gospel than deny it. If he can just give you a watered-down version of the gospel or offer some other way, he's got you because if what you think you have is the true light and it's really darkness, you'll never get the true light. Jesus said, if our light be darkness, how great is that darkness? So it's a very, very serious thing. And then finally, let me just leave you with this. His announcement regarding disruption. Look what he says. This is so clear in verse 8. But though we are an angel from heaven Preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you. Let him be what? Accursed That's how strong this is. Anyone preaching any other gospel other than the one that Paul gave, which was not of him, it was the true gospel. Any other gospel other than that is a false gospel. And anyone preaching that or promoting that, promoting false religion, false worship, false gods, a false way of salvation, anyone doing that, let them be accursed. Anathema, devoted to condemnation. Literally, let him go ahead and go to perdition. That's what he's saying there. And he mentions three groups. Whether it's we, and Paul's including himself in that. If you ever hear me, if one day I come and I preach another gospel, if I if I go crazy and become senile If I preach a different gospel, folks, I would say that even about me. If you ever hear me Get out of orthodoxy. Contradict this gospel that I'm preaching you now. If I go crazy, pull me out of this pulpit. Find someone who's sound. It's not about The messenger is about the message. Or an angel from heaven. If it's me or an angel? If an angel comes saying they have another gospel, did you know that many false cults and religions were started by angels, supposedly? The Mormons, Joseph Smith had a visit from Moroni, an angel one night, Islam. Muhammad's claimed to be visited by Gabriel, an angel of light. Where he got the Quran, seven-day adventures with Ellen White, and on we could go. An angel comes giving you another gospel. Even if it's an angel, let him be accursed. Or anyone in verse 9. And as we said before, in case you didn't get verse eight, here's verse nine. And we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed. Paul didn't say this twice just because he was running out of things to say. He said this twice for emphasis. It's a matter of life and death. If you don't get the right gospel, if you don't worship the right, the only true God, and His Son Jesus Christ, and you don't understand the true gospel. Then you spend eternity outside of the presence of God in a place called hell. This is life and death. This is not political correctness. This is the soul of people. There was a day in our country when we believed the gospel. Even our Religious or political leaders, they stood firm on the Word of God and the gospel. It's not so anymore, beloved. But I want to tell you this: we're going to stand on the gospel. I don't really care who I offend. I honestly don't. Beware of anyone who would devalue the cross. Beware of anyone who would de-emphasize Christ. Beware of anyone that would emphasize man's works or man-made religion. Is the gospel that Paul gives us here, is that your gospel? Is that what you believe? Let's bow for prayer. So, Father, we thank you for your word, and we thank you that how the gospel message is so very clear to us. The exclusive nature of the gospel is so clear. We believe with all of our hearts the words of our Savior who said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes unto the Father except through me. No man. Lord, we don't confess this in pride. We don't even know this unless, Lord, you showed it to us. We weren't smart enough to come to this conclusion on our own. Lord, it's only by your grace that you showed us this truth, this way. This only means of salvation. We don't boast or brag. We're broken. We're humbled. That you would reveal these things to us. We know that salvation doesn't lie inside of man. It has to come from the outside. Lord, you have to show it to us And we thank you, Lord, that we have the revelation of Scripture, your final revelation, and the revelation of your Son, Jesus Christ, that reveals all these things to us. And we humbly come and we humbly thank you. And we humbly stand firmly on this saving message and plead with others to come to Christ. To forsake all the false ways that Satan has put up and for people to come to Christ And I would just say, friend, if you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus, don't let this day end without you settling that matter in your heart. That you are trusting in the work of Christ On the cross, who shed his blood for your sins. You put your full faith in what Christ has done and pray the prayer of the publican who said, God be merciful to me a sinner and save me. And Jesus said, that man went home justified. I pray that's the way you'll go home today. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.