It's a privilege to be here tonight, isn't it? To be a part of this service. And it's my uh duty now tonight to uh give a charge to our candidate Hiram Elliott. They have already, he and his wife sat through an ordination council and answered question and been drilled on doctrine and theology and all these other things and they've come through that. This is a council that was called By our founding pastor, Dr. Earl Johnson, our faithful pastor who's been here for 43 years. And it was under his ministry that Tyrone was influenced and felt the call to ministry. And it's a privilege to be here to give you this challenge. So if you have a Bible, take and open it, please, tonight to 2 Timothy chapter 4. Verses 1 through 5. 2 Timothy chapter 4 verses 1 through 5. Now, I'm going to be speaking to Brother Tyrone in this sermon. Now the rest of you can listen. Right. But this is primarily a charge to our dear brother who uh and by the way, when we in a moment after this charge we lay hands on him, what do we do when we do that? We're just affirming what God has already done. Uh the church doesn't call men to preach. The church can only recognize what God has done and recognizing the gifts that the Lord has put in a man and the calling of God on a man is something that happens in the church. It's typical that when God calls a person in the ministry, there will be that understanding by older, wiser saints. They will recognize that call in that individual. They will begin to verbalize that to that individual. And again, I said it was our our our pastor, Dr. Earl Johnson, our founding pastor, who sensed that in Brother Tyrone and affirm him in this to to continue in this area. And now we, the church tonight, are recognizing these gifts and we are laying hands on them. You know, um I too uh was called to preach under the ministry of Pastor Johnson when I was uh fifteen years old on a Sunday night in November I came here to church. Pastor Johnson was preaching. This is like three buildings ago. All right. That's how long ago it was. Back in the original building. Some of you old time saints I don't mean old time like real old. I mean those who have been here, you might remember our original auditorium and Pastor Johnson preached that night. I And at the end of the service he said, How many young men feel called? There were ten young men that walked forward. I was one of them. And um Pastor had a deacon come and lay hands on each one of us And I remember Brother Charles Charlie Carper was the deacon who put his hands on me and prayed for me that night. Well I wanted to make sure that this was something that was of the Lord. It wasn't something that was just uh the feeling of an emotion uh emotion of the moment. I wanted to make sure this was of the Lord. So I went and I prayed and I went to a place where I would go and pray and I brought my Bible And just began to read, and I happen to read these verses that we're going to read tonight. Look in 2 Timothy chapter 4. Look at verse 1. I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead in his appearing and his kingdom. Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lusts shall they heed to themselves teachers having itching ears, and they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto faith. Fables. But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, through the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry These were the verses that were staring me in the face that day when I was praying for confirmation from the Lord that indeed He was calling me to preach. And these really verses became my life sentence. The thing that God expects of me. And I really believe for any person called into ministry to handle the Word of God, these verses ought to be their life sentence as well. Well, Paul makes it very clear. Let me give you a little background. These are really the last words of Paul. The second epistle to Timothy was the last letter that Paul would write. Not too far from this epistle. So these were the last words that Paul said to Timothy And so these are very important words. This is a charge that he gives him, a very solemn charge. Timothy was a young man that was called under the Apostle Paul. And he felt the call in the ministry, and Paul affirmed him. But Timothy was struggling a bit. He was a tender young man. If you look in chapter 1, Paul said, I'm greatly desiring to see you being mindful of thy tears. Chapter 1, verse 4 He was a talented young man. In verse six, Paul recognized the gift of the Lord that God had put on him, and that's why Paul said um that he was willing to put on his his hands on him to recognize that gift. Tim Timothy was a bit timid He was perhaps a little reluctant to exercise pastoral authority to use his gifts. So this whole letter that Paul gives to Timothy is designed to encourage him. to do what God called him to do. Frother Tyram, I want to encourage you to be faithful to do what the Lord has called you to do. Just like Paul's encouraging Timothy, my Dear brother, I'm encouraging you as well. And what you're going to find as you read through this letter is that it's filled with commands. It's filled with imperatives. He said, Don't be don't be ashamed of the testimony of the Lord, Timothy. Or of me, his prisoner, chapter 1, verse 8. He said, replace fear with power, chapter 1, verse 7. He said, hold on to truth, chapter 1. verse number thirteen. Hold fast the form of sound words. Be strong, chapter two, verse one. Endure hardness, chapter two, verse three. Study to show yourself approved, chapter two, verse fifteen. Flee youthful lust, chapter two, verse twenty two. Continue in the things that you have learned. 3 verse 14. One imperative after another after another. But the most important imperative, the supreme imperative that Paul gives to Timothy is here in chapter 4, verse 2, where he says, preach. the word. This is the calling that you have to preach the word. This is the main responsibility. And the word preach here is the idea of preach like a herald. You're not an ambassador. You don't have the authority to negotiate. The word for herald here is just someone who has been given a message by the king, and he is to faithfully communicate that message. You know what encourages me? I don't have to come up with a message every Sunday. God's already given the message. I just have to proclaim it. I just have to say what God has already said. And that's what the idea behind this word here is. You are to herald forth the Word of God with all of the authority of heaven. Timothy, preach the word. Now let me just show you quickly here. Four reasons that that Paul gives Timothy to preach the word. Just four reasons why this is so important. And I believe, beloved, today, more than ever, we need faithful men of God who preach the word of God. God. This is I think the answer. This is what our country needs. The the the need for our country is not found in politics, it's not found in whatever uh political uh uh wing that you happen to be in, um whatever political party you support, none of that is going to change our country, folks. It's the word of God. That's what our nation needs. And it needs faithful servants of the Lord that will preach the word of God. So let me give you four reasons. Number one, because of the presence of sovereignty. Look at verse 1. I charge thee therefore before God. And the Lord Jesus Christ, who should judge the quick and the dead at his appearing, preached the word. And so this was in the presence of God. Timothy, remember that this is before the Lord that you get this charge. And we are to remind ourselves as ministers, and Brother Tyrone, you're to remind yourself that when you stand, whatever context the Lord gives you, whether it's in a class, or it's in a uh a college class or teaching for Voldemort School of the Bible or preaching in a pulpit or whatever, no matter how many people are in front of you, that's really not important. There is someone who is watching over you as you preach. It's in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. Every sermon is an act of worship. before God. First and foremost, it's is to be pleasing in the sight of God. It's in His sight that we preach And we're to be reminded of this. Paul says, Timothy, I'm charging you in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. Watch this. Who shall judge the quick and the dead in his appearance? He's going to judge you, Timothy, one day for how you preach. This judgment here is not one of condemnation, it's one of evaluation. There's no condemnation for us who are in Christ. When he talks about being judged here, it's one of evaluation. One of these days, every servant of the Lord is going to have to stand Stand before the Lord Jesus Christ and be evaluated and judged for the ministry that they've had, for how faithful they were to the Word of God. And so we are to preach the word fearlessly, recognizing that there's a sovereign king who's listening to everything. That's why we don't have to be afraid of any earthly king. Because we fear a sovereign king who's much higher. I recently got back from London. When I was there in London, I took a trip to Cambridge. England. And there I visited a church that was a thousand years old. The pulpit there in that church, there's this famous pulpit called the Latimer Pulpit. It was dated back to 1513. It was called that because the great English Puritan preacher, Hugh Latimer, preached in that pulpit, in that church And it was from him that the gospel spread, which r was really key in bringing in the Protestant Reformation, and the gospel was recovered there in England because of the preaching of this faithful servant of the Lord. But most people don't know that Hugh Latimer was condemned by King Henry VIII. He didn't like King Henry VIII didn't like the way uh Hugh Latimer preached. He was too strong. And King Henry VIII told Hugh Latimer to re- to uh to stop preaching so strong. And Hugh Latimer had denounced him because of his sin And one day King Henry VIII appeared in his congregation. How would you like that to happen? Now this keep in mind that Henry VIII had the power to chop off his head if he wanted to. He is completely in control. And then Hugh Latimer, when he went to the pulpit, this is what he said, and everyone can hear him say this as he entered into that pulpit that I was staring at when I was there at that church. He said this Hugh Latimer, dost thou know before whom thou thou art this day to speak? To the high, mighty monarch, the king, who can take away thy life if thou offendest. Therefore you better take heed And then he thought for a minute and then he said, This, but wait a minute, don't you also know? Dost thou know from whence thou comest, upon whose message thou art sent? Even the great and mighty King, God And after saying that, the people were astounded. And you know what he did? He preached harder at King Henry VIII than he did before. You know why? Because he wasn't afraid of any earthly king. Because he had a fear of the King of Kings. And he realized that it was in his presence that he preached the word every time time. That's what Paul's saying here. We preach the word because of the presence of sovereignty we're not in it to please men. Paul said do I now seek the approval of man? Am I trying to s uh to please man? No We preach the word to be faithful to the Lord, to please the Lord. Paul said in 1 Thessalonians 2, but just as we have been approved by God, To be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak not to please man, but to please God, who tries the hearts. So we preach the word because of the presence of sovereignty. Number two. We preach the word because of the power of Scripture. Look at verse 2. Preach the Word Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. And by the way, this whole charge comes in the context of what Paul had already said in chapter 3. If you just back up a few verses in chapter 3 and verse 16, all scripture is given by what? inspiration of God. And it's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness. And even verse 15, if you back up another verse, Timothy from a child, you have known the Holy Scripture, which is able to make thee wise unto salvation. In other words, Paul is saying, Timothy, you know the power of Scripture. You know that when the Word of God is taught or preached, it has power to convert, it makes people wise unto salvation. Let me tell you something, beloved. The power is not in the messenger, the power is in the message itself. And when we make the message clear, God is going to use that. But we believe in the power of Scripture. I believe with every fiber of my being that the Bible is the inspired and errant word of God. It is the authoritative word of God. It is the authority of God. And so when we preach this word, we line up with all the authority of heaven behind us. And so because we believe in the power of this, this the word of God has power to convert It has power to convict. It's like a hammer that breaks a rock. It's like a fire that can that can melt with a cold heart. And I I I often say this to sometimes to young men, you let me hear you preach and I'll tell you whether or not you really believe in inspiration. I I a lot of times I'll hear young men, they'll cry out, Oh, I believe the Bible is the inspired word of God, but their preaching betrays that. Because they don't handle the Word of God. They preach around it, they preach about it, but they never make the text clear. The power comes when you unleash the truth of the Word of God by preaching And if you believe the Bible is the inspired word of God, that's going to show up in the way that you handle the scripture. I believe it's authoritative, I believe it's sufficient. I believe it's inerrant. I believe it is relevant. I believe it has power, it has authority, it can convert, it can convict, it can change hearts and lives. And so we preach it because we believe in the power of Scripture. That's why I believe uh my conviction is the uh expository preaching, which is just exposing it. Just open it up, just make it clear. I strive for clarity. Clarity in the Word of God, because I believe in the power that it has to convert the lives of people. And so Paul said, look Look at verse 2 again. Be ready. Be instant in season, out of season. That is just, it's like really the picture here is a soldier on duty, always ready for combat. Always ready for the moment when you need to enter into the battle Be ready, be instant. We're to always be ready to preach the word, teach the word, defend the word. It says it will reprove, rebuke, exhort That is, this is what the Word of God does. You see, when the Word of God is unleashed, you know what it does? It reproves, it rebukes, it exhorts When I stand in the pulpit, and I know other ministers will agree, I don't get up here and say, you know what, I'm gonna rebuke Brother So-and-so tonight. I'm really asking I never You know what I do? I just make the Word of God clear. You know what the Word of God does? It rebukes brother so-and-so. It does the work. The word reprove here, interesting word, it it's a word that means to convict or to make sick. Actually this word is used in the Septuagint to talk about in the book of Numbers when a man was jealous of his wife, he was suspicious. of her being unfaithful, he would take her to the high priest. The high priest would take dust from the tabernacle floor, put it in a cup, put water in it. It was called the trial of bitter water. She would drink that water If she was innocent, she would have a child. If she were guilty, she would begin to get sick and corrupt from the inside, the Bible says. That word for make sick in the Septuagint is the exact word right here. Make sick. Preach the word, make sick. You know, sometimes the word of God might make people sick. In fact, I've even had people tell me that you make me sick. I don't take it personal I just, you know what? I don't I don't want you to get sick unless you need to get sick. Sometimes before God can heal, he has to hurt. And the word of God sometimes has to reprove before it can do you any good. But the bottom line is this we don't get up and try to do those things. We just get up and we preach the word and God will use his word to accomplish his purpose Purpose, it will never return void. It'll always accomplish what God wants. Sometimes it will rebuke, sometimes it will exhort. Sometimes it will comfort and encourage and strengthen and Bless. But that's the power of Scripture. So we preach the word because of the presence of sovereignty. We preach the word because of the power, the sheer power of Scripture. But then we preach the word because of the problem of shallowness. Look in verse 3. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall they heed to themselves, teachers having itching ears. And they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned on to fables. In other words, Paul is saying to Timothy, just remember there's going to come times when preaching is not going to be that popular. For the time will come. The word for time here is kairos. It doesn't refer to chronological time, but it refers to eras. There's going to be eras in the church Or in history, when preaching won't be all that popular. Difficult times, perilous times, dangerous times. You know, the preaching of the word hasn't always been that popular Men have died for standing and preaching the truth. We have it pretty easy here in America. By the way, that could change any moment. It could change And it hasn't always been popular. There's been areas in the church that uh where men have not preached the word faithfully. They have been uh they have capitulated to the press Of the time, and they had departed from the scripture. And whenever we see that happening in history, we see a departure from the truth of the Bible. We see a departure from the gospel. And the gospel is lost. We see that in the history of the church in the first century. There was the attack of Gnosticism, where salvation became esoteric by a certain knowledge. And then in the third and fourth century there was the development of the Holy Roman Empire, there was the development of sacramentalism or sacerdotalism. You say, what's that? Sacerdotal is just it's a word that means to priest Salvation came through the priest in the church and the gospel was lost. And a person that the Catholic Church taught That you were saved by baptism. That's when grace was infused. And if you commit a mortal sin, that grace put in you was killed. And so now you have to do works of satisfaction You have to do all these works to get re-justified. You have to get priestly absolution of your sins. There were merits of the saints laid up in heaven for you, and you can get those merits put on your account by doing certain things. And the gospel was lost. And so salvation was the result, according to that era, of a ritual And then after the that came the time of the Reformation where men, you know what happened? Men got back to Preaching the literal truth of the word. You know what it did? It broke the back of all of that false doctrine. And the gospel was rediscovered in all of its purity And revival came to the church. You look throughout the history of the church, whenever men have departed from preaching the literal truth of Scripture, the gospel has been lost. But when there's been a return to the literal preaching of the Word of God, the gospel has always been rediscovered. And behind it there came revival. Then there came rationalism, the age of reason, in which Thomas Paine debunked the Bible, and then behind that came cold, hard orthodoxy, where people had the Bible, but it didn't matter because they really didn't look at it. And then there came ecumenism, where everyone can believe whatever you want. Let's just all get along and doctrinal truth was all laid aside. And then and there came also in the 60s the season of experimentalism Where truth came by feeling. However, you felt from intuition. And then came mysticism. And now we're living in an age where it's postmodern. We have a postmodern generation, a postmodern mindset that basically says the Bible only has meaning that I give it. There's only meaning the the reader is sovereign over the text rather than the text being. sovereign over the reader. And the only meaning in Scripture is the meaning that I give it. That's what's out there now. You know what breaks the back of all of that false healing It's just a simple, plain, pure, faithful teaching of the Word of God that brings down all of those false Doctrines, all those monuments of error come crumbling down when a simple, faithful man of God stands up and simply proclaims the truth of the word of God. The gospel is protected and re rediscovered and brought back in all of its simplicity and purity. But Paul warned Timothy, he said, Timothy, these dangerous errors are going to come Come and friend they have come and they're still coming, and we're still living in dangerous times, and there's a greater need than ever For men to be faithful to the truth of the Word of God. Not only shallow periods, but shallow people. Look in verse 3 and 4. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own life shall they teach it Heap themselves teachers having itching ears. They shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. There's going to be people that that have itching ears that say, Oh, I want to hear this and I want that And if we capitulate to that, then we're not being faithful to our calling. God did not call us to give people what they want. He called us to be faithful to the truth. To preach the truth. And so Paul says to Timothy, you can't cater to that. You can't fall to this itching ear Generation. That's why he says, look in verse number five. But watch thou in all these things. Timothy, be watchful. Don't let the pressure of the culture Draw you away from preaching watch and all these things. Be careful In all of these things. They will resist it. They will replace it. They'll heap to themselves teachers. They will reject it. They'll turn away their ears from the truth. What is our response to be? Just keep preaching. Just be faithful. That's the call of God. Be sober in all these things. Exercise self-control. Don't let people sway you away from the simplicity of the gospel. Don't let them do that. And if you have to endure afflictions, do it. That's what he says in verse number 5. Watch down all things, endure afflictions. Do the work of the evangelists. Fulfill your ministry, Timothy. Don't be swayed. Use self-control. Stay faithful and do the work of the evangelists. Preach the gospel and fulfill your ministry. And then Paul uses himself finally as an example. Look at verse 6. For I'm now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I've fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. He uses himself as an example. You know what? I just want to follow in that example I just want to follow in the example of godly men who've gone on before me. Our pastor, our family pastor, pastor John Johnson is a to me an example of what a preacher should be in faithfulness to the Word of God. He's been preaching the gospel for sixty years, faithfully proclaiming truth. I just want To follow in that. God didn't call me to reinvent ministry. He called me to be faithful in the pattern that has been laid before me. He's called all of us to do that. When I was in London waiting for my grandson to be born, and by the way he took his sweet time, I'll tell you that. Uh but I used the time I decided I was going to do some research. I wanted to go to some churches that were pastored by famous faithful man of the past. So I went to St. Stephen's Church of Walbrook that was pastored by the famous Puritan minister Thomas Watson. I've read several of his his books, Faithful Man of God, and I saw there on the wall where he was expelled from the church because he was a nonconformist. He refused to compromise the scripture, so they expelled him. You know he did He continued preaching wherever people would hear him. I went to St. Giles Cripplegate Church, another famous church there for a thousand years Ministered to the people there by the famous Puritan Jeremiah Burroughs, also was a pastor there. Lancelot Andrews, he was the keen man in the translation of the King James Version of the Bible. As we have it. There at that church. I went to the church pastored by John Newton. Does that name sound familiar? The wild sailor saved by Jesus, and then he wrote amazing grace. Went to that church. So is church. I went to St. Paul's Cathedral. I went to the spot where Bibles were burned. Hundreds of years ago I went to Smithfield. That's a spot where faithful ministers were burned at the stake because they would not compromise. You say, why do you do all that? I just wanted to I just wanted to go and pay my respects, and I wanted to draw inspiration And I wanted to be reminded that I'm called to just follow in a pattern of faithfulness of great men who have gone on before me. It's not rocket science. science. It really isn't. It's just God calling us to follow in those footsteps, to faithfully, fearlessly stand for the truth. truth preach the word for the glory of Christ and you know what God's gonna do his work he's gonna fulfill his His will, souls will be saved. You can't not see people get saved. When you unleash the gospel, you know what? God's going to do things. So God's called us just to be faithful. And Brother Tyrone, he's calling you to be faithful For you as well to follow in the pattern of godly men who've gone on before us. You've been influenced by our founding pastor, and I charge you to follow in those footsteps. To be faithful with the Word of God. Let's bow together for prayer. And actually, what I'd like to do is ask for the Tyrone to come up and stand here behind me and for our deacons and the men who are part of this ordination. Council to come and lay hands on Brother Tyrone and Brother John, I can ask you to get a microphone and give it to our founding pastor. I think it's just right for Pastor Johnson to lead us in this prayer. As we lay hands on Brother Tyrone. And again, when we lay hands, we are recognizing, we are affirming what God has already done. And uh I'm gonna ask our our family pastor if he wants to say any things. Gentlemen, let's come together, let's just lay hands on our brother here. And Pastor, if you'll pray. When we who know the word have been called to preach Have seen the blessings of God, recognize that here's a man that truly loves the Lord and is called of you. Not a man, but called of you. And we pray that as we lay hands on him now. that you'll just infuse within his heart and his mind all that he's heard tonight concerning the minister His place, his stand, his call, his duty, his following the word of God. Use him faithfully in these years to come. And may we hear as days go by that God has blessed his ministry more now than ever before. We pray for the holy blessings of God to rest upon him as he leaves this building today. We thank you for his love for you, his faithfulness to the Word of God in the past, and we look to the future. And we pray that you'll just use them in a mighty way to reach men and women. Let them touch hearts and remind them, Lord. that were living epistles known and read of men. And when they read his life as the years go by, may they say he has been faithful Faithful to the Word of God, faithful to the call of God, bless him abundantly, and use him mightily in the days to come. And as we lay hands upon him, we do so realizing that we are your servants. and we're simply recognizing the great hand of God. I'm one of your favorite men. We ask your blessing command. On his wife, his family, and all of the loved ones that are here with him tonight. May they remind him and encourage him as the days go by. To be faithful to you and bless him and use him in the matchless name of our soon-coming Savior, Jesus Christ, we say. Amen.