I encourage you now to uh hope hopefully you have your Bible handy. Uh I hope you'll take it and open to Psalm forty-six. Um many of you know that on Wednesday nights we've been looking at different Psalms and we've been doing this for several months. And uh right when I say, okay, that's the last psalm I'm going to do, I read another psalm and I think, man, I I really got to preach on this. I want you to look at Psalm 46 tonight. I hope that this will be a blessing to you I want to speak tonight about our refuge in a crisis. Psalm 46, we're going to look at verses 1 on down to verse number 11. Now, one of my favorite characters in church history is the great reformer Martin Luther. He's a key figure in church history because of his courage, because of his love for the gospel. The gospel had been lost during the dark ages in the medieval church, and it was Martin Luther through his study of the Scripture that rediscovered the gospel, you could say. One day he was reading Romans 1. 17, the just shall live by faith. And suddenly like a lightning bolt to his heart, he understood the gospel It was gloriously simple. It was simply glorious that a person is saved by faith, not by the works of the law, not by rituals, not by ceremony, but by simple faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And when Martin Luther stood for the gospel and refused to compromise, uh literally all hell broke loose on him. And the next years of his life after that were very difficult years. You might say he was going through a crisis of his own. And when things got really bad, Psalm 46 was the Psalm that Martin Luther would go to. that seemed to give him help and comfort during the difficult times in his life. You might say that this is the favorite psalm of that great reformer Martin Luther. And in fact, it was from this psalm that Martin Luther wrote the hymn that we love to sing in church sometimes: A mighty fortress is our God. The great Old Testament scholar Loopholt wrote this. He said, Few psalms breathe the spirit of confidence in the Lord in the midst of danger. as strongly as this one does. And I agree with that. This is a psalm really that's designed to encourage us to run to the Lord when a crisis comes. When a time of trouble comes, and let's face it, in this world there are many tribulations, Jesus said. There will be times when we all will face a crisis. God's people are not immune from difficult time, from trouble and from uh danger. And so this is a psalm that will help us. And really the big idea is of this whole psalm is very simple. It's simply this that When you have a tr when you have trouble, when you have a crisis, God is sufficient to get you through that crisis or that time of trouble. Now you might be thinking, now wait a minute, you mean God's going to help me? I haven't been very faithful to the Lord. Well I got good news for you. And he uses the same expression in verse 11. Look at verse 11. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Notice it didn't say the God of Abraham. is our refuge, but the God of Jacob. Now Abraham was a great man of faith. He was obedient. He was faithful to the Lord. In fact, in the Bible, Abraham is called the friend of God. We would expect God to help someone like Abraham. But it didn't say the God of Abraham, but rather it said the God of Jacob. Now who is Jacob? Remember who Jacob is in the scripture? If you read the Bible, you're going to find out that Jacob was a schemer. Jacob was a liar. Jacob was a trickster. He brought a world of trouble on himself through his scheming, through his deceiving. One day you know the story, Jacob um bought his brother's birthright. Actually he so uh j Esau sold his birthright for a bowl of soup. I like to think it's chili. You know that red pottage the Bible says. Jacob lied to his father Stole his brother's blessing. Jacob did so many things to mess up that eventually Isaac had to ask him to leave, and Jacob had to end up leaving uh where he grew up and traveling to a foreign land and Jacob was probably wondering, uh does God uh am I ever going to come back? Did I mess up for my life? Have I messed up the will of God? Does God even care about me anymore? And you're and in the Bible it says that Jacob one night he when he slept out in the open, saw had a vision. There was a ladder that went from heaven All the way down to right to where Jacob was, and he heard a voice saying, Jacob, I am with you. God was meeting Jacob at his point of need. You know what that tells me about God? God is faithful to us even when we're not faithful to him. And even when we have not done well, even when we have not done right, God is still there to help us in any crisis that we might face in our life. God is the one that will get us through. The truth of the matter is I'm glad it says the God of Jacob, because I'm a lot like Jacob. And you know what? You're a lot like Jacob too. Did you know the Bible says in Jeremiah 17, 9? The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. That word deceitful there is the proper noun, the name Jacob. The heart is Yaakov, the heart is Jacob. And the truth of the matter is, there's a little bit of Jacob in all of us. Because the Bible says our heart is deceitful. Our hearts will lie to us. Every once in a while you'll get someone you'll hear someone say Uh, you know, follow your heart. I want to tell you that's really bad advice. Don't follow your heart, follow the word of God. Because our hearts are deceitful. Our hearts will deceive us. And so I'm glad it says that the God of Jacob is our refuge. Because even when we're not faithful, God is faithful to us. And God is the one that we can run to in a time of crisis. When a crisis comes, God is sufficient. God will get you Now, with that in mind, I want you to see in this chapter here three metaphors that teach us how God is our helper, how that God is sufficient. in a time of crisis. And here's the first one. If you're taking to a breakdown, don't fear, we have a refuge. And here the psalmist compares God to a refuge. Look in verse 1. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will not we fear Though the earth be removed, though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. Now look at verse number one. In the Hebrew text the emphasis is on God. He is that refuge. And the word refuge is talking about a strong shelter, something that will keep you from danger. And God is the one that we run to in a time of crisis. I wonder if I know that God is sovereign. I know that everything that happens is his providence. There are no accidents, only acts of providence. God is his hand is working. And I think sometimes that God is allowing us to experience what we're experiencing so people will learn to run to God We often have so many crutches, so many things that we depend upon. And God wants us to run to Him, to depend upon Him as our refuge. He is that shelter from the time of danger. That's why the psalmist says that look at verse 2. Therefore will not we fear This is a bold statement of confidence in God. Since God is an ever-present refuge, we don't have to be afraid. We can run to Him and we can be safe. We live in a world that promotes fear. In fact, the news is constantly reporting things that cause the heart of people to fear. And God does not want his people living in fear. 2 Timothy 1. 7 says, For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. So we don't have to fear. Notice first of all crisis. Again, in verse 1, God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Look at the word trouble there in verse 1. Literally means to be in a tight spot. The idea of being backed into a corner. It's really some kind of a crisis that has come upon you. And notice where it says that God is a a very present help. I love the way it says that. He's not just a present help, but he's very present. He's right there with you to help you through this time. When I think about this expression very present, I can't help but think about Peter walking on the water. Remember when he was walking on the water And the Bible says that Jesus was right there in that vicinity. They could hear his voice and they knew it was Jesus. And so Peter said, Lord, bid me come under the water with thee. And Jesus said, Come. And Peter stepped out on the water, and Jesus was close by, but when Peter took his eyes off Jesus and looked at the circumstances, looked at the winds and the waves, he began to sink. And remember what happened Peter cried out, Lord help me, and Jesus was right there. He wasn't just present, he was very present. He reached out his hand and he pulled Peter above the waves. And friend, that's what I think about when I think about this expression. God is right there. You don't have to fear a crisis. Some may be going through a spiritual crisis right now. Your faith is being tested in some way. It may be a financial crisis, a loss of income, unexpected things that are taking place in our world right now. I know many people are suffering. Many people are not working, and you're wondering how you're going to make it There's family crisis. Maybe you're concerned about family members that are sick, and so on Or a health crisis. Again, we have this dead deadly virus that we're facing. Whatever kind of crisis you have, God will be there to help you through. Now we have to understand the background of Psalm 46. You know when this was written? This was written at a time when Hezekiah was the king of Judah. The evil king Sennacherib, king of the Assyrians, came down against Jerusalem. He was going to conquer that city. And this and the Bible records this story in 2 Chronicles 32 and in 2 Kings chapter 18 when Sennacher surrounds the city of Jerusalem. Forty-six towns and villages. He already sacked in Judah. Over two hundred thousand residents have been taken captive. Along with a lot of spoil. He had 185,000 soldiers that had surrounded the city. You talk about being in a tight spot. He's talking about being in a crisis. That's exactly where Hezekiah was. And in this story, we're going to look at it in a minute, but Hezekiah went into the temple and he took a letter that was written to him, a threatening letter. From the evil king Sennacherib, and he spread it out before the Lord. And the Bible says that he prayed and he gave that over to God. You know what he did there? He made God his refuge. And friend, if you do that, you don't have to fear when a crisis comes, just like Hezekiah. Make God your refuge. Don't fear a crisis, don't fear a change. Look at verse 2. Therefore we're not we fear the earth. Be removed. The word removed here has the idea of to change hands. And it's the idea of a idea of a land being conquered and the land changing hands from one person to another. When one king would conquer a land, the land would change hands. And can you imagine being in that situation, being a conquered people? And many of the inhabitants of Jerusalem were conquered under Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon. Some were carried away into captivity, others scattered abroad, some stayed there in Jerusalem, but their life would never be the same again. Everything was changed as a result of what took place there under the siege of Nebuchadnezzar. And now here they are facing another siege from Sennacherib, the king of Assyria. You know, the idea here is that change is not easy for us. We don't like change because we uh it just makes us insecure. We feel threatened by it. We lose our sense of security But all of life is about change. I I dare say that as a result of what we're experiencing in our country with this virus Uh things after this are not going to be the same. Certain things are going to change. For many people, um your life is going to change. There are some people that um You know, we our hearts go out to them because they're losing loved ones, they're losing friends as a result of this. And this all causes great heartache and great change in the lives of many people. We live in a world of change Things around us are changing. When you think about it, change is a thing that brings sorrow to our heart. We we like for things to stay as they are. But all of life is about changes and unexpected things that happen, crises that come, families change. We don't like it, but it's a fact of life. We go through the stages of life. Our families get older. We battle illness with aging. Things all around us are changing. But you know who does not change in the midst of all of this change? It's Almighty God. Write down Psalm 102 verse 11. Notice what listen to what the psalmist said. My days are like a shadow that declines. I am withered like grass. But thou, O Lord, shall endure forever. And thy remembrance unto all generations. When he says my days are like a shadow that declines, he was talking about the sundial. They had sundials where they would use to tell time. And a shadow would pass along that sundial. Just like a minute hand on our clock would move. And he's saying, that's what life is like. It's constantly passing, it's constantly changing. In the midst of all of this change, what is it that gives us hope, that gives us security? It's the fact that we look we look to a God who does not change, who is the same. Again, he says in Psalm 102, verse 25, Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth. And the heavens are the work of thy hands. They shall perish, but thou shalt endure. Even all of creation around us is going to change. It's not going to stay the same. But, friend, God will stay the same. And so this should give us some comfort in knowing that God is the same. His love for you is the same. His faithfulness is the same. The promises that he gives us from his word will not change. God will not change his mind about you or his disposition of love towards you. He is a rock and a refuge that we can run to. And he does not change. So we don't have to fear a crisis. We don't have to fear change. We don't have to fear a catastrophe. Look at the rest of verse 2 and 3. He said, that the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. And though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, and the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. And the psalmist here is describing catastrophic events, disasters, earthquakes, hurricanes. Uh tornadoes. James Montgomery Boyce said that these verses are the reverse of the work of God on the third day of creation. And in a poetic way, the psalmist is describing here for us the worst imaginable tragedy that could come upon us. Sometimes life is like that. The foundations of our world is shaken. And and during these times, these these times of incredible Fear and catastrophe and all these things. We have a refuge that we can run to. That's the point that the psalmist is giving us here. Elizabeth Elliott referred to this chapter. Elizabeth Elliott, some of you may know, was the wife of the great missionary Jim Elliott, who lost his life. He was a martyr. Uh missionary to Ecuador who was martyred by the Alca Indians. Elizabeth Elliot had to endure the pain of losing her husband uh uh w when she was very young, they were very young in their marriage. And sh her second husband also died of cancer. She had to watch him slowly be consumed by cancer. And she referred to this psalm often during those difficult times. And she said this, see referred to these verses saying, Everything that seems most dependable has given way. Mountains are falling, the earth is reeling. In such a time it is a profound comfort to know that although things seem to be shaken One thing is not, God is not shaken. And then she added, the thing that most ne that is most needful to do is to do what the psalmist later tells us to be still and know that He is God. And so the psalmist said we don't have to fear despite a crisis. Despite changes that will take place, despite catastrophes that might come to us in our life, we can run to God But here's the second metaphor. He he compares God to a refuge. And then secondly he compares God to a river. So write down, don't think We have a river. Look at verse 4. There is a river. The streams where shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her. And that right early. And so here we see this idea of a river. Now, think with me about this metaphor here. First of all, there's the surety of it. He says in verse 4, there is a river. It's interesting to me that the psalmist is emphasizing this one thing: there's a river. Now think again about the circumstances of the writing of this psalm. This is uh King Hezekiah. He is in Jerusalem, that ancient city. He's being surrounded by the evil king, Sennacherib, the Assyrian king. They want to overthrow this city Now think about this. Did you know that throughout history rivers have been um part of important cities? In other words, when a city would be founded and built, it would normally be built on a river. And it's obvious why, because People would need water to live. Water was necessary for the sustenance of life. You can't live without water. For example, the city of Babylon was built on the Euphrates River. Nineveh was located on the Tigris River The uh Egyptian cities were located on the Nile. Um Rome was located on the Tiber River, and on we could go. People realized how important it was to have a river running either beside or through their city. They needed that to sustain life. Now enemies when they would come to a city, one of the things they would try to do is to cut off that water supply. And it's obvious again why, because if you're going to take a city What one of the things you would want to do is to starve the people out or to make them desperate for thirst. If you cut off their water, that's one way to conquer a city. Now here Hezekiah is the king of Jerusalem. And there's one thing about Jerusalem, if you look at if you look at it geographically, there's no river that runs beside Jerusalem. There's no river that runs Through the city. But the Islamist here insists there is a river that runs through it. What's he talking about? Let me tell you what I think he's talking about. I think he's talking about the fact that Hezekiah When he knew that Sennacherib was coming to conquer his city, he realized that no river flowed through that city, and that was a problem. So you know what he did? He dug a tunnel. 100 feet beneath the streets of Jerusalem. This tunnel began at the spring of Gaion And it ended at a place called the Pool Silong. You know how long this tunnel was? Seventeen hundred and fifty feet long. And what it did was it it it really was a man made river. That went from that spring all the way to the inside of the city, to the pool of Siloam. And what Hezekiah essentially did was he made a river there. You see, um, and so I think that this is what he's referring to here. There is a river. Our city has a river. And what I think he's using this to illustrate, it becomes a metaphor for Almighty God. Just like there's a river in there in that city that people can draw from and they can get life from, and it's a resource. In that time of crisis, there's that river of water that they can go to. Even so God is like that. This is a symbol, this becomes a symbol and a metaphor for Almighty God. Again he says in verse 4, there is a river. The streams shall make glad the city of God. I've been to Israel, I've been to the city of David, and I have walked through that tunnel that Hezekiah. um uh dug out with his workers so many years ago in seven fifty BC. You can walk through that tunnel even today it is there. I can testify that the psalmist is right when he says there is a river. It's there I walked through it. I uh saw the water. I waded through the water in it. But friend, again, more importantly, this speaks to us about Almighty God. Again, he says, God is in the midst of her. This river points to God. Did you know many times in Scripture God's works are compared to a river? Psalm 1 says, he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water. A godly man by the river represents a a godly person, or excuse me, a tree by the river represents got represents a godly man close to a river. And Psalm thirty six verse eight, thou shalt make them the drink of the river of thy pleasure. And so what he's doing here with this metaphor is he's referring to the spiritual Nourishment, the spiritual refreshing that God is to us. Did you know that the moment you receive Jesus as your Savior, the Holy Spirit comes to live inside of you? And that Spirit of God is your source of refreshing, is your source of strength. And in the New Testament, again, the Holy Spirit is compared to uh the river or a water of life. Jesus spoke about this in John 7. He said, if any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink There are times in the Christian life when we get dry and weary. We need to go to the river, that Holy Spirit inside of us to refresh us, to strengthen us. And so this speaks to us about God and God dwelling in us, just like that river dwelt in that city, and it made that city glad. Even so, God dwells in us. Through the Holy Spirit. He's a river of life in us. And he satisfies us. Think about the satisfaction of it in verse 4. There is a river the streams shall make glad. the city of God. In other words, this river is satisfying. It's a river of joy. People all over are looking for something to satisfy that inward thirst that they have within them and nothing seems to quench it. Many people are trying temporal, earthly things to quench this inward thirst, and that doesn't do it. Earthly things won't do it. Temporal things won't do it. It has to be quenched by s the eternal. The Bible says God has put eternity in our hearts. And the only real satisfaction That will quench that inward thirst comes through knowing Jesus Christ, knowing him as your Lord and as your Savior. That's what Jesus said to the woman at the well in John 4. And uh when he was using again the same idea, same metaphor, Jesus answered and said unto her, verse 13, Whoever drinks this water shall thirst again. But whoever whoever drinks of the water that I shall give shall never thirst again, but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. Spiritual salvation, the indwelling of God in a person to water. It's the water of life. Salvation is that water that will quench us, quench the thirst that we have inside. There's the satisfaction of it. There's the source of it in verse 4. It says, the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. And this is where God dwells. And again, the idea here is that now, when you become a child of God, you become that temple. Where God dwells. It's an amazing thought to think that when you get saved, God dwells in you. And then there's the security of it in verse 5. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her. And that right early. Normally when an enemy would come into a city, the first thing they would do is plunder the temple. You know why? Because there were riches in the temple. And sometimes temples were used As kind of an ancient bank. People would bring their valuables and they would be locked in uh in storage places there. So when an enemy came to conquer a city, they would come to the temple and they would plunder it Here God says in this circumstance that God is in the midst of her talking about that temple. She shall not be moved. That is, this temple on this occasion is not going to change hands. God's not going to allow someone to come in and plunder that temple And again, we can apply this like this. As a Christian, you're the temple of the Holy Spirit. And just like God was watching over that ancient temple in Hezekiah's day in that crisis, God will watch over you. in this crisis. And he's not going to let anything happen to you. And so there's the security of it And then I could say the sovereignty of it in verse six The heathen rage, the kingdoms were moved, he utters his voice, the earth melts. The Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. And again, in a very beautiful and poetic way The psalmist is again affirming that God is sovereign. Nations can rage and kingdoms can be conquered and pass from one to another. But over all of this It is a sovereign God who's in control of all of these things. So we don't fear because we have a refuge. We don't faint Because we have a river. Let me give you the third and final thing. We don't fret because we have a ruler. Verse number 8. Look at chapter 46, verse 8. Come and behold the works of the Lord. Drop down to verse 10. Be still and know that I am God. Now there are two commands in this section that we get. First is come and behold. The psalmist is saying, come look at this. Look at what I see here. And then secondly, he says, be still and know. that I am God. Now, and by the way, that second expression is first person. All the rest of this psalm is third person. And the next expression, be still and know that I'm God, this is God speaking directly, first person. Be still and know that I am God. Now, again, let me give you the background of what's going on here. Because that this is necessary to understand these two commands. Again, remember Sennacherib has come against Judah. And Jerusalem. He's about to conquer the city. He surrounded it with his armies. And we don't have time to look at it. 2 Kings 18. Sometimes we get a chance to just look at Second Kings chapter eighteen and verse number nineteen, it gives you the whole background of this story. Hezekiah, after being threatened by King Sennacherib. And by the way, Hezekiah tried to buy him off. He tried to give him silver and gold. First he said to uh to King Senacerib, tell me what you want. What's it going to take to call you just to leave And Sennacherib demanded three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold, literally a king's ransom. And when Hezekiah literally robbed the temple. of its valuables to pay that price. Sennacherib still didn't leave. And after that he gave a threatening letter. And in that letter he had it had it passed out among all the citizens of Jerusalem, and it basically said to the people there, Do not put your trust in Hezekiah, do not put your trust in the And Hezekiah's God, he will not be able to deliver you. These were threatening, blasphemous words from this evil king to Hezekiah and his God. And the Bible says that Hezekiah took that letter, and he went into the temple, and he laid that letter out before the Lord. And he cried and he prayed. And he asked God for his help and for his protection. And you know what God did? The Bible says That God sent to Hezekiah a prophet by the name of Isaiah. Isaiah the prophet. And through the mouth of Isaiah, God gave a promise to Uh Hezekiah, listen to what he said. Therefore, thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, he shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a bank against it By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall not come into this city, saith the Lord. For I will defend this city to save it For my own sake and for my servant David's sake. God gave a promise immediately right there. When Hezekiah took it to the Lord, he laid it out before God, said, God, please take care of this for me. In return, God rewarded Hezekiah's faith, sending the prophet to say, Hezekiah, this king's not going to come into this city, not one arrow. Will bounce off the wall of this city. He will not throw an embankment against this city. He will not in any way take over this city. In fact, the way that he came is the way that he's going to return. And the Bible then says an incredible thing took place. And 2 Kings 19, 35, it says, It came to pass that that night that the angel of the Lord went out. And smote the camp of the Assyrians, a hundred, fourscore, and five thousand. And when they arose early in the morning, behold. They were all dead corpses. A hundred and eighty-five thousand soldiers. God sent one angel, and that death angel destroyed those soldiers right there at that camp. Uh Lord Byron in a poem about this event called the destruction of Sennacherib beautifully summarizes that scene on that morning. I don't have time to give you the poem, but you should read it sometime. When uh it it it it describes the incredible scene the next morning that took place when God's angel destroyed that whole Assyrian army. But with that in mind, look in Psalm 46, look down in verse number 8. Come, behold the works of the Lord. What desolations he has made in the earth. It's almost like Hezekiah is inviting the people to say, Look what God has done. Look how God has protected you. How God has watched over you. Look at this miracle. of protection. And verse nine, he maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth. He breaketh the bow and cutteth the spear in sunder. He burneth the chariot in fire. You see, here's the point. When you're in a crisis Where there's nothing that you can do. When you give that to God, when you depend upon the Lord, when you run to Him as your refuge, when you allow Him to be your source of strength, like a river. When you allow God to be your ruler, the sovereign one in your life, you know what? God will get you through that crisis. Just like He did Hezekiah and the people of Jerusalem. And it finishes off with this one expression. And again, this is God speaking first person. Be still and know that I am God. That's a good word for us today. You know that? People all around are afraid. They have panic. There's anxiety and fear. You know what we need to do? We need to be still and know that he is God. Just be still and know that he is God. Avail yourself of his sufficiency. How do we do that? Just depend upon him as your refuge. Is God your refuge right now? Are you depending upon him and him alone? It's so easy to build up our own defenses against trouble and to put our trust in them instead of God We trust in our bank accounts, our insurance policies, our schemes, our plans. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with these things. The Bible encourages us to be prudent. We have to do our part. But having done that, friend, put your trust in God. Put your faith in the Lord. Depend upon God as your refuge. Draw on Him as your resource. Allow the Holy Spirit to have free reign in your heart. Drink from the Spirit of God daily. Have that time alone with God and prayer and the Word of God. And then defer to him as your ruler. Tell him, God, you are in control. And I submit to you, and I'm going to be still and know that you are God. And friend, that's how to get through a crisis. He is our refuge in a time of crisis. Would you pray with me? Heads bowed and eyes closed. Can we pray together? Father, thank you for this psalm. It is indeed encouraging to us. I pray for many out there in the Grace family that are watching. And are going through a crisis of their own. Father, would you help them to obey the words, the charges, the encouragements of the psalmist here? To Lord call upon you and recognize you as our refuge. To realize, Lord, you are our source of sustenance. You are the river. That makes our hearts glad. You are the ruler that fights our battles for us, that delivers us from the dangers that are around us. Lord, we right now confess. That we put our trust in you, Lord, in you and you alone. And let me just say this as we're praying, if you're out there and you have never trusted Jesus as your Savior, can I invite you To do that right now, the greatest decision you'll ever make is to run to God for refuge, the refuge of salvation in Christ. You know there's only one way to heaven, that's through Jesus. He who took your sin debt upon himself, who died for your sins, paid your sin debt so that salvation Is now offered as a gift because he paid for it. And if you'll put your faith in what Christ has done for you, if you'll run to him for refuge, he'll save you He'll make you a child, give you eternal life, forgive you for your sins. Would you do that right now? Would you just pray right where you are and say, God, right now, Lord Jesus, right now I make you my refuge. Save me Cleanse me of my sin. And then would you pray, all of you pray, Lord, protect me in this time of crisis. We run to you and you alone. We trust in you and you alone. You are our refuge. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.