Good to see you tonight. Take your Bibles. Open to the book of Romans chapter ten. As we continue our study, it's a privilege to go through this very important letter in the New Testament. And we come now tonight to Romans chapter ten. And we're going to be dealing with the final verses in this chapter. We've been in here for a few weeks. And we want to deal tonight with verses um 18 on down to the end of the chapter, verse 21. And I've titled this the outstretched arms of God, or the outstretched hands of God, I should say According to a UPI news item, the in uh a certain insurance company uh received some unusual explanations for accidents. um from their automobile policy holders. They were trying to people were giving a report about what happened and these are just a few of the reports that they gave. One person wrote and said, an invisible car came out of nowhere and struck my car and vanished. Another one said, the other car collided with mine without warning me of its intention. Here's another one. I've been driving my car for 40 years when I fell asleep at the wheel and had an accident. In other words, said as I reached an intersection, a hedge sprang up, obscuring my vision. Here's a good one. I pulled away from the side of the road, glanced at my mother-in-law, and headed over the embankment. Another one said the pedest uh the pedestrian had no idea which direction to go, so I ran over him. Another person wrote, the telephone poll was approaching fast. I attempted to swerve out of its path when it struck my front end. Another one wrote, the guy was all over the road. I had to swerve a number of times before I hit him. He almost got away. Another one said, in direct cause of this accident, a little guy in a small car the indirect cause of this accident was a little guy in a small car with a big mouth. Don't you hate those guys? They're just kidding. Well, these are all uh things that people excuses you could say that they made for the accidents that they gotten into. And really what they're saying, what is an excuse anyway? An excuse really is something that we use sometimes to shield us from personal responsibility. What we're really saying with an excuse is it's not my fault. It's not my uh responsibility. Billy Sunday said this, an excuse is the skin of a reason stuffed with a lie. And the Bible knows the nature of man, and the Bible tells us about this in Proverbs 21, verse 2. Every way of man is right in his own eyes. We have a way of justifying ourselves, making excuses, justifying our own actions. But the Bible goes on to say, but the Lord ponders the heart. In Proverbs 16, 2, all the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the Spirit. And then in Proverbs 30 verse 12 it says, There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes. You know, we can always find an excuse to justify uh ourselves why we didn't do what we should do, or why we aren't doing uh things, certain things, responsibilities, or why we are doing certain things. Here in this last part of Romans 10, Paul is dealing with excuses that people might have for not believing. And you might remember that as we looked into Romans 9 and 10, Paul was dealing with one major question And what was the major question that he was dealing with? Why had the Jews rejected the Messiah? Didn't God promise that all of Israel would be saved? Remember that was the original idea that Paul was dealing with in chapter nine. And since the Jews have not believed, does that mean the word of God has failed? And we look in chapter nine and Paul gives an emphatic no, the word of God has not And then Paul defends the word of God from the perspective of divine sovereignty. And that is the focus of chapter 9. The focus is on the sovereignty of God in salvation. Again, look in chapter 9, just to review, in chapter 9, verse 15, where it says For he says to Moses, I will have mercy, on whom I will have mercy, I will have compassion, on whom I will have compassion verse sixteen. So then it is not of him that willeth nor of him that runneth, but God that shows mercy God dispenses his mercy according to his own divine purpose and prerogative. But as we already noted in our study of Romans 9, the sovereignty of God does not negate the responsibility of man. And here Paul is saying that it's not God's fault that Israel did not believe. You can't lay that responsibility at the feet of God. You can't blame God for your lack of faith. If man dies and goes to hell, it's his own fault. It's because he has not exercised faith to believe. And so both divine sovereignty and responsibility are equally true. Both of these things are equally true. Both are true at the same time. That's what I tried to emphasize to you in our study here in these chapters. God sovereignly determines who will receive His mercy God says, I didn't, you know, the Bible says that God is the one who sovereignly saves us and chooses us and sheds his mercy to us. I didn't see God but he sought me. Jesus said, You haven't chosen me, but I've chosen you. But at the same time, all men are responsible to obey the gospel and believe If a man dies and goes to hell, it's his own fault because he didn't repent and he didn't believe. And you can't blame God. Now, one of the great preachers of the past, Charles Spurgeon, once preached a sermon out of these same verses, Romans 10, 20, and 21, and he called the title of the sermon Sovereign Grace and man's responsibility. And his whole the whole thesis of the sermon was that in you can see both of these things in verse 20 and verse 21. You see both the sovereignty of God in salvation and you also see the responsibility of man. They're both together here side by side. Both are equally true. Listen, anyone who wants to get saved can get saved. Anyone who wants to come to God, just come If you're hungry, here's a table fully loaded with bread, eat. If you're thirsty, come to the water of life and drink. Those that come to God, he will no wise cast out. But that doesn't negate the fact that God is also sovereign. They say, I don't understand how these two things can both be true. I don't understand how both of these things can be true at the same time. Well, welcome to the club I've often said, you know, there's certain mysteries in theology that I can't figure out, and God hasn't called me to figure them out. He hasn't called me to explain them all, so don't pull me aside and ask for an explanation tonight. It's not my job to explain all the mysteries of theology. It's just my job to believe what the Bible says. And so it is with you as well. But I want to quote from this sermon that Spurgeon gave. I I don't really like to give long quotes, but I'm going to make an exception here because I think he really helps, at least he helps me. I hope he helps you when I when I quote this, so follow along with me. This is a quote from the sermon. He says this, the system of truth is not one straight line, but two. No man will ever get a right view of the gospel until he knows how to look at the two lines at once. I am taught in one book to believe that what I sow I shall reap. I am taught in another place that it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but God that showeth mercy. I see in one place God presiding over all in providence, and yet I see, and I cannot help see, that man acts as he pleases, and that God has left his actions to his own will in a great measure. Now, if I were to declare that man was so free to act that there was no precedence of God over his action, I should be driven very near to atheism. And if, on the other hand, I declare that God so overrules all things as that man is not free enough to be responsible, I'm driven at once into antinomianism or fatalism. That God predestines and that man is responsible are two things that few can see. They are believed to be inconsistent and contradictory, but they are not. It is just the fault of our weak judgment. Two truths cannot be contradictory to each other. If then I find taught in one place that everything is foreordained, that is true. And if I find in another place that man is responsible for all his actions, that is true. And it is my folly that leads me to imagine that true two truths can ever contradict each other. These two truths, I do not believe, can ever be welded into one upon any human anvil. But one day shall be in eternity. They are two lines that are so nearly parallel that the mind that shall pursue them farthest will never discover that they converge. But they do converge And they will meet somewhere in eternity, close to the throne of God, whence all truth doth spring. Now this morning I'm about to consider the two doctrines in verse in the twentieth verse we have taught We have taught us the doctrines of sovereign grace, but Isaiah is very bold and saith, I was found of them that sought me not. I was made manifest unto them that asked not after me. And in next verse we have the doctrine of man's guilt and rejecting God. To Israel, he saith, All day long I have stretched forth my hands unto a disobedient and gainsaying people. End quote. You guys are done? Glad that's over? It's a long quote. But there's a lot in there. I hope you were able to follow his train of thinking there. And you understand what he was saying? Both of these things, it's it's few people can see that both of these are true. Concurrently true in Scripture. We don't hold on to the sovereignty with two hands and become fatalistic. We don't hold on to man's free will with two hands and become depressed. We have one hand on sovereignty. We have one man on responsibility. And we believe both to be equally true, although in our own reason and judgment, they don't seem to connect here on this side. They'll be connected in eternity. We just have to believe that both of these things are true. And Spurgeon says that he sees in the passage that we just read that both of these things are side by side. In verse 20, we see the sovereignty of God. In verse 21, we see the responsibility of man. And here's the point, if man rejects God, it's his own responsibility. You know why? Because God We see the posture. We see the attitude of God towards the lost person, towards the sinner in verse 21. And what is that It is the attitude of God stretching out his hands, holding his hands out, pleading with sinners to come, asking sinners to come to him And so if a person doesn't come, the guilt of that is their own. And then two preliminary thoughts before we actually get into the verses. Number one, we we said before You know, the response is not all will believe. We already saw that. Back up to verse 16 of chapter 10, but they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah says, Lord, who hath believed our report? Would be God that everyone, that all men would believe. But the sad reality is that all men will not. And the Bible makes that very clear. Makes it clear here. It makes it clear in other passages that not all will believe. And so Paul in this section quotes extensively from the Old Testament. And here we saw he quotes from the great messianic passage of Isaiah 53, Who hath believed our report? To show that the gospel is universally proclaimed, but not everyone will believe, few will be saved And that's the sad situation. We've seen that throughout biblical history, have we not? This morning we looked at Enoch, and right after him will be Noah, who walked by faith. And Noah was a preacher of righteousness. He preached to that anti-deluvian era, that generation of people before the flood that heard the message from Noah. I believe that before they heard it from Noah, they heard it from Enoch, who was also a preacher. But sadly, how many people really in faith turn to God? Not many. By the time you get to Noah, there's only eight people that are saved, a very small remnant that will actually get on to that. When God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, only Lot and his two daughters were delivered. When Jeremiah preached to Jerusalem of the coming judgment, only a small remnant were delivered And even in Jesus' day, Jesus spoke of a narrow gate. There's a broad road and a narrow road. There's a broad gate, there's a narrow gate. And few there be that find it. You know, one of the things I found in Jerusalem, going around that old city, is not all gates are the same width. There are some gates there in the old city that are pretty wide. A lot of people can get through there. There are some gates into the old city that are so very narrow. Not many can get in. And Jesus said, that's the way it is with the door to heaven. It's very narrow. Would to God that all would go through it, but not all will. And so we see the responsibility, but then we receive the responsibility. When people reject the gospel message, it is never the fault of God. You can never lay the blame at God's feet. And people try to blame God. But it's not his doing. And so what Paul shows us here in these last verses in chapter 10 are what I call the weak excuses that some people might make. About why they have not believed. These are some of the excuses that people might use today about why they have not embraced the gospel. Here's the first one. Excuse number one. We did not hear. Is it possible for some people to go to God and say we did not Here. Now, again, specifically, Paul is referring to the Jews here. Some may argue that the Jews were not responsible for their unbelief because they have not heard the message. And Paul's response to them is they have heard. You have heard. And to prove his point, he quotes from Psalm 19, verse number 3. Look down in verse number 18. But I say, have they not heard, is it possible that they have not heard Response verse 18, yes, that is, yes, they've heard. Verily, their sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the end of the world. To prove his point, Paul quotes from Psalm 19, verse number 3. I'm sure you've read that psalm before. How does it begin? The heavens declare the what? The glory of God, the firmament, shows his handiwork day under day, utter speech. And night unto night shows knowledge, and then it begins to speak about the sun, and nothing is hid from the heat of the sun. And really that whole first part of chapter 19 deals with natural revelation. Now here's the problem that some people have. Paul's quoting Psalm 19 to say that no one can come to God and say, I haven't heard And to support that argument, he quotes from Psalm 19, but some people will shrink back from that and they'll say, wait a minute, Psalm 19 is referring to natural revelation. Psalm 19. 4 deals with what some scholars refer to as general revelation, not special revelation or more specifically not the preaching of the gospel. If you look at Psalm 19, it's divided into two parts. The first part is about creation, and the second part is about commandments, the word of God, the law of God, and how the word of the Lord is perfect. The first part is about the sky. The second part is about the scriptures. The first part is about natural revelation. The second part is about special revelation The first part is about how the heavens go. The second part is about how to go to heaven. And the problem is that the verse that Paul quoted is from the first part of the psalm, which deals with general revelation. And as I've told you before, I think last Sunday night when I was talking or preaching, general revelation is not the gospel. You can't get saved by just general revelation. You have to have special revelation. So the question is, why does Paul use this particular verse in Psalm 119, which refers to general revelation To prove his point that the gospel's gone out everywhere. Why does he do that? How are we to explain this? And the answer is Paul is showing us that there's a connection between the first part of Psalm nineteen and the second part. In other words, really what he's giving us under inspiration of the Holy Spirit is the intention of the Psalmists who first wrote Psalm 19, and the psalmists originally intended to communicate this one idea that there is a parallel between general revelation and special revelation. There is a relationship. What is true of general revelation in this regard is also true of special revelation. The two forms of revelation we could say are complementary. What is said of one can be said of another, especially with what he's talking about here. The revelation of God and nature is what? It's continuous. It's day after day and night after night. It is abundant. It is pouring forth speech constantly. Natural world is preaching a sermon, as it were, to everyone about God. It is universal. Everyone understands it. There's no speech or language where their voice is not heard. General Revelation preaches a message about God, and when he preaches that message, people in every language can understand it. It's it's it's broad. And so this idea of a continuous pouring forth Of it being abundant, of it being universal. This is to be understood of also special revelation as well. The special revelation of God from the scriptures. It parallels natural revelation in that it is continuous, it is abundant, it is universal. That's the point that Paul's making here. John Murray, the great scholar, wrote this. He said, since the gospel proclamation is now to all without distinction, it is proper to see the parallel between the universality of the general revelation and the universality of the gospel to the uttermost parts of the earth. God has messengers all over the world preaching the gospel. Some of you might be sitting here saying, well, you know, what about people in these other places? Listen, do you know what's going on in those other places? And anybody here know what's going on? You can give me a report about it. You don't? Maybe God's got messengers there that you don't realize. Maybe he's got people there sharing the gospel that you and I don't know about. There are witnesses all over. And God can get his word. It's not a problem for God to get his word in every corner and era of this earth. Every part of this earth, I should say. I think I told you before when I was over in uh Ethiopia, uh one night they took me to a uh a house late on a Friday night. It was very dark. They had a gate in the house, opened the gate. We drove in, closed the gate, got out, went into a room. It was kind of dimly lit. Big old room with a carpet. There was about fifty men seated around the carpet They weren't smiling at the time, and I was I began to pray, Lord, I'm your servant, protect me. But then a guy got up and he began to share the gospel. He began to talk about salvation. He began to talk about how he got saved. He was a former Muslim. Actually, he was still called himself a Muslim Iman, but he found Jesus Christ, or I should say Jesus found him. See how did he how did that happen? We was reading in the Quran about Jesus being virgin born and he realized that if Jesus was virgin born, he wasn't just like a normal man. They also read in the Quran, if you have a question about Jesus asked people of the book, and he did. He started asking Christians and he put two and two together. He found out Jesus was the Son of God. He was the Savior of the world. He got saved, and you know what? He began to secretly share the gospel with everyone that he came in contact with that was Muslim in his mosque. And there was a whole group of men that had converted to Christianity that were there that night. You know what that tells me that the gospel is spreading. It's going to places that I don't know about. It's going to places that you don't know about. It's spreading all throughout. God has messengers all over the world preaching the gospel that we don't know about. God's witnesses are continuous. God's witnesses are abundant. God's witnesses are universal. They're all over. And in that way, God's special revelation mirrors general revelation. Listen to what Paul said in Colossians 1. 23. If you continue in the faith grounded and settled And be not moved away from the hope of the gospel which ye have heard, which was preached to every creature under heaven, whereof I, Paul, am made a minister. How could Paul say in his day that the gospel was being preached to every creature? Had all the people everywhere already heard? And Boyce answers that question like this. The obvious answer to this puzzle is that Paul is speaking representatively He does not mean that every creature on earth at that time had literally heard the gospel, but the gospel had been so widely proclaimed that all types of people Gentiles as well as Jews, slaves as well as freemen, they heard it. And the gospel was running swiftly, even in Paul's day, all over the place. And friend, if that was true in Paul's day, how much more true is that today, nearly everywhere you go in the world today, there are witnesses of the gospel of Christ everywhere. They're everywhere. We're living in a time of incredible communication. You understand that? It's incredible the communication that we have. Yesterday we had our FaceTime with my little grandbabies. There they are in London. Here I am in Baltimore. And we can see each other face to face. We can communicate. We can talk. They can look at us and we can smile and laugh together. I mean, I don't know about you, but I think that's just amazing. That's incredible when you think about it. We live in a time when communication is vast. It's all over the place. You could talk to somebody on the other side of the world In just a moment, just notice the word is getting out all over. You realize that every sermon I preach here It goes literally around the world, and I'm not bragging when I say that, folks. That's not because I'm any great preacher or anything. It's just a reality. We are on the internet. We are we're on uh sermon audio, every sermon, I have I think a thousand sermons on sermon audio. I get a report every month of the countries all over the world that have downloaded sermons that have been preached here. And there are countries all over the world. Everywhere. And that's just me. There are other preachers all over the place. I mean the internet By the way, thank you, Al Gore, for the internet. Just kidding. The internet is just amazing. It just makes communication So, so convenient. I remember one time I was asked to speak at a staff chapel at the Ministry of Love Worth Finding down in Memphis. That's Some of you know Adrian Rogers and Love Worth Finding is a wonderful ministry. He's a great preacher. He's in heaven now, but even though he's in heaven, his sermons are still going out all over the place. And Gene Howard, who was the uh the leader, the director of the Love Worth Finding, um is a friend of mine and he he took me to a map and he showed me a place everywhere where it was being broadcast their ministry and he basically said this the sun does not set on love worth finding it is constantly continuously being played Somewhere in the world, 24-7, all the time, the word of God is going out And so Paul is basically saying that no one can use the excuse, we did not hear. No. Paul said their words are going to the ends of the world. But here's the second excuse. We did not hear. No, that can't use that. Excuse number two, we did not understand. We didn't understand it when it when we heard it. Look at verse 19. But I say, did not Israel know? Is it possible that Israel didn't really understand The message when they heard it? And again, Paul's answer to that is no. That's not possible. Why? And again, to prove that this is not the problem, Paul, being an Old Testament scholar, again quoted from the Old Testament And this time he quotes from Deuteronomy 32, verse 21, and Isaiah 65, 1 and 2. And basically what he's doing is he's calling two witnesses to the witness stand here. It's not possible that they didn't understand. Well, how do you know that, Paul? Well, let's listen to Moses. In verse 19, first Moses saith I will provoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, and by a foolish nation I will anger you Now, he's quoting again from Moses in Deuteronomy 32, verse 21. And some interpret this: didn't the Gentiles, didn't the Jews understand the gospel was to be preached to the Gentiles? They must have understood this because Moses prophesied it here, but that is not the point. And that really misses the interpretation. Paul is trying to prove that the Jews did understand the gospel. That's what he's trying to prove here. Of course they knew that the gospel was going to go to the Gentiles. However, the point is that the Jews did understand the gospel. How do you know, Paul? That when they heard the gospel, they understood it. Well, the evidence shows that they understood the gospel because they were jealous. That's his whole point. And the argument goes something like this. Did the Jews understand the gospel? Yes. They understood it. Because they were provoked to jealousy when the Gentiles, to whom they looked down on, believed it. They got jealous when the Gentiles believed it. Now, if the Gentiles were believing some message that was false, they wouldn't have gotten jealous. They would have understood that that was there's that doesn't lead to salvation, which again implies that the Jews, they understood it. They understood the gospel They understood all the ramifications of it. They understood that you had to come by faith to God. They knew the message being received. by the Gentiles was a message of salvation by grace through faith apart from the law, and that it was not a contradiction of Judaism, but really it was a fulfillment of it. They got that. That's why they got so jealous, Paul says. As long as the Jay uh the Gentiles worshipped Pagan gods, as long as they continued down the wrong path, they didn't care when they received the truth. Or they didn't care as long as they didn't receive the truth. But when they did receive the real truth, the Jews got jealous. So you see, jealousy proves that the Jews understood the message. They saw themselves as superior, and they thought the Gentiles of the foolish peoples, they thought they were nobody. Look again in verse 19 Where it says, but did it uh but I say, did not Israel know? First Moses saith, I will provoke you to jealousy by them who are no people, that is, they were not God's people originally And by a foolish nation, that is, that's the way the Jews thought of Gentiles, just foolish people. They were nobodies. They were those who were not a nation. But God recognized them when they came to know Jesus as Savior. They were not a special nation like the Jews. God made them a special nation in Exodus 20. And all of a sudden, God graciously reaches out to the Gentiles with this wonderful message of grace, and they begin to understand, and they begin to become a part of Israel, spiritual Israel. And when that happened, the Jews got jealous. They were offended by the grace of God. And so that proves that they understood it. But then Paul also puts Isaiah on the witness stand. And look at verse 20. But Isaiah is very bold and said, I was found of them that sought me not. I was made manifest unto them that asked not after me. And next, Paul here quotes Isaiah to give further support to the previous verse in Deuteronomy and to kind of add another twist to the argument here. The Gentiles were a people who understood the message of grace, even though they didn't seek God. They never sought God, but they understood They were not seeking God. They were not asking for understanding of God. Yet he was made manifest to them the message of grace. And here's the implication behind that argument. If the message of the gospel of grace was understood by those who were not seeking God, how much more would it be understood by those who were seeking God, like the Jews? The Jews did seek God. They were on this religious request, a quest, I should say. The problem was not that they did not understand. The problem with the Jews was they simply didn't accept it. Their pride wouldn't let them accept it. They still wanted to get to God by a religious ritual. They understood. They just didn't accept it One scholar says Israel has refused to submit to God's righteousness, excuse me, righteousness while insisting on its own. And so we already saw that back in Romans chapter 10. Go back to chapter 10, verse 1, where Paul said, My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. For I bear them record that they have a zeal after God, but not according to knowledge. Verse three, for they being ignorant of God's righteousness, going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God They wanted God to accept their own righteousness. This was a willful, stubborn Ignorance. It was a refusal to accept. Not that they didn't understand, they did understand. That's why I I say even today, you know, the hardest people to win the Christ, you know who they are? Religious people. People that are already steeped in a religion, they don't want to admit that they're a sinner. They don't want to admit that their righteousness has no merit whatsoever with God. And so Paul says you can't use that excuse. Excuse number one, is it possible they didn't hear? No, the word went out, it's all over. Is it possible they didn't understand? No, they understood. And I want to tell you something, beloved, the gospel is not rocket science. It's a very simple message. And you make it clear, a lot of times people, it's not that they don't understand, it's that they don't want to receive it. They don't want to admit that they are a sinner before God, and there's nothing they can do that can contribute to their salvation. That was the problem with the Jews. But here's the third excuse and the final one before we close. What what about were they not invited? Is it possible then since they heard and they understood, you know, is it possible they were not invited? And again, that's not possible. Why? Because look again in verse 21. God says, but to Israel he saith, All day long I have stretched forth my hands. unto a disobedient and gainsaying people. It's not possible that they weren't invited because God, the posture of God We see the invitation of God, and really I should say three characteristics. First of all, the posture of it. God is pictured here as holding out his hands. to people. He continually holds out his hands in an invitation. He's reaching forth unto sinners to come unto him. Come to him. If you want to know God's attitude towards a lost person today, his arms are out. He's beckoning them to come, come to me, come. That's the posture of Almighty God, come. That's the attitude of God. It's the posture of a A loving parent waiting for that prodigal child to return, longing for that child to return. Reaching forth his hands to them. And by the way, we see this in the gospel. We don't have time. We're out of time. I could just take you through the gospel. One passage after another after another. And you know what you see? You see Jesus reaching forth his hands, touching people, blessing people, bidding them to come to him. This is the attitude of God. Towards the lost. And by the way, beloved, it should be our attitude towards the lost. That should be our attitude. Everyone that comes through this church door, we should love on them. We should welcome them. And by the way, you know, you already do that. I'm just kind of encouraging you along. Just keep doing that. Keep loving everyone that comes. Keep reaching forth your hands to them because that's the posture of Almighty God. We see the posture of it. He's reaching forth his hands. We see the persistence of it. All day long. All day long. God doesn't just this a little while. No, it's all day. All day long. He is persistent. He has his hands out, hands of mercy stretched forth all day. He doesn't stop. He just keeps reaching out. We see the posture of it. We see the persistence of it. But then we see what I call the pity of it, because look again at the end of verse 21, he reaching forth his hands unto a disobedient and again-saying people. to people that stubbornly resist him, that stubbornly reject him. The problem is not God's fault. We're living in a time today where people, they don't want to acknowledge God at all. They don't even want to believe there is a God. Even though in their heart they know there is, because God has put the knowledge of Himself in every person. It's an aid in every person. The Bible makes that very clear, but they're pushing it away, pushing it away. Here's God. He's got his hands out. He's pleading for them to come. And he's doing it to a resistant and a stubborn people who don't want to hear Who don't want to acknowledge him. And if a person dies without Christ, you can't lay the blame at God's feet This is what the Apostle Paul is saying right here. The problem is people have disregarded the outstretched hands of God. But nevertheless, God keeps reaching out. He keeps reaching out. And again, beloved, this needs to be our posture. We need to plead. We need to pray. We need to constantly reach forth to those who don't know Christ. As I said before, I've said it once, you'll hear me say it a hundred times, any person who dies and goes to hell should have to step over a Christian who is pleading for them to come to Christ. Pleading for them to receive Jesus Christ into their heart as their Lord and as their Savior. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, we we thank you for your love to us and your love for all men, your love for all sinners. We see according to your word, Lord, that your hands are continually outstretched to people that they might come to Christ. And I pray, Father, that we'll have that same attitude, that same heart desire to see people come to know Jesus. And Father, may that be true then of us, that we have this compassion, this love towards those who do not know you. So Lord, bless us. Give us this burden. I pray, Lord, if there's someone here tonight that's never trusted Christ, that tonight would be the time when they they put their faith in Christ. And could I just ask you, friend, with heads bowed and eyes closed, Is that you? Do you know the Lord Jesus? Are you absolutely certain of your salvation, friend? Because the Lord, He wants to save you He wants you to know him. And if you don't know Christ, would you just pray this prayer simply in your heart? Would you just say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, please save me. I see that your hands are outstretched for me. Friend, if you'll just reach your hand out to Christ, he'll save you. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts tonight. Give us a burden and a passion for the lost. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.