Now I want you to take your Bibles this morning and turn to the Old Testament book of Joshua, chapter five. We're going to look in Joshua chapter five, verse thirteen, and we're going to look at verse thirteen and we'll Start there and go through part of chapter six. I want to talk about overcoming strongholds in your life. What is a stronghold? According to the Webster's Dictionary, it is a fortress It is a military citadel. These were built by ancient kings and times. They were uh put in strategic places to be a fortress against an invading army. You say, well, what does a stronghold have to do with me? Well, spiritually speaking, we all have strongholds that we have to overcome if we're going to live victorious in Christ. You see, for us a stronghold might be something, it might be someone, it might be some circumstance in our life that is keeping us from having the total victory that God wants you and me to have. What is that stronghold in your life? What is that thing that is a giant fortress that you have to overcome in order to have full victory? Um what is it? Remember that in the book of Joshua Victory is really the theme. It's living a victorious Christian life. Now the land of Canaan represents crossing over into full victory, what has God has designed for the Christian life. And so Canaan is a picture of the victorious Christian life. And let me just say this that without a struggle, there's not going to be victory. There's going to be struggle in the Christian life to get the victory that Christ has given us. The preacher John Chrysostom said this, you're a poor soldier of Christ if you think you can overcome without fighting or without conflict. And it's very true. There's going to be conflict. There's going to be fighting. We have enemies that are constantly engaged in warfare against us and trying to keep us from the victory that is ours. And so we have to learn how to overcome those strongholds. So the book of Joshua can tell us that. Now Joshua, the stronghold for Joshua and Israel, was was Jericho. Just after they crossed over the River Jordan. And they were to take possession of the land, the land that God had given them, the land that was theirs. They had the big city of Jericho that was right in their way. Jericho was a sinful city. The people there worshipped idols. There was all kind of in gross immorality that went on, incredible evil in the sight of the Lord, and the Bible catal categogs uh uh catalog Categorize, excuse me, those sins in Leviticus chapter 18. And this was such a sinful city that God declared holy war against it. It might be that your stronghold in your life is some sin that you can't seem to get victory over. Jericho was a strong city. It was a very formidable stronghold. In fact, the strongest city in the land of Canaan was Jericho. Maybe your stronghold is some formidable thing. Some strong thing that's keeping you from having the victory that God wants you to have. Jericho was a strategic city Now in order for Joshua and Israel to claim the land of Canaan, they had to defeat the city of Jericho. They couldn't just bypass it But if they were able to overcome this stronghold, that opened up the whole promised land for them. They couldn't just leave it behind them. They had to face it. They had to overcome it. It was a strategic city. And let me just say this: if you're going to have the full measure of victory that God wants you to have in the Christian life, you have to overcome your Jericho You can't bypass it. You can't ignore it. You have to face it. You have to overcome it. What is your Jericho? this morning. Now, I want you to see three principles that we can follow if we want to overcome a stronghold in our life. I want you to see three principles to follow. And here's the first one. Number one, consider it with Christ. Consider it with price. Look in chapter 5, look down to verse 13. And it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho Then he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, there stood a man over against him with his sword drawn in his hand, and Joshua went unto him and said, Art thou for us or for our adversaries. Now again, get this scene in your mind. Joshua has just crossed over into the promised land with the children of Israel. So they're now just outside the city of Jericho. As of yet, Joshua he has received no divine instruction about what to do. Now it seemed reasonable and logical that the next city to overcome would be Jericho. So Joshua went one night on a reconnaissance mission, and he wanted to just look at this city. And so he's there and he's looking at Jericho. Just picture it in your mind. Here's this massive stronghold. And despite Joshua's long military experience, he had never led an attack on a fortified city. One of the most difficult things in the ancient world for a general was to overcome a city like that. And Joshua had no experience in that. Israel had no uh military engines, they had no battering rams, they had no catapults, they had no moving towers, the tools that a general would have and overcoming a city. Their only weapons against Jericho were slings and arrows and spears, which were no match for the walls of Jericho. And furthermore, Joshua knew that the battle must be won. Again, they had to do this. They had to take this city. They couldn't leave it behind them. That would leave them exposed. And so while he's there and he's thinking about all of this, as he's looking at that city, the Bible says that there was someone that was there. And verse thirteen, behold, there stood a man over against him with his sword drawn in his hand. And Joshua went unto him and said, Art thou for us or for our adversaries? And so here's the thing. This is a preincarnate appearance of Jesus in the Old Testament. Did you know that every once in a while in the Old Testament, Jesus will make a cameo appearance? This is before his main drama of redemption will begin in the New Testament. He'll make appearances in the Old Testament, and this is one occasion when Jesus comes. Now, here's the thing that we learn from this. In the battle that you're facing, God does not leave you alone. He comes to you. He will be there with you in this. Notice this, consider his presence in the battle. Again, Joshua at first, he doesn't recognize him, so he says in verse 13, Art thou for us or for our adversaries? He sees a soldier with his sword drawn Instinctively, Joshua challenges him by saying, are you for us? Are you for them? In effect he was saying, whose side are you on? And notice the answer, look at verse 14. And he said, Nay, but as captain of the host of the Lord am I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth. This is Jesus talking, and he said, basically, I didn't come here to take sides, I came here to take over. The question is not, am I on your side? The question is, are you on my side? And Joshua's response is one of worship. Now, this is how we know this was not just an angel, because if this were an angel, the angel would say, Stand up, I'm just an angel. You don't worship angels. This was not just another man. This was the Lord Himself. Because Joshua fell on his face. And then he notice what he says in verse 14. And did worship And said unto him, What saith my lord unto his servant? And the captain of the host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoe from off thy foot, for the place whereon thou standest is holy and Joshua did so. Joshua knew at that moment that he was in the presence of the Lord. He says to Joshua, remove your sandals. This is the same thing that God said to Moses, remember at the burning bush? This is how we know this was God Himself. This was the Lord Himself. And here is the Lord promising that he is going to be with Joshua in this battle. And again, the principle is you are not alone When you are facing this stronghold that you're facing this morning, God wants to remind you that you are not alone. The captain of the Lord of hosts is with you in this battle. He is there with you. We have to realize, first of all, that this stronghold is too much for us. We can't do this. We have to confess that. And we have to worship the captain. We must look to our captain in this battle that we face. So consider his presence in the battle. But also consider his promise. Look in chapter six, look in verse one. Now Jericho was straightly shut up because the child because of the children of Israel. None went out And none came in. And the Lord said unto Joshua, See, I have given into thy hand Jericho, and the king thereof, and the mighty men of valor. Now, this was evidence that the victory had already been won. The fact that they were already shut up, that is, they were tightened in their security. There was nothing going out or going in. You know why? They were already afraid of what was going to happen. And God says, this is evidence, Joshua. I've already given you this. The battle's already been won. And you have to understand that, where it says, I have given, that's a prophetic, perfect tense. That is, it describes a future event as if it were already accomplished. Victory is already assured. And this is one thing that you have to learn in the Christian life. As a Christian who knows the Lord Jesus, victory is not your destination, it's your point of origin. You already are victorious in Christ. And you have to understand that. Because of what Jesus did, you are already victorious. Satan has already been defeated Jesus defeated him in the wilderness. Jesus defeated him during his earthly ministry. Jesus defeated him on the cross. Jesus defeated him with his resurrection and ascension. The victory has already been won And you have to understand that. And God promises you that. So I want you to think about that when you're looking at your stronghold. What is that thing that's really causing you trouble? God says you already have victory over it You have to understand that. But then also consider the plan, his plan for the battle. Look at verse 3. And ye shall compass the city, all ye men of war. And shall go round about the city once, and thus shalt thou do six days, and the seven priests shall bear before the ark seven trumpets of ram's horns. And the seventh day ye shall compass the city seven times, and the priest shall blow with the trumpets, and it shall come to pass that when they make a long blast with a ram's horn, and when you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout, and the wall of the city shall fall down flat And the people shall ascend up every man straight before him. Now here's the thing. God had a plan for Joshua to follow. Notice that Joshua doesn't come to God with a plan and say, God, here's my plan. I just want you to bless this. I want you to approve my plan and then bless my plan. No, that's not what happens He didn't submit his plan to the Lord. He submitted himself to the Lord. You know, so many times when we're facing a stronghold, we come up with our own schemes, our own plans, and God says, that's not what I want from you. I don't want you to submit to me a plan, I want you to submit yourself to me. I just want you to give me yourself because this battle is mine And and and so God gives a plan to Joshua. Now humanly speaking, this this plan doesn't make sense when you think about it as a military strategy And he doesn't tell Joshua to dig a trench. He doesn't tell him to build a bulwark or make some ladders. This is the most unique war in all of Israel's warfare history Ordinary weapons were not going to be used. He wasn't going to use battery rams or scaling routers or catapults. God doesn't say anything about that. And really, Joshua and Israel, they knew nothing about siege warfare anyway. So what's God say? God says, look, here's what you're to do: you're just to encircle the city, you're to go round about the city This was to be a parade, a procession. In the beginning of the parade, there was to be the armed men in verse number three. That's what the Lord said Take your men of war, they'll be first. Then after that in verse 4, there'll be the priest with the seven trumpets. And then after that there'll be the ark. And then after that all the other people will be the re-reward. They will follow there. So you have this parade. And I want you to go around the whole city. For six days, just go one time for six days. And then on the seventh day, you go around seven times. Now, a soldier would probably say, what kind of a military strategy is that? How are we going to be able to overcome them like that? But here's some things we need to learn. God's orders are designed to test our faith. When God tells us something, sometimes He wants to test our faith. And just know this: God's ways are not man's ways. The Bible says that the foolishness of God is wiser than man, and the weakness of God is stronger than man. And so God told them what to do. He didn't tell them why, he said, just do this. Just do this. Do you believe that God knows what he's doing? That's faith. Faith says, Lord, I don't understand your plan, but I do believe you know what you're doing. And faith says, I will obey. So we have to have faith in God's way, in God's word. And God was making sure in this battle that everyone knew from all the ages, from that time forward, that it wasn't military might that took that city, it was God who did it. It wasn't man who did it, it was God who did it. Don't you want your stronghold to fall in a way where people will look and say it wasn't because of you? That was God who did that. God did that for you. And that was what was happening here. How was this city captured? The Bible says later in Hebrews that the by faith the walls of Jericho fell. And so sometimes God's orders are designed to test our faith. But secondly, God's orders are designed to test our patience. God will tell us to do something, and we might not get results immediately. And that's what happened here. Go out on one day, march around the wall. And then go back to your tent. And then go do it on a second day. And on a third day, all the way through six days Someone estimated that the city, the circumference of it, was about twelve acres. It was taking an army just over an hour to walk around it. I've been to that ancient site of Jericho Most people don't know there are three Jerichos today. There's the modern city, then there's the New Testament Jericho, but there's still the Old Testament Jericho, that ancient city. You can go and see it today. You can still see the ruins of the walls of Jericho there. And it would take about an hour for someone to walk around those walls. And so I'm sure as they walked around those walls, perhaps the enemy on the top was taunting them. Hey, what are you guys doing? What's going on down there? Are you trying to bore us to death? Are you trying to intimidate us? And so day after day they would go out and walk around the walls, and they had to be patient. You know what? We have to be patient with God. God doesn't immediately take away the stronghold from us. He doesn't immediately give us what we want. He has his own timing. He has his own way, and we have to be patient, and sometimes God will test our patience. But God's orders are designed to test our self-control because God said that in this, when you walk around the wall, don't say anything Just keep close your mouth closed. The trumpets can sound, but don't say a word. And that takes self-control. That takes discipline. If you don't think it does, just try going for a few hours and not saying anything. I mean not a word. After people might be taunting you. F. B. Meyer said this, that our voice should not be heard, that no word should proceed out of our mouth That we should utter our complaints to God alone, all of this is foreign to our nature, to our habits There is self-controlling. Sometimes God's orders are designed to teach us self-control. Sometimes we just need to be still and know that He's God. And be quiet and let him take care of it. But also, God's orders are designed to test our obedience. You know what? God can't use a disobedient Christian. And if you're going to be disobedient to him, he will not take away that stronghold for you. We have to be obedient. And so this plan was designed to test whether or not they would obey It was said of General George Patton that he had an unusual way of selecting leaders for promotion. He would give them some kind of a nonsensical order and just see how they would treat it. He would tell his men, uh he would get a bunch of men together and say, Dig a ditch, make it six inches deep, three feet wide, eight feet long, and then he would go into a room right behind where they were digging and listen to their conversation. And one soldier would say, This is ridiculous. This doesn't make any sense. But one soldier would say, You know what, it doesn't matter, let's just do what he tells us to do. And that's the man he would promote. Because a general can't use a disobedient soldier. And friend, God can't help a disobedient Christian. And so God's orders sometimes are to test our obedience. So here's the first thing: look at that stronghold. Consider that stronghold with Christ. But here's the second thing. Circle it with prayer. Circle it with prayer. Now you have to admire Joshua because he does immediately what the Lord says. Look at verse 6. And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests, and he said unto them, Take up the Ark of the Covenant, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of ram's horns before the Ark of the Lord And he said unto the people, Pass on and come past the city, and let him that is armed pass on before the ark of the Lord. And it came to pass when Joshua had spoken unto the people That the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of the ram's horns passed before the Lord and blew the trumpets and the Ark of the Covenant. Oh the Lord followed with them and so on. So what does Joshua do? He goes out immediately and does exactly what the Lord tells him. He tells him be silent, line up We can blow the trumpet, but that's it. No ladders, no catapults, no battering rams. This battle belongs to the Lord Himself. So go out there and walk around that city. Now I've got to be honest with you. For many years I would read this passage in the Old Testament and it would just baffle me. And I would just say, what, this just doesn't make sense to me. I don't understand Why God has them do this. Now I know that God has a purpose for everything, but I couldn't figure out why God made them march around the city six times on six days, and then on the seventh day seven times. I just couldn't figure it out. And then finally it dawned on me one day studying this. This is not a military strategy. This is a dedication service. That's what we have to understand. This isn't a military strategy. You see, when God wants to remove or overcome a stronghold in your life, He doesn't give you a military strategy, He gives you a dedication service And what they were to do, what they were actually doing here, is that they were dedicating this city to God. They were saying, Lord, this is yours. This whole city is yours. We see their silence. Why the silence? Because this was a solemn service. It was a solemn dedication. We see the trumpets. The trumpets were blown, especially the ram's horns For a solemn assembly when God was to be worshipped, or when they were dedicating something to God, they would use the ram's horn. And so the number seven, we see the number seven all over in this passage, don't we? There were seven trumpets, seven days, seven circuits. You know that in biblical numerology, the number seven is God's number. It reflects something that belongs to God or something that God is going to do When God in creation, God created in how many days? Seven days or the creation week. In the consummation, we're going to see seven years of tribulation. There are going to be seven seals, seven bulls Seven thunders, seven uh trumpets, and so on. All of it signifies the work of God. And what they were doing is they were saying, This stronghold, God, is yours It belongs to you. And we are dedicating it to you. We're giving it to you. That's exactly what you do with your stronghold. You say, I'm giving it, Lord, to you. I can't handle this. It's too big for us. And so we dedicate it, we give it to you. The keyverse is in look in verse seventeen of chapter six. And the city shall be accursed even all that are that are therein to the Lord Only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all that are with her in the ha in the house, because she hid the messengers. And verse eighteen, and ye and anywise keep yourselves from the cursed thing, lest ye make yourselves a curse. And then it says in verse 19, but all the silver and the gold and the vessels of brass and iron are consecrated unto the Lord. In other words, they're saying, this whole city, everything in it It belongs to God. It's all God's. It's all set apart unto Him. And Joshua and the army were basically saying, Lord, we give it to you. You might remember that in nineteen sixty one the Soviets constructed a wall right through the middle of Germany. We know it as the Berlin Wall, a massive structure that separated East Berlin from West Berlin. And you remember that l years later, in nineteen eighty seven, President Ronald Reagan stood before that wall and gave that speech And uttered those words that we now look back upon, where he said, Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall. You know what? Later, two years later, by the way, that wall did come down. Now there's a sense in which marching around the wall for Joshua and his men were them saying to the Lord, Lord You tear down this wall. Lord, you do it because we can't do it. And here's the application. You can't handle that stronghold. You can't do it, but God can do it. And if you circle it with prayer, if you march around it with prayer, if you say in prayer, Lord, I can't handle this. It might be a crushing circumstance in your life. It might be a rebellious team, and you've done everything in your power to try to reach them, but they won't listen. Nothing you do works. No argument you give will help. It might be some physical ailment, some problem Something out of your control, and you need to say, you know what? I can't do this, Lord. I give this stronghold to you. You tear down this wall, Lord. You take care of this, because God can do that. We all have circumstances and situations in our life that we can't change. We don't have the power to change it, but God is sovereign, God can change it And we need to give it to him. And so we need to consider it with Christ. We need to circle it with prayer. But here's the third step. We need to claim it by faith. Claim it by faith. Look at verse number 20. It says this, so the people shouted when the priests blew the trump with the trumpets, and it came to pass that when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, And the people shouted with a great shout that the wall fell down flat. So what happens here? They shouted. Now why did they shout? Well, first of all, because God told him to. He said, after you've marched around it seven times on the seventh day, you shout. And you know what? This was, I think, the shout of faith. You know why? Because God promised, He said, I'm I'm gonna give you this. He said, These walls will fall down flat. And when you shout They're gonna fall down. Now notice God said you shout first and then the walls will fall. He didn't say the walls will fall and then you shout. You know what the shout, the word shout is in the Old Testament? Every time this word is used, it is a shout of praise and thanksgiving. And you know what they were doing? When they shouted, it was a shout of faith because what they were saying is, Lord, we praise you now, because we know this wall is coming down. And when in faith they shouted to the Lord, the wall came down. That's the shout of faith. So you see, you, here's what you do. You consider your stronghold with Christ, you circle it with prayer, and then you claim it by faith, and you shout the shout of faith, and you know what? That thing's coming down It's coming down. That's exactly what happened here. And so they shouted to the Lord, and God honored that, and He took down that wall. So again, I ask you, what is your stronghold today? What is keeping you from having complete total victory? I want to close with this one illustration. It was 1944, during World War II, there was a sub-lieutenant by the name of Hiro Onoda, and he was for the Imperial Japanese Army. And he was ordered to stay on the island in the Philippines and hold that island for the glory of the emperor. And so he did. And the following year, two bombs were dropped, one on Hiroshima, one on Nagasaki, and the Japanese surrendered, and the war ended. But Onoda did not know that And so you know what he did? He kept fighting. Twenty-nine years later, he was still on that island. Still fighting, hiding out in the jungle, shooting at the locals. The police came And they tried to tell him the war was over, but he wouldn't listen. He thought it was a deception. You know what they had to do? It wasn't until 1974 when they finally brought his wartime commander out there to the jungle. To go to him and tell him that the war is over, that finally he stopped fighting. You know what? The war is over, friends. Satan has been defeated. He's already been defeated, but he doesn't stop fighting. He's still fighting. And he's still trying to cause you trouble. And the way that you deal with him is that you bring to him your wartime commander, Jesus. And you remind him that the battle is over. That victory is yours. Friend, there is no stronghold in your life that you cannot overcome with the victory of the cross. And if you apply it, you can overcome it. Let's bow for prayer together. Let's bow for prayer. And so, Father, I pray that you'll help us to apply the victory of the cross to every stronghold in our life. To realize that the victory is ours in Christ. If we claim it, doesn't mean there won't be any battles There will be battles, but victory is already ours. It's already been promised. So Lord help us in whatever stronghold we face to consider this stronghold with Christ. To circle it in prayer, to claim the victory by faith. And how many you'll say, that's my prayer this morning with your hand raised. Pray for me. I have a stronghold. I'm claiming victory in the name of Christ over this stronghold in my life right now before the Lord. God sees all those hands, dear friend. He sees that. Would you just You can put your hand down, but would you just right there where you are, would you just pray right now and say Lord Jesus? And in the name of Christ I apply the victory of Calvary to this stronghold in my life. And I give it to you. I dedicate it to you And I ask you, Lord, to bring those walls down. Give me victory in the name of Christ. Friend, if you'll pray that, He'll give you victory. Now be patient and trust Him. He'll take down those strongholds. Father, bless this word to hearing hearts here today. And we pray in Jesus' precious, wonderful name. Amen.