Would you take God's word this morning, please? And open to the book of Philippians, chapter 4. Philippians chapter 4. We're going to look at verses 10 and down. Would you stand for the reading of God's word? Philippians chapter four starting at verse ten But I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me has flourished again, when ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of one, for I've learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. I know how to be abase, and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me Notwithstanding ye have well done that ye did communicate with my affliction. And now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel When I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity Not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. But I have all and abound and am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you an odor of sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. But my God shall supply all your need, according to his riches and glory, by Christ Jesus Now unto God and our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's word. May God help us, give us understanding in it. Knowing what he means for us here today. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the Word of God and the strength that we receive from it, for the promises that we get And I pray, Father, that this morning as we look at this wonderful passage, that, Lord, you would open our eyes and our hearts, speak to people, and use this, Lord, to encourage your saints. And I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. An airline pilot was flying over the Tennessee Mountains and he pointed out a lake to his co-pilot. He said, You see that lake down there He said, when I was just a kid, I would be in that lake fishing, and I would look up and see planes fly over, and I would think, uh man, I wish I was in one of those planes. He said, now when I fly over, I look down and I say, Man, I wish I was in one of those boats down there. Back when I was a kid. Contentment can be an elusive pursuit. We go after what we think will make us happy, only to find out that once we receive what we went after uh we were happier before we even started the quest. But if we're ever going to overcome anxiety in our life, we have to understand What the Apostle Paul was talking about when he said, You have to learn to be content. On Sunday morning, we've been dealing with the issue of anxiety, a little series that I've called God's Answer to Anxiety. And how we can overcome it. And we've learned a lot from the Apostle Paul in the book of Philippians about this subject. In my opinion, there's no uh book in the New Testament any better suited to help us attack anxiety than the book of Philippians. And from Paul, what we've learned already is that we attack anxiety by number one, right praying. We replace worry with thankful prayer. Remember, we learned that already where Paul said, be careful for nothing but everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. We attack anxiety by right thinking. We replace negative thoughts with scriptural meditation. Paul said, you know, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, and so on. Think on these things. And we attack anxiety by right living. Paul said, those things which you have learned and received and heard and seen in me do apply these things to your life. Last week, if you were with us, we learned that we attack anxiety by replacing anxiety with rejoicing, by having the right attitude. Paul said to the Philippians, stop complaining and rejoice with me. And now we're going to learn from this passage another way to attack anxiety. One of the ways you attack it is by learning how to be content. We replace anxiety with contentment. The Christian's excalib against the dragon anxiety is named contentment. Now the Bible speaks of contentment not only as a virtue, but it speaks of it as a command. And nowhere is that clearer than in Paul's closing comments to the church at Philippi, we just read over here, he told them, remember already, you know, never succumb to anxiety. Be anxious for nothing. And now he's going to illustrate to us how to do that. In his own life, he's going to teach us how to be content. And the key verse in this whole section is verse eleven. Look at it again, chapter four, verse eleven. Not that I speak in respect of one, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content Now there are two words here in this verse that are important. First is the word learn here, and Thano is the Greek word. It means to learn by experience. This is something that you don't just pick up easily. It's something that you learn after experiencing your life. And also in verse number 12, where Paul says, I am instructed. As another key expression there, it actually means to be initiated into a secret. This is a word that was used by Stoic philosophers of Paul's day. And again, the whole idea here is that contentment is something that you learn. You don't learn this right after you're saved. You're not saved and all of a sudden, boom, you are content. It's not something that you learn academically in a college or by research or by books. You can learn about contentment. by doing that. But there's a difference between learning about contentment and learning to be content. This is something that one must learn through many difficult experiences of life. In short, it's just something that God has to teach us. It is something that God has to give us. God initiates us into the secret, so to speak. He teaches us this lesson. And he uses difficult experiences of life as his tool to teach us the lesson of contentment. Paul taught God how to be content. Now when we say consent, what exactly do we mean? Again, the Greek word here isn't a unique word. It's the only time this word is ever used in the New Testament, all tarkes. And um it's it's found only here. It's used in extra biblical literature to speak of being self-sufficient, of having enough. It means not being dependent on others. One ancient writer using this word spoke of an island that was self-sufficient. It needed no external imports. for anything on this island, it supplied itself everything it needed. That was the idea behind the word. Self sufficient. And by the way, this was one of the favorite words of the Stoic philosophers of Paul Paul's day. What was Stoicism? Stoicism was a philosophy that was introduced to Rome about 200 B. C. There were followers to it, like Seneca, who tutored the uh Emperor Nero. Nero was the one who later would put Paul to death But basically, what they taught in this was the ability to be free from all wants or to be free from all needs. They called that the chief virtue. And they basically taught that man by sheer power of his will should be sufficient to himself for all things. He should be enabled to resist whatever shock that a circumstance could ever bring to him. It was kind of a this philosophy of, you know, grit your teeth and bear it type philosophy. That's what the Stoics taught. It was expressed as the ability to want for nothing and yet possess all things. A. T. Robinson wrote it like this. He said the Stoics made a good deal out of the virtue of self-sufficiency Or independence of external circumstances. They held that man should be sufficient in and unto himself in all things When asked who is the wealthiest, Socrates said, He who is content with the least, for self-sufficiency is nature's wealth. End quote. And so they believe that contentment was achieved when you got to the point in your life of being basically indifferent. Indifference. And one Stoic philosopher explains it like this. How do you how do you achieve their version of contentment? How do you achieve their version of indifference? This is what he said you had to do. And by the way, I'm not saying you should do this This is what he said. He said, begin with a cup or a household utensil. If it breaks, just say, I don't care. Go on to a horse or a pet dog. If anything happens to it, just say I don't care. Then go on to yourself, and if you're hurt or injured in any way, just say, I don't care. And if you go on long enough and if you try hard enough, you'll come to a state where you can watch your nearest and dearest suffer and die and say, I don't care. That was the Stoics' attempt to find what they called um tarkes or contentment. And frankly, that sound sounds like um Mr. Spock on Star Trek than any uh earth ph earthly philosophy or earth planet philosophy. T. R. Glover said this, the Stoics made the heart a desert, and they called it peace. Well, this is clearly not what Paul is saying here. Paul's not saying that you get content by becoming indifferent. What Paul is doing here is he's taking a stoic word and he's bringing it into Christianity. You might say that he's baptizing this word. And he's going to bring it into a Christian context to help us understand what Christian contentment actually is. Again, the Stoic philosophy was marked by detachment from one's emotions. Paul's not saying that you need to be detached from your emotions. I mean if you read Philippians, that's obvious because Philippians is a book about joy. And many times as you read Philippians, you'll see Paul talk to the Philippians as his beloved, my long for, my joy. my crown of rejoicing. Several times he talks about rejoicing in the Lord. So Paul's not talking about detachment from people or detachment from feelings or emotions. Paul loved people and he was not afraid to show it. Paul clearly had emotions and he was not afraid to show that. And so Paul doesn't mean what the Stoics mean. Contentment doesn't mean complacency. As Christians, we're to work to better our circumstances when we have the opportunity. So, what does Paul mean when he talks about contentment? Paul never taught the believer to find sufficiency in self, but rather what he's talking about is that believers find sufficiency in Christ. That's the difference. In 2 Corinthians 3. 5, Paul wrote this: not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God. Christian contentment is learning to find all of your sufficiency in God and God alone. It's Christ-centered. The believer learns to find all sufficiency in Christ. That's what he's talking about here. And so he was independent of his circumstances because he was totally dependent upon Christ That is what Paul wants us to see. Now, one of the ways that we do this, Paul wants to introduce us into the secret. And one of the ways that we do this is by understanding certain things about God that Paul's gonna really demonstrate for us here. But that's the contentment that g that God want you to have. Charles Kelly defined it like this. Christian contentment is the God-given ability to be satisfied with the loving provision of God in any and every circumstance. So true contentment comes only from God. It enables the believer to be satisfied and to be at ease even in the midst of any problem that might come. You say, now how does this happen? How does the believer find this contentment? Well, there are three principles that Paul illustrates for us that helps us to learn This contentment that he's talking about. Here's the first one. Number one, confidence in God's providence. Confidence in God's providence. Look at verse number 10. But I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at the last your care of me has flourished. again. Now, let me give you the background in this. Paul was the man that God used to start the church of Philippi. Ten years had passed since Paul started the church. And the Church of Philippi had been one of Paul's supporting churches. They were generous to him. And uh when Paul moved south into Achaea, He actually went from Macedonia down into Thessalonica and then Berea and then down into Achaea. All the while the Philippian church was giving Paul their support. As Paul continued to minister at Corinth and then at Athens, this little church would send him support, send him money, and help take care of the Apostle Paul. As time went on, for some reason, the Church of Philippi stopped sending their support. And we don't know why. It could be that perhaps it was due to poor communication in that day. It was hard to keep track of Paul. He was all over the place. Maybe they lost track of where he went. at one point. Or maybe it could have been that the church of Philippi was so impoverished themselves. You might remember when our study of Second Corinthians, we learned of the believers of Macedonia that they were under severe trial of affliction and under great poverty. um Paul characterized them. And so they were a group of people. They didn't have a lot, but whatever they had they were helpful with the gospel with regard to Paul. But maybe it got to the point to where they could no longer give Paul anything because they were so strapped themselves. We don't know. We're not sure. But here's what we do know. Something happened. To where their giving opened up again. I call this the care of the Philippians. Look at verse number 10. But I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at the last your care of me has flourished again. The word flourish again, anathalo, means to revive. It's a word used in horticulture. It's the idea of a flower that withers in the winter, but then when spring comes, it it blossoms again. And what Paul was saying was, look, your support of me, your giving to me, it withered, but now something happened that at the last your giving has blossomed again. You're giving, you're supporting me once again. You're giving flowered. Paul said, now wherein you were careful But she lacked opportunity. That is, Paul wants to assure the Philippians that he was not upset that they stopped giving. Paul said, Look, I know your heart I know that you always wanted to continue to give to me. Something happened where you were unable to do that. And Paul says, you know, whatever the reason was, I rejoice that your giving has flowered, has blossomed towards me. Again, Paul was gracious, he was patient, he did not chide them, he did not rebuke them, he did not shame them or make them feel guilty. You don't find Paul writing a letter saying, Shame on you Philippians for not giving to me. What happened? Right when I needed you the most, you stopped. That was not Paul's attitude. Not at all. It was quite the reverse. Paul said, I rejoice. that you're that you're you've blossomed again. Now the reason I stress that is for the sake of many creatures Who when, you know, they don't feel like they're getting enough out of the church, they begin to chide the church about it. I I've I've I've seen some preachers where it would come to giving, they would rebuke people because they're not giving enough That sort of thing. I just can't imagine the Apostle Paul doing that. You know, first of all, that's between you and the Lord. And um it may be that God is giving the the church or that pastor a test, you know. We're not sure why, but again I see high profile TV ministers chiding people for not giving, you know, or if they're giving stops in some way. They reprimand the church, you know, or pass the offering plate around again or whatever By doing this, they misrepresent God. You know. But does Paul do that? No, he doesn't do that. Paul didn't rebuke them because that happened. There was no panic. He was not anxious. He doesn't right say, you know, I was wondering whether I was ever going to be able to make it because you stopped giving. My life was in danger. None of that. Why was Paul not anxious? Why was he not afraid? Why did he not try to manipulate the Philippians to give them more? Since you haven't been giving to me, now you need to start double your giving. We don't read any of that here with Paul. He doesn't do any of that. You know why? Because he was absolutely totally confident in the providence of God. That's why. He understood that it was God's providence that was in control of the situation. The reason the Philippians were not giving was because God providentially did not make it possible at that moment. And he understood that God was in control of all the events of his life, of all the contingencies of his life. And Paul was content because he knew That the times and the seasons and the opportunities of life are controlled by a sovereign God, who works all things after the counsel of his own will. A person who tries to control all those things in their own life are going to be really, really frustrated. The Bible says in Proverbs 16:9, a man's heart devises his way, but the Lord directs his steps. Look, you can make all the plans you want to, but just know this. God is the one directing the steps. Proverbs 19, 21. There are many devices in a man's heart. Nevertheless, the counsel of the Lord that shall stand. You can make all your schemes, you can do all the plans and things you want to, but just know this: whatever his counsel says, that's what's going to happen. That's what's going to happen. Paul had absolute total confidence in the providence of God. That is foundational for contentment. Paul knew God opened the door for the Philippians to give to him in the first place, and Paul knew that God closed the door for that not to happen at that moment in his life. And Paul also knew that God is the one who reopened the door at that moment when God was ready for it to happen. He was totally satisfied with that. He was okay with that. Contentment comes from learning that God is sovereign, not only by sovereign supernatural intervention, but also by just simple natural orchestration. That God in his providence is working out the things that he wants. And so we see the contentment of Paul therefore. Look at verse 11. Not that I speak in respect of what. Again, Paul didn't want the Philippians to misunderstand him. He wasn't speaking to them from a part of from the from the lack on his part. You know, Paul says, I'm not thanking you. I'm not rejoicing because I was lacking, and that's not why I'm saying I rejoice. That's not the reason that he's Writing with such joy to them. Why? Because Paul said, because I've learned in whatever state I'm in to be content. I've learned to be content in whatever state. God's taught me that. Through experience, through time, I've learned that God is in control of all these things in my life. And I've learned to trust Him. I've learned to have faith in His providence. So contentment comes by confidence in the providence of God. But here's number two, confidence in God's power Look at verse 12. I know how to be abase and I know how to abound. Paul learned how to draw upon spiritual resources, God's strength in those times Notice his dire situation in verse number twelve. I know how to be a pay a base. That's poverty. Again, Paul's emphasizing what he learned. I know how, I know how A base means to be humble due to a lack of resources. He was humbled through hunger. He was humbled through suffering, need Notice the phrases, I know how to be hungry, I know how to suffer need. All this refers to material earthly needs of his life, not spiritual needs Again, Paul was no ivory tower theologian that didn't rub up against the difficulties and afflictions of life. He had all of that going in his life. He had all kind of trials. And it all started right after he was saved. Remember what he wrote to the Corinthians? He said, you know, I'm in prison more. I'm in death often. That is, I'm often facing death. I received from the Jews uh Five times I received forty stripes, save one. I was beaten with rods three times. I was stoned. I suffered su uh suffered shipwreck. And perils of water, perils of robbers, and so on. He talks about all the things that he went through. And you know what? Through all of that, through all the difficulties, the things that he suffered in life, he learned to be content. Now that again, this is not something that comes natural. It wasn't an instantaneous transformation. God's not going to zap you and all of a sudden make you content. It's something that you learn as you learn to trust in God's providence, and you learn that God gives you strength and power in any circumstance or difficulty that you have. And Paul knew that by experience. Whatever trial, whatever problem, whatever difficulty I'm going to have, God is going to give the strength to meet that. It's confidence in God's providence. It's confidence in God's power. Again, it's a process that we learn by walking with God. And Paul realized that the reason the giving stopped is because God was using that to test Paul. God was using that to build Paul's faith. And it may be that you're in a situation like that. The sovereign God in his providence puts you through that because he's training you in your faith. He's teaching you to share in his holiness. He's teaching you to depend upon him to draw upon his resources, to draw upon his power. So Paul says, look, I know how to be a base. I've learned this. Also, I know how to abound. That simply means to live in prosperity. We already know that one, right? You say I got this one covered. I know how to live in prosperity. That's not hard. It's the abase part that gives me trouble. It's not the abounding part that gives me trouble. But really there's a danger here too. You know why? Because when God gives you plenty, there's a temptation for you to stop trusting in God. And start putting your faith in that whatever that secondary thing is that God's using at that moment to give you your resources You start trusting in that rather than God. So there's a danger even there. But here's the point. Look at verse 13. I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. I can do all things through Christ. Now we see this verse used a lot in a lot of different contexts. You know, I see athletes writing it on their baseball bat. or writing it on their baseball glove, or or boxers putting it on their trunks, you know. Or, you know, it's used in all kind of different contexts. But let me just tell you something folks, okay? This verse doesn't mean that you're going to be able to dunk a basketball, okay? I don't care how many times I quote that verse, I'm not going to be able to dunk the basketball, all right? It doesn't mean that you're going to be able to knock out your opponent if you're a boxer. It doesn't mean that, you know, you're going to score, you know, 40 points or hit a grand slam if you're a baseball player, all right? Sorry. The context of this, you know what the context is? It's when you're facing a trial and a difficulty and you're short of your own resources. In fact, the context is When you have come to the very end of all your resources and no one else is helping you and you're just there by yourself, you know what? At that moment when your resources fail, that's when God's resources kick in. That's the whole point of it. You know, y you know how a pacemaker works? When it's attached to the heart, and that heart that it's attached to, that heart becomes gets to the end of its strength, it begins to fail, and you know what happens? At that moment the pacemaker kicks in. That's what this verse is. It's kind of a spiritual pacemaker. When you come to the end of your strength, when you come to the end of your resources, and I'm talking about in the middle of a trial. I'm talking about when you're in a dire situation. I'm talking about in something that you can't handle anymore on your own. At that moment, I can do all things through Christ that strengthens me. That's exactly what Paul's talking about here in this verse. When I come to the end of my own resources, then I experience the power of Christ to sustain me. At that moment. And for Paul's case, it was the power of Christ that sustained him until provision again was made. And that's the lesson that God wanted Paul to learn, which is why the giving withered up So that Paul could learn that at that end of his resources it's the power of Christ that could sustain him. Contentment is a byproduct of going through those experiences, of that kind of distress. I love where it says, with strengthens me. It's in, not through. We can really read the verse like this: I can do all things in Christ, which continually strengthens me. We are sustained by his power. And at that moment, we learned that his power is more than enough. We learned that he could do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power, his power that works in us at that time. You know how you learn contentment? You learn contentment when you stood in the valley of the shadow of death. You learn it when you've been at the brink and you have nothing left. When you have a problem that you just can't resolve on your own. When you can't eliminate conflict, when you can't fix your marriage, when you can't Do anything about the kids when you can't change the environment, the work environment that you have, when you're unable to fight the disease that's racking your body, that's when you can learn the power of this verse right here. That you can do all things through Christ. That's when you turn to God and find strength to get through that situation. And so you can be content even in that situation. Why? Because I have total confidence in the providence of God that put me here. I have total confidence in the power of God that sustains me here. When my strength and provision and resources run out, His power kicks in. So therefore I can be content. And here's the last thing. Confidence in God's providence, confidence in God's power, and then confidence in God's provision. Look at verse 14. Notwithstanding ye have done well that ye did communicate with my affliction. Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity, not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that might abound on your account. And so, you know, basically the book of Philippians is a thank you letter. Paul is thanking the church for their gracious, generous gift Again, their giving flourished. When they found Paul was in a Roman prison, they sent Epaphroditus with a gift from the church and gave it to Paul. And Paul is so overwhelmed by that, he writes this letter, sends them back, and he's just thanking them for their provision But again, Paul says, look, I'm thanking you not because I, you know, I'm not speaking out of my own lack. I've learned to be content. But he also he doesn't want them to get the idea that, look, I don't need you to do this anymore. Paul says, no, you've done well in what you did. And notice the gratitude he expresses here in verses 14 to 16. Someone could say, well, Paul, if you learn to be content, you've learned to live without our support, we don't need to bother sending it to you anymore. Paul said, oh no, you've done well. What you did was noble. You've done well, Kalos, something beautiful, something good. That's what you should do. What you did was needful, because Paul said at one point, you were the only church that was giving to me at one point You did well in that you communicated with me. And again, he's talking about their giving the gifts, their partnering with them and helping them. You communicated to my necessity. And so he's thanking them in verses 17 and 18. But again, he's not thanking them for his own sake. Paul said, look, not that I want this. I'm not greedy for myself. I'm thanking you because what you're doing is actually fruit for your account. It shows your worship of God. It shows that your heart is right. Whenever you give to God's work, that is an act of worship to God. That is fruit that abounds for your sake, Paul's saying. Whenever, you know, we take up an offering in here. You're doing it as an act of worship unto God. That's fruit. That's for you. That's an act of worship from you to God. That shows you're trusting God. That shows you thanking God for his provision for you. Excuse me And so Paul's saying, look, what you're doing is good. What you're doing is right. And look at verse 18. But I have all and abound. I'm full. Having received the paphroditus the things which were sent to you, an odor, a sweet smell, a sacrifice well pleasing to God. Paul says, look, what you've given me, it's more than enough. And Paul calls their gift an aroma, an acceptable sacrifice. And that's what it is. Whenever you give, you are giving a sacrifice unto the Lord, and it is a sweet aroma to God because it's your act of worship. And Paul's using imagery right out of the Old Testament to talk about They're giving to God. He says, what you're doing is good and it's right. It's well pleasing to God. And by the way, Paul knew that this church was impoverished. He knew they didn't have much. He knew that some of those people were giving incredibly sacrificially to him. So on the heels of that, look at the promise that he gives. Look at this incredible promise. Look at verse 19. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. This is the guarantee he expresses here. Paul saying, you meet my need, God is going to meet your need. You met the one need that I have, God will meet all your needs. You gave out of your poverty, but God will supply your needs out of his abundant riches and glory. If you give sacrificially to God, you can know this one thing: God's going to take care of you. That's what Paul's saying here. God promised to supply all your need according to his riches and glory. That's an incredible promise from the God who owns everything. He owns it all. So if you're concerned about your provision, don't worry. If you're the child of God, He'll take care of you. He'll take care of you out of his riches in glory. There was an American pastor named Wilbur Chapman who had a family tragedy occur. that made it necessary for him to travel to the West Coast. And before he left, there was a a banker in his church who visited with him before he left, and he as he was talking to the banker, the banker pulled out a piece of paper and gave it to him. And Wilbur Chapman looked at it was a blank check. And he said, you mean to tell me you're giving me this blank check? He said, that's right. I don't know what you're going to need, but just know that you have this. Whatever you need, all you need to do is fill that check out. And Wilbur Chapman was overwhelmed by this. And so he said that he folded it up and he kept it in his pocket. He never used it, he said. But the comfort that it gave, knowing that it was there, encouraged him the whole way. You see, God has given us all a blank check. And God says, I'll supply all your need. Now a check is only as good as the person who writes it. I I've learned that by hard experience. But who's writing this check? God. What kind of account does he have? He owns it all. He owns it all. God signed the check. His name is on it. You had his guarantee. And God says you can use this whenever you need it. You can count on it. And that's the secret of contentment. We have total confidence in God's providence that put us in whatever circumstance we're in. We have total confidence in his power that will sustain us when we come to the end of our own strength. We have total confidence in his provision. He's going to give us what we need to help us. Now with all that in mind, how can we be anxious? Contentment means that your heart's not anxious because you have total confidence in God. Contentment eliminates anxiety in your life. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, I uh I thank you for your word. I'm so grateful for the promises that you give us. And Lord, how we need to apply these things. And I pray, Lord, for these your precious saints, some who may be going through a difficult time right now. Maybe they're questioning things. Maybe their heart is racked with stress and anxiety over some of the problems that they're facing. Lord, I pray that you'll bring comfort to their heart. through the words of Scripture. Lord, that we would be reminded that, Lord, you're sovereignly in control of all of our life. And that Lord, your strength is there for us. And that you're going to get us through whatever we go through. You're there to bring us through. And that, Lord, you're going to provide whatever we need. It's confidence in these things, Lord, that relieve us of the anxiety and give us comfort and rest and joy, as Paul had in that prison. He rejoiced in the Lord. And I pray, Lord, that that would be the testimony of these, your people, that they would put their full confidence and trust in you. in what you're doing and your wonderful provision. Speak to hearts here today, Father. With heads bowed and eyes closed. I just want to, before we leave, give this brief invitation. Friend, if you're here and you've never trusted Christ in salvation, this is where it begins. The promises that Paul's writing here are to Christians They apply to those who know Christ. And if you don't know Christ, this is where you begin. This is where it starts. Putting your faith in what Jesus did for you on the cross. Because all of us are sinners. We all need a Savior. That's why Jesus came. He came to die for your sins. And he took your sins upon himself on the cross. The wrath of God fell on Christ. Your sins were paid for because of his precious gift of salvation because of his death. And now you just need to put your faith in what he did for you. Ask Christ to come into your heart to save you. If you haven't done that, friend I encourage you to do that. Right now, would you just pray, Lord, be merciful to me a sinner? Save me. Save me. Friend, if you prayed that, let us know. We want to encourage you along. Today. Father, bless your word here to every hearing heart we pray in Jesus' name.