Take your Bibles open to Matthew chapter six tonight. Matthew chapter six. Now you remember that on Sunday night I began a series called Mastering Your Emotions And uh I want to go to some passages in Scripture here on Sunday night that just deal with some of these emotions. When I talk about emotions, I'm talking about some of those negative emotions that had a tendency to pull us down to get us depressed and out of the way and have a tendency to push us out of where we should be as Christians, to cause us to be defeated And to push us out of the will of God. Now the last uh Sunday when I preached on this, I preached on doubt, freedom from doubt. And tonight I want to deal with the issue of worry The issue of worry. Look in Matthew chapter 6, and uh these verses are not new to you. I think we all know them, but it's good to go over these things again and get them down into our mind and our heart. Look at verse 25. Therefore I say unto you Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment? Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they And which of you by taking thought can add one cupid unto his stature? And why ye uh and why ye thought for raiment Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow and toil not, neither do they spin. Yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, shall He not much more clothe you O ye of little faith, therefore take no thought saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things. shall be added unto you. Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought, for the things of itself, sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. And so tonight I want to talk about uh worry-free living or living above worry. A family had put their grandma on her first plane flight. She was not very confident about the experience. Maybe some of you can relate to that. She just didn't like to fly. And uh when she finally landed and she came down the terminal, the family said, Grandma, you made it She said, they said to her, did the plane hold you up okay? And she said, well yes, but I never put my full weight down on that plane the whole time. Now there are some Christians like that. They seem to be living a life where they're not fully trusting in, depending upon Almighty God. Now, whether or not God is the one that's got you here, maybe you don't realize that, but friend, you're here today because of Almighty God that has carried you. And and He is He is taking care of you. But yet, nevertheless, there are some who are afraid to put their full weight on God. And so therefore they worry. As a result, they're plagued with anxiety. They're not able to enjoy this flight, so to speak, because they're so anxious and they're so concerned. And few of us tonight, I guess we could say, are strangers. to anxiety. I think it would probably be safe to say that all of us from time to time have wrestled with worry. We have wrestled with anxiety. Someone has called this the age of anxiety. We often hear phrases like stressed out or I'm having a panic attack. I was reading it from some Christian psychiatrist. uh Minrith and Meyer, even though I don't agree with all their uh conclusions, they say that the most common mental disorder they encounter at their network of clinics across the country is anxiety among believers. Worry. What do people worry about? Well, we often worry about our finances. How are we going to make this month's bills? What if I lose my job? How am I going to fix my aging car? You know, that thing's got to last about three or four hundred thousand miles. How am I going to fix that car? How am I going to put the kids through college? How am I going to need all of my medical bills? How are we ever going to save enough for retirement with this changing economy? And what if the economy fails? And these things plague us. And there are other things. We feel sometimes anxious about our health. What if I get this disease? Or what if this happens and this is something that runs in the family and I better be careful about this and oh I am worried about this but I don't know if I can afford to go to the doctor about these things. And then sometimes we're anxious about our children How are our children going to make it? Uh w you know, what if they uh what if they don't finish college and what if they don't get a good job to support them and will they marry a godly Christian? And will they be able to maintain moral purity in this immoral world. All these things. Maybe I didn't name something on your list. Well I've just given you a whole lot of things to worry about tonight, haven't I? If you're not worrying before, you're probably worrying now. But these are just some of the things that plague us, some of the things that nag at us. And on and on we could go. Well, Jesus has some words for us. What I'm giving you tonight are not my words. These are the words of our Lord Jesus, your master and your king. has a word for you. And what does he say to you? He tells us basically, don't worry. Look in verse 25 again. Therefore I say unto you, take no thought. Underscore that phrase where he says, take no thought. And then in verse 31. Look at the beginning of verse 31. Therefore, take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, what shall we drink? Look in verse 34. Therefore, take therefore no thought for the morrow. So really this whole passage, the thrust of it, is built around those three statements where Jesus says, take no thought. Take no thought. And we could say it like this, don't worry. Actually, uh the the verbs here in the Greek are very interesting. The first one we saw back in verse number twenty-five actually is a is a uh a prohibition imperative that's we can say it like this, stop stop worrying or stop being anxious. And then the force of the next two statements that we read are like this don't start worrying. Or don't start being anxious. And so therefore, really, what Jesus is doing is he's bracketing this passage with this meaning. If you're worrying, stop it. And if you're not worrying, don't start That's essentially what he's saying to us. I was surprised to find in a book by a Christian author, and this book is titled Worry Free Living. And let me read you what he says. He says, we suggest setting aside 15 minutes in the morning And another fifteen minutes in the evening for active worry. So if you're not worrying, he says, you've got a fifteen minutes in the morning and fifteen minutes in the evening. He said if concerns surface during another times of the day, the person should jot them down on a card and vow to deal with them during the designated period. So you should put designated periods in the day when you do your wearing. In the morning and in the evening Fifteen minutes, set it aside. Well, with all due respect to these uh men, that's not what our Lord Jesus tells us. Jesus said, stop worrying. And if you started worrying, or if you haven't started worrying, don't. And what I would like to suggest is you set aside 15 minutes in the morning to read the Word of God and pray and put all your cares on Him, just like these ladies sang about here. Cast your cares on Jesus and then do it again in the evening. And really, this is what our Lord is telling us. Worry never dried a tear. Worry never lifted a burden. It never solved a problem. Worry has the same effect on you that stand has in machinery. It just doesn't do any good. It's going to cause eventually the machinery to break. So, with all that in mind, what I want you to see tonight very simply are three reasons why we should not worry. We should bring our burdens to the Lord and leave them there and live a worry-free life. Now we know that these at times worries are going to try to get into our mind, but what we're talking about is mastering our emotions, not allowing worries like this to overwhelm us To cause us to doubt the Lord, to live in fear, but to refuse to give in to worries and learn to trust the Lord in all things. Now, let me give you three reasons. Here's the first one. If you're taking notes, write down. Worry Dishonors our Father. That's the first thing we see here. Worry dishonors our Father. Really, the answer to winning the war of worry is to keep your eyes on your Heavenly Father. Because he is going to take care of you. And the Bible tells us, we read just a moment ago, God knows what you need before you do Nothing happens to you or me without him knowing it. He knows what you need. You don't have a need that God is unaware of. And God is fully able and capable of providing for you that need. And so keep your eyes on the Lord. You say, well, I'm going through a problem right now. I just don't know how it's going to turn out. That's fine. Keep your eyes on the Lord Just look to the Lord. Robert Louis Stevenson used to delight in telling the story of some sailors that were on a ship. The ship was going through a terrible storm. It was going back and forth, rocking and going up and down And they knew that they were in grave danger. And finally one of the sailors went up to the deck, went to the pilot house, and looked at the captain and he came down and he said, Fellas, everything's gonna be okay He said, I just been to the pilot's house, I just look at the face of the captain and he smiled at me. And it's going to be okay. Well, friend, I want you to know that whatever storm you're going through, your captain, the Heavenly Father, he is smiling at you. He knows what you need, and he's going to be there to provide that need. You see, our come our contentment comes from looking to him. Our comfort comes from looking to him Only in God can we find true contentment and comfort over the worries of this world. You say, why is that? Well, because here's the first thing you need to know. This is a sub-point. God owns everything. He owns it all. You understand that? Look again in verse number 32 and verse 33 where it says, For all these things do the Gentiles see, for your heavenly Father knoweth That ye have need of all these things, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things. Notice where it says, all these things, all these things. God knows That you need all these things? And God is able to give you all these things. You know why? Because God owns all these things. He's the owner of it all. And he has everything under control. Write down Psalm 24. 1. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. I love it where it says the fullness thereof. He owns it all. He's not running out of resources. Sometimes I hear these reports, oh the world, it's running out of food. Oh, we're going to starve. Those are so ridiculous, friend. We have a mighty God that created this world, and guess what? I was reading about a statistic not too long ago about uh w the statistics about agriculture in the world. Did you know that We already produce enough grain and food in this world to feed everyone. If it was evenly dis distributed to every person in the world, every person in the world would have more than enough to eat. They would have twice of what they needed If it was evenly distributed. And those are statistics that are very, very clear. And so the Lord owns it all. Write down 1 Chronicles 29, 11. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty, for all that is in heaven and in earth is thine, and thine is the kingdom, O Lord. And thou art exalted above head. God owns it all, God controls it all. And you know what? We think that we own things, but really it all belongs to Him. You know, you you know how men love to draw up property deeds and make borders and say, we own this and own that and and all these sort of things and that's all good and fine. And we like to think, well this is how much money I have in my bank account. Well that's all good and fine, just as long as you realize that God's allowing you to be steward over that for just a time, but he owns all of it. It's all his. And by the way, when you bring an offering to the Lord, you're not making God rich. You're not making God rich. You're not giving to the Lord. You're actually worshiping him. You're saying, Lord, I recognize that every- you already own everything, and that you have already given to me all that I have, and by giving back to you, you're recognizing the faithfulness of God. The Bible says that you can't make God rich. God said if I were hungry, I would not tell you. Because the world is mine and the fullness thereof. When we give to God, it's an act of worship. Saying, God, you own it all. And so, write down Haggai 2, a the silver is mine, the gold is mine. says the Lord, you can't add anything to God. Romans 11, 35, or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again. Who gave to God a gift that wasn't already his first? is what he's saying. You say, now why is it important that we recognize that God owns it all? Because, friend, when we realize that, we realize that there's no shortage on the resources of God. And he's fully capable and able to sustain you and to sustain me and to give us what we need. That's the point. He owns it all. Here's the second part of it. God always feeds his children. He always feeds his children. We have such a good and gracious God. We were talking about this world and the fullness. Did you know that God created in this world a law that is called the law of reciprocal giving? Or we could call it the law of reciprocal benevolence. where that everything in creation gives. It just gives and gives. The sun gives of its rays. Without that we would have no life. The earth gives of its fruit From the minerals in the soils we have vegetables that give us what we need. Everything in creation is created with the idea of giving, giving, giving. You know why? Because that's the nature of Almighty God God is a God who just gives. He graciously gives and gives and gives, and he always feeds his children. Now let me qualify something, friend. If you want to live for the devil, then you let the devil take care of you. I'm talking about the children of God. He will take care of you if you're his child. And by the way, under God's common grace, he even takes care of those who are not his children Redeem the children because God is gracious and under common grace he still gives. The rain falls upon the just and the unjust. But I want to tell you something, friend. If you're going to live for the devil, then you let the devil take care of you If you don't turn your back on God and shake your fist in the face of God and not even acknowledge God, that's fine. Then let the devil take care of you and let's see how well he does it. But if you're a child of God, I want to tell you something, dear friend, he's going to take care of you. Because you are his child. You belong to him. And he will, he just will. He always feeds his children. Notice what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 6. Look at verse 26. Behold the thousands of the air For they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather in the barns. Yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? And which of you by taking thought can add one cupid to his stature? Now Jesus is just observing, and by the way, this is part of the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus is out there by the Sea of Galilee speaking to the multitudes And I imagine that as Jesus is speaking, he's using the power of observation, and he's just looking around and uh Standing on that hillside, you can almost picture that in your mind. And as people gathered there, I imagine that there are some birds of course that would fly across the sky from time to time. And maybe Jesus with a sweep of his hand said, consider the sparrows. You don't if you doubt whether your Heavenly Father is going to take care of you, just consider the sparrows In fact, that place there by the Sea of Galilee was a cross section of bird migration. I just imagine the birds were flying by and Jesus said, consider them. You never see birds worrying You never see a bird plowing a field or trying to reap a harvest. They plant it. You know why? Because God the Father takes care of them. You need never see a bird trying to build a barn or do any of that. God the Father just watches over them. They are fed by their Heavenly Father. They're not worrying They are taken care of. Write down Psalm 147, verse 9. To the young ravens which cry out, he gives food. God feeds the birds. And the whole point is, listen, if God feeds the sparrows, don't you think he's going to feed you his child? Don't you think he's going to do that Someone wrote, said the Robin to the sparrow, I should really like to know why these anxious human beings rush around and hurry so said the sparrow to the Robin, friend, I think that it must be that they have no heavenly father such as cares for you and me. We can learn a lot from the birds. I love the song, His Eyes on the Sparrow. And I know he watches me And so this is what the Lord is saying. In fact, look in Matthew 10. Just flip over to Matthew 10. Look at verse 29. Same idea here. Jesus says in Matthew 10, verse 29, Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your father. What's Jesus saying there? You know, two sparrows for a farthing, a farthing was basically a penny. One penny could buy two birds. These are small birds and they were roasted. They were served as cheap finger food at times and sometimes as hors d'oeuvres, appetizers. But here, Jesus says not one of those little birds is unimportant to God. Not one falls to the ground without God knowing it. And then Jesus says, are you not much more valuable than they? If he takes care of those little birds, Don't you think he's going to take care of you? And then Jesus said the very hairs of your head are numbered. No bird was ever created in the image of God. No bird was ever designed to be a joint heir with Jesus Christ. No bird was ever prepared a place for in heaven like you are Don't you know that God is going to take care of you? So if you worry about food, he says, consider the sparrows. Well, what if you worry about fashion? Some of those that are more fashion conscious. Well, look in chapter 6 and verse 28. And why taking thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how that they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin. Now these were the beautiful wildflowers. that dotted the Galilean landscape and they were all over. When I was in Israel, I had the wonderful opportunity to kind of go around the Sea of Galilee. And came to that very hill that where Jesus gave the Sermon on the Mount. And at the time of year, you could see these little wildflowers all over that hillside. Beautiful, beautiful little flowers. And Jesus, I'm sure, while he's preaching that sermon, with a sweep of the hand, just look at these flowers. Look how beautiful they are. Look at the wondrous beauty of them. And he's saying, if God so clothed these little flowers, who had such a short-lived beauty and a short-lived life, won't he clothe you? Listen, Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like these You know what? If you take any piece of clothes and put it under a microscope, you know what it's going to look like? It's going to look like sack off. You'll just see the cross patterns. But if you take a beautiful little flower, take the petal of it, and put it under a microscope, you're going to see a huge difference so much more beautiful, so much more intricate, so much more design and substance and color that the ingenuity man could never touch that And this is what Jesus is saying. These little flowers are clothed with something much more beautiful than men could ever have. And you're much more important than they. They have a short lifespan They are here today and gone tomorrow and people would take these little flowers as fodder after they would die away. for their uh ovens. But yet Jesus says, you're so much more important than all of these. And so, friend, whenever you are tempted to doubt God about your provision, you just remember you have the Heavenly Father that takes care of you. And to doubt God is to basically doubt his character. You call his character into question. Christians who doubt the Lord and who worry, they believe that God can redeem them, can deliver them out of the hands of Satan, give them eternal life, but yet he can't seem to take care of me here on earth. That's essentially what we're saying. No friend, God can and he will take care of you. And to allow worry to consume you and overcome you is to doubt the lavish provision of your Heavenly Father, who promised He's going to take care of you. He promised that. Can you imagine? I just can't imagine one of my children coming up to me crying, what's the matter? Well, I'm just afraid you're not going to see me today Really? That would be an insult to me. I'm just afraid you're not gonna take care of me. And and how it how it's an insult to Almighty God when we doubt him. in that way. Isaiah 49, 15, can a woman forget her suckling child? That she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? And then he says, yea, they may forget. But God says, I will not forget you A mother may go against her maternal instinct and forget a child, but God says, I will never, ever forget you I just won't. And so we have the promises of God. So why should I never worry? Because worry dishonors our Father, who is so gracious. So giving, so kind. But here's the second thing I want you to see. Worry not only dishonors our Father, but write down number two, worry defeats our faith. Worry defeats our faith. Look what Jesus said in verse number 30. Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field to which today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you? Watch this next phrase, O ye of what? Little faith. You see, worry only causes you to lose ground in your Christian life. It does absolutely nothing for you. It causes you to lose faith. And Jesus says, oh ye of little faith. Someone said worry is like a rocking chair. It keeps you occupied, but it just doesn't get you anywhere And that's so very true. George Mueller said the beginning of anxiety is the end of faith. And the beginning of true faith Is the end of anxiety. Say what does it bring? Loss of peace. Just write that down. Loss of peace. Worry. It starts with the mind. It starts with thinking. That's why we see the word over and over again, thought. thought in verse 25 take no thought for your life. Verse 27, which of you by taking thought? Verse 28, why take thought? Verse 31, take no thought. Verse 34. Take therefore no thought. You see, over and over again we see this word thought. And you know what this word is? This is the Greek word merimna. And which simply means to fret or to hang have anxiety or to worry. And we use the old English word thought because when worry comes, where does it start? It starts in the mind. It starts with negative thinking in the mind. So if you want to have freedom over worry, then you cannot allow your mind to be occupied. With these negative thoughts that will just bombard you. It starts right there. The Bible says we're to bring our thoughts into captivity and bring them under the submission of Christ. The Bible says that in uh Corinthians, um, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. The cost of worry is high. It bombards your mind. It's harmful. It gets you to think thinking negatively. Someone said worry is a small trickle of fear that meanders through the mind until it cuts a channel into which all other thoughts are drained. So here's the first thing. Control your thinking. You ever hang around a person? How's it going? Well, and they start giving you a list of things. And they got one negative thing after another after another. And you talk to them and they're worried about this and worried about that. And by the time you're done talking to them, you know what? You just feel terrible. You know why? Because now you're worried about all those things yourself. Why? Because it begins in the mind. And pretty soon it chokes out your faith. You know what? Actually the English word worry comes from an old German root, which means to choke or to strangle. That's a good expression for worry because that's exactly what it does. It chokes us. It strangles us. It keeps us from having the right thoughts and having uh the right kind of faith. So friend, do your own thinking. Don't let anyone else think for you. And make sure that you keep your mind on the Lord, that you keep your mind on the Word of God, like the Apostle Paul said, whatsoever things are virtuous. Whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on those things. But don't allow your mind to be overcome with negative thoughts. And don't allow other people to pull you down to their level to cause you to worry. You don't do that. Paul said, be anxious for nothing but in everything by what? Prayer. Prayer and supplication. With Thanksgiving. Let me give you a story that I thought was very interesting. How many of you ever shopped at J. C. Penny's? Did you know that J. C. Penny was the son of a Baptist preacher And he grew up with deep convictions. J. C. Penny was honest. He never drank. He never smoked. He was a very hard worker. But in 1929, when the depression hit, Penny found himself in a crisis. He had made some unwise commitments and investments, and now he was paying for it. They all turned sour. And what happened was J. C. Penny began to worry about them. And soon he was unable to sleep. He was so consumed And then he developed shingles. And he was hospitalized because they got so very acute and the pain was so bad. But when he was in the hospital, his anxiety simply increased. And nothing they did helped him. No drugs helped him, no tranquilizers helped him. His mental state deteriorated until he got so bad that he feared that he was going to die. He had had a nervous breakdown. And this is what he said. Let me read you his own words. He said, I was broken nervously and physically. He said, filled with despair, unable to see even a ray of hope. I had nothing to live for. I felt I hadn't a friend left in the world, and that even my family turned against me. And that night he was so oppressed. That he did not think that his heart was going to hold out. So you know what he did? He sat down and he began to write a last will and letter to his wife and to his children because he honestly thought That he was going to die that night. Well, you know what? He didn't die that night. He lived through the night, and the next morning From his hospital bed, he could hear singing. This was singing that was coming from the little hospital chapel. That was not very far away. And he was able to get out of bed and went to that chapel. And that singing was so beautiful. It was so peaceful. And they were singing the words to a hymn, and these were the words Be not dismayed whatever betide. God will take care of you. They were singing that hymn. And as he entered into that chapel, he began listening to those words, and then they had scripture reading. And he listened to the words of Scripture. And then they prayed. And then he said, suddenly, something happened. He said, I can't explain it. He said, I can only call it a miracle. He said, I felt at that moment instantly that I had given all of it to the Lord. He said, I felt like I was lifted out of the darkness of a dungeon. Into the warmth of brilliant sunlight. And he said, all worry left me. And he said, I realize more than ever that Jesus Christ cared for me. And he was going to take care of me. And he said this was a life-changing experience. From that moment on, J. C. Penny never Worried. Again, he was never plagued with worry. And he calls that moment in that chapel, he says, quote, the most dramatic and glorious Twenty minutes of my life was there. You know what happened? He determined at that moment he wasn't going to worry anymore And he knew that he could trust the Lord and depend upon it, and he learned to just give it all to God. And there was a peace That entered into his heart. Now I don't know. Maybe you're here tonight. Maybe there's something in your life that is causing you an inward turmoil where you're worrying, you're anxious. Friend, let me just encourage you to do what J. C. Penny did and give that to the Lord. And let God fill your heart with peace. What does worry do? Worry causes us to lose our peace. But also, friend, it causes us to lose our testimony. Look again in verse number 32 in chapter 6. It says, after all these things Do the Gentiles seek? And the idea here is the word Gentile, this is a word that can mean pagan, the heathen, those without God or Christ. This is how those who don't know God live. Do you ever notice that? The people in this world who don't know God are consumed and stressed about all these temporal things. They're all stressed out about that. And it says this is what they seek, and this is word here is in the emphatic. They are constantly seeking with all their heart and might this material gratification that's in this world In fact, that's what they live for. They live for nothing but these earthly material things. Well friend, I want to tell you something. If you're a child of God, that's not what you live for. At least it shouldn't be. It's not what I'm to live for. This world says, eat and drink, for tomorrow you die. Get all you can. But friend, that is not the child of God. This world they live and they they scheme and they dream and they beg, borrow, and steal, and they'll do anything lie and cheat to get ahead and to get as much of this This resources of this world as they can, you know, you heard the expression a dog eat dog world. And you know why? Because they see nothing but just this temporal life. But friend, we don't live like that as Christians. We're not consumed with those things. I was reading about Nietzsche, the German philosopher. He was really the founder of the Nazi movement. And he was the first man in history to come up with the idea that God is dead. And the idea that God is no longer relevant, we don't need him anymore He came up with that idea. And this is what he said one time. Looking at Christianity, he said about Christians. He said, if you want me to believe in your Redeemer, you're going to have to look a little bit more redeemed That's what he said. And you know what? If we live like the world, that is all that we're concerned about is material gain. And the earthly things and trying to collect the most toys, you know what? The world's going to look at us and they're going to say, you know what, there's no difference between Christians and us. They're living for the things of this world. But friend, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ, those things are not our priorities. Those things are not the things that we're concerned about. And later on we're going to see this, that there's another set of priorities that we have. And it's not material things. But then also here's another thing: loss of peace, loss of testimony, but also loss of health. In verse 27, he said, Which of you by taking thought could add one cupid to his stature? That is, you can't want to add one inch to your frame by worrying. We can say it like this, it does nothing for you physically. Can't help you out physically. In fact, it is very harmful Physically to you. Here Charles Mayo, the Mayo Clinic, said this: worry affects the circulation, the heart, the glands, the whole nervous system. He said, I have never known a man to die of overwork But many I've known who died of worry. That is, what he's saying is, you can actually worry yourself to death. It has such an adverse effect physically. Johns Hopkins University said this, we do not know why it is that warriors die sooner than non-warriors, but that is a fact. There's something else for you to worry about. If you're a warrior, you're going to die sooner than a non-warrier. And that's according to Johns Hopkins University. It does nothing for you physically. You can lose your health. You can lose your peace. You can lose your testimony. You can lose your health. And so, friend, worry defeats our faith. Let me give you the last thing. Not only does worry dishonors our father, worry defeats our faith, but then write down number three, here's another reason we should never Allow worry to overcome us and not worry. That is, worry distorts our focus. It distorts our focus. Look at verse 33. One of the greatest verses in the New Testament. But seek ye first the kingdom of God. And his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. You see Remember, I told you we don't live like the world. We don't seek material gain. You know what we live for as children of God? At least we should. We live for the kingdom. The kingdom is what's first in our heart and in our life. But you see, worry causes us to lose our focus and lose our perspective. And friend, if you're not careful You can get caught up in this world and you can start living for the material things of this world and lose your focus on the kingdom of God. And I know Christians that have done that. And friend, every time God has to bring them back To get 'em to see what's important. And what's important is not this old world, it's the kingdom. The kingdom You see. And notice verse 25 where he says, is not the life more than meat and the body more than raiment? Notice this passage comes Right on the topic of materialism and covetousness in the preceding verses. Why? Because these things go hand in hand To be overly concerned about earthly things reveals a heart that's not right. In fact, if you look back in verse 22 and verse 23 You'll see that uh Jesus is talking about that. He said, The light of the body is the eye, if therefore the eye be single, the whole body be full of light. But if the eye be evil, the whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light is that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? Verse twenty four. No man can serve two masters Either he will hate the one and love the other, else he will hold to the one and despise the other. He can't serve God in mammon. And mammon, of course, was money, materialism And in this verse, Jesus warns us about the problem of materialism. And then right on the heels of that, he talks about worry. Why is that? Because these are evil twins that dwell together. If you're so focused on materialism, then you're going to worry because they just go together. And so it distorts our focus. But you see, friend, listen, God wants us to set our affections on things above. He wants us to live for the eternal. to think about the eternal, to think about the kingdom of God. And so here's the first thing. Focus on the eternal, not on the earthly. That's what God wants. Focus on the eternal, not on the earthly. And this is a promise from God. God says this: listen, if you seek my kingdom, That I'm going to add all these other things unto you. I'll take care of these other things, these lesser things, these earthly things. These material things. I'll take care of that. So, what are you telling us here? Set proper priorities. Seek first the kingdom of God. And then seek personal purity, the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Friend, you ought to be more concerned about your inward righteousness than your outward raiment. You ought to be concerned more about your sanctification. If you don't know the Lord Jesus, friend, you need to be concerned about your salvation. And and being found in faith and to know that Jesus died and and on the cross he took your sins. And when you get saved, he gives you all of his righteousness while he takes all of your sins. Friend, you ought to seek his righteousness first Make sure you know that you know that you're a child of God and that you're growing in righteousness, that sanctification is taking place, that you're in the Word of God, you're meditating, you're seeking the Lord. That should be the focus of a child of God That's what God says. Seek first the kingdom of God, set proper priorities, seek personal purity and his righteousness. And here's the next thing: see, promise, prosperity, all these things, God says. I'll add to you. I'll give it to you. I'll take care of that. And friend, I want to tell you something. I know that if I took time here to give testimony, there would be a lot of people up here who could say I can testify to that. God has taken care of me. And I want to tell you that, friend, the moment God saved me and and then I surrendered to serve the Lord and been in ministry, I want to tell you that God has never failed to take care of of me. But I also want to tell you, I've never been concerned about money. Now, I say that in general. I've never been concerned about money. I've never made that a priority. What I get and that none of those things have been the biggest concern, friend. The biggest concern is that we get as many people into the kingdom as we can. That we focus on His kingdom and His righteousness as God says, look, I'll add all these things unto you. Then here's another thing. We focus on the eternal, not the earthly, and then we focus on today and not tomorrow. Look in verse 34 of chapter 6. Verse 34, take therefore no thought for the morrow. For the morrow should take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. And Jesus was saying, Don't focus on the future, focus on today Tomorrow will take care of itself. God promises to give us enough strength for each day. As thy days, so shall thy strength be. But what we do is we take today's strength and we use it to worry about tomorrow's troubles. And worrying about tomorrow's troubles doesn't take the sorrow out of tomorrow. It takes the strength out of today. And so Jesus says, just take it a day at a time. Just focus on today. And know that God's going to take care of you. Today, oh I've got these things I know, so does God. He's going to take care of that You just seek him, seek his righteousness, and God said, I'm going to add all these things unto you. Each day is a gift from God. Enjoy every day that God has given to the fullest. As a gift from him and realize that God's going to take care of you today and guess what? Tomorrow when you get up, he's going to take care of you tomorrow too He's going to watch over you. Jesus says, sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Don't worry too much about what's going to happen down the road. You just focus on the Lord and take care of him. And listen, friend, don't give in to worry. In fact, just like I was talking about doubt the last time, don't give in to doubt. It's the same principle. Worry is going to come to us from time to time. Don't give in to it. Make a choice that says, at what time I'm afraid, I'm going to trust in you, Lord. I'm going to put my trust in you. And I know that you're going to take care of me. Now let me close. with this one illustration. Charles Davis tells of a man who was hiking on a mountainside. He was filled with a beautiful landscape. It got dark So he started on his way back. And on his way back, he slipped over the mountainside, slipped down to a cliff, was able to manage to grab onto a branch, and he hung there in the darkness. And he hung and he hung and no one was there to help him. And he was so filled with fear. And gradually his strength decayed and gave way. And he couldn't help but he let go of the branch and he fell a full three inches to a rock And he was safe. He didn't realize actually he was on firm ground. He just thought that he was in a dangerous position. And many Christians are like that. Many are hanging in fear You're using all of your strength to hold on in your own resource and your own strength, but what you don't know is that the rock of your salvation is right underneath you. And he's not going to let you fall. He's right there. You know what you need to go or need to do? You need to let go and relax. And let God take care of you and banish worry. I'm not going to worry. My Father owns the cattle on a thousand hills. He's going to take care of me. And friend, he just will. God is faithful. He's faithful. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, take these words and burn them into our heart. I pray for my brothers and sisters here, Lord. I I don't know what they're going through, Lord, but you do. And Lord, you've given us these words for us. And I just pray, Lord, we'll take them to heart. I know I need to apply them to my own life. There are times in my own life when I can feel anxiety begin to well up in me. And God help me to banish that. Help me to refuse to give in to these negative thoughts of worry And sometimes, Lord, we hear news reports and we hear bad things and we begin to worry about things. Lord, it's very easy to give in to worry in this world in which we live. But Lord, strengthen our faith And help us, Lord, to make a conscious decision to trust you. Help us, Lord, to know that when we worry, we dishonor you. Our faith is defeated. Our focus. Is distorted. And Lord, to repent of that and turn to you with all our heart. Just like the song we heard tonight by these ladies, Lord, just to place our burdens on you. Take our burden to you, Lord, and leave it there. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, maybe, just maybe, there's someone here tonight That you need to leave your burden to the Lord right now. Something that's got you consumed with worry. You just need to leave it with the Lord right now. This is what God wants you to do. He doesn't want you to be defeated By worry. He doesn't want you to be consumed with these things. But he wants you to bring it to him, leave it there. And friend, leave with peace in your heart. Knowing God's going to take care of it. How many say that's my prayer? Pray for me today. I've got some worries. I'm anxious, anxious about certain things. God sees your hands, beloved. He knows your your heart. God bless you. Father, see these hands in these hearts. And as they in faith cast their burden before you, Lord, I pray that you'll give them gray. Peace. And we pray all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen