Let's open to uh First Samuel please chapter twenty-seven. We are doing a series on Wednesday night on the life of David. And the whole goal of this is that we become people who have a heart after God's own heart, and we're studying his life, and we're studying not only the successes and the victories that he has, but also uh some of the failures. And you know, despite the failures that David has, he was still a man who knew how to repent and go back to the Lord. And I think that's something that all of us need to learn. Because we're, let's face it, all of us are going to fail at times. I heard of a wise old preacher who once took a young man aside and he gave him a solemn warning about sin. And I think you probably all have heard this expression before. He said, Young man, sin will take you farther than you want to go. Keep you longer than you want to stay, and charge you more than you're willing to pay. And I often wonder if maybe he read this portion of David's life when he came up with that expression Because really that whole expression uh summarizes perfectly uh these next few narratives here about the life of David. David went much farther than he ever intended to go. During a time of weakness and a time of despair, David decided to go into the camp of the enemy. to the Philistines. And again, he probably only intended to stay just a short time, but he stayed much longer. And he went much farther because he ends up becoming the bodyguard for King Akish, who is the king of the Philistines. And he ends up fighting on the side of the Philistines, and if it were it not for the intervention of Almighty God, he would have been fighting against Israel. And so this was a difficult position for David to be in But he pays a high price, as we're going to see, for the decisions that he made because his family suffered for it. And so David foolishly sought salvation from the Philistines and ended up needing to be saved from the Philistines. And so what we learn here about David and about his life And really about ourselves as well, is the subtle and deceptive uh nature of sin. You know, all of us as Christians, we have still within us indwelling sin. Isn't that true? And we have to battle with that indwelling sin constantly. I read a book years ago that kind of helped me to see this uh how important this is in the Christian life It was a book called Sin and Temptation written by the great Puritan John Owen. I recommend that to you. If you get the abridged version, it's really good And basically in this book, he just makes the point that we have a constant enemy of the soul, and unlike Samson's enemy, it is not only upon us, but in us. This enemy lives inside of us. And you come away reading Owen alarmed with a knowledge of the power of indwelling sin and it's far greater than we ever realized. I think sometimes we have an inadequate view of the subtlety of our own sin nature that lives inside of us. And I think we see this here in the life of David. But let me just give you the big idea of this whole narrative, and that's simply this. Sin snares us by offering us a more enjoyable life at first, but the consequences always catches up to us And we we end up paying more in the end than we ever anticipated. It offers us much but pays us very little. In fact we pay a heavy Steep Price. Now let me just give you three lessons from our passage tonight about sin nature and the indwelling sin. And number one is this, if you're taking notes, just write down how sin courts us. How sin comes after us And here's the first thing. Sin will come at a time of great difficulty. Look in chapter 27, look at verse 1. And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul There is nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape to the land of the Philistines, and Saul shall despair of me to seek me any more in any coast of Israel, and so shall I escape out of his hand. Now At the end of chapter 26, it might give you the impression that all is well between Saul and David. After all, David spared Saul's life for the second time. And yet it's not. We see here that chapter 27 opens up with David in a very difficult time. He's still running from Saul. Saul's still chasing him, despite the fact that David spared his life twice. And Saul acted like he repented. But by this time now David has been running from Saul for about eight years. Eight years, think about that. It's a long time. You know, sin never comes to us and says, Would you like to ruin your life and the lives of those you love? Then follow me. Rather, it offers us a haven during difficult situations and difficult times. And that's what we're going to see here with David. Eve yielded to temptation because she saw the the food was good, the tree was good, it was a delight to the eye. Sin always snares us. by deceiving us and making us think it'll give us what we want. Now in the case of David here, he had been a fugitive for eight years. He had been running. He was tired Can you imagine living in the wilderness, living from cave to cave, constantly looking over your shoulder? Uh also there was the pressure of taking care of all the people, the six hundred men that were following him, those men and his families. And so These extended pressures cause David to lose hope. And by the way, Satan always hits you when you're down, doesn't he? Right at the time of vulnerability, right at the time of weakness And so sin comes at a time of great difficulty. It might be that you're in in a time of difficulty tonight. You better be careful because that's a vulnerable time when sin will rise up But notice also that sin plants wrong ideas in our mind. Look again in verse 1. And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. I'm going to perish. Now what's wrong with David's thinking here? I mean remember God promised that David would be the next king. How's David going to be the next king if he dies? And so he's thinking wrongly. It's contrary to God's word. It's just like David suddenly forgot the promises of God, that now he's walking in unbelief. God had assured him again and again he used Abigail to do it. David himself began to understand that. We saw that in chapter 26, but just suddenly he just forgets all of that. And God's promises and God's word is far from his mind. I want to tell you something. When you're not constantly meditating in Scripture, you know what's going to happen? Thoughts of unbelief are going to creep up You know, our mind's kind of like a garden. It constantly needs to be tended, and we constantly have to pull out the weeds of doubts and bad thinking. And David here, he's just not d thinking about the Word of God right now A. W. Pink wrote this. He ascribes David Foley to a tendency of unbelief that's really in every believer. And he said this, alas, when unbelief dominates us, God is forgotten, and deliverance, our own ease, obsess the mind. And that's what's obsessing David's mind. He just wants to get out of the situation. He's tired of it all. He's not believing God right now. There's no mention here of David praying and asking God's counsel about any of this. And by the way, he has uh Abhi Athar the priest with him. Uh he has the the ephod that Abbi Abhi Athar the priest had, but nowhere does they that seek the Lord. So here's another thing. Sin not only comes at a time of great difficulty, sin plants wrong ideas in our mind and we begin to think negatively, but then that's followed by wrong feelings. Sin plays on our emotions. Look again in verse 1. And David said in his what? In his heart. There's a key there. David's not following God's promises. What is he following? He's following his heart. You ever hear people say, follow your heart? That's the worst advice ever. You follow your heart, your heart will lead you away from God. You follow your heart, your heart will lead you to hell. The Bible says the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Don't follow your heart, follow God's word. But David here, he's following his heart. He says in his heart. You know, now he's beginning his negative thoughts are beginning to to affect how he feels. How many notice that pattern in our own lives? If you receive and dwell on doubtful negative thoughts, pretty soon you're going to be down. You're going to be depressed. Here, David, he feels like God has forgotten him. And he's battling with all these negative things. We read about that in the Psalms where David said this, how long, O Lord, will you forget me? Forever? God's never forgotten David. And by the way, He's never forgotten you either. How long will you hide your face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my heart having sorrow daily? How long will my enemy be exalted over me? Did you notice in verse 1 of chapter 27 the frequent use of the word I and me? David's focused on self. He's not focused on God. He's not focused on the Word of God You know what the Bible teaches us? We're to reject negative thinking, right? Doesn't Paul teach us that? Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are what? True? Whatsoever things are honest, just, and so on. Think on these things. The Bible says, casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. And bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. The mind is the battleground. And here, David, negative thinking, wrong thinking leads to wrong emotions, but that's when sin comes. Now David doesn't realize it, but God, in just a few short years, three years from this point, David's going to be on the throne reigning. But David doesn't know that. And so he has these wrong emotions. So sin comes at a difficult time, plants wrong ideas in our mind, plays on wrong emotions. But here's the next thing: sin offers an easy solution. Look again what he says in verse 1. David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines And Saul shall despair of me to seek me any more in any coast of Israel, so shall I escape out of his hand. And so David sees a very easy solution to his dilemma. He reasons in his mind that the best thing for me to do is just get out of town. Get out of Israel. And notice he says speedily. Saul will despair of seeking me. He won't follow me into the enemy camp. And by the way, this is not the first time that David ran to the uh uh to the Philistines uh for help when things were going bad. He did that before. And you remember what happened to him? He ended up acting crazy and writing graffiti on the gates of Gath. Didn't work well the first time, it's not going to work well here either. So David and his men crossed over. Look in verse two. When David arose and he passed over with his six hundred men that were with him unto Akish And verse three, and David dwelt with Akish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David and then also his wives. Verse four. And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath And he sought no more again for him. So it seems to work here. Saul finds out that David left Israel. He's in the land of the Philistines. He's with the king of Gath. Now, Saul stops following him, case close, easy solution, right? Wrong. There's a lot of problems with this. A lot of problems with this decision that he makes. First of all, again, he didn't pray about it. We don't read of God's name being mentioned here in chapter 27 or later in 29 and 30 that kind of is part of this whole narrative. This was an emotional decision at a time when he lost heart. And some good advice would be for all of us is that when you lose heart, that's not the time to make a decision. He makes a decision at a bad time, he doesn't pray about it. Secondly, he makes an alliance with a pagan king, and by doing that, what does he do? He disobeys the word of God. On numerous occasions in the Old Testament, God would forbid his people from making alliances with pagans. And here is David, and he makes an alliance with this king who worships false gods. And then thirdly, David is going to the ungodly for refuge. You look in the Bible, whenever God's people go to the ungodly for salvation or refuge, it never, never turns out well. It always turns out bad. Richard Phillips in his commentary wrote this one searches the Bible in vain for an example of Israelites seeking salvation outside the land of promise, appealing to the care of the ungodly That did not entrap them in sin and the curses of unbelief. And he's he's so very truly, it's so very right. When Abraham went to Egypt for refuge, it caused him a lot of trouble. He fell into sin and danger. When Lot Went to Sodom for refuge, it cost him his family. When Elimelech and Naomi went to the land of Moab to run from a famine, it ruined their family. And so it's not going to go well for David here either. And then here's another problem with this decision. When David now goes down to the ungodly for help, this time it's not just him. The first time he went to the land of the Philistines, it was just David. This time, he's bringing 600 soldiers with him and their families. And so this decision that he makes doesn't just affect him. It affects a lot of other people as well. You know, wrong actions never occur in a vacuum. They always have an effect on others around us. And this is what we're going to see here. Always remember you never sin privately. Your sin will have consequences not only for you, but also for the people around you. And so that's the problem with this decision. So sin comes at a time of great difficulty, it plants wrong ideas in our mind. It plays on wrong emotions. It offers an easy solution, but then also it offers the wrong company. Because what we see here in chapter 27, verse 3, again, David dwells now with Akish. Akish, who is the king of Gath. Remember Gath, that's the hometown of who? Goliath. You ever thought David would settle down there in that place where his enemy lived? James would later write, friendship with the world is enmity with God. When believers take the wrong path from the Lord, sooner or later they will fall into the wrong crowd. And Satan will use the wrong crowd to steer you further from The Apostle Paul would later write, Do not be deceived. Bad company corrupts good morals. So now David is in the wrong company. And notice, look at verse 5. And David said unto Akish, if I have found favor or grace in thine eyes, let thou give me a place in some town in the country. That I may dwell there, for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee? And so Akish, what does he do in verse six? Then Akish gave him Ziklag that day, and wherefore Ziklag pertaineth unto the kings of Judah unto this day. David said, You know, look, I've got such a large army and a big peop group of people with me. Why don't you just give me a certain place where we can dwell so we can kind of get out of the congestion of your own city? Why should I be in the royal city with you? And Akish likes that idea, so he gives them this s this small city This was near the southern border of Judah, and this was actually a town allotted to the tribe of Judah during the distribution of the land under under Joshua, you might remember when they were giving out land And so, but however, the children of Israel never claimed that city. They never conquered it. So here's David, and he's given this city by King Akish. And what's happening here is he's getting it more deeply entrenched Because look in verse number seven, where it says it at the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months. I don't think it's any accident that the writer notes the length of time that David lives in enemy territory. Sin will keep you longer than you want to stay. Perhaps that was never his intention, but it kept him longer. He's entrenched here now. But here's the next thing. Sin leads to deception and more wrong actions. Because what happens, look at verse 8. And David and his men went up and invaded the uh Gisharites and the Gizrites and the Amalekites. For those nations were of old the inhabitants of the land. And so what's David doing now? Well, now he's got to feed a lot of people There weren't a lot of open jobs in Ziklag. And so what does he do? He begins making these guerrilla raids on pagan villages. He would take the spoils from these places and he would use it to give to his men and feed their families. And by the way, the the people that are mentioned in verse number eight, these were people on the list of people groups to be judged and exterminated under Joshua, but they never did quite get to them. And also you'll notice on the list are the Amalekites. The Amalekites, remember, they are the perennial enemies of Israel. They're the ones that God said to Saul, I want you to utterly wipe them all out. But Saul never did that. And they're on this list here too. And so what does David do? David he goes into those villages of those pagan people, he takes their spoils, and he utterly wipes them all out Now there are some commentators that say, you know, what David is doing here is actually a good thing. But you know, God didn't command David to do this here. David was really acting on his own when he did this. And notice what again in verse number nine, and David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away sheep and oxen and the asses and the camels and the apparel, and returned and came to Akish. And look in verse number 10. And Acheth said, Whither have ye made a road today? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jiramaelites, and against the south of the Kenites. And David saved neither man nor woman alive to bring tidings to Gath, saying, lest they should tell on us, saying, So did David, and so will be his manner all the while he dwell in the country of the Philistines. And Akish believed David. So what's he doing here? He's just slaughtering these people in these villages as he raised the villages And then he goes back to King Akish, and King Akish says, Hey, where have you been today? He said, Oh, I've been to the south of Judah. I've been raiding those villages there. What's David doing? He's lying now to King Akish. He's actually going to these pagan villages And taking their spoils and killing everyone in there, but he's telling King Akish he's doing it in Israel when he's actually doing it in Philistine territory. Gordon Ketty wrote this, David was brilliant and successful, but he slaughtered whole communities and lied through his teeth to Akish in the process. He had left his principles in the mountains of Judah and boxed himself into a corner where deceit and ruthlessness were the staples that kept him alive. And that's true. He was doing all these wrong actions, and then he was covering it up by deception. And when you start doing wrong actions, you want to cover it up. You have no choice but just to lie about it. And so one thing leads to another, and this is what David is doing here. He's living a life of deception. He's got a con game going in the land of the Philistines That's how sin courts us. But I want you to see a second thing. I want you to see how sin comforts us. When I say comforts us, of course, you know it means I mean temporarily, because ultimately, again, you will pay a heavy price. But initially it seems to comfort. Everything seems to be going his way. I mean, look on the surface, it all looks good I mean, think about it. There is relief from pressure. This all felt good for the first time in a long time. David was out from under the daily pressure of running from Saul. He's not running from him anymore. By the way, let me just say this. You know when God puts pressure on your life, you realize he's using that to sanctify you and me? That's why he has it there. And so it's not always the best thing to run from pressure, but there's relief from pressure for David from his problems. Um, you know, and then also there's acceptance from the world. David is accepted by the king of the Philistines. He's accepted by some of the Philistine people. He's accepted by others. I read in 1 Chronicles 12 that there were some from Saul's army that were defecting over to David. So he's picking up more people. And so there's acceptance from the world and from other people. By the way, the minute the minute a Christian steps away from God and walks away from God, the world will be waiting for you with open arms. They always do. Offering you gifts. You know, the minute you turn to the world, the world will say, Oh, finally you've seen the light. You're not with them stuffy old fundamentalists anymore. Come and hang with us. Welcome to our camp. But then also there's the comforts of the world. Again, after living in caves for years David finally had a place to call home. He could unpack his duffel bag completely. His wives could set up housekeeping. I mean man, this is all going good. It was a great feeling. And the money was coming in. David's raids were netting him a lot of profit, a lot of spoil. He didn't have to worry about where the next meal was coming from. You know, often when Christians turn from the Lord to the world, Satan will throw in a bunch of material benefits, kind of as a welcome package. And that's what's happening here with David. Then there's another thing, is growing popularity. As I said before, he's very popular now. People are liking him. Even some of Saul's army is defected to David. It all felt so good. You remember that song, some of you older saints in the Lord, Debbie Boone, maybe you didn't listen to it, You Lit Up My Life. Some people actually thought that was a Christian song. It wasn't, but There was one line in the song that says, It can't be wrong when it feels so right. That's what that's what David was singing here. I can't prove that. But David was probably saying, it can't be wrong. It feels so right. Everything is just going so well. It's going David's way. But again, I want to tell you, often when you're running with the world, you will receive a popularity that you never had when you were walking with God. That's not uncommon. David's experience was not uncommon. At first everything seemed great, but it wasn't. I don't know if you ever read Pilgrim's Progress. There's a part in that book, Pilgrim's Progress, where a Christian who is walking from the celestial uh to the celestial city, and he comes to a path called Bypass Meadow. Bypass Meadow looked like a much easier path. But the problem was that path led to Dowling Castle. And the giant of despair. It looked like a good pass, but it really wasn't a good pass. Let me just read you the excerpt. I think it's such a good excerpt here. I want to read it to you about this bypass meadow because I think it fits so very well here. It says a style or a passage separates it from the beaten track. So that the pilgrims must go somewhat out of their way in order to pass from the one to the other. Their impatience of the road and their desire for ease surprise them into this divergence. And the tempting nature of the meadowland deceived them. They saw its beginning, but they did not see its destination. And thus does the tempter blind our eyes. The moss-grown meadow with its pleasant path and its seeming parallel entices the pilgrim from the road and becomes the beginning of sorrows. That's so very true. And the decision here by David, the bypass meadow, the easier path It was good at first, but this was only the beginning of his sorrows. It was the beginning. You know, getting snared by sin is like living on credit cards. You know, ever live on credit cards, man. At first you have a grand time, stay at the best hotels, eat at the best restaurants, but guess what? The bill is going to come due. It's going to come due, and that's the way it is when people are snared by sin. The bills are going to come due. And here's the last part. We see how sin courts us, how sin comforts us, but number three, write down how sin costs us. There's a price that he's going to pay. Look in chapter 29. Skip over chapter 28. That's about Saul seeking advice from the wrong person. But look at verse 29, or excuse me, chapter 29. And This kind of picks up the narrative here. Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Athek, which is the Israelites pitched by a fountain, which is in Jezreel. Now David here is going to pay a steep price, and the first thing that we see here is there's the loss of his testimony David is now in a compromising situation. These first two verses here of chapter 29 opens up with the Philistines mobilizing their armies to fight against Israel. They're about to fight the Israelites. By the way, this place, Athek, it was another mentioned before, this was the very place where Israel lost to the Philistines. And they lost the Ark of the Covenant of God. And so there's kind of a ominous overtone when you come to verse number one in chapter twenty-nine. This is the place that they were defeated and that which led to Saul ultimately being put up as the king, but this will be the place where his reign will come to an end. And so Saul was about to come full circle here. But David is in this bad situation. Why? Because while the Philistines are mobilizing their army, guess who's a part of the army? David. He's also a part of them. And so now what does David have to do? He has to march out against Israel. This is the very country he's supposed to be king of. And now he's got to go fight him, the man who would not lift his hand against the Lord's anointed Now finds himself in league with the Philistines and he's about to go in the battle against God's chosen people. Israel. And in that army was his best friend Jonathan. And so this is uh this is terrible for David. I mean his con game has trapped him. You y you know, you y he has to have some hesitation I mean, you can just imagine what he's thinking. But I want you to notice that God is gracious and he intervenes on behalf of David. Because look at verse number three. Then the princes of the Philistines, then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews hear? By the way, that's a good question. What are these Hebrews doing here? You know what? When a Christian runs with the world, those in the world are often aware of the inconsistency of that person. And the situation. And they will often ask, if you're a Christian, what are you doing here? Why are you here? You don't belong here. And that's a question that should bring people to repentance. I think this was not an accident that this question was on the lips of the Philistines, because really this was God asking David that through the Philistines. What are you doing here? And basically their argument to the king is, look, he's going to switch sides. Once we get out there in the battle, we don't trust this guy. I mean, after all, isn't this the guy that they wrote a song about in Israel? Saul slain his thousands? Look at verse 5. Isn't this not David of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands? And David has tens of thousands. They're saying, look, in the heat of the battle, he's going to switch sides. We don't want him here. Get him out. So what's the first thing that David loses? He loses his testimony. He changed the name of the Lord. He's fighting with the enemy. And you know, that's not a small thing, beloved. We're here to glorify God. We're here to honor him, to make his name great, and David doesn't do that. This this should be the first thing on his priority list as a king to honor God. But then also he brings danger to his family. So what happens? The king Akish says, Okay, David, you gotta leave. And David, of course, he argues a little bit, you know, what have I done? Oh nothing. You've been like an angel. But they don't want you here, so you maybe get out and go. So David leaves. This is God's intervention. But notice what happens in chapter 30, verse 1, is David and his men go home. Sixty miles they ride in three days. Look at chapter 30, verse 1. And it came to pass when David and his men were come to Ziklag. On the third day that the Amalekites had invaded the south and Ziklag and smitten Ziklag and burned it with fire. And had taken the women captives that were therein. They slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away and went on their way. I want you to notice the next cost. David paid for danger to his family. He's paying for it now. When they come home, you know I think David and his men were probably excited to get back home. They were excited to be uh back in Ziklag. They were expecting to hear the sounds of children playing in the streets. They were expecting to smell baked bread, you know, as they were coming in, their wives baking bread and getting things ready for dinner. But when they got there, all they saw were charred remains The city had been burned down. Everything had been carried away. The Amalekites, remember David had been uh doing guerrilla raids against their towns. Now they come against David This was retribution. This was payback. There's a sense in which David is reaping now what he has sown. Because they come to his family, they come to his city, they take it all away. And you can imagine how David feels here. His family is now in tremendous danger. This leads to the next cost, great sorrow. Look down in verse number 4. Then David and the people that were with them lifted up their voices and wept until they had no more power to weep. They cried until they couldn't cry anymore, until they were exhausted. Until they had no more tears to cry. And you can imagine these men were just speculating, thinking about what was happening to their wives and to their children, how they were being tortured, how they were being abused For all they know, these Amalekites could have already sold their wives and children off as slaves. That's probably why they kept them alive, by the way. And the Bible says in verse 6, and David was greatly distressed himself in verse 6. For the people spake of stoning him. That's the next thing, a loss of respect. David's men, these men that loved him, these men that were so loyal to him, now they turn on him and they say, let's stone him. David had never been so low in his life. The throne of Israel at this point in his life seemed like a million miles away. This was the lowest So what are we learning from this? Sin snares us by offering us a more enjoyable life at first, but the consequences catch up to us in the end. And that's what happens here with David. Sin has taken him farther than he wanted to go, kept him longer than he wanted to stay, has charged him more than he was willing to pay. But let me end on this note. Let me end on the grace of God. You know why? Because throughout this whole narrative, we see God's grace. God's grace is an active work. In fact, you know what this narrative is designed to show us? That David is going to be the king of Israel. This battle that Israel will have with the Philistines, this is the beginning of the end for Saul. David is going to be the king, but he's not going to ascend the throne because of his own goodness. He's not going to ascend to the throne because of his own faithfulness. He's going to ascend to the throne because For the grace of God alone. Because he has failed, and yet God's grace could come to him and pick him up and help him out. The only reason that David wasn't stoned, or wasn't killed by Saul, or by the Philistines, or by his own foolish decision. was because of the grace of God. And I want you to notice what the grace of God does. First of all, the grace of God allows us to feel the consequence of our sin. You notice how God allows David to feel the pain of his sin? Does God ever have that happen to you? You know why God does that? To keep us from doing it ever again. It'll act as a deterrent in the future. Grace will help us to learn not to sin, but also grace keeps us from going too far. It was the grace of God that allowed David to feel the pain of what he has done. It was the grace of God that didn't allow him to go too far. You know why David didn't end up fighting against the Philistines? Because the grace of God kept that from happening. Had he done that, he may have forfeited himself from being king in the people's eyes. But also God's grace protected David from the further consequences of sin. It could have been a whole lot worse. You say, what could have been worse? Well when David raided those pagan towns, he didn't leave anybody alive. He killed women and children. As hard as that is to think about. But here, these enemies, they didn't kill women and children. They spared them. And it was only God's mercy and protective grace. uh that spared them from the same thing. It was God protecting him from the consequences of his own foolishness. But also we see God's grace in that after a person turns to the Lord in repentance and asks God for forgiveness, you know what God is willing to do? He's willing to forgive And then he's willing to erase the sin and then give us back what we lost. That's incredible to me. This is the incredible grace of God. Because notice what happens in chapter 30, verse 7. And David said to Abhi Athar, the priest Ahimelech son, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought thither the Ephod to David, and David inquired at the Lord, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? Shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Pursue, for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all. And so I like this about David. He refuses to give in to defeat. He refuses to allow sin to have the final word. in this situation. And so David does something that we should all do when we have failed the Lord. You know what David does now? He turns to the Lord with all his heart. He realizes he messed up. And so we see here, this is the first time we read of God or David inquiring of the Lord in the last few chapters. He returns to faith. He returns to seeking God. When you have failed, the best thing that you or I could ever do is just repent of that. Don't let sin have the final say-so Repent. And then David says, Lord, what should I do? And what does God say? God says, pursue. And God says, you will recover. Everything that you lost. And again, that's so very incredible to me. Did you know that when we fail and we we lose so many things, that God in his grace, if we truly repent He will restore those things to us. If that repentance is true, where sin abounds, grace did much more abound. And that's what we see right here. Notice in verse 17 of chapter thirty, and David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the next day. And there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men which rode upon camels and fled. And David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away, and David rescued his two wives Verse 19, and there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoiled nor anything that they had taken to them. David recovered all And so Grace gave David back everything that he lost. But I'll go I'll tell you furthermore, he got back more than he lost. Because not only did he get back what the Amalekites had taken, he also got back what they had taken in previous raids. So he got back more. Again, that's the grace of God. When you turn to the Lord And you say, God help me, you know, God will restore to you. He will give you victory. He will turn defeat into victory. He'll give you back what you lost. And then he'll go beyond that and he'll bless you even more. When you turn to the Lord. That's the incredible grace of God. And this is David overcoming the snare of sin. And so We need to learn from this story here. There are some who are reading this and you say, I'm walking upright with the Lord. Good. Stay that way. Keep obeying the Lord. Be diligent. Be vigilant. Watch out. Especially when you go through a difficult time. There may be some here and you're just starting to veer off the path You're just starting to go down the wrong road. You better learn from the example of David. You better be careful. The Lord allows U-turns. It's not too late for you to make a U-turn, get back onto the right path. And still there may be some here, and you've never turned to the Lord in your heart. You've never asked the Lord for salvation, and you need to realize that the best thing you could ever do is turn to Christ, who took your penalty for your sin on the cross, and he offers you Deliverance from the ultimate consequence of sin, which is eternal punishment in hell. So will you come to him? Let's let's bow for prayer tonight Lord, we thank you for this word. We thank you, Lord, that we have so many narratives, so many Things in the Old Testament that teach us that are examples to us on how we are to live, how we are to make our decisions. And it warns us. And Lord, this narrative here about David, the man after God's own heart, it serves to warn us tonight. That even a person like David who did have a heart for you, he can be snared by indwelling sin. And in a moment of hopelessness and despair, he can make wrong decisions, where one thing leads to something worse. So Lord, help us to beware. Maybe there's some here tonight that need to examine their own heart in light of this. They're veering off the right path. And they need to be brought back to you. And I pray, Lord, that you will do what no man can do, that the Spirit of God would draw them back unto yourself. And Lord, I pray that if there's someone here tonight that has failed and they're paying the consequence for it, may they be encouraged. by this story to know that you and your grace will forgive if there's true repentance. That Lord you will restore what was lost. And you'll give back even more. Lord, may this awesome, tremendous grace cause those that have walked away to turn back to you. And if you're here tonight with heads bowed and eyes closed, won't you just take a moment? No one raise your hand or anything like that. Wants you to do business with the Lord in your own heart. Wants you to examine your heart, ask yourself, Am I walking off the right path? Am I allowing the power of indwelling sin to To derail me. I need to get back to where I should be, walking with the Lord Would you pray? Just take a moment and just ask the Lord, by his grace, to restore your heart to where it needs to be. Father, again, thank you for your wonderful grace. Thank you for your restoring love. Lord, help us to take heed to the warning that we read about tonight. For your glory's sake, we pray in Jesus' precious name.