See you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles and open to the Old Testament book of Haggai. I'll give you about five minutes to find that. I'm just kidding. Haggai. Go to the last book of the Bible is Malachi. Go to the left two books and you come to Haggai. While you're finding that, you know on Sunday nights we have been uh doing a series called Mastering Your Emotions And we've talked about overcoming worry and overcoming doubt, overcoming depression, overcoming bitterness. And tonight I want to talk about overcoming disappointment. Overcoming disappointment. Look, Haggai chapter 2. Let me ask you a few questions while you're finding that. Have you ever suffered a major disappointment in your life? I think we all have. If you haven't suffered one, just wait because it's an inevitable part of life. Now what is disappointment? Well Webster's dictionary defines it like this. It's unhappiness from the failure of something hoped for or expected to happen And when it doesn't happen, there's that unhappiness. So it's unhappiness from the failure of something hoped for or something expected. Perhaps the best definition It's found in Proverbs chapter 13, verse 12. You might want to write that down. Proverbs 13, 12. Hope deferred maketh the heart sick. Here's something that you hope for. You have set your heart upon it. It doesn't happen. There's disappointment. It makes the heart sick. Now that disappointment could be in a person. It may be that you put your hope in a person. And that person lets you down. Let me just say we all are going to let others down from time to time. That disappointment could be even in yourself. Perhaps there was a dream, a goal, a desire, something you wanted to see happen in your own life And it just didn't happen. It didn't come to pass. And you've you're disappointed. It could come in the form of an event, something you want, and it doesn't happen. And it brings disappointment. Early missionaries to the Marshall Islands, that's in the Central Pacific, they would receive their mail once a year. Back in those days when the boat would come by once a year. And they look so forward to that mail. They talk about that correspondence. Well Uh on one occasion the boat came ahead of schedule one day, and the missionaries were all gone, they were on a neighboring island, and the captain left the mail with the natives, the Marshallese people. He just left it with them and he went on And the people looked at this and they thought, why do these missionaries love this so? What what do they look forward to in this? Uh why are they so excited about receiving these things when they thought, well, it must be that it tastes good And so they began to rip up the mail and the tiny pieces and to cook it. All that correspondence. So when the missionaries came back They found all their correspondence that they had been waiting for for a year, a year, had turned into mush. Let me ask you a question. Has your dreams, the things that you desired, has it turned into mush? And I've y been left disappointed. You know there are some people that if they're not careful, if we're not careful, we can allow disappointments in our life to to to affect us in such a way that we're no longer striving for the kingdom of God. We're no longer serving like we should serve And we begin to quit, walk around numb, never really attempting anything for God, because we've allowed disappointment to get the best of us. Your dreams turn to disappointment, disappointment turns to disillusionment, disillusionment turns to discouragement. That discouragement turns to despair. And that despair turns to defeat. Well, let me tell you something. It is not God's will for you to walk around in defeat. It is God's will for you to have victory So I want to talk about overcoming disappointment, and we're going to see a story here in the Old Testament that can kind of give us some insight on overcoming disappointment and doing the will of God. And it's found in the Old Testament book of Malachi. Or I'm sorry, Hagi. That's Wednesday night. Uh we go to uh Malachi. So actually give me a minute here because I am in the book of Malachi And it'd be good for me to get in the right book. So, uh, Hagei chapter two. Now let me give you a little background into what's going on here. And the book of Haggai. You remember that the people of Israel they sinned against God. And God sent the nation of Babylon down upon them with King Nebuchadnezzar. He invaded the city of Jerusalem. In fact, he invaded it three times And on the last occasion in five eighty six he destroyed the temple. And their captives carried off into captivity. For seventy years they were in captivity, and finally they were able to come back After 70 years, 50,000 Jews under the leadership of Ezra returned to the Holy City, and their first priority was to build the temple. To build the house of God. And so in 535 B. C. they laid the foundation, they began to build the temple. But no sooner did they really start than they stopped Why was that? Well they got preoccupied. They started doing their own thing. And so God raises up the prophet, Haggai, to get them back to work. Look in chapter one. We'll just get a little introduction here In verse number two, thus says the Lord of hosts, saying, This this people say the time is not come that the Lord's house should be built. Then came the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet, saying, Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your sealed houses, and this house lie in waste. Now therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, consider your ways So God through the prophet says, Look, get back to work. Put my house first and build this house. Look out of verse number eight. Go up to the mountain and bring wood and build the house and I will take pleasure in it. I will be glorified. says the Lord. And so you know what? The preaching of Haggai works. The people get back to work. They begin to build the temple. But again something happens. End of the project, as they're building, they get disappointed and they stop again. And so Haggai in chapter two comes back with his second sermon to these people. Now this time he's not preaching to a disobedient people. This time he's preaching to a disappointed people. And look in chapter 2 and look in verse number 1. In the seventh month of the 120th day of the month came the word of the Lord by the prophet Haggai saying Speak now to Zerobu, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedek, the high priest, and to the residue of the people, saying, Who is left among you that saw this house in her first glory? How do you see it now? Is it not in your eyes in comparison as it as nothing, of it as nothing? So the people are disappointed They're building this temple, but it's not what they thought it would be. And so this disappointment discourages them. And here's Haggai, and he comes and he preaches a message. Now, with all that in mind, what I want to show you is just some lessons we can learn, and perhaps we can apply to our own life tonight, and I hope it will be an encouragement to you. So I want to talk about, first of all, the causes. of disappointment. Why were these people so disappointed? Write down number one, unfavorable comparison. Unfavorable comparison. What was happening? They were comparing Solomon's temple to this new temple that they were building, and guess what they found out? This new temple is nowhere near what Solomon's temple was. And when they compared, they got disappointed. Again, look in verse 3. Who is left among you that saw this house in her first glory? And how do you see it now? Is it not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing? That is, this temple that they were building now was nothing compared to Solomon's temple. Solomon's temple was Glorious, it was beautiful, and now they're looking at this temple and they're saying, Man, this is nothing compared to the old temple. And they were disappointed. Now let me tell you something, friend. There's a danger in comparison When you start to compare things. You begin to compare what you have to what others have, if you're not careful, that can cause you to be disappointed. Let me tell you, God doesn't work the same in everyone's life God makes different people with different gifts and different callings to fulfill different purposes. And so to compare yourself with someone else is always an unwise thing to do. You remember in in in John chapter twenty one Jesus said to Peter, he said, Peter, talking about the way Peter was going to die, he said, one of these days, Peter, he said, when you were young, you could do whatever you want. He said, but now when you're older, you're going to stretch forth your hands and died. Jesus was speaking about the way that Peter would die. And you remember in history, how did Peter die? He was crucified upside down. Well Jesus prophesied that. Well when Jesus said that to Peter, you know what his response was? His first thing to do is to look at John. And Peter said, What about him, Lord? What are you going to do with him? And Jesus, this is what Jesus said. Jesus said unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Peter, what if I let John live until I come again? What if I let him live to be 2,000 years old? That's not your business what I do with John. Stop comparing yourself To John, and follow me. You see, friend, it's unwise to compare. You see, Peter was still, you know, you remember the disciples, they were arguing over who would be the greatest in the kingdom They were still in that mindset, at least Peter was. And Jesus said, stop comparing. Just follow me. If you compare, you could get very discouraged. A man walked out into the street and he he flagged down a taxi. He got into the car, the taxi said, perfect timing You're just like Dave. The man said who? He said, Dave. That's the guy who does everything right. He would have done it just like you did. Perfect timing. He said, man, Dave does everything exactly right. This man said, no one does everything exactly right. Everyone has some clouds hanging over him. He said, not Dave. He's a great athlete. He could go pro in golf He could go pro and tennis. He could he could sing. He could be a star singer if he wanted to. He could dance like a Broadway star. He has a great memory. He never forgets anything He has perfect etiquette at the table. He can fix anything. This man said, well wow, it must be great to know a person like that. He said, Well, I've never actually met him. He said, Well then how do you know about him? He said, Well, because I married his widow Dis comparison can discourage you. It's pride to want to compare. Write this down, 2 Corinthians 10, 12. For we dare not make ourselves of the number or compare ourselves With some that commend themselves, but they measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise And Paul was talking about that little faction in the church of Corinth that liked to compare Peter with Paul and Apollos. And Paul said, to compare is not wise. Be thankful for what God is doing in your life. Stop comparing. There's another way that you can get disappointed, that is, write down not only unfavorable comparison, but write down sentimental pride Look again in verse 3. Who is left among you that saw this house in her first glory? Notice where he said, Who is left among you? Who's he talking about there? He's talking about the older crowd. There were some people there that saw the Temple of Solomon. And Haggai says, how many Remember seeing, how many of you are left that remember seeing that temple in her first glory? They were reminiscing. They were thinking about the old days. Now, the temple was destroyed in 586. Hagi's ministry was in 520. So there were 66 years in between it. So when they were younger Perhaps even Haggai himself saw that Temple of Solomon and how glorious it was. And you know what the problem was? They were reminiscing so much about the past. That it was hindering them from going forward in the future. You know, there's nothing wrong with remembering the past, but friend, you never let the past hinder you. From serving God in the present or in the future. One time a young man asked his grandfather, he said, Grandfather, what were they talking about in the good old days? He said, Oh, they were talking about the good old days. You know, sometimes memory can be selective and defective. We had a tendency to remember only the good things, only the glories and not the groans. And I think perhaps they were doing a little bit of this. They remembered the glory of Solomon's temple, but they forgot what it took to build that temple. They forgot all the taxes. They forgot all the labor exacted by King Solomon. And so, friend, be careful that you don't let the past hinder you and pull you down. The past is not to be an anchor to weigh us down, it is to be a rudder to guide us in the future. But let me give you a third reason they were disappointed. Uh unrealistic expectation. Just put that down. Not only unfavorable comparison And sentimental pride, we could say, but also unrealistic expectation. Now, beloved, it was foolish for them to think that they could build a temple to rival the Temple of Solomon or even surpass it That was unrealistic. You say, why is that? Well, because they didn't have the resources that Solomon had. They didn't have the materials he had. There was a shortage of resources. But friend, when Solomon built his temple, he he had the finest of cedars from Lebanon. He had silver and gold. His kingdom was advancing financially, economically. He he had trade ships that would bring gold from afar. And so, and by the way, also David stored up materials for when the temple would be built. There was no way this returning remnant Could have the same materials that Solomon had. But also, they didn't have the same manpower. If you read about when Solomon built a temple, he had the best skilled artesians there to do the work on that temple And they were no longer around. So in in in Haggai's day, they didn't have the skilled laborers. They didn't have the same materials. And so it was unrealistic to expect That this would be the same temple, or that the glory of it would be close to what Solomon had. Now here's my point. Sometimes we can be disappointed because we set our expectations way too high. And I've seen this cripple some Christians. I've had to counsel young couples because perhaps uh there are unrealistic expectations they're putting on their spouses. Some bosses have unrealistic expectations about those who work under them. Some churches have unrealistic expectations about their pastors. I read a statistic this week that said one of the big reasons why there's such a high A dropout in the ministry is because churches are expecting way too much out of pastors, sometimes parents Put way too much expectation on their children. Their children can never live up to those unrealistic expectations that the parents put on them. And friend, sometimes Christians can have unrealistic expectations on God. Now let me be clear. God can do anything. He's omnipotent. But friend, God doesn't live according to your agenda. He's not a servant to your agenda. And sometimes Christians say, I expect this from God. I want God to do this. And when God doesn't do what exactly what you want, you get disappointed. And you say, why? This leads to the fourth reason for disappointment, that is self-centered ambition. Not only unfavorable comparison, sentimental pride, unrealistic expectations, but write down self-centered ambition. Let me ask you a question. Do you think God could have made that temple like Solomon's if he wanted to? Sure he could have. He wasn't limited in materials. In fact, look in verse number 8 of chapter 2. The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith the Lord of hosts. God doesn't lack in silver and gold, it's all his already And if God wanted to make this temple out of gold completely, God could have done it. He could have made it much better than Solomon's temple, but God was not concerned about silver and gold. for this temple. And he could supply whatever they needed. You see here's the point. The purpose that God had for this temple was different than the purpose that God had for Solomon's temple. And these people, when they were building this temple, they had one idea in mind, and God had another idea in mind. And when God didn't match their agenda, they got disappointed And friend, that happens to us a lot of times. We have our plan, but our plan is not God's plan. And when God doesn't fulfill our plan, Disappointment follows. This is selfish ambition. And by the way, there are some people that come to Christ that way. They think, man, if I come to Jesus, then Jesus can fulfill all of my dreams. And do whatever I want. He can give me the life I want. He can give me the things I want. But friend, if you're coming to Christ under those terms, you're coming under the wrong terms. He's not here to fulfill your dreams. On the other hand, what did Jesus say in Luke chapter 9, verse 23? He said unto them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself. And what? Take up his cross daily and follow me. To follow Christ is to die to your own selfish ambitions, to die to what you want. But sometimes we get disappointed when God doesn't fulfill our ambitions. So that's the cause of disappointment. And there's more. But these are just a few that we see here. But then write down number two. Write down the consequences of disappointment. What happened? It could be devastating when you're disappointed. First of all, It takes away your joy. Just write that down. It takes away your joy. Look look again in verse 1. In the seventh month, and the 1 and 20th day of the month came the word of the Lord. by the prophet Haggai saying. Now, what I want you to see here is the date. He gives a very specific date, second second month 22nd day of the month. You say, why is this date important? Because if you trace this out in the Old Testament, you're going to find this was a time of a feast that was going on, the feast of the tabernacles. Now, let me just tell you a little bit about the Feast of the Tabernacles. God had a bunch of feasts that he ordained in Leviticus. This is the last in a series of one of these feasts And it's called the Feast of Tabernacle, or it's also called the Feast of Ingathering. And let me tell you what they would do. For eight days, they would live in a booth. They would kind of just construct a booth And they would move into it and live in it for eight days. Kind of like moving out of your house, living in your shed for eight days. How many of y'all would like to do that You know, I was a kid we used to put up a tent in the backyard and go sleep in the backyard in the tent. This is what this reminds me of. You say, well, this is a a funny thing to do. Why would they do that? And by the way, this was called a sukkot In the Hebrew. This is this this booth. Called the Feast of Booze or the Feast of Tabernacles. And they would live in there and they would decorate it Kind of like you would decorate a Christmas tree. They would put myrtle branches on it and palm branches and other things on it to make it look beautiful. And they would feast together. This is kind of like a combination of Christmas and Thanksgiving all rolled into one. And for eight days, they would stay in that booth And again, why would they do that? Because this was to commemorate the time when the children of Israel were in the wilderness, and they were in the wilderness, and they had to live in temporary shelters And why the decorations on the booth? Because that spoke about the glory of God. God was their covering. The glory of God was their covering while they were in the wilderness. And this is the last day of the feast, according to this. Verse 1, the 21st day, the feast would start on the 14th day. There would go eight days. 21st day was the last day. And listen, this was always the most joyous day of the feast. Eldersheim writes this. He says the Feast of Tabernacle was the joyous high point of the year in ancient Israel. The most joyous of all Festive seasons in Israel was the feast of the tabernacles, and the last day of the feast was the most joyful day of the feast. Now, you say, what's the point? They should have been filled with joy. They should have been rejoicing. But instead, what's happening? Their joy is gone because of disappointment. And this is the very day that Haggai the prophet comes and gives this message. Because their joy is gone. Friend, disappointment can rob you of your joy. And here's the second thing, it can bring self-pity And frankly, that's what they were doing. They were feeling sorry for themselves. The Bible says in Nazareth, some of the people were weeping. They were feeling sorry for themselves. Elizabeth Elliott has, I think, some of the greatest advice on self-pity. She is the widow, or was the widow, of Jim Elliott, the martyr Who died for Christ. And when they were young, they went to serve on the mission field. They were looking forward to serving together their whole lifetime, but that was brought to an end when her husband was murdered And Elizabeth Elliott said this, self-pity is a death that has no resurrection, a sinkhole from which no rescuing hand can drag you because you have chosen to sunk. And then she says this, refuse self-pity Refuse it absolutely. It is a deadly thing with power to destroy you. Turn your thoughts to Christ, who's already carried your griefs and your sorrows. Your friend, that's good advice. They were filled with self-pity. Here's another consequence. It can blind you to the blessings of God. Look at verse number four. Yet now be strong, O Zerubble, saith the Lord. And be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedek, the high priest, and be strong, all ye people of the land, saith the Lord, and work. Listen to this next phrase, for I am with you, saith the Lord of hosts. Friend, I want to tell you, that's the greatest blessing you can have. God says, I am with you. Look at verse 5. According to the word that I covened with you when you came out of Egypt, so my spirit remaineth among you. Fear ye not. You see, God wasn't angry at them. God wasn't disappointed in what they were doing. They were obeying him. And God says, I am with you. Just like I was with you when you came out of Egypt so many years ago, when God did great miracles, I am with you now. My spirit is among you. But see, here's the problem. They weren't really seeing that Because they were so disappointed. You know what disappointment can do? It can blind you to what God is doing all around you. And you may be disappointed here tonight, but don't let that blind you to see some of the blessings That God has put in your life all around you. But here's another consequence. It also spreads discouragement. That's why Haggai said in verse 4, be strong. Old Zarubbable, he was the political leader, he was the one leading the rebuilding. He says, Be strong, Joshua. Joshua was a spiritual leader. Why was he talking first to these leaders? Because disappointment and discouragement can spread to the rest of the people. If the leaders are discouraged, and that's why Satan sometimes will attack strategic people, it spreads discouragement, but also write this down, it can cause you to quit. He calls you to quit. And by the way, that's why he says in verse 4, be strong, all ye people of the land, and work. Work. Why? Because they, many of them, had just quit. You could be so disappointed that you stop doing what God called you to do. Now let me give you the last point. We talked about the causes and we talked about the consequences. But let me give you the cure. This is what we can learn. If you're battling with disappointment tonight, I want you to pay special attention to the message. that Haggai gives. And here's the first thing I would say. There are really four exhortations that are part of this whole message that he gives to the people. And here's the first one. First of all, let go. Let go. Let go of what? Let go of the past I mean this whole sermon is designed to cause the people to stop dwelling on the past, stop dwelling on your disappointment, stop stulling over those things, and let it go. There are some people, you may even be here tonight, some great disappointment came into your life, and you have been unable to just let that go. And friend, it is hindering you from serving God now. Here's what God says, let it go. Let go of that painful disappointment in the past You see, God's direction for the Christian is always forward. You ever notice that? God never says go back. God always says go forward Listen to what Jesus said in Luke 9. 62. Jesus said unto them, No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom. Just go forward. Perhaps it might mean letting go of some dream that hasn't happened in your life or some disappointment that came because uh it didn't happen the way you wanted it to happen, and you've been you've been stewing over that God says, just let it go. Winston Churchill one time said, if the present quarrels with the past, there can be no future. And the same is true spiritually. Now here's the second thing. Let go and then look up. Look up. Look at verse number six. For thus saith the Lord of hosts. Just underscore that title, the Lord of hosts. We see this in verse 7, we see it in verse 8, we see this title in verse 9. Six times in these nine verses, God says, I am the Lord of the host. of hosts. And that says God is saying, look unto me. And the word lord of hosts simply means I am the Almighty God. I'm the Lord of the armies. I am the Almighty. Look unto me. And by the way, we also see the divine name there, because the Lord is in all capital letters. And God is calling his people to get your eyes off of your circumstances and look to me. I am the Lord of hosts. Stop looking at your disappointments. Put your eyes on the Lord. The great God. You know, that's the theme of the whole Christian life. Did you know that? I mean, you are successful as a Christian to the degree that you focus on the Lord. We start out entering into the kingdom by looking unto the Lord, Isaiah 45, 22. Look unto me and be ye saved. That's how we start out in the kingdom. That's how it's all going to end, Titus 2. 13. Looking for that blessed hope, that glorious appearing. And the key to victory in between is just looking under Jesus Keep your eyes on the Lord. But now here's the third thing. Let go. Let go of the past. Look up. Then here's the third thing. Look ahead. Look at verse number six. For thus says the Lord of hosts, yet once in a little while I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land. Verse 7, I will shake all nations And the desire of all nations shall come. Now, what was Haggai saying here? He was saying, look ahead of what God is going to do. There was a great future that God had. Now they were disappointed. But God said, look, I have a great future in store. You need to look at what I'm going to do. And that's God's message to you tonight. If you've been disappointed at things, if you've been looking at the past, you've been holding on to that disappointment, God said, let that go, look unto me, and then look to the future, because I have great things that I want to do in your life in the future, in the days to come. And this is what God was going to do. And look at look at there are actually three things here. First of all, he says, I will shake the heavens and the earth. Now this verse is quoted in Hebrews 12, and it applies to the second coming when God uh when the Lord Jesus Christ is going to come. You remember God shook the heavens and the earth when he gave the law in Exodus, and he's going to do it again When the Lord Jesus Christ comes. Friend, the Bible says that when Jesus comes, there's going to be a gray earthquake. Write down Matthew 24. Verse twenty nine and thirty. Then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven. Actually it says back up a little bit here. It says the powers of the light of heaven shall be shaken and then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven. There's going to be a great shaking. You know what that means? That everything on this earth is going to come to nothing. That's why the writer of Hebrews says that we have received a kingdom that cannot be shaken. Friend, I'm not worried about this kingdom here. I'm part of a kingdom that can't be shaken. And if your disappointment is in these things of this world, you you you haven't seen anything yet. That's why the Bible tells us that we need to focus on God's eternal kingdom, a kingdom that cannot be shaken. Don't pin your hopes to this world system. God says, I'm going to shake the heavens and the earth. And notice the next part of the promise. Look in verse number seven. And the desire of all nations shall come. You say, who's the desire of all nations? What does this mean? Well, for centuries, Jews and Christians have agreed that this refers to the Messiah. The desire of all nations shall come. Jesus is going to come. Now, we sing a song at Christmas. Called Hark the Herald Angels Sing. And Charles Wesley incorporated this into his song. He writes, Come, desire of nations, come. Fix in us your humble home. You see, Jesus is the desire of all nations. And so he speaks about the messianic coming of the Lord Jesus, but also notice another thing he said In verse 7, I will shake all nations, the desire of all nations shall come. And notice this next part, and I will fill this house with glory, saith the Lord. Drop down to verse 9. The glory of this latter house shall be greater than the former, saith the Lord of hosts. Now what's the next thing he says? God says, look, I'm going to fill this house. And the emphasis here is on the house, the temple they were building. God says, I'm going to fill this house with glory In fact, the glory of this latter house is going to be greater than the glory of the former house, talking about Silo's temple. God says, I'm going to give this temple a greater glory. Now how can that be? How is it that God is going to make this temple so much smaller Not even close as far as beauty. How is God going to make this temple more beautiful than Solomon's temple, which was so big, so magnificent? How's God going to do that? Well, friend, God says, I'm going to send, I'm going to fill this house with glory, a greater glory. What was he talking about? I'll tell you what he was talking about, friend. He was talking about Jesus Christ, his son You know why this temple was so greater? Because a greater glory walked into that temple. This prophecy was fulfilled when Jesus Christ came down on the on the on the triumphal entry, came down the Mount of Olives. Through the valley of Kidron, into the eastern gate, and then up into the temple. That was the greater glory that came into that temple. You know why that temple was so much more greater? Because Jesus was there. Jesus came. Now think about this. You remember in the Old Testament When God took his glory from the temple, that's in Ezekiel chapter 8. You read that, what you're going to find is that the glory of God came out of the holy place, went out through the eastern gate Up through the valley of Kegan, up the Mount of Olives, at the top of the Mount of Olives, and then it ascended up and it was gone. That's God's glory leaving the temple. His Shekinah glory. God was saying basically, you've disobeyed me, I'm out of here. But here's Haggai saying, one day the glory is going to come back into this temple. By the way, you know the path that Jesus took into that temple on that special day. He started the top of Mount of Olives. He came all the way down through the Valley of Kedron. up and through the eastern gate and into the temple. You see the path that Jesus took into the temple was the same path in the Old Testament that did you kind of glory left. You see, Jesus was the glory of God coming back to that temple. You see, here you say, what's the point? Here's the point. God had a greater plan than the people had for that temple. Because that temple would be blessed by the presence of the Messiah Jesus Christ. He is the greater glory. And so God is saying, look, I've got some big things planned. I'm going to shake up this world. The desire of nations is going to come. I'm going to fill this house with glory. And this latter house will have more glory than the former house because of the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. And again, here's the lesson. When your plans fail and crumble to dust And are crushed by disappointment. You just remember God has a better plan. He's got a better plan. And that's what he was telling these people. I've got something better in store than you have. In 1920, a young man was standing before a mission board because his dream was to be a missionary. And this dominated his heart since he was young. He prayed over and over again, Lord, let me be a missionary. And now It looked like at last he was going to be able to fulfill his life dream. But when the examination was over, the mission board turned him down. Because they said, you don't meet our qualifications. You failed the test. And so this young man was crushed. And he prayed, he said, Lord, what do I do now? And then God planted another idea in his heart. He thought, if I can't go be a missionary, He thought, I'll just build a church that will reach out and will send missionaries. I will build a mission-minded church. And that's exactly what he did. And that young man's name was Oswald Smith. Oswald Smith pastored the People's Church in Toronto. Which sent out more missionaries than any other church at its time. I mean it did more for world missions. And that young man did more for missions. By being a pastor of a missionary mind in the church, than he could have ever done by going to the field himself. You see, when that disappointment came, God said, I have something better in mind for you And friend, you remember that. You might be here tonight. You might be suffering over some disappointment in your life, but you remember God's got something better. He got a saying, look ahead. Trust me, I've got something better for you. And then here's the last thing. Look up. Or let go, look up, look ahead. And then number four, labor on, just keep working. Again in verse number four, God says, get back to work. He says, be strong, all ye people of the land, and work. Sometimes the best thing to do, the best therapy, is simply rising up from your disappointment and tackling the job in front of you and just getting back to laboring. Because you know what? God can do more with what you do than you can ever imagine. He can do much more than you can ever imagine. Now let me let me just leave you with this one promise. Isaiah 61, 3. God promises this. God says, I will give beauty for ashes. The oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise. for the spirit of heaviness. So let me ask you, have your dreams turned to ashes? God says, look, if you just give that to me, I can give you beauty for ashes. And I can take your disappointments and I can do something greater in your life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, thank you for the promises of your word. We thank you, Lord, that you are a great God. You are the Lord of hosts. May we keep our eyes upon you. Help us, Lord, to let go the disappointments of the past and to look ahead at what you're going to do in our life and to labor on for your glory. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Maybe God has spoken to your heart tonight. And I just want to ask you, have your dreams turned to ashes? Is there some disappointment that has just got you down? You seem unable to get over it. But tonight God has spoken to your heart and God says to you, let it go Just let it go. Look forward. Look ahead to what I'm going to do. And God promised in Isaiah 61, I'll give you beauty for ashes. I can work if you just trust me. How many people here will say, by the grace of God, I claim that promise tonight, that God will take my disappointments and give me beauty in return? Would you lift your hand and say, pray for me? That's my Claim that's my challenge that I will give this to the Lord and let God make Beauty out of the ashes. God, seize your hands. Father, bless these words to our heart. May they bring encouragement to your people for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen