Take your Bibles tonight and open, please, to the Old Testament, to the book of Genesis. Don't you go to the book of Genesis, chapter 40? And you know here on Sunday night I'm doing a series called Mastering Your Emotions. And tonight I want to talk about overcoming hopelessness. Look at Genesis chapter 40, and I want you to look down at verse number 20. And we're going to read a few verses here together. Genesis 40, verse 20. And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday. Then he made a feast unto all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief butler, of the chief baker among his servants. And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again, and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand, and he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them, yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him. Now Let me ask you a question. Have you ever wrestled with feelings of hopelessness in your life? And we talk about hopelessness. What are we talking about? We're talking about that feeling that comes when you feel like you're locked into a situation where you cannot get out. It could be a difficult situation in your life. You you want release from it But there just seems no way out. It's almost like you're in a box or in a room that has no door, no window. There just seems to be no way out of this. This could be a geographical place, maybe it's someplace you don't want to be, you're looking for an open door, the open door is just not there. It could be a uh a station or a season in life that you're in, where you feel like there's just no way out. And you've tried to find a way out. You've tried to find an avenue of release or escape. Everything you do fails A difficulty, a circumstance, a season in life, a geographical location, there's no open door, and suddenly you're just filled with feelings of hopelessness. It kind of caves in on you And you lose all hope of anything ever changing. And so you seem to give up and give in to your fate. Hopelessness can be very fatal even spiritually for a person. I read about a man in a Russian uh he was a Russian railway employee. He accidentally locked himself in a refrigerator car. Unable to escape or to get any attention, he resigned himself to his fate. He could feel his body getting numb And so he took a pencil out of his pocket and he began to record the story of his approaching death. He scribbled on the walls of this car and he wrote this, I am becoming colder, still colder. Slowly freezing, half asleep. These may be the last words that I ever write. When the car was finally opened, the man was found dead inside. But what they discovered was the temperature was only 56 degrees. You see, the freezing mechanism was out of order, and there was plenty of available air. So really there was no physical reason for his death. What happened was this man became a victim of his own hopelessness. And he actually believes himself to death. That's how dangerous, hopeless this can be. It can get you down to the point of despair. And so, have you ever struggled with those feelings? It may be that you're you've been praying for something for a long time. And it seems like at first God was going to answer that prayer. Things looked hopeful, right? But suddenly There was no answer, and things got even worse. You may even be tempted to think that God is playing games with you, and you may give up on the Lord. The Bible says hope deferred makes the heart Sick. What do we do in times like that? I want you to see an answer to that in the scripture. When we come to Genesis chapter 40, this is exactly where we find Joseph Joseph is in a seemingly hopeless situation. You know the story of Joseph, he was sold into slavery by his brothers And then later he was bought by Potiphar. He served in Potiphar's house. He was his chief slave. It looked like things were looking up there as a chief slave in Potiphar's house But then when he refused to yield to the advances of Potiphar's wife, he was falsely accused and thrown into a prison. And there in that prison, even there it seemed like the Lord was with him Joseph was admired by the the chief jailer there, and perhaps his hopes began to build again, but we're going to see here in this story how all of his hopes were dashed. Joseph was in this prison And he really didn't know when, if ever, he was going to get out. He was looking for a way out, but there seemed to be no way out. There was no court system that he could appeal to. There was no ACLU. There was no attorney that he could call to talk about his situation. This was Egypt, not America He was in prison with no way out. I read of a story of a man who was convicted of murder in 1984. His name was Darrell Hunt. He spent 18 years in a North Carolina prison But recently DNA evidence led police to another man. They captured another man. This other man admitted to uh the killing and testified that he acted alone And so the judge ruled in favor of Darrell Hunt and they released him from prison. He was eligible for some financial compensation. But this is what he said. Finally my innocence is recognized, he said. For so many years I have been trying to prove my innocence, only to be told I was lying, and to finally have to have it official means a lot. But for Joseph, there was no evidence that could retry his case, so to speak. There was no DNA. There was no one working on his case, except, that is, for Almighty God. And so all he could do is pray and wait on God. He was in this prison for the duration. And it looked like a hopeless situation. Now let me give you this story in just three parts. What I want to do is just give you the story, and then I want to give some lessons that we can learn about putting our hope in God when it seems like we're in a hopeless situation. So here's the first thing I want you to see. Notice the first part, the hopeful situation. Things seemed a little hopeful here as you come to chapter 40. Look in verse number one. And it came to pass after these things that the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt And Pharaoh was wroth against the two of his officers, against the chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers, and he put them in a word in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound. And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them, and they continued a season. Now notice what it says in verse one, and it came to pass after these things. That is, after all these other things that had happened to Joseph that I had already mentioned, up until this point. Really? He he had been in slavery and in prison for ten years up until this point. Imagine that. Now the Bible doesn't tell us how long he was in Potiphar's house. It just says that combined being in Potiphar's house and being in prison, he had been there up until this point for 10 years. It'll be 13 years before he's actually released. And so one day two high officials, as we just read, are placed in the prison. One is the butler That would be the king's cupbearer. You say, what did he do? Well, the king often lived in fear of being poisoned, and so he would entrust the tasting of his wine or his food to a cupbearer. Their job was to taste the wine of the king. He would take a sip of wine, everyone would hold their breath for a minute. If the guy didn't kill over and die, then everybody relaxed Uh the uh the paramedics would go back to watching the ballgame on TV. And everything they would relax because he didn't die. Now the cupbearer protected the king with his own life from being poisoned. And also there was another position that is the baker This is also very important. Every head of state would put on these lavish banquets for other visiting dignitaries. Sometimes he would do it four or five times a week, and so he would have a chief baker This guy wasn't someone who just flipped burgers at McDonald's, all right? This was a world class chef that was responsible for putting out the best cuisine he could to represent his king. If he were alive today, he would have his own show on the Food Channel as a chef. The chef from Egypt. He would be putting out the best food. And so these two guys were very important. They were very high up in the government in that time. Very influential, affluent people that had put power and position. I think about Thomas Chaucer, who was the famous son uh the son of the famous English poet Geoffrey Chaucer. And reading about history, he was a member of the Parliament But he was also the chief butler of England. This was an honorary title, but with that came great power, great influence in the government. That's the way it was with these two men. They were confidants of the king. They were powerful men. And yet they were placed in prison with Joseph. And the Bible tells us in verses 3 and 4 that they were placed with Joseph, and Joseph was responsible for them. He was appointed to serve these men He had the opportunity here now to make a really good connection. And perhaps later on this connection could lead to his release from prison. And so you can imagine Joseph having a little bit of hope. With these two men serving them, with the idea of gaining their confidence, and then they helping him out while he's there. So we see, first of all, the hopeful situation that first comes to Joseph Then I want you to write down number two, then the hopeful interpretation. Look at verse number five. And they dreamed a dream, both of them, each man his dream in one night. Each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison. And Joseph came in unto them in the morning and looked upon them, and behold, they were sad And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the word of his Lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly today And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell me I pray you Now something happens. Again, this is providentially arranged by God. These two men that had been put under Joseph's care each had a dream on the same night that required a different interpretation. And the Bible tells us that these dreams troubled these men. Look at the word sad in verse number 6. This is a Hebrew word that's used of a raging sea. Or a raging tantrum. We could say it like this. They were very troubled. It was a restlessness and a trouble that actually turned to depression. Now keep in mind that Egyptians put great stock in dreams because they believe that their dreams got them in touch with another world. They believe that dreams interpreted the future or revealed the future. And so, and back actually they had it turned to a science back in that day. They had interpreters, they had dream manuals, they had all these things where they could get interpretations. But these men being in prison had no way to have access to that So they have these dreams. They don't know the interpretation. And they needed one. The Old Testament scholar Walkie wrote this. Dreams were valued throughout the ancient Near East as a means for predicting the future. So again, it had a prophetic element to it. Now Joseph knows that dreams come from the Lord. In verse number eight, he says, Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell me I Pray you. And so here's Joseph, and Joseph says, if you tell me the dream, God can give you an interpretation of that. Joseph never took credit for things himself. He always pointed to the Lord. God can give you the interpretation. So notice the butler's dream in verse number 9. And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me And in the vine were three branches, and it was as though it were it budded, and her blossoms shot forth, and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes. And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup. And I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand. And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it. So he here is the dream. Here's a butler. He sees three vines, three branches. Actually, we could say, notice the threes in this dream. There are three branches, three actions. They budded, they blossomed, and they ripen. The cup is mentioned three times And so Joseph gives the interpretation in verse thirteen. He says, Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head and restore thee unto thy place. And thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand after the former manner when thou wast his butler. And so Joseph says The three in this dream represents three days. In three days, Pharaoh will lift up thine head. This is a Hebrew idiom, which means you'll be released. In three days you'll be released from prison. And not only will you be released, you'll be restored. You'll be brought back to the king's court. You'll be doing just what you were before. Now, upon giving the interpretation, notice Joseph's request. Look at verse 14. But think on me, when it shall be well with thee, and show kindness. I pray thee unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house. Joseph pleads with the butler. Please. When you go back to Pharaoh's court, please remember me. I want to get out of this house. Show kindness, really is the Hebrew here. Tessin. Show mercy to me. Show loving kindness. Mention me to Pharaoh to get me out of here. Now Joseph again knew that this man was a powerful man. He knew he was an affluent man. And this man had the ability to help Joseph get out. Notice that Joseph mentions his crushed dreams in the past in verse 15. He said, For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews Here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon. And so Joseph mentions before how he had been treated, how his hopes had been crushed before. And again he says, please get me out. Now the baker happens to hear this, and the baker also wants his dream interpreted. So look in verse sixteen. And when the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, He said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and behold, I had three white baskets on my head. And in the uppermost basket there was all manner of bakements for Pharaoh, and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head. So he sa here he is. Here he says, I have on my head three baskets. They have discovered Egyptian um uh pictures, portraits with with bakers who had carried baskets on their head, just like this man is describing. This man has three baskets on his head It's incredible that he can carry three of them on his head. Again, Egyptian hieroglyphics lists 38 kinds of cakes and 57 varieties of breads that they offered. the Egyptians did. I mean they had more choices than Panera bread back then. Here he is carrying these three baskets and the Bible says they're all sorts of bakements that are there in that in those baskets. And the birds were coming and they were eating out of those baskets. Maybe this symbolized that he wasn't protecting the Pharaoh from danger, the fact that the birds were eating. But Joseph gives this interpretation. Look in verse 18. And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation thereof. The three baskets are three days And yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree, and the bird shall eat thy flesh from off thee. Now, again, the three baskets are three days. Joseph says, in three days the Pharaoh will lift up thy head from all thee. There's kind of a play on words here. Based on the first interpretation that Joseph gave for the butler, as opposed to the interpretation he gives for the baker. For the butler, Pharaoh will lift up his head. He'll be released. But for the butler Pharaoh will lift off his head. He'll be decapitated. And then it says that uh that shall hang thee on a tree. We could Say it like this, impaled on a pole would be a good way to render this. Sometimes they would take the head of a person, after that's been decapitated, they would put it on a pole for all to see And then of course his body would be hung out in public, it would be exposed, and the birds would come and eat the flesh of this dead And so obviously this man, the baker, had betrayed the pharaoh in some way. Perhaps he was a part of an assassination plot or something like that. But nevertheless, this is the interpretation to this man's dream. Now look at the third part of the story. We saw the hopeful situation and to the hopeful interpretation. But here's the third part of this story, the hopeless conclusion. Question, were the interpretations correct? Did Joseph give correct interpretations to this? The answer is yes. Look in verse 20. And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday. That he made a feast unto all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief butler, and of the chief baker among his servants, that is, he let them both go free. They both got out of prison. We see the fulfillment beginning to happen here. Three days passed. It was Pharaoh's birthday. The word here could also refer to anniversary. The kings of the East celebrated their birthdays by holding a great feast. And they also granted pardons to offenders. This was part of the practice of the kings back then. Again, an Old Testament scholar writes the granting of amnesties on these days was typical. And so that's what's going on. He has his birthday. He grants a pardon to the baker and to the butler. And so far everything Joseph says is fulfilled completely. Look in verse number 21. And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again. And he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand. So the butler was restored, just like Joseph said. But look at verse 22. But he hanged, that is, the Pharaoh hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them. It happens just like he said. A hundred percent accurate. But what happens next is very, very disappointing. This has to bring Joseph to a place of despair because what happens? Joseph is forgotten. Now I can imagine the day that the butler, as he was leaving the prison, Joseph again is saying, Don't forget me. In my mind's eye, I can just see the butler giving a thumbs up. Don't worry, Joseph, I got your back here. When I get out of here, I'm gonna talk to Pharaoh about you. You're going to be out of this prison in no time, don't you worry about it. And I think Joseph hopes soared I think they were the highest they had ever been since he had been sold into slavery by his brother. Finally, it looked like God was going to answer his prayers. Don't you notice that Joseph prayed while he was in that prison? Do you think he prayed? Of course he did. He prayed, Lord, get me out of here Lord release me. And it looks like everything was going to happen just right. Things were falling into place. I think that when the butler left, I think Joseph went back to his cell, he rolled up his bedroll, he began to get all his things together, put them in a sack, he's like, I'm gonna be out of here by the evening. I'm gonna get finally get out of this place And I think in his mind he imagined getting out, feeling the sun upon his face again, feeling the warmth upon his back of the sun rays. I think he was perhaps r thinking about how he was going to be able to go back to the land of Canaan and finally see his father and his family. And this long nightmare would finally be over at last. But the night came, and there was no word from the jailer about his release. So Joseph unrolls his bedroll, thinking, well, maybe today was too busy. Tomorrow the cupbearer will mention my situation to Pharaoh. But the next day came, and there still there was no word about his release. I can imagine Joseph going to the jailers, hey, do you guys have any word yet from Pharaoh? I'm going to get paroled out of this place. Any word? The jailer says, no, haven't heard about anything like that. Nothing yet. And then a few days go by, and then a week goes by, and then a month, then two months. Then six months. He's still waiting. He's still hoping. Then eight months go by. Then a year. I think if Joseph were living today, he would be waiting by the phone. Waiting for that phone call. Or he would be waiting to get an email. He would be checking his voicemail constantly. But the silence was deafening. And finally, all the high hopes that Joseph had began to dim. And ultimately they were extinguished, extinguished, I should say, when he finally realized the cupbearer forgot me. Again, look in verse 23. Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but he forgot him. And so Joseph goes from high hopes to no hope. I mean the butler he totally spaced out. Totally forgot. Or maybe he he just really didn't forget. He just didn't want to bring it up. Too touchy a subject. I mean now he's finally back into Pharaoh's good graces. He doesn't want to bring anything up that's gonna cause any kind of a waves So he just buries the whole issue and he forgets Joseph. Has that something like that ever happened to you? Where you had your hopes raised? Man, this is finally going to happen. God is finally going to answer the prayer. This is finally going to, this door is going to open. It all looked good, your hopes were all built up, and then nothing, nothing. I remember years ago when I had graduated from college. You know, when you graduate from college and you're out there and you're kind of looking for a place to go, a place to serve, sometimes you might feel like a little fish out of water for a time Trying to find the right place where the Lord would have you. I remember at one point we were considering a church that had contacted us. It was a church in New Hampshire. Now at this time uh you know I wasn't really in a ministry and so I was working full time on uh on unloading trailers. I was the most educated uh dock hand you had ever met. I had my degree. Yet here I was busting trailers just to put food on the table, waiting for the Lord to open up a door for me. And I remember a large church in New Hampshire had contacted me. Boy, that was hopeful. They uh I drove up once to preach for them, and uh it was a big church, they had two services on Sunday morning, I had a Christian school, a great ministry, they were looking for a younger pastor And I preached and they actually asked asked me to come back. That's a good sign. In fact they flew me back. They flew me back first class, I'll have you know. Only time I that was one other time I think I flew first class ever. It'll spoil you for economy class, I guarantee you that Flew me up. I preached again two times. Great response. Great meeting. They flew me up a third time. Man, this is really looking hopeful. And boy, this is going to happen. Everything was just green lights. And we were waiting to get the call. You know, come, you're going to be serving here at this church. And you know what happened? I did get a call. And you know what said? No thank you. You talk about crushed hopes. Man, that was crushing. Maybe you've had something like that happen to you. You were expecting a door to open up. You're expecting something to happen, whatever your situation, it just didn't happen. And it seemed to you perhaps that maybe it was a cruel joke. Maybe God was playing a joke on you at your expense. Well friend, that is never true. What can we learn when we're in a seeming hopeless situation? When we're boxed in, there's no open door, it seems like there's no way out Let me give you a few lessons we can learn from this tonight. Number one, in a hopeless situation, we need to learn to hope in God. Hoping in God, here's the lesson: hoping in God alone Is the major lesson God wants us to learn. Hoping in God alone is the major lesson God wants us When a situation seems hopeless to you, it is no accident that God has you there. What is he trying to teach you and me? He's trying to teach us to hope in God alone. Alone. That's God's way of dimming our hope of anything around us except Him alone. Erwin Luther said this, have you ever thought that our disappointments and hopeless situations are God's way of reminding us that there are idols in our lives that we must deal with? In other words, we're hoping in other things. They're like crutches. And God has to knock out all of those crutches that we lean on so that we are leaning on God and God only. And that's a painful process where he knocks out every crutch that is around us that we're leaning on. So that we hope in God. And that's a disappointing process. If your hope is in a man who has connections, then God will make sure that that man disappoints you. If your hope is in your financial security, God will drain you of those resources until you only can hope in Him. If your hope is in a person, that person might betray you. So you learn not to place any confidence in man. If your hope is in a job, God might take that job away. So that you learn to hope in Him. Whatever crutch that you're leaning on, God will knock that crutch out from under you. So that you learn to hope in God alone. You know, this is why God got angry at David. David was numbering the people. Why did David number the people? He was boasting in his military strength He was putting his hope in his military might. And God didn't like that. And so God says, okay, you're hoping in your military strength. I will weaken you. So that you learn to hope only in me. Psalm 33, 16. The king is not saved by his great army. A warrior is not delivered by his great strength. The war horse is a false hope for salvation. Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his steadfast love. Psalm 62, verse 5. My soul, wait in silence for God only, for my hope is from him. That's exactly where God wants you. He wants you to where you're waiting in silence and saying, My hope is from him. Him and no other. Blessed is he whose help The God of Jacob is whose hope the Lord is. Here's the second lesson I want you to see. Hoping in God is the key to overcoming despair. When a hopeless situation leads you in despair, hope in God is the key to overcoming that. When disappointments hit us, you can choose to either sink down into hopelessness or you can choose to put your hope in God, I I think that when Joseph finally realized that the butler had forgotten him, I think it hit him like a ton of bricks. I think at that point Joseph was in despair. I think that this happens to all of us. Well our hopes are built up, nothing happens, we realize it's not going to work out. Hopelessness can hit us. I think that's the initial response of all of us. Everyone has to go through that time of despair, but then you have to make a choice right after that whether you're going to give in to those feelings of hopelessness Or are you going to put your hope in God? At that moment, you've got to make a choice. Will I give in? Will I be crushed by these feelings of hopelessness? Or will I make a definite choice? I'm gonna hope in God. That's what I'm gonna do. Say David felt this at one point when he was running from Saul He knew that he was going to be the next king. God told him that. But at one point David was so low that he said, Now I will perish one day at the hand of Saul. Wait a minute, David, you're not going to perish. God promised you the throne. But still, David at a weak moment. was hit by a wave of hopelessness, but ultimately, however, he chose to trust in the Lord. Think about the Apostle Paul, that great man of faith. At one point he said that he despaired even of life Hopeless this hit the Apostle Paul. But again, we have to allow ourselves to take time to absorb the blow when it hits us. And then from that point on we have to make a choice. Am I going to give in? Again, the psalmist in Psalm 62:5, my soul, wait thou only upon God. My hope, my expectation is from him. And this is exactly what's happening to Joseph here. Joseph was hit by this blow. He was forgotten. He was left there again in prison. For a time he wonders, will I ever get out of here? Do I have will I ever be released? He takes time to absorb that blow, but then ultimately Joseph chooses to trust in God. You say, how do you know that? The Bible doesn't explicitly Say this, but it's implied. You say, how is it implied? Because in Joseph, what do we see at the end? We don't see a cynical, angry man, but rather a godly man. who trusted in the Lord, who later on had these heavy responsibilities placed upon them. Let me tell you something, God can entrust heavy responsibilities upon a man who will not give in hopelessness, but will choose to hope in God. And this is what God did to him. The Bible says in Psalm 105, verse 19, that at this time the word of the Lord tested him. Here's a third lesson that we can learn. Hoping in God means that we will refuse to have a cynical attitude. When we hope in God, we don't turn cynical. A person who is trusting in the promises of God is not a cynic. They're not cynical. Joseph, he could have been cynical. Oh, dreams, yeah, I I've had dreams before. I interpreted dreams before. Look where it got me. I'm here in this prison. No, that was not Joseph. Joseph's attitude was, oh, you had a dream? Interpretations belong to God. Let me tell it to me and I'll tell you what God says. No, he still had a positive attitude. And so Joseph didn't turn cynical. Instead, he focused on the Lord and he did the things that he knew he could do. He did the little things. He had a cheerful attitude while he did it. He served these two men. And Eve had enough integrity to tell the truth to the baker who was going to be put to death. Even those little areas he showed integrity. He it fixed the whole overall pattern of his life. He kept a positive attitude. He kept trusting in the Lord, even in that hopeless situation. Adniram Judson was a great pioneer missionary. He went to Burma, he labored for many years, he saw virtually no converts. He was thrown into a prison, he was treated horribly. He wondered if his translation work would be burned. But he received a letter from a friend, and the friend asked, How does the future look there in Burma? And he wrote back and said, The future are is as bright as the promises of God. That's the attitude that God's looking for. Hoping in God alone is a major lesson that God wants us to learn. Number two, hoping in God is the key to overcoming despair. Number three, hoping in God means that we will refuse to have a cynical attitude. Here's a fourth lesson we learned from this. Hoping in God means that we will learn to wait on Him. In that situation that you're in, you have to learn to wait on God Look again in Saul in uh Genesis 40. Look at verse number 23 again. Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph but forgot him. Now drop down to chapter 41, verse 1. Notice the next, very next verse. And it came to pass at the end of two full years. From the time that Joseph was forgotten to the next time the text picks up, how many years pass by? Two years. Look at the white space between those verses. Okay? That white space, that chapter break, represents two years of Joseph's life. Two more years in the prime of his life in this prison. Now that might not seem like a long time to you, but to Joseph, I'm sure it was a long time. Two more years. It was two more years of waiting on God, waiting on his timing. To get Joseph out of that seeming hopeless situation, out of that prison. Listen, if you're going to hope in God, it means that we wait on him for his timing. It means we don't wait reluctantly, but we wait rejoicingly. We don't wait with our arms folded, with an angry disposition, tapping our foot on the ground, saying, will you please hurry up, God? No. We wait with joyful expectation. It won't always be pleasant, but we refuse to get bitter. We refuse to get angry I was reading about Hudson Taylor. He was the founder of the China Inland Mission. He was a man who knew the disappointment of delay in his life. After six years of serving in China, he returned home as an invalid He settled his little family in a poor east end of London, and there in that place he waited for five years, those coal-blackened streets of London. That gray place. He sat there for five years waiting on the Lord to open up another door. But from those years, this is what he writes, yet without those hidden years With all their growth and testing, how could the vision and enthusiasm of youth been matured for the leadership that was to be? He writes, as modern missionary history attests, when the delay ended, the Great China Inland Mission emerged. At that time of waiting, it wasn't really waiting, it was God's time of maturing. And when the time was over, God did something greater in his life Raymond Edmund wrote this: delay never thwarts God's purposes. It only polishes his instrument. Here's number five. Here's a fifth lesson. Hoping in God means that we will learn to get in harmony with the providential workings of God. And this goes along really with learning to wait on the Lord. Not only must we wait, but we must learn to get in harmony with the providential working of God. You see, when you try to run out ahead of God, you know what's going to happen? Frustration, disappointment. Now, Joseph, he wants out of that prison. I mean, I can understand that. Who wants to stay in a prison? We can understand his wanting to get out, but it wasn't God's time. His timing was not God's timing. Now think about this. Had God let Joseph out when he wanted to be out God would not have fulfilled the purposes for the nation of Israel. What if Joseph, what if the butler goes back to Pharaoh, hey Pharaoh, I know a guy in prison, he interpreted my dream, he's a good guy, he's reliable He doesn't deserve to be there. I'm convinced he's innocent. Pharaoh says, hey, you know what? If you want him out, let's just get him out. Joseph is released from prison. What does Joseph do? He runs back to the land of Canaan. There's a wonderful reunion with his father But guess what? How does that story end? They die of a famine in Canaan because they have no food. That's not the way God wants it to happen. No, God's timing was not Joseph's timing. God had something far, far better in mind for this plan. It was simply not God's time. Much of our frustration and disappointment in life is because we're not in harmony with what God is doing. And we have to get in harmony with it if we want to have peace. Philip Brooks, the great preacher, one time, he was pacing around irritated, angry, frustrated. Someone said, What's wrong? He said, I'm in a hurry, and God's not And that's the truth. Sometimes when we're frustrated, irritated, angry, it's because we're in a hurry. God's not in a hurry. Have you heard the story about the Chinese bamboo tree? The Chinese bamboo tree, they Chinese plant the seed, they water and fertilize it. The first year nothing happens Second year, they water and fertilize it, still nothing happens. Third year, same thing, nothing happens. Fourth year, fifth year. And finally, in the fifth year, this thing grows. In approximately six weeks, it'll grow up to 90 feet. Shoots up. Now the question is, did it grow nine ninety feet in six weeks or did it grow ninety feet in five years? Well the answer is obvious. Were there no watering and fertilizing, it would have never grown. It was five years. All of us have had these Chinese bamboo tree experiences in the Christian life. We're watering We're doing all we can. It looks like nothing is happening. And so finally, when it's God's time, when it's God's season, there's this incredible growth. There's this incredible move of God. That's the season of God. We're all in different seasons. Remember what the writer of Ecclesiastes said to everything There is a season, a time for every purpose under the heaven. Listen, if you try to plant, when it's God's season to pluck up, you're going to be very frustrated. And if you try to build up when it's God's season to tear down, you're not going to be able to build up. Part of the Christian life is reading the season that you're in and getting in harmony with that se season. Why is it that people don't wear winter coats in July? At least sane people don't wear winter coats in July. It's not the time for a winter coat. Winter coats are for winter. God said to Elijah, hide thyself, Elijah. And at the right season, then God said, now Elijah, go show thyself. Go to the king. I'm sure Elijah wanted to go to the king much earlier than that, but God said, no, Elijah, hide thyself. Let me feed you by the brook. And in my time. You'll do something different. And finally God said, go show thyself. Let me give you a sixth lesson here. Hoping in God means that we learn not to be disappointed when man lets us down. Joseph had placed his trust in the butler. But you know what this whole experience taught him? Not to trust in man. Now, this is not an attack against any person or a man, but here's the bottom line. Sometimes not willingly, but people will, not meaning to, people will let us down. People were not reliable like God is. The Bible says in Psalm 118, verse 8, it is better to trust in the Lord. than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. Let me give you the seventh lesson quickly and then we'll be done. Hoping in God means that we do not prejudge the works of God when things don't go our way. We had a tendency when things aren't going our way to prejudge the works of God. But if you're hoping in God, you're going to refrain from doing that. You're going to resist doing that. Hoping in God means you wait without prejudging his works. Now I love to read the Puritans Two men in particular are a blessing. One is Thomas Watson. He wrote a book called All Things for Good. Another Puritan is John Flable. He wrote the book called The Mystery of Providence. I mentioned this book before. It was a book that really had a big impact on me when I read it years ago. These men were brilliant men. When they wrote these books, they were not writing them to impress anyone. They were not writing them to the academic faculty of Oxford or Cambridge or anything like that. These were men who were living these truths in their life. They were living them in the midst of incredible disappointment. In the face of unimaginable trials and pressures in their life. Think about this. Can you imagine what it would be like if the government suddenly declared that all pastors that preach the gospel must immediately be removed from their pulpits and be removed from their churches. Can you imagine if that happened here in America? The law came, no more pastors in churches, they have to all be removed You see, I can't imagine that happening. That thing actually happened in England in 1662. At that time, the church and the state were unified. The king was the head of the church, and the king suddenly Ordered to remove all pastors from their churches. Let me qualify that. All conservative Bible-believing pastors. Were removed from their churches. They were not allowed to preach in a church. They couldn't even come within five miles of a town. The king didn't want them preaching to any crowds So it meant to keep them all away from the crowds. And so immediately these pastors had to forfeit their churches. Now imagine this. They had wives, they had children, they had to leave the parsonage. They had no more salary. They had no more ministry. They had no more place to go. Suddenly they're out trying to find a place to live. And it was under that circumstance that Thomas Watson wrote the book, All Things for Good. And when he wrote that book, he wrote it to encourage his fellow pastors who were ejected from their churches. Now you can imagine here's this guy in this situation, and what is he saying? Don't prejudge. the works of God. Remember the promise, all things for good. John Flavor was also a pastor who was ejected at that time. He also watched his father, who was a pastor, get ejected. His father continued to preach. His father was thrown into prison. His father died in prison. And John Flavor had to watch that. And then he had to endure being ejected. This was, by the way, called the Great Ejection. in history. This same John Flavel wrote in this time the book, The Mystery of Providence, where he again wrote in that book that we should not prejudge the works of God when things don't go our way. What were they saying? That God has a great purpose in the end. And that's what you learn when you put your hope in the Lord. You refuse to get bitter, you refuse to get angry, you refuse to give in to the hopeless situation, you refuse to prejudge the works of God, but you wait confidently. rejoicingly in the Lord for his answer in his time. And so let me ask you again tonight. What is your situation? Are you in that hopeless situation now? Friend, hope in God only. And let me tell you something in closing. When you get to the place in your Christian life where you're hoping only in God, I want to tell you something. It's a beautiful, beautiful place. It's a place of absolute peace. A place of absolute rest. in the Lord. It's a wonderful place. It's a place where you feel the presence of God upholding you through whatever situation you may be in. And it's worth it if you can get to that place where you can say, like the psalmist, hope thou in God. Let's pray together. And so, Father, help us to learn this very thing. I pray for these are people who are here tonight, some who may be in a very difficult position. Some who may be in a hopeless situation. They may feel like Joseph in the prison, looking for ways out, looking for rays of hope. And having their hopes crushed. Lord, I pray that they will learn to make the decision to hope in you, not to give in to the feelings of hopelessness. But to make a willful choice, I'm going to trust in the Lord. I'm going to hope in Him. We pray all this in Jesus' matchless name. Amen.