In Psalm fifty one, now on Sunday night if you've been coming with uh been with us and coming, you know that we're doing a uh just a little series, a short series. series on mastering your emotions. And already we've talked about doubt and dealing with doubt in our life. We've talked about worry and how Christians deal with worry and we've also talked about uh things like unbelief and tonight we want to talk about guilt. We want to talk about guilt. We talked about the Depression last week. We're gonna talk about guilt tonight. I heard of a little boy that was visiting his grandparents and he was given his first slingshot. He took it out in the woods to practice with it and he really couldn't hit anything That he aimed at. And so he he was coming back to grandma's house, and in the backyard was grandma's pet duck. So uh he the temptation was there, and so he decided he was going to try to shoot the duck And for the first time he hit something that he aimed at. And he killed grandma's duck. Well he panicked and uh so he picked up the dead duck and he took it to a wood pile and hit it in a wood pile. And while he went to the grandparents' house that night, grandma said, Sally, let's wash the dishes. And Sally said, Johnny said he was And then Sally whispered to Johnny, Remember the duck. And then Grandpa said, Well, you know, let's go fishing, Johnny, let's go fishing. And Sally you You stay and help grandma, you know, cook, and Sally said, Johnny wants to help cook and I want to go fishing. And then she whispered again, Remember the duck. Well, for about a week she made him his uh her slave. And uh finally after about a week he got tired of it and he went to his grandmother and he confessed everything. And she said, Well I want you to know I saw it from the kitchen window the first time it happened. And she said, You're forgiven. I was just wondering how long you would let Sally make a slave of you. Well that's sometimes the way guilt works in our life. Sometimes guilt can make us a slave. And sometimes believers can be haunted by the ghosts of guilt. But thank God when there's confession, there's freedom. from the guilt that sometimes haunts us in our life. Now Psalm 51 is really a psalm about confession, but we also learn some things about the effect that guilt can have in our life And we're going to learn that as we look at Psalm 51 tonight. This is such an important psalm. Some of the early church fathers recommended that Christians ought to memorize this psalm and they ought to quote it every night before they go to bed What we need to have as a believer is to confess our sins. The Bible says this right now, 1 Corinthians 11, 31 and 32. But if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. And that is, if we would judge ourselves, we don't need God to judge us. And the Bible says, but when we are judged, we are chastened to the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. So when we judge our own sin, we don't need for God to judge our sins. You say, how do we judge our own sin? How do we judge ourselves? Well the Bible tells us we do that through 1 John 1 9 if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. spiritual wall that as soon as a sin enters in between us and the Savior, as soon as there's one sin, we're sensitive enough to immediately confess that sin. You know, when you're walking down the street And something uh gets in your eye like a speck of dust that ever happened to you? How many of you ever just say, well, you know what, I'll I'll get to this later? No, you've got to stop immediately. You can't do anything else Until you get that speck out. Why? Because that speck of dust, be although it's small, it is so irritating that you can't focus on anything You can't do anything else until you get rid of that speck. That's the way it ought to be with us when we're dealing with sin or life. Because sin once it gets into our Soul, it has that effect of an irritant, and that's where the conscience comes in, that's where guilt comes in, and we suffer the effects of guilt as long as we allow unconfessed sins to linger in us. And we become joyless, we cover our sins, and we enter into the dark prison of the soul, and we suffer from guilt. But the Bible says whoso confesses and forsakes shall have mercy. And so I want us to talk about this one thing of confession tonight. The air is human and to try to cover it up is human also. Or to try to blame someone else. It's like I said before: Adam sinned, Adam blamed Eve, Eve blamed the serpent, the serpent didn't have We're always pushing the blame off onto someone else. So with all that in mind, I want to just give you two thoughts tonight, just two main points. in the sermon, you say, well, this is going to be a quick sermon. No, I got a lot of subpoints under the main points. And so here's the first point. Number one, just write down guilt. And next to that, write the cost The cost of covered sin. He that covers his sin shall not prosper. And this principle is substantiated over and over through God's word. Look at Psalm 51. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies. Blot out my transgressions. Wash me from mine iniquity. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. Now, whenever I come to a psalm, one of the things I'd like to do is to get the back of the Psalm. Why was this written? What were the circumstances when this psalm was penned? And so hold your place here in Psalm 51. I want you to go back to 2 Samuel chapter 11. Real quick, and I want to just give you a really brief picture of what happened in David's life that prompted him to write Psalm 51. It gives us a better understanding. And second Samuel chapter eleven, verse one, it says this it came to pass after the year was expired at the time when the kings go forth to battle, that David said And they destroyed the children of Amnon. Drop down to verse number two. Well, actually, notice where it says, but David tarried Still at Jerusalem. Verse 2. And it came to pass in the evening tide that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of one of the king's house, of the king's house. House. And from the roof he saw a woman washing herself, and the woman was very beautiful to look upon. And David sent and inquired after the woman and said, Is this not Bathsheba? the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite. Now what's happening here is that we see David lingering from battle. David should have been out with Joab, with all of Israel in at the battle, but he lingers. And this is the first downward step a lot of times of sin or temptation when you neglect your duty When you neglect your responsibilities, there's a sense in which you open yourself up. And the Bible says David was walking out upon his rooftop, and he kind of looks and he sees a woman bathing. Now, I when I was over in Israel just a a month or so ago, I had the opportunity to visit the city of David. This is the older section of Jerusalem, and going into that section uh I could see how easy this was for David to look down upon the houses because if you stand there in that fortress of David, the palace of David that was there, what it does is it It just kind of looks it it's it's above everything else and you can look out and you can see houses and you can see rooftops and you can see people in their yards looking down. And so David is just looking down as he's on the rooftop, and the Bible says he happens to see a woman who is bathing. She was a very beautiful woman, and the Bible says he lusts after her, and he sends For her. And David says no to everything he said should say yes to. Yes to everything he should say no to. And he commits the scarlet sin of adultery. We know this story. And then she conceives that she's going to have a baby. So what does David do? Immediately he begins to try to cover it up. He tries to uh to bring Uriah back, he does, brings Uriah back, and he devises this plan where he uh he tries to make it look like this is Uriah's child. But all that fails. And finally he goes The plan B, which is to kill Uriah. Look down in verse number 14. And it came to pass in the morning that David wrote a letter to Joab, and he sent it by the hand of Uriah. And he wrote in the letter, saying, Set ye Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and retire ye from him, that he may be smitten and die. And it came to the And there fell some of the the people of the servants of David and Uriah the Hittite died also. So this plan worked. He places Uriah on the forefront of the battlefield And he has the troops just leave him and isolate him and make him vulnerable. And the inevitable does happen. He dies. Can you imagine this? Here's this loyal foot soldier. This man who has proven his loyalty and David just withdraws from him and he dies. And then David marries Bathsheba, his wife, and he has successfully covered. His sin. Lust, adultery, lying, murder, hypocrisy, all of it covered At least from the eyes of men. But there's someone that you can never cover your sins from, and that's Almighty God. Look what the Bible says in chapter eleven, down to verse number twenty-seven. And when the morning was past the case, I think it was a very good thing. What displease the Lord. God saw all of this. And it displeased the Lord. And when you get to chapter twelve, this is the The famous confrontation between Nathan the prophet and David, and Nathan gives this parable in verses one through six about here's a poor man he has one little eulam, here's a rich man and he has all kind of flocks And so here comes a stranger, he comes to the rich man, and the rich man needs to And then Nathan says, What what What should we done to someone like that? And David stands up and says, That man should die. And Nathan turns the tables on him and says, Thou art the man. You're the one. Took Uriah's wife. And notice David's response. Look down in chapter 12. Look in verse number 13. And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said unto David, the Lord also has put away thy sin, thou shalt not die. David confesses his sins. By the way, if you ever want to see the devastation that sin leaves, just read 2 Samuel. Sometimes when I'm speaking to men's groups, I'll say to the men, if you're ever tempted Read about the life of David. Just look at that book because 2 Samuel is so very uh descriptive. Because in the first It moves upward. We see David's triumphs from chapters one to ten. God blesses them. He gives them one thing after another. He makes them king. Uh Jerusalem is conquered. It becomes the capital city. City, he brings the ark in, uh all his enemies are are conquered. He's established. You have blessing after blessing. Then you get to chapter eleven, and what do you see? We see David's transgression. This sin with Bathsheba. And then when you get to chapter 12, all the way to the end of the book, you see tragedy after tragedy after tragedy. The book kind of turns upon a hinge, and there's tragedy. Tragedies that take place in David's life, his children. You see one tragedy after another. Amnon rapes Tamar. Absalom kills Amnon. And then Absalom takes And then Joab kills Absalom. It's one tragedy after another. Friend, that's the devastation of sin. And That's what we see here in 2 Samuel. Nevertheless, what we see is David then confessing his sin. But now we don't see really the chronology of this, but just think about this David confesses his sin, but this was about a year and a half after the fact. So for a year and a half, what's happened in David? Guilt He's been racked with guilt. And finally, when he's confronted, he confesses. Now go back to Psalm 51, because this is the Psalm that David writes after he is confronted. And after he confesses his sin, he writes this great psalm of confession. But what did the guilt do to him? What does guilt do to the believer, to us? Well, notice first of all, covered sin dirties the soul. Look at verse number one again. Have mercy. Upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, cleanse me from my Sin. You see, David felt dirty. That's why I said, Wash me, Lord, cleanse me. Because he felt dirty. The most miserable person in the world is not a hellbound sin. David bathed in a marble bathtub, perhaps. He slept on uh silver. And sheaths. He he had probably had the greatest cologne available in that day, but he still felt dirty because of his sin. And by the way, that's the basic difference between a child of Satan and a child of God. A Christian, when they sin, feels dirty. A believer or an unbeliever won't feel the effect of sin, but a Christian will feel that. You know why? Because when you became a child of God, you had a you have a new sensitivity towards sin in your life, and that comes with In fact in 1 John, John is giving the contrast between a true believer and a false professor. A false professor says, I don't have any sin. What They walk in darkness. But a true believer confesses their sin. And John says if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. But a true believer has a Sensitivity and has to confess that sin. And so when David covered his sin, he felt dirty and he suffered. And again That's the mark of a child of God. When a child of God sins, they will suffer. In uh ancient Roman days, a Christian was put in prison. And the Roman Roman soldiers were trying to figure out a way to make him suffer. And one of them said, Let's take away all his possessions. And another said, That's not going to work. He says he has treasure laid up in heaven. Another one said, Let's give him Solitary confinement. And another soldier said, that's not going to work. He says he has a friend that sits closer than a brother. Another one said, Well, let's just kill him. And a soldier said, that's not going to work Because he says to live is Christ and to die is gain, it's better for him to die. They said, how are we going to make them suffer? And then one of them said, I'll tell you what, let's do. Let's make them sin because if he's a A true Christian, when he sins, he will suffer. And that is so very true. If you're a child of God and you cover sin, you will suffer. And the guilt will rack your sin. Soul. It dirties the soul, but also it dominates the mind. Look at verse three. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is what? Ever before me. This is another Test of authentic Christianity. And that is this if you can sin and for just forget it, that's not a sign of a true believer. David couldn't forget it. Mind. He couldn't sleep well. He tossed, he turned, he dreamed about it. He tried to forget about it, but he couldn't. He said, It is ever before me. It haunted his mind. Like the relentless ghost of guilt, it was constantly there, haunting him, haunting him. Because that's what guilt does. this before you heard about the person um who sent a letter to the IRS and said in close you'll find a check for one hundred and fifty dollars. I cheated on my income tax last year. I haven't been able to sleep ever since. I've been thinking about it. He said if I still can't sleep I'll send you the rest of the money. You know, try a little bit by degrees first. Now, this might not mean that you will think about it all the time. It might show up in other ways. It might show up in a migraine headache, in an irritable disposition. You ever see someone who's constantly irritable Irritable, that's guilt perhaps troubling their soul because of something that they have covered and they haven't gotten it right. Then there's the inability to pray. No d desire for prayer, there's no desire for fellowship. That's what guilt will do. Someone said there are two wounds to the human psyche. There's sorrow, that's a clean wound that And then there's cleansing. I remember when my daughter Abby was very little, she ran a little toothpick up into her foot. She was probably about five years old. And we tried to get it out, but we couldn't. And you know what happened? That thing would not heal It got worse, it got worse. Finally it was it was infected. We took her to a doctor, and the doctor finally used some instruments to pull the rest of It wasn't very big, just a little bit of it. But that little bit had infected it and and he and he finally gave her some medicine and it healed up completely, but it would never heal until that object was expelled. And friend, that's the way sin is. If you have sin that you've covered in your heart and in your life, you will never And so sin dirties the soul, sin dominates the mind, but also sin depresses the heart. Look at Verse number eight, make me to hear joy and gladness that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Now here the sweet psalmist of Israel was silent for one year. His heart was depressed. He had no joy. There was no singing. And don't get happiness and joy confused. Happiness is outward. Joy is inward. You can't always be happy because you're Outward circumstances may not make you always happy, but you can always have joy inwardly, but there's one thing that takes your joy, and that's sin. And so David says Restore unto me the joy of my salvation. He wants that joy brought back to his heart. And we see that in verse number Number twelve. David wanted his joy back because that is the default mode of a Christian. A Christian is someone who is filled with joy because of their fellowship with Jesus Christ. And so unconfessed, covered sin dirties the soul, it dominates the mind, it depresses the heart, but also write this down. It can disease the body. Look again in verse Verse 8, make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Notice where it says that the bones which thou hast broken. Here he's talking about a physical illness. In Psalm 38 verse 3, he said, There's no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation. There's no health in my bones because of my sin. Psalm thirty two this Psalm thirty two was also written on this occasion. He said this when I kept silent my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long, for day and night your Now there are some that say you can lose your salvation if you sin, you don't confess it. You can lose your salvation as if God is going to let you free. Here we read in this verse that God doesn't loosen his grip when you sin, he tightens his grip. And that's what David said, day and night your hand was heavy on me. You see, David was suffering, I think, physical ailments because of his sin. There is a thing called psychosomatic illness, psycho meaning soul, sola meaning Body, that is, the sins of the body of sins of the soul can affect the body in an adverse way. In fact, there's a book out about this, and Dr. John Bonnell talks about instances of Suffering from mental disorders. And then he lists a bunch of other illustrations here. And he all says that these were because of sin and guilt that was racking them And when the patients finally confessed their sin and got right with God, relief came immediately. And that's exactly what the Bible says. The Bible says a merry heart doeth Look good like a what? A medicine, right? But a broken spirit dries the bones. And so covered sin will dirty the soul, dominate the mind, depress the heart Heart, disease the body, but write down another thing. Covered sin will defile the spirit. Defile the spirit. Look at verse number 10. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit with me. Now David had to pray this. You know why? Because David had a wrong spirit. Because he lived with covered sin. And when a person lives with covered sin and they're racked with guilt, you know How would that happen? They will develop a bad spirit. And they will develop a critical attitude. And people like this begin to look at faults in others, and they begin to be judgmental. And critical towards others. A person like this is unable to see the log in their own eye because they're looking at the splinters in other people's eye. And Jesus talked about that in Matthew chapter 7, the hypercritical Pharisees. These are people that want to point the finger at others and talk about other And why are they doing that? That's also a misdirection because they don't want anyone to know about what they're dealing with in their own heart. And so they develop a critical spirit. And the Charlie Brown comic Linus is seated with a troubled look on his face. His security blanket is over his shoulder. His thumb is in his mouth. He turns to Lucy and he says, Why are you always so And he said, What about your own faults? And Lucy said without hesitation. I have a knack for overlooking them. That's what a person is like who has guilt and covered sin. They overlook their own, they have a knack for overlooking Looking their own faults and finding faults in others. Now, remember David's response in 2 Samuel chapter 12? 2 Samuel chapter 12, remember when Nathan came and said, This man killed this one poor man's little ewlam? What should we do to him? And David said, He should die. Well let me tell you something. Taking a lamb and killing a lamb is nowhere near the sin of murdering a loyal soldier And committing adultery. And David rose up very critically and very judgmentally and said, That man should die. Really? Well, what about what you did, David? It's very easy to be critical towards others. David was judging the man, but he didn't seem to see how bad his own sin was. And so he had a wrong Spirit. And so David prays then. He says, Lord, create in me a clean heart and renew a right spirit within me. Because sin will defile the spirit. But here's another thing. Sin will destroy the testimony. Look at verse number twelve. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, uphold me with thy free spirit, then will I teach transgressors thy ways David was silent for over a year while he covered his sin and his heart. Worship with the psalm, he closed his lips and told no one. Why? Because covered sin and guilt will destroy The testimony. And then finally, it dishonors the Lord. Go back to verse number four. Against thee, and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. That thou mightest be justified when thou speakest and be clear when thou judgest. You know the worst thing about sin? It's against God. And that's what David said. He said, Lord, against thee and thee Only. Now we know that David sinned against others, but at this point he understood that the monumental fault of sin is that ultimately all sin is against God And he knows that it dishonors the Lord, it dishonors the name of God. You see, we were created to glorify God. And when we act in shameful ways, we don't bring Glory to God, we bring shame to the name of God. And David realized that this is what was happening. He dishonored the Lord. He brought the name of God down. And beloved, when Christians fail and fall, then that's what happens. We dishonor the name of the Lord, and that should break our heart. And here for David, it finally dawns on him. Against thee and thee only have I son uh sinned, excuse me, and done this evil in thy sight. So we see then first of all guilt, the cost of coverage But I want you to write down number two. Here's the good news. Write down grace, the cleansing of confessed sin. Notice again in verse Verse 7, Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. I love when he says I shall be whiter than snow He didn't say I'll be as white as snow. I'll be whiter than snow. You know, God's grace is able to forgive and cleanse us and make us brand new. He said, I'll be whiter than snow. Did you know scientists discovered that in the middle of every snowflake is a speck of dust? The snowflake has a what we could call a dirty heart. Now David didn't know that when he said this. He didn't say white as snow, but whiter than snow. And David wants to be cleansed from his sin. And by the way, this is the way to banish the ghost of guilt, to keep that ghost from haunting you, is to be free in your confession before God. And say like David, I want to be I want to be washed whiter than snow. And I want to tell you here tonight, I don't know what you've done, I don't know your background, but I can tell you this if you come to God in true confession, he will make you whiter than snow. He will cleanse you completely through his forgiveness and his mercy. But there's some things that have to happen. First of all, write this down. Sin must be exposed. Your sin and my sin must be exposed. It must come to light. Someone said fungus grows in the dark, but when it's exposed to ultraviolet light, it's killed. And but here's the problem, our hearts won't turn us in. Our hearts like to cover us. You know, that's that's the the nature of the human heart. A wicked heart will not diagnose a wicked heart. We like to kind of cover our own sins. Jeremiah 17, 9 says this, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? You know that do you know that your heart will lie to you? My heart will lie to me. You ever hear people say, well, trust your heart. That's the worst advice ever. Because your heart will lie to you. For example, the where it says in Jeremiah The heart is deceitful. You know what the Hebrew word is? It's the proper name, Jacob. Haleb Ya'akov. The heart is Jacob. Now think about that. What did Jacob do to his father? Remember the story of Jacob? Remember he lied to his father? He told his father that he was Esau, he put coats of skins on his arms, went in and said, It's me, it's Esau Esau? And his father said it's the voice of Jacob, but it's the smell and the feel of Esau. And he deceived his father. He made his father believe that he was Esau. Did you know that your heart Will lie to you. Your heart will tell you what a good person you are. Oh, you haven't done anything wrong. You're just fine. You're good. And your heart will not turn you in And I'm not just you, but also me, my heart, just as bad, just as sinful, just as wicked, will not turn us in. You say, Well then how do we confess our sins? How do we expose our sins Small things I should be judged of you, or by any human court. In fact, I don't even judge myself. I'm not aware of anything against myself, but I'm not here acquitted hereby acquitted. Paul says, I don't know anything about my life that I've done wrong, but that doesn't get me off the hook. You know why? Because human judgment is inaccurate. Human judgment does not get to the root of the problem. You say, well, my heart will not not correctly diagnose my sin, how is it done? Well there are two tools that God uses to expose sin and That's why the Word of God is so indispensable. That's why you need to be in God's Word. You need to be reading it You need to be coming to church and hearing it because when the word of God is preached, it brings to light some of those things that are in our heart. It just exposes us. You know, I often say the the the Bible is the only book that when you read it, it will read you back. And it will show you exactly where you are. friend, this has happened to me so many times I can't tell you how many times I was reading and studying and getting a sermon ready and sometimes people come out and say, Oh, that's exactly what I needed. Well you didn't know that that was exactly what I needed A lot of times I'm preaching to myself. And in my study, I get so convicted because God's word shows me what I am. It's like looking into a mirror and saying Seeing your spiritual self, and I have to stop, and I have to pray for forgiveness. I have to get things right in my own heart. Because God's Word does such a thorough job of showing me who I am and what I am. And I want to tell you, when I look into that mirror, a lot of times I don't like what I see. And I have to confess my sins. Write down Hebrews 4. 12. For the The Word of God is living and active, it is quick and powerful, sharper than any two edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the Thoughts and the intents of the heart. You know how sharp this sword is, God's word? It is so sharp, it doesn't just cut you physically, it cuts you spiritually. It divides the soul and the spirit. It is cuts you inwardly and it convicts. You know, there are three kinds of sin. There are acts of sin. These are sins I commit with my will. They aren't hard to You can see those sins. Then there are thoughts of sin. These are sins that I commit with my mind. No one else can see those things except me and God in my conscience. And then the There are motives of sin. These are sins I commit with my heart. These are much harder to detect because I can honestly do a good thing and a wrong with the wrong motive. And I can sin by doing And you know what? I know my acts, I can see them, but I don't always know my thoughts or my motives. And so a lot of times I have to go to God's Word and God's word is so sharp that the Bible says it will discern the thoughts and the intents of the heart. It will show me when I may be doing something for For the wrong reason. That's why the greatest tool that exposes sin in our heart and life is the Word of God. David needed a prophet to give him the Word of God before he was confess. And so many times we need the word of God. But then the second thing, you know what it is? Or I should say who it is? The Spirit of God. The Spirit of God comes. Right down Psalm 139 Verse twenty three, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. And so the Holy Spirit Will shine the spotlight of His holiness into our dark hearts, and He will show us where we have gone wrong. We should I by the way, I want you to Here's some spiritual homework for you. Psalm 139, verses 23 and 24. These are two verses you ought to commit to memory. And when you're praying, you ought to use these verses and you ought to pray, Search me, O God. And know my heart. Shine the spotlight of your holiness into my heart and bring to light those things that are displeasing in your sight. And friend and friend, through the word of God. God and the Spirit of God, your sin will be exposed. And once your sin is exposed, it must be expressed. What's the next thing? We then confess Confess it to God. That's what David does here in Psalm 51. By the way, did you know the word confess here is the is from two Greek words, homo leggeo. The same Legal, the say confession is to say the same thing. The same thing as who? The same thing as God. So when you confess your sins, what are you doing? You're saying the same thing about About your sin that God says. And you agree with God about your sin. And you're saying, God, it is a sin, it is evil in your sight. It is transgression. These are the words that David uses. I acknowledge You know, you know what we like to do as Christians, we like to sin uh retail and confess We come at the end of the night and say, Lord, forgive me for all my sins, and then we go to sleep. But friend, you know what? We need to confess our sins. You know when the Holy Spirit convicts us? He doesn't convict us for a bunch of sins in general. He s convicts us specifically about a sin. And we have to deal with those sins One by one, confess each of those individual sins, and then forsake those sins. That's the way the Holy Spirit works. You know, we sing the song Count Your Blessings name them One by one, and it will surprise you what the Lord has done. Someone said you could say it like this count your sins, name them one by one. It will surprise you what you have done. But we should name them one by one. One, that's what David does here. I acknowledge my transgression. And he confesses it before God. And he's broken over those sins. Look at chapter uh chapter fifty one, verse seventeen. Notice where it says, The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise And I and I'm convinced sometimes that when we go to God over our sin, we're not really broken enough over those things. We should grieve over them. That's why I think sometimes We need to be thoughtful about what sin does and how it shames the name of the Lord. So sin must be exposed, sin must be expressed, and then thirdly, sin must be expelled. When we confess them, you know what God does? He takes them away. He cleanses us immediately. Psalm 32, again, where David said, I I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and my iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgression unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Immediately God forgives. What a merciful, gracious God. Who will cleanse us. The moment we uncover it, God will cleanse us. And you know what He did? Does he covers it back up? Isn't that interesting? When we cover our sins, you know what God does? God will uncover it. But when we cover our sins and we or uncover our sins, I'm sorry. sorry before God in confession, God will cover them up with his forgiveness and his cleansing. And so that's the heart of God. He is a God of mercy. He is a God of cleansing. And friend, if you're wrestling with guilt tonight, you don't have to. You can bring those sins before God in true confession, and God will cleanse you. And you'll have mercy and forgiveness. The Bible also says we must forsake those sins. We must turn away from them. Now We're out of time, but let me just tell you this one story and and we'll be done. This is from Spurgeon, the Prince of Preachers. He used to tell this story. Boarded a galley ship. And he passed the crew of slaves as he was on that ship. And as he passed them, he would ask one of them, Why are you here? What is your offense? And then another he would ask the same thing. And every one of those men would say, I'm innocent. I don't deserve to be here. Someone bribed a judge, or someone mistook me for someone else else. But there was one young man on that galley ship. When the Duke asked him, Why are you here? And he said, I deserve it to be here. He said, I deserve it Sin greatly. He said, It's my fault. I'm a criminal. I'm a sinner. And the dude said, Well, you scoundrel you. What are you doing here among all of these innocent men? Get this crook out of here before he defiles the rest of these innocent men. Set him free. And the man was set free. And you understand the story. Freedom came through his confession. And that's when freedom will come for all of us. When we openly confess our sins before the Lord. That's the freedom of forgiveness. That's freedom from guilt. Friend, you don't have to suffer guilt. You can get your cleansing from the Lord. I remember talking to a believer not too long ago and they were saying they were talking about the the wrongs that they had done and how they confessed them and and they still didn't get a sense of of forgiveness and they confessed them again and again and again again and I said friend you don't have to confess them again and again he said if I feel like I conf I confess them a thousand times I said look confess them once and Then praise God a thousand times for His forgiveness and for His cleansing. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Lord, help us To take these words to heart. Help us, Lord, in this very important spiritual discipline in our life. That is to confess our sins. To not be haunted by the ghost of guilt. There may be some people here tonight, Lord, that just need to bring their sins to the cross, to nail it to the cross, to realize that on the cross all of those sins were paid for by the precious blood of Christ to get forgiveness, to get cleansing, to get their conscience washed clean and renewed so they're no longer Wrestling, hurting inwardly, or give them freedom, the freedom that comes with true confession. And with heads bowed and eyes closed No one's looking around. This is not a time to to take notes or tabs about what others are doing in their life. This is a private time between you and God right there. Maybe the Lord has spoken to your heart tonight. And maybe while the Word of God was preached, the Holy Spirit put his finger on something in your life that you need to confess and get right before God. You've suffered guilt over it. You've wrestled with it. You've pushed it back in your subconscious mind. But it just keeps coming up. And the Holy Spirit keeps pointing it out. Friends, stop wrestling with that. Confess it before a God who's Willing, ready, able to forgive you and cleanse you so that you can be free. With no one looking around. If that's your Prayer, would you raise your hand before Almighty God and say, God, cleanse me thoroughly from mine iniquity? Make me clean, make me whiter than snow. Father, you know the hearts of these your people. Bless them. Cleanse them. Make them whiter than snow. And Lord, give them that freedom of forgiveness. Give them that. That renewed spirit, the joy, the testimony, restore all of those things to their heart. And we pray in Jesus' precious, matchless name. Amen.