If you take your Bibles, look in Matthew chapter 11. Now I preached about our country on Wednesday night, and I feel led of the Lord to address this topic. I want to do a series on Sunday evenings called getting a handle on your emotions. Or we could say mastering your emotions. You know, when man fell in the garden, every part of him fell. Man's mind became darkened, his will became defiant, and his affections, his emotions became depraved. And when God redeems us, he redeems all of us And all of us are to be put under the sanctifying influence and power of the Holy Spirit. However, it just seems like sometimes in the Christian life it's our emotions that get the best of us. And kind of get us off track if we're not very careful. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with emotion. I can't worship the Lord without affections, right? When there's truth that comes to the mind, there's going to be a natural emotional response to that wonderful truth of Scripture that we we we rejoice over and we delight over and we take great joy over. Beware of any religion that bypasses the mind and goes straight to the heart. But when we hear truth, we rejoice over it. However, our emotions can sometimes get us out of the way. And so I want to just do a few sermons on getting a handle on some of those emotions. And when I say emotions, I'm referring really to the negative emotions, to the ones that pull us out of the way. And keep us from being what the Lord wants us to be. And tonight I want to speak about doubt. Freedom from the prison of doubt. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever had doubts about Jesus Have you ever had doubts about the Messiah? Has there ever been a time in your life when you truly wondered that he is all that he claimed to be? It could be that you're here tonight. It could be that you're wrestling with that very issue tonight. Some of the claims of the Messiah. One person said doubt is natural within faith. It arises within the context of faith. It is a wistful longing to be sure of the things in which we trust. And that's so very true. It is natural to faith that sometimes we do struggle with doubt But this is the single most important question that a person will ever deal with in their whole life. And that is, who is Jesus? That is the most important question there is. The most important issue that anyone will ever face. You say, why is that? Well, because knowing who Jesus is settles all of the other issues in life. When you think about it. This is why this is so foundational. For example, if you believe that Jesus is all he claimed to be, that will settle other issues In your Christian life. It has a domino effect. That settles what you believe about creation. Why Because if Jesus is the truth, if he's the sinless Son of God and he speaks truth, just read what Jesus says about creation. You know what you'll find? Jesus believed in six literal days of creation. And so if he's the Son of God and he speaks truth, then he's right on creation. And that also means that he's right on the authority of Scripture If Jesus is the Son of God, if he's all that he claimed to be, then that will settle the issue for you about whether the Bible is God's word or is it not. Because all you have to do is read. What did Jesus believe about Scripture? Let me tell you something, beloved. Jesus believed in verbal plenary inspiration. What is verbal plenary? Every word is fully inspired by God. We can go even farther than that. We can say that he believed that every letter was providentially placed in every word. Jesus said, not one jot or one tittle. From this law shall pass away. You know what a Jade's smallest letter in the Hebrew alphabet? It's a yod, a little comma mark. A tittle is actually a horn. It's a little little um horn on a letter. It separates a raish, a Hebrew R. Alright, English R from a dollar, which is the letter D. You change the letter, you change the word, you change the word, you change the meaning. And Jesus said it not one jot or one tittle. This what you believe about Jesus settles the issues. Regarding marriage. What did Jesus teach about marriage? He supported fully Genesis, where it says that marriage is a man and a woman. The the the government or no one else has a right to define marriage. God the Father instituted it and Jesus fully supports it. This is what Jesus said about marriage. And on we could go. We can just go down the line of all these issues. That's why this one issue is the most important issue and why it has to be settled in every heart. So I want to talk about this one issue about Jesus Christ and being freed from the prison of doubt. Now go to Matthew chapter 11 In Matthew chapter 11, let me give you a little context. Really, Matthew is answering this big question, is Jesus really God's King? The whole theme of Matthew is Jesus is the Son of David. Jesus is the king and the kingdom of God is coming. This is the theme of Matthew. And all the way from chapter 1 to chapter 10, he's been proving that one issue He's been proving that Jesus is the rightful son of David. He starts with the testimony of history in chapter 1, the genealogy of Jesus, then the testimony of prophecy in chapter 2. He talks about the testimony, there's a testimony of John the Baptist Then the testimony of Jesus' words in chapter four and his power. Then you get to chapter eight and nine, there's a testimony of his works, his miracles. Matthew records just a handful of miracles that Jesus did. And then there's the testimony of the disciples in chapter 10. So when you come to chapter 11, Matthew now is going to expect a response. We could say like this, like a lawyer, he's been compiling all of this evidence. That proves Jesus is the rightful King. But when you get to chapter 11, what you begin to see is a series of negative responses to the life of Jesus by the Jewish people. We could say it like this, the revelation of the king having been given, chapters 1 through 10, the rebellion against the king begins to appear in chapter 11. And basically what we see is that most of the Jewish people reject the remote. the revelation that they have been given, which is very sad. He was born of a virgin. The Jew says he was born of fornication. He was announced by John the Baptist. John the Baptist was thrown in prison as we're going to see. He cast out demons. They asked Jesus to leave their coast. And when he did miracles, they say he does it in the power of Satan. And so there's a series of negative responses. However, there's always a remnant of people that do believe. And we see that also in the Gospel of Matthew. But what we see here in chapter 11 is the first negative response. That is a towards Jesus that Matthew records, and it is the response of doubt. And so I want us to consider three factors tonight. Number one, the vicious reality of doubt Just write down the vicious reality of doubt. Now, the first negative response towards Christ comes from the most unlikely of candidates. This is someone that we would never suspect. This might surprise you that it comes from John the Baptist himself. He has a negative response to Christ. You know why? Because John at this time is in what I call the prison of doubt Now this should encourage most of us who go through seasons of doubt. You say, why? Because some people have the idea that doubts are really really only a part of weak believers. Only unstable people doubt. Only weak-minded people have doubts. Only people who are spiritually shallow have doubts in their life. But that's not true, because John the Baptist is none of these. In fact, what did Jesus say about John the Baptist? Look at verse number nine. He said, But what went ye out to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, more than a prophet, for this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before the face which shall prepare the way before thee. Verily I say unto you, among them that are born of women, there is not risen a greater than John the Baptist. He wasn't just anyone. He was a prophet. And he wasn't just any prophet. According to Jesus, he was the greatest of all prophets. Someone asked me, you know, who's the greatest prophet? We don't have to wonder about that. Jesus ends that discussion. He says, John the Baptist was the greatest prophet born among women. And yet we see here this great man, this rock He's in a time of doubt in his life. Now let's look at it the context of this. Look at verse 1. And it came to pass when Jesus had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and to preach in their cities. Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples. And he said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another? Now, in the previous chapter here in Matthew, Jesus had sent his disciples out on a short-term mission project, and they would go out and come back and report to Jesus. And I think that's exactly again what's going on here as we come to chapter 11. Jesus had just sent his disciples out. They were all going out to do missions in the little villages around the Sea of Galilee. And this leaves Jesus alone. But what does Jesus do? He's not resting. He knew that he was on a divine timetable. And so the Bible says Jesus began to teach and to preach in their cities. That is Jesus himself is going around these little villages Nestled around the Sea of Galilee. And he himself is preaching and teaching. And while he's doing that, he's approached. Look in verse 2. Now when John had heard in prison the works of Jesus, he said two of his disciples So while Jesus is out preaching and teaching, he's approached by two disciples of John the Baptist. Now we have reason to believe that they have been following Jesus at a distance. They've been doing this perhaps for a while. And they've been reporting back to John of what was going on. So evidently while John was in prison, he could have visitors visit him. And so they're telling John, what's going on? They're giving him updates about the ministry of Jesus. You remember in Matthew chapter 9, the disciples of John came to Jesus and his disciples and said, Why do you and your disciples fast not? Why don't you fast Well how did they know that? Well they knew that because they were been following from a distance. They have been watching Jesus and his disciples. And by the way, people are watching you too. Did you know that? They might be at a distance, but they're watching you And they were watching Jesus and his disciples. And they were giving information back to John. Now why was this important to John? Because John is in prison now. And he's probably wondering if his life and his ministry is over. If Jesus is the Messiah, that means that he probably is going to die. He may be sensing his death is impending. But if he's not the Messiah, then he would probably be released from prison and he would continue his ministry of preaching. So this was very important to John. This was a life or death issue. And so look at verse number three. They asked this question. And he said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another? Interesting the way this is in the Greek. Are you the coming one? This is a participle. Are you, Erklamai? Are you the coming one? Now the coming one is a messianic title that is used in the Old Testament, kind of like the branch or the seed of David or the King of Kings or the Prince of Peace. There's also the Coming One. This is used in all four Gospels. This is used in the Old Testament. It's used in Psalm 40, verse 7. That's where it's introduced. And here's John in prison saying, are you the Messiah? Are you the coming one? Now wait a minute. This is the same John that earlier said, behold what? The Lamb of God. He boldly proclaimed Jesus as the Lamb of God, and yet now he has doubts. He's filled with doubts. And he asks this question, are you really the Messiah? Are you the coming one? Now let me say God understands doubts from his children, but he's never pleased with them. He understands that we have doubts. But he's not pleased because it reflects against him. Spurgeon wrote this, every other crime touches God's territory, but unbelief aims a blow at his divinity. It impeaches his veracity. It denies his goodness. It blasphemes his attributes. It maligns his character. Therefore, God of all things hates unbelief wherever it is. But there's a danger in doubt, and that is this. Doubt causes a believer to be unstable in their Christian life. And it can cause an unbeliever to stumble. That's why, look at verse number 6. That's why Jesus gave this blessing. This is called the forgotten beatitude in verse 6. And blessed is he whosoever shall not be what? Offended. The word offended here, scandalizo, where we get the word scandal. Originally it referred to a trap that would catch an animal, that would cause uh some kind of snare. It may have been a crooked stick that would cause stumbling. And so the idea here is that doubt can cause a believer to seriously stumble and get entrapped. And so there's a danger there of doubt. Now we also know in the New Testament doubt is compared in the book of James to a sea wave. Talked to you about this a few weeks ago. The word for doubt is diacrino, to think twice, you believe and then you don't believe. You're up and then you're down, kind of like a sea wave. James called it a double-mind called it being double-minded. Interesting, I was reading about a snake that had two heads. Scientists studied this snake. Each head had a mind of its own. And each head would try to control the body. And so they watched the snake, it would go one way and then the head would go we're going this way. And it would go this way and then the they were fighting about which way to go. And I thought of this verse in James, double-minded. One moment you're believing, and the next moment you're not. And so you're unstable. Someone said doubt is not unbelief, but it's not faith either. It wavers between faith and unbelief, unable to make up its mind about where it wants to be. In Luke chapter 12, verse 29, Jesus said, seek not what you will eat or drink, neither be of doubtful mind. Here Jesus says, don't be of a doubtful mind. Now the word doubtful here is an interesting Greek word, meteorizo, where we get the word meteor. And the Greeks thought a meteor was something that was suspended in mid-air. And so that's the idea behind the word. Don't be suspended in mid-air. Get your feet firmly planted. And that is firmly planted in faith. I'm sure you heard about the man that was hiking and he stumbled and he slipped down the side of the cliff and he was about to fall over 100 feet below under the rocks in the ocean and he grabbed onto a little shrub. And then he prayed, Is there anyone up there to help me? And surprisingly there was a voice from heaven that said, I'm God, just let go and then you'll gently come down. Just trust me. And then he said, Is there anyone else up there that can help me? But he was suspended in mid-air refusing to trust God. And a lot of believers are that way. They're just filled with doubt. And that's the word that Jesus used. He says, don't be of a doubtful mind. Now remember I told you there's different kind of doubt. There's sincere doubt. And this is someone who longs to know, who wants to have all the doubt settled And this is a person sincerely looking. And you know what Jesus says to a person like that? Just go back to the scripture. Jesus said, search the scriptures for these are they which testify of me. Go back to the scripture. But then there's skeptical doubt. And this is the person who is looking for reasons not to believe. These are people that really don't really care about the evidence. Or they'll interpret the evidence their own way, they'll twist it to make it sound like it's not what it really is. It's like the rich man. Remember in Luke, the rich man died, he went to hell, he said, Father Abraham, send someone to my brothers and uh warn them about this. And Abraham said they have Moses and the prophets. He said, no, but if someone raised from the dead and go and talk to them, then they'll believe And you remember what Abraham said? Look, if they don't believe Moses and the prophets, they're not going to believe anyone even though he rises from the dead. You know what that means? There are some people that are so stubborn and their doubts and their unbelief, they're not really looking for answers. And by the way, someone did rise from the dead, and still people don't believe. But then there are seasonal doubt. And by the way. When we talk about stubborn unbelief, look in Matthew 11. Let me back up here for a minute. Look down in verse 20. This is Jesus later on. He said, Then began he to upbraid the cities where most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not. Woe unto thee, Khorizim! Woe unto thee, but say it, for if the mighty works which were done in you had been done entirely inside, and they would have repented long ago and sat cloth of ashes. And here's Jesus, and he's basically shaking the dust off and moving on. The very thing he told his disciples to do in Matthew chapter 10, when people don't believe. And he said to these villages, Woe unto you! If the mighty works which were done in you were done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented. By the way, when I was over in Israel and I Journeyed around the Sea of Galilee. I went to this little village of Khorazin, this very village that Jesus pronounced woe on in this verse here. And you know what's there? Nothing. Basalt rock ruins It's gone. You can still see the ruins of that little village. You can still see this the synagogue where doubtless Jesus taught in. All of it's in ruins. It's all gone. This was a judgment from God upon a group of people that did not believe. And it's a warning to all of us that when we're given truth, we better receive it. So there's Sincere doubt, there's skeptical doubt, then there's seasonal doubt, and these are people that they just go through periods of doubt. And it just comes and goes, these seasons of doubt. Martin Lloyd Jones in his book on spiritual depression, he said doubts are not incompatible with faith. Some people seem to think that once you become a Christian, you should never be assailed by doubts. He says, but that's not so He goes on to say doubts will attack us, but that does not mean that we are to allow them to master us And that's a key statement there. You will from time to time be assailed by doubts, but do not let those doubts master you. Don't let them master you. So we see number one the vicious reality of doubt. But I want you to see number two, write down the various reasons for doubt. The various reasons for doubt. And there are some reasons why John doubted Jesus. There are several that we can observe from the context here, and I'm convinced that these are some of the same reasons that people still have doubts today. Here's the first one. Number one, simple human weakness. Just write down human weakness. John the Baptist was the greatest prophet born of woman, but he remember he was still a man. He was still made of flesh and blood. He was human, but he was not superhuman. And friend, he was made of flesh and blood, and he was frail. And he also was a son of Adam. And he also had the sinful, depraved nature in him. And all of us have that same fallenness in us That will sometimes assail us inwardly with doubts in our mind. It's a part of our human weakness. Some of God's greatest saints have gone through times of doubt where they say, I'm not sure what to do. And sometimes we may even feel like hypocrites. I love God, but I'm not sure how to act, or I'm confused, and I don't know what to do. You say, what's wrong with me? Well, you're normal. Because John the Baptist went through struggles like that. The Bible says this in Psalm 103, verse 14, for he knows our frame. He remembers that we're dust. There's human weakness. But then write down number two, difficult circumstances. Here's another thing that causes people to doubt. Difficult circumstances. If you look at John the Baptist's ministry from a human standpoint, it was not really a success. His whole ministry didn't end in success. You know how he died, he was beheaded, and he dies really in this prison But John the Baptist, he was the type of person that he was bold, he was confrontive, uh he would call sin He wasn't afraid of anyone. And you know why he was in prison? He was in prison because he was no softie. He preached hard. And Herod had him thrown into prison. You may know the story that Herod Antipas was the ruler of Galilee, and he came to visit his brother in Rome. And when Herod went to visit his brother, he saw his brother's wife, and he seduced her And Herod went back home, he divorced his wife, and he took his brother's wife to be his own wife, committed this horrible sin, and when John the Baptist heard about this, he didn't write him an anonymous letter or anything like that You know what John the Baptist did? He went right to his court, right in public, and he accused him of being an adulterer. He accused him of being a sinner. And that didn't go over very well to Her with Herod, and so he had John John the Baptist thrown into prison. And so now John is in this dungeon. This place is five miles uh uh east of the northern tip of the Dead Sea and uh it's it's a place that's really was turned into a fortress and this was called Makaris and really the prison was the bottom of a pit, a dark stifling, stuffy, hot dungeon in the middle of a bleak desert, and that's where John was and he was kept there. And while John was in that difficult circumstance, that's when the doubts began to come. And that's when it will happen for you, beloved, sometimes when you just go through difficulty. When you're in a difficult place, doubts will come. Perhaps a believer, you may be here, been serving God faithfully, and something happened in your life. Maybe it was some illness a spouse was taken, some kind of relationship reversal, some kind of significant loss, and now you're beginning to wonder and doubt It's just difficult circumstances that sometimes brings doubt. But here's another reason. Write down number three, worldly influence. Worldly influence. This is another thing I think that happened with John the Baptist. You see, in John's day, there were many Jews that had the wrong idea about the Messiah. And John himself was not immune to these ideas. You say, what were the ideas? Well, they thought that when the Messiah would come, that all the injustice would be put away. They thought that when the Messiah would come, that It would really be a time of ushering in great glory. They thought that Israel would be made a welfare state. They would have free food. They would have all their needs provided Rome, the shackles of Rome would be thrown off. There's a story of uh um that the Jews tell in New York City about a rabbi who was witnessed to by a Christian and the Christian we began to talk about Jesus being the Messiah and the rabbi walked to the window, opened the window, and he looked out and he said, You see all this injustice going on here? When the Messiah comes, all of this is going to stop And that was the prevailing idea all the way back in the first century, in John's day. They believed that when the Messiah would come, all of these injustices would finally be over. And there would be total happiness, there would be health, wealth, and prosperity, all would be well. And that was the prevailing idea. The only problem was that's not the biblical understanding. Now, of course, when the Messiah comes, he will reign, but that's not yet going to happen until first he establishes his spiritual kingdom, then his physical kingdom So what was causing the doubt? Wrong thinking. And by the way, we live in a world today where people are being bombarded with all these different negative philosophies and ideas, and if you're not careful, you can swallow some of that. And that will cause doubt. We are living in a post-modern world where there is no absolute truth according to this world today. Truth is whatever you make of it, and no longer is the Word of God sovereign over the reader. The reader now is sovereign over the text, and you can make it say whatever you want to. That's a postmodern idea that will throw you out of the way. That's based on the idea that there is no absolute truth. Truth is what you make of it. And you need to be careful about that. So worldly influence. Here's another reason for doubt. Unfulfilled expectation. Unfulfilled expectation. There was no judgment going on. This was another idea. When the Messiah comes, there would be judgment. John preached that. So there's one coming after me whose sandals I'm not worthy to carry, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. That is, you'll either be baptized in the Spirit, or you'll be baptized with the fire of judgment. And since there was no judgment, he was wondering, is Jesus really the Messiah? So the expectations were unfair. Maybe that's you tonight. Maybe you you had some expectation when you came to Christ or you you prayed and there was some expectation in your heart that you expected God to meet and he didn't meet it the way you thought, and that now is causing you to doubt. But let me remind you something that you know very well. God is sovereign and he knows what is best. And sometimes the most gracious thing God can do is not give us what we ask for. Because he knows better. So doubts occur when we expect something to happen and it doesn't happen the way we think it should. But here's another reason for doubt: emotional condition. Not only human weakness, difficult circumstances, worldly influence, unfulfilled expectation, but also emotional condition. And we can say this John's emotions at this time were drained. He was emotionally wrung out We can compare John the Baptist to Elijah. You remember they kind of resembled each other in many ways. You remember Elijah after that episode on Mount Carmel, he ran, and and you know the story how that he was so overwrought That he wanted to die. It was stress. He was suicidal because of all the stress. And emotionally he was just drained. And sometimes, beloved, you can get to the place emotionally where your emotions are so fragile and you're so drained that doubts begin to assail you. Then write down another reason, contagious unbelief. Contagious unbelief. John was hearing of all the continual Opposition against Jesus and his ministry, and it was causing him to question, is he the Messiah? Why are so many people rejecting him? Why are so many people coming against him? Why all the mocking, all the opposition? You see, unbelief can be contagious. And let me again say this. If you're hanging around people that don't know the Lord and they're throwing before you all these b negative ideas, these skeptical ideas, these atheistic ideas, it is going to have an impact on you, beloved. It just will. Unbelief is contagious. Even the strongest Christian, if you get into an environment where there's constantly this agnosticism and skepticism and atheistic ideas, you can be influenced and you may not even realize you're being influenced by it And so contagious unbelief. All these things were factors, even to the point to where John, that stable prophet That man that was filled with faith, that man who stood for Jesus in the early part of his ministry was now at the point where he was wavering a little bit And he was asking the question, are you really the coming one? Are you the Messiah? Now let me give you the last part and the most important part. I want to talk to you about the victorious response to doubt. Not only the vicious reality, And the various reasons for doubt. But then write down number three, the victorious response for doubt. What is the answer? What do you do when you're struggling? And it's very, very simple. Here's the first thing. You ready for this? Tell it to Jesus. Just tell it to Jesus. That's exactly what John does here. He just goes straight to Jesus with it Now I like this because he wasn't trying to hide beside behind some spiritual reputation. You know, I'm John the Baptist the prophet. I can't ask these questions. He didn't care about any of that He didn't care what people thought. He didn't worry about what people would say. He had doubts, and he went straight to Jesus with those doubts And he confessed them. And that question, art thou he that should come, or do we look for another? He goes straight to Christ with it. And I want to tell you something, beloved, if you're having doubts about who Jesus is, you know what the best thing you can do? Get on your knees and go straight to Jesus. And say, Jesus, I'm having doubts. Can you help me with this? Can you clarify to my soul who you are? And I want to tell you if you go to Jesus with an honest, open heart and say, Jesus, reveal yourself to me. Tell me who you are. You know what's going to happen? He will reveal himself to you. He will tell you who he is. That's exactly what happens here with John. He kneels. You know, sometimes it's pride that keeps people from coming to an altar. And and casting themselves before the Lord and humbly kneeling and confessing their struggles. Many people hide behind a religious mask and they never let others know that they struggle or they worry or they're too they're too concerned about their reputation. And so John goes straight to John Listen, someone said, turn your doubts into questions, turn your questions to prayers, and turn your prayers to Jesus And that's a good. I love the song that we sing. Are you weary? Are you heavy-hearted? Tell it to Jesus. There's good theology in that, beloved. Just tell it to Jesus. Here's number two. Re-examine the scripture. Just go back to the scripture Now notice how Jesus responds to this question from John. He doesn't chide John. He doesn't express disappointment. Jesus is very gracious. Look in verse number 4. And Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and show John again those things which ye do hear and see. The blind receive their sight. The lame walk. The lepers are cleansed. The deaf hear. The dead are raised up. The poor have the gospel preached to them. And so what does Jesus do here? Jesus, he's doing miracles. And he reminds those disciples. He said, go back and tell John the things that you're seeing. And you know what Jesus is actually referring to here? Write down Isaiah 35, verse number 4. This is a reference to this verse in the Old Testament, and this is the perfect scripture. to refer to because this was a passage of scripture for those who doubted the Messiah. And you know what Isaiah 35, 4 says? Talking about when the Messiah will come, then shall the eyes of the blind be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped, then shall the lame man leap like a deer, and the tongue And so this whole passage here is affirming what the Messiah will do. And so Jesus is essentially saying to John John, tell John what I'm doing. You know what he's pointing to? The scripture. Now John knew the Old Testament. He knew the Scripture. And so in a sense, what Jesus is saying is go back and re-examine the Scripture. Go back and look at it again. You know the problem with some people is when they're plagued with doubts, the first thing they do is they go around and they they they go talking to the wrong people instead of going back to the scripture Go back to the Word of God. I want to tell you something about the Bible. The Bible can withstand whatever scrutiny you want to put on it. If you come to it with an open mind and you go to the scripture, you know what? God will reveal truth to you. But listen, you have to have a heart that's open and receptive to that truth I think I've said this before, this illustration, but it fits so m well here, G. Campbell Morgan, the great preacher When he was 19 had a successful ministry, but he went through a time of doubt because of the writings of the scient scientists that were popular in his day that had basically influenced the world ideas by Charles Darwin and Thomas Huxley and Herbert Spence and all those agnostics and atheists, and it was gaining momentum and gaining popularity And these ideas began to influence G. Campbell Morgan, and he began to doubt the Bible that his father had taught him. And he got to the point where he said, I can't keep preaching until I know. But you know what he did? He locked up all of his other books. He bought a brand new Bible and he said, I know this. He said, if this is the Word of God, and I come to this Bible with an unprejudiced mind It will bring assurance to my soul if it is the Word of God. And he began to read the Bible on his knees, and that's exactly what happened. He began to see, the Lord opened his eyes to see that this is the Word of God. Now, I tell you, when I was a student in college, I don't know, the Lord did something in my heart. I had always believed in my mind that the Bible was the Word of God. But I remember in chapel a day at our college, there was a certain man who came in, I remember his name, his name was Jules Smith. He was an expert on the history of the English Bible. And he began to give a history. In fact, he had Bibles laid out, historical pieces, even Bibles that were still stained with the blood of saints from years past. And he began to give this lesson about the history of the Bible. I don't know, but the Lord just did something in my heart. And I remember going back to my dorm room, getting on my knees, and opening the scripture and praying. And the Lord just seemed to rip the veil away from my eyes. As a college student, where the idea that the Bible is the Word of God was not just an idea in my mind But it was something that became a part of my heart and my soul. It's a part of who I am. And I want to tell you that this is the Word of God. It is the very Word of God. And friend, if it's not the word of God, then we have no foundation whatsoever. But it is the word of God. And if you get on your knees and you go to the scripture, you'll find out if you come with an open mind. But then here's the last thing that I want to give you. And that's this. Don't give in to doubt. Now I know I said this already, but look in verse number six. Jesus gives a blessing. He said, Blessed is he. Whosoever shall not be offended in me. And really Jesus is what he's giving here is a mild, just a very mild, gracious rebuke with a promise And again, the way Jesus words this is so very gracious. He could have said, cursed is the one who doubts me. That's not what he says. He's so very gracious. And what has he said, blessed is the one who's not offended by me. Or we could say like this, blessed is the one who will not Doubt. Or let me say it another way. Blessed is the one who will not give in to doubts. They will not give in. They will not stumble. They refuse to give in to doubts. Or let me say it like this. Blessed is the one who refuses to stay in the prison of doubt. Free yourself from that prison Don't stay there. Because I want to tell you, the longer you stay there, the harder it is on you. And the harder it is on your Christian life. Believing and trusting are decisions that we make. We have to make that decision. The psalmist said this, when I am afraid, I will put my trust in you. When I'm afraid, I'll put my trust in you. Psalm 56, verse 4. In God I will praise his word. In God I have put my trust. I will not fear what flesh can do unto me. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge, my fortress, my God, and Him will I trust. That's choosing to say, I put my faith in God. Now let me tell you something, I don't have all the answers. And I haven't had all of the answers to my questions given to me. And there are mysteries in theology that quite frankly, beloved, I can't figure out But that's okay. You know why? Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. We have a God who's too great to figure out. Amen Faith is not demanding to have all of your questions answered. Faith is reason at rest in God. And my reason is at rest in a God who's too great to figure out. But it's a decision that you make. And let me just close with this one illustration. You've probably heard me before refer to Pilgrim's Progress because it has a lot of spiritual truth in that book. You know, John Bunyan wrote that book while he was in a Bedford jail. And of course you know it's a story of a man by the name of Christian who leaves the city of destruction. He's on his way to the celestial city, and he he goes to the narrow gate, he has a burden on his back, and he comes to the cross and the burden rolls off. and and and and falls away and he becomes a believer. But on that journey, he also hooks up with a person by the name of hopeful. And so Christian and Hopeful, on their way to the celestial city, they're on the right path. They're doing the right thing by making this journey. But As they journey together on the road, they journey to a point where they begin to stray off the path. And in this allegory, they end up in a field near a place called Doubting Castle. And Dowding Castle was owned by a giant called the Giant of Despair. And so out for his morning walk. The giant of despair found Christian and hopeful sleeping on his property. And the story goes like this. The giant of despair says, what are you doing in my field? And they said, oh dear sir, we are on our way to the celestial city, but we wandered off the path. The giant of the spirit said, now you are mine. And so he grabbed them and he threw them into Doubting Castle. And so there they are. They're sitting in Doubting Castle for days. And you see the imagery there, you see the connection. We're Christians, we're journeying towards the celestial city, and if you're not careful, you'll get off the path. And you'll go to the field where you shouldn't be, where the giant of despair is there, and he will capture you and he will throw you into the prison of doubt. And it's a doubting castle. And so they're there for days. They say, what was the answer? So while they're there, they're there in Doubting Castle, finally, hopeful reminds Christian that he has a key in his pocket. You know what the key is called? The key was called the promises of God. They were there in his pocket. And so he takes the key out. And he opens up the door, and they're free. And they fled from Downing Castle and from the giant of despair. It may be that some of you here tonight, you're in Doubting Castle right now. I want to tell you something. You don't have to stay there You don't have to stay there. If you stay there, it's because you choose to stay there. You have the key that will free you. You just got to use it. Jesus said, blessed is he who will not be offended in me, who will not doubt me. Let's bow for prayer together. Lord, we are so grateful for the promises of your word. And how they help us. They pick us up. And I pray tonight, Lord, for believers who are here who may be tonight in the prison of doubt. It may be because of some difficulty in their life. They're beginning to question things. It may be because of the wrong influences of those around them that have put poisonous ideas into their heart and soul and they've embraced these things and now they dwell in this prison. Or it could be, Lord, just their own human weakness. It could be just their human emotions, Lord, that are just getting the best of them. Lord, help us to realize that through the power of the Holy Spirit, we can master these things. And they don't have to stay in the prison of doubt. Lord, may they by faith reach out. With the key of faith that you've planted in the heart of every child of God. And Father, may they come to the point where they say, I'm not going to doubt I may not have all my questions answered, but I'm not gonna doubt him. I'm not. I'm not staying in this prison Father, free them. Free them from the prison of doubt. And use these words for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.