This seems to be an area where many, many Christians struggle, and I just want to share with you a few verses I hope that will be a help to you for those who may struggle with this issue of the certainty of salvation. Look at 1 John chapter 2 and verse 2. 1 John chapter 2, verse 2, actually verse 3 and 4, we'll start at verse 3. And hereby we do know that we know Him. If we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. Now one of the most crucial issues that a believer will face is the issue of assurance of your salvation. Let me just say my goal in this whole sermon, starting out, is is to is to give you that bedrock solid biblical assurance if you don't already have that and to know how you can have that total assurance because God wants you to be assured of your salvation. He doesn't want you constantly and struggle over this issue, being uncertain about your soul salvation. Yet so many Christians seem to struggle with that The Puritan Thomas Brooks wrote a book on this issue. He called it Heaven on Earth. And the reason he titled it that is because really um The only thing better than being saved is knowing that you're saved. It's like heaven on earth, he said. That's the theme of the book. He wrote this assurance is glory in the bud It is the suburb of paradise. It's the same thing that Fanny Crosby wrote in the song that we sing all the time, Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine. Oh, what a what? Four taste of glory divine. So having that certainty, knowing for sure of your salvation, is a foretaste of glory. And do you have that in your life What is assurance? Let's talk about it. It's a firm, unshakable knowledge that you know that you belong to Jesus Christ. That you know that your sins are forgiven. That you know that you will have everlasting life in heaven. It is the greatest knowledge that you can have. Thomas Brooks talked about this, this assurance. He said this, he said it's the believer's ark, where he sits, Noah-like, quiet, and still in the midst of all distractions. and destructions and commotions and confusions. And that's exactly right. It doesn't matter what's going on around us in the world, to have that knowledge, to have that certainty, to have that assurance, it's the believer's ark. And that's what I want you to have. So let me give you some preliminary thoughts before we actually get into the sermon. First of all, first thought is this: it's possible to be saved and not have assurance. It's possible to be saved and not have it. Dr. Adrian Rogers used to say that some Christians are bent over like a question mark when they should be standing upright like an exclamation point. And that's so very true. Some believers really seem to struggle and they have this question mark, but just know this: it's possible for you to be saved and not have that absolute full assurance Spurgeon said this, full assurance is not essential to salvation, but it is essential to satisfaction. He said you may get it all at once, or you may not get it for a while. And I think that's true. Thomas Watson also along this line wrote and said, A child of God might have the kingdom of grace in his heart, yet not know it. The cup was in Benjamin's sack, though he did not know it was there. And so that's so very true. It is possible for you to have salvation and yet not have the full assurance of it. We may have the peace of God with us as we believe, but not always with ourselves, said another Puritan, William Darnell, when he wrote about that. And again, uh from the Westminster Confession, the confession from which a lot of our Baptist doctrinal statements come from said that a believer might wait long and conflict with many difficulties before he'd be a partaker of it. That is, before they're a partaker of full assurance. They might have to wait, they might have to conflict, they might have to wrestle with issues until they come to a clearance in their life to where they have the full assurance. Now I've got to be honest with you as a pastor when I see people wrestling with assurance, um there's part of me that's that's very positive about that. I know that for people that are wrestling with it, it's kind of tormenting, but for me, as a pastor watching that, what I see is something good in the sense that that to me reveals life The very struggle reveals life. The very desire to know reveals that there is life there. Lost people aren't concerned about this issue. It's normally Christians who are concerned about this issue. So when I see a person struggling I I normally have a good feeling about that, but on the other hand, I don't want to see a person struggle and struggle and struggle and struggle and never get the full assurance that ought to be theirs as a Christian They need to come to the place where they reach that, where they get it. Now let me give you a few reasons is why people doubt their salvation You ever wonder about that? Why do some people struggle with this issue? Let me give you a few reasons. Number one, here's one, strong preaching on God's holy standard. If you get strong preaching that holds high the standard of holiness That calls people to a high standard of Christian living, that could lead to a lack of assurance. And there's a sense in which really that's not a bad thing because the pulpit is supposed to create anxious hearts Preaching is to be firm and hard. And I gotta be honest with you, there's times when I read sermons by certain people that I, you know, that that really prick me to the heart. You know, when I read Jonathan Edwards, sometimes I wonder if I'm a Christian Because of some of the high standards that he gives. And so it may be such a thing as uh hard preaching. And by the way, the apostles did this all the time in the New Testament. But here's another reason why some people doubt, and that is because they can't accept forgiveness. Some people just can't seem to forget or get the idea that they have been forgiven. They are tyrannized by their emotions. They feel that they're too bad to be forgiven. After all, all the things that I've done, God can't forgive someone like me For all the things that I have done. And part of the problem is that they have an unbalanced view of God. They are fixed upon the holiness of God and the law of God and the justice of God which knows no mercy. But you also forget that there's another part of that, and that is God is gracious and God is merciful and God is kind. Some people think only about God's justice and God's wrath and God's holiness and all those things are true, beloved, but there's also the part of God that is gracious and patient and loving and merciful and who delights to forgive sin. And by the way, the devil would have you to think that way. You know why? He's the accuser of the brethren. He would like you to think that you stand before a holy God with no hope. But you have hope. You have hope because of Jesus Christ. Thomas Brooks, again, quoting from him in his book Heaven on Earth, he kind of deals with this whole issue of not being able to accept forgiveness. And he talks about Manasseh, in case you haven't read about Manasseh. Manasseh in the Old Testament was a wicked, wicked king. And yet in his life, later on in his years, he was converted and he turned to God and he repented, and there was a great work of God in his heart. And he mentions this. He says, Manasseh is saved, all despairing souls. The arms of mercy are open to receive Manasseh, a monster, a devil incarnate. He caused that prophet Isaiah to be stolen in two. He turned aside from the Lord to commit idolatry and caused sons to pass through fire. And yet he was turned to the Lord. Why dost thou then say, There is no hope for thee, O despairing soul? It's a good word. Listen, if the monster called Manasseh can get forgiveness for his sins, you can get forgiveness for yours too. No matter how great they might seem to you. But here's another reason why some people doubt their salvation. They fail to comprehend the gospel and the plan of salvation. They fail to comprehend the justice of God is fully satisfied on the cross. You see, on the cross all sins were paid for. God's holy, righteous wrath was satisfied on the cross. And so they fail to understand God's justice being satisfied. They fail to understand the extent of grace. And the extent of mercy and the extent of forgiveness that issues from the cross. They fail to comprehend that. They feel like there's something that they must do. So fully rely on this kind of grace. And the truth is there's nothing you can do. It's already been done. It's all of grace. And so because they can't comprehend All of the cross they may doubt. Here's another reason why some people doubt. They don't know the exact time of their salvation. Because they don't know the exact time. They can't remember when they believe. They can't remember the exact moment. And because they don't remember the moment, they say, I don't know whether I'm really saved or not. And I kind of liken that to a person saying, because I don't have a birth certificate, I don't know if I'm alive. You don't need a birth certificate to prove that you're alive. You just need to have life right now. You see, that's the point. We've kind of made a fetish out of decisionism. I'm I'm four people coming forward and the and placing their faith in Christ. All of that is good. We need to constantly be inviting people to Christ. But I think sometimes we we make this little formula so much so that people think if I don't go through the proper formulas that I'm not really saved. If I didn't raise my hand, if I didn't sign a card, if I don't know the exact date, time, or place when I was saved, then I must be lost. And friend, that's simply not true. The question is this, not did you believe past tense, but do you believe right now present tense? That's the issue. The issue is what are you trusting in this very moment? What are you depending upon right now? As I stand here behind this pulpit, I can say my hope is built on nothing less but Jesus' blood and righteousness. My hope is dependent fully upon the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not, did you believe past penance Do you ever notice in the Bible, whenever the word believe is used, it's always present tense, continual action. Are you believing on Jesus this very moment as you sit here this night? Do you believe on Jesus Christ? Yes or no? Are you depending upon him right now? I gotta be honest, I don't remember the exact moment that I was saved. I remember being convicted. I remember feeling bad about my sins. I remember praying, but I can't honestly tell you the exact moment that regeneration actually took place in my heart. But I can tell you this, uh since that time, I can tell you the general time, I've seen the evidences of the Spirit in my life, and that's what's more important. What's more important is that you see now the evidence of belief and you see the evidence of the Holy Spirit in your life. Even Jesus said that this was somewhat a mystery in John chapter 3. He said the wind blows wherever it wants to And you can hear the sound thereof, but you cannot tell when it comes or whether it goes. So is everyone that is born of the Spirit. The work of the Spirit's regeneration in the heart of the believer. There's really a sense in which sometimes there's a mystery there. Well we might not know the exact moment, but we know that we can see the evidence of the Spirit just as sure as we see the evidence of the wind. I can't see the wind, but I can see the evidence of the wind And I can't see the Spirit, and I don't know the exact moment of regeneration in my own heart, but I can see the evidence. I can see it now. And friend, that's much more important. But then here's another reason why some people doubt. Because they feel the flesh strongly in their life. They feel the flesh strongly, and they wonder if they have the new nature. Because they wrestle so much with sin. Some people say, I can't I can't be a believer. Look at all the sin in my life. And I'm struggling with all these issues. I surely I can't be a Christian if I'm struggling like this. Well, the truth of the matter is you have to remember that you are a new creation incarcerated in unredeemed flesh, which means there's going to be a battle. And we are all waiting for the redemption of the body when my salvation and your salvation is made complete Because we are removed from this world and we're given a brand new glorified body and we no longer wrestle with this fallen flesh But until then, guess what? There's going to be wrestling. And the fact that you're wrestling with sin to me is more evidence that you're a Christian than you're not. You know why? Because before you were saved, you had no sensitivity to sin. In fact, in 1 John chapter 1, John is making a contrast between a true believer and someone who's not really a believer, and a true believer says I have sin. I must confess my sin. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us. But an false believer says, I have no sin. What sin? They feel no burden of sin. They feel no sensitivity to sin. But you see, when the moment you got saved, guess what? The things you used to do, you can't get away with those things anymore. There's that new sensitivity that's there that wasn't there before. And so now all of a sudden you feel the burden, you feel the struggle, you feel the weight, and it's a constant war, isn't it? Seems like we never get over it. It's day after day after day of warfare, and sometimes people will say, well, I can't be a Christian if I'm warring like this. No, beloved, the opposite is true. The very fact that you're in warfare Engaged against sin is evidence of new life that's there. But here's another reason why some people doubt. Because they don't see God's hand in their trials They don't see God's hand in their trials. People say, how could God love me and let me go through this? I mean if I'm really a Christian, why would God allow me to experience what I'm experiencing? The pain, the sorrow that I feel. How could God love me and do this? Take this person from me? Or how could God love me and not deliver me out of this trial? How could I be a Christian? Now I want to tell you, if you think that way, you sentence yourself to a lack of assurance and you miss the very source of assurance in your life because don't you realize that when you go through a trial and you persevere through a trial, that is the greatest evidence of true salvation right there. When you can go through a trial and keep trusting in the Lord and believing in the Lord and at the end of it You're still there. You're still in the faith. You know what that happens there? That means that your faith is what? Genuine. That it's real faith. That's exactly what Job said. When he has tried me, I shall come forth as what? My faith will prove that it's genuine, that it's real. That's exactly what Romans 5 means when it says that we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that our sufferings produce perseverance or endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope. And hope doesn't make us ashamed. Why? Because the love of God has been shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. That is, hope translates immediately into assurance. The very fact that I've gone through this, I've endured, gives me hope, and that hope Translates to full assurance of salvation. So the trial that God puts on your life is not to cause you to doubt, it's to show that your faith is genuine faith. Maybe God wants to show your genuine faith to others To show other people what it looks like. And so these are just some reasons why some people wrestle with this issue of doubt. So the first thought is it's possible to be saved and not have full assurance. But here's number two. It's possible to have assurance and not be saved. It's possible to have assurance and not be saved. Now this is the most dangerous position for a person to be in, obviously, because there are some people that say they have assurance but they have no right to it. You say, what do you mean by that? Jesus said it like this. Jesus said, if your light be darkness, how great is that darkness? If what you think you have is the light, and actually what you have is darkness, you'll never get rid of that darkness and get true light. If what you think you have is the real thing and it's not the real thing, Then you're in danger. You ever notice that the hardest people to win to Christ are religious people who don't really know Jesus? They have all the form and function of religion, but they don't have the real thing. And you could never convince them ever That what they have is not actually light, it's darkness. It's like the old spiritual said, everybody talking about heaven ain't going there. And Jesus said that He said in Matthew chapter 7, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father, which is in heaven. According to a recent poll, eighty-eight percent of all Americans are sure there is a heaven and that they're going there. Eighty-eight percent This is why I encourage people, listen, examine your heart according to the scripture. To make sure that you're in the faith. Don't take it for granted. The Bible says, give all diligence. To make your calling and your election sure. In 1 Corinthians, the Bible says, let a person examine himself. 2 Corinthians 13, 5, examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Now, how does some people get a false assurance? Well, they someone gave them information about salvation that simply wasn't true Someone said all you have to do is just give this mental assent or just pray this prayer or just do this and then you'll be saved. And some people go through all of that and then afterwards there's no real true repentance. There's no real change in their life. They go right back into the same world, no change, nothing. And yet they have this assurance that was given to them by someone else that if they simply do this thing, that they're going to heaven. There's no obedience to Christ in their life. There's no perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. There's no desire to obey the commandments of Christ. There's no real evidence of any new nature whatsoever. They can go out and live just like they used to. And not even feel bad about it. And yet they hang on to maybe some piece of paper that someone gave them or some prayer that they prayed. And what is that, friend? That's a false assurance. And there's a lot of people that seem to cling to that. I want to tell you something. If any person what does the Bible say, if any man be in Christ, he is a what? New creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. And this is why some people have this false assurance because there's no true repentance and yet they've been told. And by the way, let me just say this. It's not my job as a preacher to give anybody assurance God hasn't called me to give you assurance. That's the job of the Holy Spirit. I don't even do that with my children. My children come and say, Dad. How can I know I say here's how you can according to the Bible, here's how you examine your life, but I can't give you assurance. And I'm afraid sometimes some parents might try to do that and they take away the work of the Holy Spirit Listen, let the Holy Spirit do it. Let them see. Here's how you can know, and here's how you measure your life, and let them wrestle. You know, a lot of times we want to take away the wrestling that comes with this issue. Let them wrestle Go ahead and wrestle because once you get this settled, it'll be bedrock. It'll be sure in your life. Don't take away the wrestling. I can't give assurance. So it's possible to be saved and not have assurance. It's possible to have assurance and not be saved. But here's the third preliminary thought, and that is it's possible to be saved and to have full assurance. That's what God wants. You say, now why do you make this a point? Well, it might surprise you to know that there are some people out there that teach that you can't attain full assurance in this life. Some people actually teach that In fact, the Puritans, for example, carried the teaching on assurance to an extreme. They became mystical about it. implying that assurance was something that only God granted supernaturally and in his time and it was only for special saints that lived up to some supernatural standard of holiness And sometimes by reading them I got the work I got the idea that they were adding actually to the work of grace in the life of God's people. And so they tended to make assurance dependent on the believers' ability to live up to a standard of holiness which they themselves could not live up to. And they never they never believe that a person could attain full assurance. I want to tell you, I love the Puritans, but I don't agree with them on this issue You say why? Because the Bible teaches us very clearly that you can have full assurance right now. Write down Isaiah 32, 17. And the work of righteousness shall be peace. And the effect of righteousness, quietness, and assurance forever. That is, with the imputed righteousness of God, what does God also give with it? Peace. That comes with that imputed righteousness. What does he give with it? Quietness of soul. When you know that the imputed righteousness of God has been given to you and your sins have been forgiven, God says, I give with that peace. I give with that assurance. And again, this is what we're talking about. Look in look at 1 John chapter 5, look at verse 13. And this is really the major thesis of of John. We know this verse. These things have I written unto you, 1 John 5. 13, that believe on the name of the Son of God. Why? That ye may know that you have eternal life. God wants you to know. And we go back to chapter 2, verse 3. Hereby we do know that we know Him. So God wants us to know. And here what we see in 1 John, by the way, the whole epistle of 1 John really just tests of this Authentic Christianity and assurance in the life of a believer. But what we're going to look at here in this verse, or these verses 3 and 4, are really the test of obedience. Sometimes people say, look, I just want to know if I'm saved or not. Just give it to me real easy. Give it to me in a sentence. I'll say, okay, I'll do better than that. I'll give it to you in one word. Alright? You want to know whether or not you're really a Christian? One word, obedience. Obedience, that's it. This is the objective test of whether a person truly knows Jesus Christ. And that's not by me, that's according to these verses here. Now let me just say this. There are two means of evidence. There is subjective evidence, that's inward evidence This is evidence that is of ourself, that comes from within, and there's outward objective evidence of assurance of salvation. First the inward objective or subjective evidence, where does that come from? That comes from the Holy Spirit, right? The witness of the Spirit? Whereas outward objective evidence is from without. One is invisible, the other is visible. One I can't see, but I can sense the working of the Holy Spirit inwardly in me. The other is objective where I look and examine my own life and my own works according to the objective standards of the Word of God, and that's how the Bible calls upon us to examine ourselves according to these objective tests that sometimes we see in the Scripture. And so I want to show you just one tonight. Just one objective test. What is it? Obedience. Obedience. Very simple. This is our external evidence. Now, again, let's talk about internally. Remember the Holy Spirit speaks to you, and he gives you that inward witness. In fact, look in 1 John 5. 10, because Job speaks of this also, look in 1 John 5. 10, where he's talking about this very thing, and he that believeth on the Son hath the witness in himself. If you believe in Jesus Christ, God has placed inside you an internal subjective witness. You have the witness in yourself Who is that? That is the Holy Spirit. That indwelling witness who bears testimony to Christ is the Holy Spirit, and he is the one who gives validity to the believer's salvation. Right? We know that. The Bible says that the Spirit wa that's a spirit of adoption whereby we cry out what? Have a Father We learn to naturally cry out, Abba is the equivalent of daddy. It is a very endearing term which implies that we can relate to a to God just the way a child relates to their father. And just as a child naturally cries out to their father, even so we naturally cry out to God. That's an internal witness of the Spirit But what I want to talk to you about is the outward objective witness. Obedience. So I want you to write down just three things. And I know I don't have much time. I spent most of the time on introduction. Can you believe it? So I'm going to go through this quickly then. Just three things: obedience expressed. Let's talk about that. And then obedience examined and then obedience exemplified. First of all, obedience expressed. Look in 1 John chapter 2. And look at verse number three. And hereby we do know that we know him if we what? Keep his commandments. So, what does it mean when it says know him? That's a synonymous term for salvation. In fact, if you read through 1 John, you're going to find that he uses many different terms to talk about a believer, a believer, someone who knows him. A believer is someone who walks in the light. A believer is someone who abides in him. All of these expressions that we see in 1 John are all synonymous, and they all talk about someone who is truly saved. So knowing him is a word then that or expression that means a true believer. By the way, the word know here, there are two Greek words for no, Oda, which is kind of kind of a book learning, and then ganosko, which is a personal experience. The word used here is ganosco. We gain a knowledge through personal experience. We know personally, through our own experience, that we know him. Now there's another thing I want you to see in the verse. Look again in verse 3. Hereby we do know. Now circle, the first time the word know is used there, it's a present tense verb. Continual action. Here's how we continually know. Look at it again. Hereby we do continually know that we look at the second time the word no is used. That's a perfect tense verb in the Greek, which means Action already completed, already completed with continuing results. We could say it like this. Hereby we continually know that we've already come to know him. How do we continually know? By the way, this is the assurance that we're looking for, right? Here's how we continually know, we're continually given the assurance that we have already come to know Jesus Christ. How do we get that? Look at the next part. If we keep his what? Commandments. And the word for commandments here is not nomas, which refers to the law of Moses. It's the word entole, which means the commandments of Christ. So the way that we continually have assurance that we've already known Christ is if we're obeying his commandments. The commandments of Christ. So you have to ask yourself this one question. Am I continually obeying the commandments of Christ in my life? Again, look at the word keep in verse 3. If we keep his commandments. Now, let me explain to you the word keep This is a word that means a watchful, constant, a guarding obedience. This is not an obedience that's a result of external pressure. Which someone says, I I've got to do this, I'm afraid if I don't, I'll get whacked by a divine hammer if I don't do this. That's not the obedience here, it's a loving obedience It's the idea of, I want to do this because of a desire to express love. A desire to obey God because I love Him. And so my my desire then is to keep. Now another thing about this word keep, it's really talking about the spirit of it. It doesn't mean that we keep perfectly In fact, this word here keep was used in uh John's day to talk about sailors who navigated their boats according to the stars. They had some little instrument that they would hold up to the stars And they would navigate according to the stars, their boat. Now, whenever they navigated, they weren't always perfect in their directions. But the idea was to keep the boat according to what they were seeing But they weren't perfect. And sometimes they went astray. But their overwhelming overall desire was to keep it on course. You see, that's the idea. I'm not perfect in my obedience to Christ. I fail all the time. But I want to tell you this, I want to obey Him. I just know this. I know that when I got saved, I didn't even know what Jesus wanted from me. I didn't even know a lot of what the Bible had to say. I just knew this. I want to obey Jesus. I just want to do what he tells me to do. That's my heart's desire. Now, does that mean that I've done it perfectly? No I've gotten off course a lot. But you know what? My overwhelming desire as I stand here before you tonight is to obey my master. is to obey Jesus. That's the idea here. So you have to ask yourself this question. Do you have a consuming desire A passion, a overwhelming desire to obey Jesus in your life. Because I want to tell you, there are some people who name the name of Christ, and they couldn't care less whether they're obeying Jesus or not They don't even think about it. That's not even a conscious thought that comes into their mind. But the Bible says, here's how you know that you know him if you keep. By the way, the word keep, present tense, continually keep his commandments. That is, it's not just a one-time obedience, it is a lifestyle. It is something that you want to do all the time. I just want to obey Jesus. I just want to do what he says We see that attitude and that heart in the psalmist when the psalmist says, I will run the way of your commandments, oh Lord. I'm going to run to do it. Lord, if I know something you want in my life, I'm just going to do it That's my heart's desire. And the Bible says this is how you know that you're in Him. Now, so we see obedience expressed. Second thought. Obedience examined. Look at verse 5, verse 4. Watch this. He that saith, I know him. I'm a Christian, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments is a what? Liar. And the truth that is Jesus, truth here is talking to about the person of Christ. The truth is not in him. The person who does not obey Christ's commandments, who does not have Christ in his heart. And this is John's point here. This is the very point he's making. There are many who are self-deceived. There are many who say, I know him, but they're not actively trying to keep the commandments of Christ. in their life. Just to give you illustration, you know, I pastor a church down south. How many you know that down south everybody's a Christian. Everybody's saved. I was going out and knock on the door. Hi, I'm Pastor Harmon from Thus and Such Church. And oh Pastor, wonderful that you came by. Oh, listen, come on in. Good to meet you. And uh I just want to tell you a little bit about our ministry. Oh, listen, you ain't gotta worry about me, Pastor. I'm good. Really? Yes. Listen, my whole family, I want you to know, we helped put in some of the stained glass windows at the First Baptist Church of such and such. And we're members of that church. Really? Well, tell me about that. How did you get saved? Oh, I remember years ago. We we went to a revival meeting and the preacher preached and we went down and we prayed and we got saved. We settled it right there and we've been members of that church ever since. Wonderful. Who's the pastor? Well, I don't know who the pastor is. I haven't been there in a while I don't even know who he is. In fact, we haven't been there what? Honey, how long has it been since we've been in church? Thirty years. 30 years haven't been to church. 30 years they haven't pursued the Lord. Thirty years it's been since they even cracked the Bible open. And yet they know That they're okay. And to try to convince that person that they need to examine their heart to make sure that they're in the faith, that would be insulting to them. They would say, how dare you question my heritage? How dare you question my salvation. But I'm not the one questioning it because again, John says, he that says I know him and doesn't actively keep his commandments Is a what? Is a liar. I didn't say that. John said that. Under inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Anyone who says, I know him, and you're not trying to Keep his commandments again. We're not talking about perfection. We're not talking about someone who doesn't fail, because we know that Christians fall and fail all the time, but they're going to get back up and they're going to brush themselves off. They're going to confess their sin and they're going to say, God help me to keep your commandments That's the attitude of a true believer. We're not talking about perfection. We're talking about a desire. We're talking about direction. My direction is to do what Jesus says. As imperfectly as it might be, I want to do what Jesus says. And so we see here then That John is giving a negative kind of evidence here, someone who doesn't know the Lord. And by the way, Jesus said this. He said, Why call ye me Lord if you don't do the things I say? Why do you call me Lord if you don't listen to me? If you don't obey what I say? Jesus said, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. Let me show you something. Hold your place here in John. Look in Matthew chapter 7. I know we've seen this before, but I want you to see it in this context. Look in Matthew 7. And look in verse 24. Actually, we'll just we'll just look at verse 21 and we'll drop down to verse 24. Not everyone who says to me, Matthew 7, 21, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter to the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven, you're obeying God's will. Then look down to verse 24. Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and doeth them, And there's the key phrase there, whoever hears my sayings and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon the rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell not. For it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these things of mine and doeth them what? Not, shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the sand And the rain descended and the floods came and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. Now a lot of times we've heard this preached as This is a story about two different kinds of believers, the wise and the and the foolish. No. In the context, Jesus is talking about those who really know him and those who only think they know him. That's the context. And so therefore Jesus gives this parable. What's the difference between someone who really knows Jesus and someone who doesn't? Well, the one who really knows Jesus is like a wise man who built his house upon a rock And he's the one who hears the sayings of Jesus and he does them. If you are obeying what Jesus says, you are building your house upon the rock That obedience expressed in your life is evidence that you're building on a sure foundation. But if you hear the sayings of Jesus and you don't do them, You're building your house upon the sand. Your foundation is not sure at all. And so when the storm comes, you're going to have great destruction. By the way, what is the storm? The day of judgment. When the time of judgment comes, you're not going to be able to stand. Why? Because you've been building your house on the sand. Oh, yeah, you hear the sayings. You hear what Jesus says, but you're not doing it. And the Bible says, in that day, it'll be a great fall. And that's the contrast that Jesus gives us here. And there's other places I can show you this, but I uh we don't have time. So go back to 1 John, and I want you to look again at 1 John chapter 2 and look at verse number 5 this time. Because I want you to see John expressing it positively. In verse 5, but whosoever, whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God what? Perfected. By the way, that's a genitive, we can say it like this. Is the love for God perfected? Love for God is perfected in your life or demonstrated in your life when you are keeping his word And so we keep it because we love them. That's how it's accomplished, completed in our life. We show our love for God through our obedience. That's it. That's what it means. And so that's that's really the issue right there. So you have to ask yourself this one subjective test here. Am I actively seeking to obey His commandments out of a love for him, not out of a slavish fear or a legalistic obedience. Not because I'm a servant and I want to be rewarded, although we know we will be rewarded one day, but because we are his children. And we have a desire to show our love in that relationship, so therefore I obey him. And by the way, who's the example of this? Look in verse 6, the last verse. He that saith he whe abideth in him, that's another synonymous term for salvation. If you're saved, if you abide in him, ought himself also to walk even as he walked. And so in the end, what does John do? He points to Jesus Christ. This is obedience exemplified. You say that you you abide in him, then you ought to walk like he walked. Question, how did Jesus walk? Completely, totally obedient to the Father. His whole life was one of complete, perfect obedience to the Father. And so that's the issue. And so I just hold off this one test before you for you to examine your own heart tonight. And again my goal is simply to give you a solid bedrock biblical assurance of your salvation. So much so that you'll never be rocked. You'll never come to a place of instability. You'll never come to a place of uncertainty in your life. because you know your life. You know you have the internal inward witness of the Spirit and you have the objective outward witness of your life. That testifies that you have a desire to obey him. Not perfectly, but you want to do what he says. That's your whole overwhelming, consuming desire to walk as he walked. On the wall near the entrance of the Alamo in San Antonio, Texas, there's a portrait. And it says underneath the portrait, James Butler Bonham. And then it says this, no picture of him exists. So who's the portrait? The portrait was of his nephew, who greatly resembled him. And so they put up that portrait to point to, the portrait of his nephew to point to James Butler Bonham. You know what? There is no literal portrait of Jesus here on earth. But you know what? We're the ones that need to resemble him. And how do we do that? We walk as he walked, totally obedient to the Father. That's the evidence of true salvation. That will remove the uncertainty in your life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we I pray that you'll take these words and use them in the hearts of your people. Let them be an encouragement. Let it be a time of soul searching, Lord. My heart's desire is that there no one leave here tonight without knowing with absolute certainty that they know Jesus. And that, Lord, any uncertainty in their life brought on by other things will be taken away by knowing your word, knowing what Scripture says. Knowing just these verses here. Knowing that, Lord, you've given us your word so that we could have complete, total, full certainty. About our salvation. Lord, let that be the testimony of every heart here tonight. And for those who struggle, I pray that the Spirit of God would so move in their heart to remove all the doubts. And bring them the full assurance of faith. And we pray all this in Jesus' matchless, wonderful name. Amen.