All right, amen. Thank you so much. Take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Revelation. We are in our study in Revelation, and we are in chapter twelve tonight. uh chapter twelve. This is a very exciting chapter of Revelation. And if you're with us, we uh found that Revelation kind of reached a climax in chapter eleven where the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ. And uh but if you look in chapter twelve, it it it we will see how, in a sense, this is maybe a bit of an overlap here and also what God's going to do in the future and what has been going on up until this time. Now you remember we've been studying a uh a seven-sealed scroll, and the Bible says it is written within and without and uh written on the front side and on the backside and I think that everything that we've been studying up until this point has been on the front side and I think there's a sense in which we're going uh to the other side here and we're gonna find out again from a different perspective the the things that God is going to do in this old world. Now Revelation chapter twelve answers an age-old question, and that is, why do some people hate the Jewish race? Did you ever ask that question? As you look around, you see that so very clearly in our world today. Did you ever wonder why Jews are persecuted people, why there's such hostility with regard to them? A. W. Cack wrote this, he said, Next to the survival of the Jews, the most baffling historical phenomenon is the hatred with which has repeatedly they have repeatedly encountered among the nations of the earth. And that's so true. While I was studying for this, I picked up a magazine that dealt with the issue of the subject of anti-Semitism. And I was shocked to see that in every century since Christ there's been some form of severe persecution against the Jewish people. And so time would not Uh permit me to tell you of all the atrocities that have taken place, but from the Middle Ages even to the modern age, they have suffered uh vicious persecution. For example, in eighteen eighty-two there were outbreaks of atrocity against the Jews in Russia. In France in 1894, the Dreyfus Affair was an attempt to make Jews the scapegoat for national problems and uh to oust uh Jewish people from high ranks uh in the government and army. In Germany there was the rise of Jews to prominent positions in the professions and industry and commerce in science and literature, which uh gave the uh the lie to German theories of racial superiority of the German peoples. And ultimately then there came Hitler and the death camps and we know that. And we can just continue on And according to Revelation here, chapter 12, the worse is yet to come. And we're going to see this in the tribulation period. We're going to find out in Revelation chapter 12. that Satan is the one that is behind this, and Satan has been working in behind the scenes to do many things. And so what I want you to see then is this chapter and just three, I call it three acts, this drama played out in three acts. Number one, we'll talk about the woman, and then we'll talk about the war, and then we'll talk about the woe. And what we're going to see here in chapter twelve is a lot of symbolism that has literal meanings to it. Look in verse 1. And there appeared a great wonder in heaven. The word wonder here is Simeon Mega Simeon, a great sign. And we this is this word is used, these two words are used together twice in the book of Revelation, once here in chapter 12. And once in chapter 15. And normally this word has the idea of pointing to some a meaning beyond itself. These are signs that point to literal realities that are behind it. And so these signs are sort of a summary of this ongoing conflict between God's people and our archenemy, the devil. So think number one, the woman. First we see a woman. Look again in verse one. And there appeared a great wonder in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars. Now First, we must ask, who is she? Notice the word wonder. Again, this is a sign in heaven. And so notice uh the woman and her symbolism. I want you to see that. In other words, this woman symbolizes something. Someone or something. Now there are various views of this. Some say this is Mary. Sometimes you'll see Mary in portraits with uh being clothed with the sun and the moon under her feet and a crown with stars on it because they say that This woman here is Mary, but this is not Mary. There's another view that says some uh some people say that this woman is um the one who started the f Christian science religion. That was Mary, Baker, Glover, Patterson, Eddie. And so on. I think there are some other names there. H. J. Arnside commenting on this, I think he had the best comment on this. He said, I will not take time with sane people talking about that. And then some people say it's the church. Um that, you know, the Bible speaks after all of the church as a bride. And so they think that the woman here then is the church. But the Bible doesn't speak of uh the church as a woman as an aftermarriage. Now she's the church is a bride waiting to be married. That's always the picture that the Bible gives of the church. That metaphor is used. But here is a woman who is with child And she will deliver a child. Um, the church didn't, and we're going to see who this child is, which I believe is the Lord Jesus, but the church didn't give birth to the Lord Jesus, the Lord Jesus gave birth to the church. I don't think that this is talking about the church. This is not the church. We're going to see that the symbolism of this woman represents Israel, the nation of Israel. And the reason I say that is because there are several passages. A lot of times the way we understand the book of Revelation is by going back into the Old Testament and looking at some of those passages in the Old Testament that help us understand what's going on here. And so write down Isaiah 54-5. Listen to what the Bible says. For thy maker is thy husband. The Lord of hosts, God speaking to Israel, thy maker is thy husband. The Lord of hosts is his name. uh the Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. Um and also notice that the in this verse one, the woman is wearing a crown with twelve stars. I think that points uh to of course the twelve tribes of Israel. In fact, go back to Genesis chapter 37. Just let me show you this because I think there's a this is a direct link. I think this is why This is Israel in Genesis chapter 37. You might remember that in this story here, Joseph is has had a dream. And he's going to reveal the dream to his brothers and his parents. Look at verse number nine of Genesis chapter 37. And he drew and he dreamed yet another dream and told it to his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more And behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me, and he told it to his father and to his brethren And his father rebuked him and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee, to the earth? And his brethren envied him And his father observed the saying. So here's Joseph. He has a dream. In this dream, uh his father obviously is the sun, his mother, the moon, and the the the eleven stars that bow down to him are his brothers. And here's Joseph then having uh authority over his family. Uh this is why the brothers got mad at Joseph. Don't ever go to your big brother and say, I had a dream where you're worshiping me. That doesn't work well in family situations. It causes conflict. But here Joseph was giving a God-given dream of what was going to happen and indeed Israel would be under submission to Joseph. You know the rest of the Joseph story, but what we see here, however, is that Israel, the whole Nation of Israel is pictured as the sun and the moon and the stars here. And so I think that in Revelation chapter twelve then that this woman Is Israel. She is the sign or the wonder in heaven. And I said before, beloved, if you want to know what God is going to do in the world, read God's sign. God's sign today is Israel. Israel is God's blueprint, God's billboard, God's barometer of what he is going to do. Now I want you to see next the woman and her seed. We saw the woman and her symbolism, but notice the woman and her seed, look down at verse 2, and she shall be Uh she shall bring excuse me, and she being with child, cried, travailing in birth, and pain to be delivered. Now notice this is not just a woman, but it's a woman with child, and not just with child, but great with child, and she's about to deliver. She is going through the birth pains here in this vision that John sees lit up in the sky. She's about to deliver. Now again, the question, who is this child? Now the historicists' view of Revelation, this historicists say again, the woman is the church and the child is the children of the church. But again, never in the New Testament are Christians referred to as children of the church. This child here is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. And you might want to write in your margin Isaiah 9. 6, for unto us the child is born. Hebrews 2. 5 that says that Christ came of the seed of Abraham. Israel's grand destiny was to be the nation through which blessings would go to mankind. And that blessing would be the seed that God would give to the seed of Abraham, which is the Lord Jesus Christ. Romans 9:4, who are the Israelites, Paul said? to whom pertaineth the adoption and the glory and the covenants and the giving of law and the service of God and the promises, who are the fathers of whom as concerning the flesh Christ came who is overall. God bless forever. Amen. Jesus came through Israel. One of the blessings that the nation of Israel had was to produce the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. The seed of the woman is Christ. So we see the woman and her symbolism, and the woman and her seed. But I want you to see the woman and her stalker. Look at verse 3. And there appeared another wonder in heaven. And behold, a great red dragon having seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns upon his head. Now, as we study, we're going to find that this woman has a vicious stalker watching and waiting in the shadows to get her. Now, again, this is another wonder. This is another sign. And again, here we see biblical symbolism of a great red dragon, which points to a reality. Now Who is this great red dragon? Well, we don't have to wonder because we know this is Satan. There's no doubt that this is the devil. You say, how do we know that? Well drop down to verse number nine Because it makes it crystal clear. And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world, he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. So we know that this is the devil. Red, that's the color of blood. That speaks to us as Satan, the murderer who kills. John 6. 44. We see seven heads. Some say that this re represents biblical wisdom. In Ezekiel 28. 11, Satan was perfect in wisdom, the Bible says, until it was a corrupted wisdom. But I think the description of the seven heads and ten horns are drawn from Daniel chapter seven, on verses uh seven and eight and also verse twenty-four. And this indicates to me that Satan is in was it has been in control of some of these empires of the world. He is the prince in the power there. He's the God of this world and he has been behind the scenes working through world history. Um we those world empires were under the control of Satan. And so the seven crowns, I think, are a symbol of his authority in that area. And later we're going to see this description of the heads and horns and crowns also refer to the beast in Revelation 13, chapter 1, which I think is the Antichrist. So, notice verse number four, and this is another thing that John's telling us about this great red dragon, the devil. What What was he ha what has he done in the past? Look at verse number four. And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven and did cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman, which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was born. Notice that this dragon Uh with a a sweep of his tail, again, this is symbolism, he drew one-third of the stars of heaven. I think, beloved, this is referring to the original fall of Satan. Satan, when he was cast out of heaven, when he fell from heaven, he conned one-third of the angels to follow him in his rebellion. We see this in Isaiah chapter 14. We see this in Ezekiel chapter 28 that speak of it. And I think, beloved, that in heaven, as well as I can understand from Scripture, that there were three archangels that the Bible speaks about, Lucifer, Michael, Gabriel And perhaps uh uh God had 'em all arranged in a in a organization, just like kind of an army has its ranks And I think that these three archangels had under them each a third of the angels that they were uh over And I think that when Lucifer rebelled, that one-third that was under his charge rebelled with him. And Lucifer became Satan, and the angels became demons. And notice that what what we're seeing here really is in the background some of the spiritual warfare that has been going on. in uh in the world since that happened. But notice one of the major goals that Satan has was to attack the child. Look again in verse 4. And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and then cast them down to the earth, and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered. For to devour her child as soon as it was born. So notice this dragon is ready to devour the child that she's going to deliver. Now I think that's a reference to Satan working to try to prevent the coming of the Christ child. He did not want him to be born. He knew that that was the beginning of his demise. And this goes all the way back to the first promise of salvation, Genesis 3, 15. that scholars call the Proto-Evangelium, the first gospel, where God said the seed of the woman would crush the head of the serpent And so throughout the Old Testament, we see this war that's going on where Satan is trying to, in some way, corrupt uh the messianic line to prevent the coming of this seed of Abraham or son of David, you know, on Wednesday night we've been studying first and second kings and we have seen some of the attempts of the devil to stamp out the line of David. But God made a promise that he would not allow the lamp of David to be snuffed out. You remember 2 Kings 11, Athalai the wicked king, the mother of Ahaziah, tried to murder all of the seed David She thought she killed all of the descendants of David. And beloved, had she accomplished that, there would be no Messiah. But there was one little child that was hidden in a closet in the temple. His name was Joash. And for a while there, the Davidic line hung by a thread by one instant child. But God providentially protected that because God always fulfills his promises. Also, we think about this in Matthew chapter two. Remember when Herod ordered that all the male children in Bethlehem are two years old? And under be murdered, why? Because he understood the prophecy, the messianic prophecy, that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem And when he heard of the report of that, he set out to try to kill all of those male children. We think of uh you know Bethlehem as being a maybe a big uh town, but back in that day there was probably only a few hundred people there. You're talking about maybe twenty or so male children that would have been killed by by Herod because he was trying to prevent the coming of the Messiah. One time when I was in Israel I went to Herod Herodium, which is this high hill that was actually a mound that was built up And on the top of it was Herod's palace. And as you're standing up there and you look down, you see Bethlehem. It's right there. I mean if you could if you have a good arm and you throw a rock, you could probably hit Bethlehem from the top of that hill. And I like to imagine in my mind that on that night when Herod gave that awful decree that he stood out there, and he probably heard the cries of the mothers As those little children were killed. Satan is a murderer. He is behind mass killing. Don't you doubt that, my dear friend? And but here, Satan's number one target. was this child, the Christ child. But again God protected Christ. So we see then here his goal, his target of Christ. So we see the seed and her uh the woman excuse me and her symbolism the woman and her seed the woman and her stalker um and then we see the woman and her son because look down at verse number five and she brought forth a man child Who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron. And her child was caught up unto God and to his throne. So this woman's child Will rule the nation with a rod of iron. Can there be any doubt that this is Christ? I mean, this refers back to the Old Testament passage of Psalm 2, which is a great Psalm, which speaks about uh Jesus. Who will rule with a rod of iron? And it's a good song to read because you know what it tells us Jesus is going to win. We know that But here in verse number five, what we see is kind of a summary of this whole child's life and ministry. The child will be born, the child will We'll be resurrected, raptured, raptured, and reigns in heaven. They'll be caught up to the throne of God in heaven Now we see the woman and her safety. Because look at verse 6. And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared of God. That they should feed her there a thousand two hundred and three score days. And notice that this woman flees. into the wilderness for safety. God has a place for her, a place of protection and preservation. And notice the number that is given there in verse number six. 1,260 days. That is three and a half years. This is the last half of, I think, the tribulation period. And that's I think when all of this will happen. So let me just kind of put it in the context of the chronology of the book. Remember that at the beginning of the tribulation period, there will be a peace treaty with Israel. And Antichrist will be over that. Isaiah calls this a covenant with death. And in the middle of the tribulation period, Antichrist will break that treaty. He will set himself up as God. He will go into the temple of God and declare himself to be God. Just write down 2 Thessalonians 2. 4. Talking about this man of sin who opposes and exalteth himself above all that is called God or that is worship, so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God And this man will seek to replace the worship of the one true God with the worship of himself. And will call himself God. Jesus said to the Jews, He said, You know, I've come and you haven't received me. There will be another who will come in his own name, and him you will receive. There will be some that will receive this false one, this Antichrist that I think the Bible refers to as the beast. And so this is what is going to happen. And when that treaty is broken, the Antichrist will turn against the remnant of believing Jewish people with great wrath and great fury, and he will uh uh will try to stamp out that remnant of believing Jews. And they're going to have to go to a place to be protected. God is going to protect that remnant of Jewish people that believe in him. During that time. And notice again where it what it says in verse 6, and the woman fled into the wilderness where she has a place prepared of God Here is a place God is going to have to protect these believing people. I've read some commentaries on this. Some scholars feel that this place of protection will be in the wilderness of um Moab and uh uh in that area there right by the the Dead Sea that now we would call the Jordanian wilderness. Some think this is going to be the place of protection, it's going to be the city of Petra, right there by the other side of the Dead Sea. But this flight is accomplished, notice on two wings of an eagle. The Bible will talk about that Um how um that will happen. Drop down the verse number fourteen. And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished for a time. And times and half a time from the face of the serpent. A time that's one year, times that's two years, half a time, that's half a year, three and a half years. And so this flight will take place where the woman will go to a place where she will be protected. Now I think we have to be careful here not to modernize this too much. I've read some interpreters where I think they go a bit far on this. For example, Hal Lindsay. uh and his interpretation of this talking about the wings of an eagle carrying the woman to a place of safety. This is what he says and I'm quoting Some kind of massive airlift will rapidly transport these fleeing Jews across the rugged terrain to their place of protection. And since the eagle is the national symbol of the United States It's possible that the air fleet will be made available by aircraft, or excuse me, the airlift will be made available by aircraft from the U. S. Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean, end quote. Well, that's uh you know that's probably reading into a little bit there. I wouldn't go that far. What we do know here is that God will protect this remnant. God will protect these believing people during this time, this last half of the tribulation period that the Bible calls great tribulation. So we see the woman, but then write down number two, the war. The woman, then the war. And what we see here again is this constant spiritual warfare that's going on in the heavenlies that we cannot see with our naked eyes You know, thank God that there's a few times in Scripture where God has uh pulled back the veil where we can see what goes on in that invisible world. When I was a young believer, I picked up a book that was written by Donald Gray Barnhouse called The Invisible War. I don't know if you ever heard of that book. But it talks about the warfare that goes on in that invisible world. This war is going to happen. The Bible here describes a warfare that will take place. And notice who is going to be in this war. Look at verse 7. There was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon fought against his angels. This will be between Michael and Satan. Now this is not the first time they oppose one another in Scripture. But we see this in Daniel chapter ten. You might remember when Daniel had a prayer and he prayed and was asking God for the answer. Finally an angel came after some time and gave Daniel the answer. And the angel said, you know, God heard you on the first day and the answer was dispatched. But Uh the answer was held up by a prince of Persia. And uh I'm gonna go back and and Michael's gonna fight against this Prince of Persia and he'll be defeated and the Prince of Greece will move in We get a little glimpse into the spiritual warfare that was going on there at that time. And so we see Michael battling in Daniel 10, but also in Uh on Sunday morning we've been going through Jude. Some of you may that were there remember that in Jude 9, it tells of us of a story where Michael and Satan were contending about the body of Moses Where uh Michael was to bury the body of Moses and Satan wanted it. And there was that that conflict there. And Michael said, you know, the Lord rebuke thee. And Jude brought that whole that whole scenario up just as an illustration to say, you know, don't speak evil against anyone. Michael, when he was contending with the body of Moses said to Satan, the Lord rebuked the He didn't even spray against Satan there. But he said, The Lord do it. But but what nevertheless what we see there is another conflict. Michael's name is who is like God. And I think that's kind of a defensive posture. And the idea is who dare would say that they are like God? Well, that's Lucifer. Lucifer said, I will be like the Most High. And so there's this conflict Between Michael, who defends the honor and the name of God, and Lucifer, who tries to be like God or to be God. or to be in control. But what we're going to see, there's another warfare here between Michael and the dragon. Now what is think about the reason for this warfare. What's the reason for it? I think notice verse number eight, and prevailed not, neither was there found any more in heaven, their place found any more in heaven. Now what you have to understand is that Satan, as we speak, has access to heaven. Heaven is not off limits to Satan We know that because in Job chapter one, Satan could go into heaven. And he could appear before God. You remember Job one? Well Satan was there, the accuser of the brethren. And the Bible says that in Revelation 22 that God's going to create a new heaven and a new earth. You know why? Because even the heavens were sullied by sin. Why? Because of Satan Friend, the first sin ever committed was not on earth, it was in heaven by Satan. And Satan's sin corrupted even the heavens. And so one day Satan will try to enter into heaven And access will be denied. Michael will say, you no longer have any access here. You no longer have any uh authority here or can appear here and I think there a war will begin. We see the reason for the war. We see the results of the war. Look in verse nine and and the great dragon was cast out That old serpent called the devil and Satan which deceiveth the whole world, he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. And so we see the results of this word. Notice how this verse, verse 9, describes Satan. It describes this person. He's called the dragon. That speaks about his cruelty. The serpent, that's his subtlety. Devil, that's the fact that he slanders. Satan, that is, he's the adversary. He's the enemy. He's the one that deceives the whole world. Everyone who has ever lived has been deceived by Satan at one point or another. But it also describes his plate. He's cast out of heaven into the earth. Satan has always tried to exalt himself, and he will be abased. And God's economy, when you try to exalt yourself, you're going to be humbled. And when you humble yourself, God will exalt you. The way up is down, the way down is up. And the record of Satan is that he's on his way down. You know, he said, I will be exalted. But he's been descending, been descending ever since then Take some time later and turn to Isaiah 14 and read that. All the I wills. I will exalt myself above the stars of God. I will be like the most high. I will, I will, I will. He's always trying to exalt himself. But God will cast him down. He fell from his position. He was cast out of heaven. He'll be cast down to the bottomless pit. He'll be cast into the lake of fire ultimately. And we'll be defeated. Now compare Satan to Jesus. Satan said, I will ascend. What did Jesus say? Jesus said, I will descend. Satan said, I will exalt myself. Jesus said, I will humble myself. And Jesus became a man. And Jesus set aside all of his glorious heavenly privileges. And he became a man. That's why the Bible says, wherefore God will highly exalt him. That's why the name of Jesus is above every name. Because he humbled himself and God will exalt him. Now notice what the next thing, what I call the rejoicing after this war Look down in verse number ten. And I heard a loud voice saying, In heaven, now is come salvation and strength, and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, for the accuser of our brethren is cast down Which accuse them before our God day and night. This is a shout of victory for the triumph. Satan will no more be seen in heaven accusing the brethren. That's why Satan came to bring accusations against us. He's constantly doing that. You know, that's why Uh Satan appeared in the book of Job in heaven to make an accusation against the people of God. Um, you know Remember when God said, you know, have you considered my servant Job? Or first of all, God said, you know, where have you been? All Satan I've been walking up and down the earth. The Bible says he's a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. He's walking all over Oh God, I've been just looking around, walking up and down the earth. And what he was saying is, you know, God, I got free reign. I can do whatever I want. Where are your godly people? Where are the people of God, the the people that worship you? And God said, have you considered my servant Job? There's no one like him And you know the rest of the story. There was a a divine challenge that was given. Oh, the only reason that Job serves you is because look at all the gifts you give them. Look at all the blessings you give them. You take away everything that you give them. All those presents, all those gifts, you take all that away and he will curse you. What was Satan doing? He was accusing Job. Of being a superficial believer. He was accusing all of the people of God of being weak, and he was accusing God of buying his worshipers. That's all he does, is he makes accusations. one after another after another. And you're remembering that, God said, okay, I'll let you take away the things I've given them, and we'll see what happens. What did Satan say would happen? Job would do what? He would curse God. But you know what happened when all those things were taken? What happened? Job blessed God. Job said, blessed be the Lord is given, and the Lord is taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. So Job won that contest. But Satan is constantly bringing accusations. Martin Luther, the founder of the Protestant Reformation, tells a story. He was so very acutely aware of spiritual warfare, if you read about him. And he tells a story where he had a dream one night, kind of a nightmare. He he woke up and in the middle of the night he saw standing at the foot of his bed a character that he thought was the devil. And he said that in his dream the devil had a scroll, and on that scroll were all the sins that Luther had committed And Luther admitted that when he read off those sins that the scroll was accurate, the devil was reading them one after another, pointing a finger, saying, You're guilty, you're guilty. What hope of heaven do you have? And Luther said that he felt that at that very moment that his soul was slipping down into hell, suddenly there was the Lord who intervened. And the Lord spoke and said, Tell the devil to unroll the rest of the scroll. And so Lucer Lu uh Luther said to the devil, Unroll the rest of that scroll. And reluctantly, Satan unrolled the rest of the scroll, and across the bottom of the scroll was written this: this entire account of Martin Luther is paid for by the blood of Jesus Christ. That was a b that that nightmare ended up becoming a great dream because it reinforced into Luther's heart a truth of Scripture. That we are not under condemnation because we have been forgiven, and our sins are covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. The Bible says in 1 John 2:1, if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Jesus Christ the righteous. And so Satan is come a point in time where he will no longer have access. to make accusations against the people of God. Now let me give you the third thing quickly. We talked about the woman and the war But write down also in number three the woe. I call this the woe. Look in verse 12. Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. But watch this, woe to the inhabitants of the earth and of the sea, for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time Now, first there will be rejoicing in heaven. Rejoice that you're in heaven and not on earth at that time. But there's woe on earth. Why? Because the devil has great wrath. And why does he have great wrath? Well, first of all, he knows he has a short time. We see short time in verse number 12. He knows that the end is near. He's like a cornered animal. He will have desperate attacks upon Israel and upon the people of God. Satan, he knows he's damned. He's like a madman. He's going to try to take as many with him as possible. We see short time, then we see what I call sudden tribulation. Look at verse thirteen. And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child. And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness into her place, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood. And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the flood, which the dragon cast out of his Now again, what we see here by way of symbolism is God's protection of this remnant of people that believe in God And Satan will have great wrath. These are, I believe, redeemed Jewish remnant. And Satan will go after them. You know, Satan hates whatever God loves. And since God loves his chosen nation, his chosen people, Satan hates him. And by the way, God loves you as a believer. That's why Satan hates you. Because you're the object of God's love. And but we what we see here is what I call sure triumph in verses 14 down to verse 17. God is going to protect his people. And this beautiful picture of the wings of an eagle reminds us of the past protection and care that God has had for his people. You might want to write in your margin, Exodus 19, 4. Uh and Deuteronomy 32. Again, those same images are used there to speak of God's protection and the flood. And verse 15, I think this is symbolic of the the Gentile persecution against This these people, the people of God. And you know a beautiful Psalm, Psalm 124. Listen to this. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, now may Israel say, If it had not been the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us, then they had swallowed us up quick when their wrath was kindled against us. Then the waters had overwhelmed us. The stream had gone over our soul. Then the proud waters had gone over our soul. Bless the Lord who has not given us as prey to their teeth. I imagine there will be some people reading that psalm. during this time. You know, if it had not been for the Lord, then those waters would have drowned us. But also there's an interesting verse in the Old Testament. I want you to write down Isaiah 26, verse 20 to 27 verse 1. And here is the picture is of Leviathan, that serpent, that dragon. That comes against Israel. Listen to what it says in verse 20. Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers and shut thy doors about thee. Hide thyself, as it were, for a little moment, until the indignation be Passed over past. And then it goes on to say, In that day the Lord with his sore and great strong sword shall punish Leviathan. The piercing serpent, even Leviathan, that crooked serpent, and he shall slay the dragon, it says. And so this again speaks symbolically of God's protection over his people. And then a final warning to all of us. Look in verse 17. And the dragon was wroth with a woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keeps the commandment of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. Now, what we see in this, in this spiritual warfare, is that Satan has key targets. He the woman is Israel. Satan is constantly attacking Israel. The child is Christ. Satan is constantly trying to blaspheme Christ. Then the angels that do God's bidding, that's another target. And then the Christian, that's you and me. We're also a target in this spiritual warfare Friend, if you don't think that Satan is out to pull you down and get at you, you're crazy. We are in a spiritual battle. How do we overcome them? Satan is at war with the saints. Well, I skipped over verse, but I want you to go back. Look in verse number 11. Talking about the people of God, the saints of God, and they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb. And by the word of their testimony, and they love not their lives unto death. This is how you overcome the devil. We overcome him through Christ, the cross of Christ. Satan was defeated at the cross. Do you understand that you have already begin been given victory in Christ? Because of what Jesus did at Calvary. Satan has no authority. He only has authority when you allow him to have it. The Bible says, give no place to the devil. You give him a place when you sin and when you're not walking with God, when you're not walking up to the privileges that you have as a Christian We overcome Satan by the blood of the Lamb and by the Word of God. And they and the Bible says, and they love not their lives unto death. I believe this is speaking about um people in the past who have had to stand for Christ, who've been martyrs for Christ. You know what? If you're a believer And and you know Jesus, death has no fear. Now we might fear a little bit of crossing the chilly waters of Jordan, but friend, I don't I'm not afraid of what's on the other side of death. I'm not afraid of death as a Christian. You see, because of what Jesus Christ has done for us. Satan is at war with the saints. We can overcome through the blood of the Lamb and the Word of God. Another lesson we learned from this as we're wrapping this up is that Satan is the accuser of the brethren. And um thank God we have an advocate called Jesus Christ. When we confess our sins, he cleanses us, and Satan is silenced. Another thing I think about when I look at this is number three, let us not be found of accusing the saints. You know, and when we do that, we're doing Satan's work. When we slander, the Bible says love covers a multitude of sins. And then also we must never ever be guilty of anti-Semitism. The Jews are God's elect people. If it were not for Israel, we would have no Savior. We would not have the Word of God. Now I know the nation of Israel is not always right politically, and there's a lot of things that are not right there, but nevertheless, friend, the Bible is very clear of how we are supposed to treat um the people uh the nation of Israel we're to pray for the peace of Jerusalem. We are to pray for God to bring them to repentance. And so we overcome Satan and his wrath through Jesus Christ. Now just remember, Satan is on the rampage. He knows he has a short time. And what we need to do is we need to get busy sharing the Word of God all around. Oh, friend, we need to get busy. The church needs to wake up. And share Christ with this old world. Are you saved? Do you know Christ? Are you absolutely certain of that? Has the blood of Jesus Christ covered your sins? Have you been to the cross and put all of your faith in the finished work of Christ? Let's bow for prayer together. tonight. Again, I just ask you with your heads bowed and eyes closed, just to Take a moment, take some spiritual evaluation. Where are you? You know that you know that you're saved. And friend, if you are, just take a moment and thank God for his grace. And thank God for the victory that you have in Christ. And then ask God to make you a vessel. Use of Him to share Christ with someone else. Maybe there's someone in your heart right now that's they're in the kingdom of darkness. They're under the control of the dragon and they need salvation. Take a moment and pray for their soul. Ask God to deliver them. And remember, no matter how things may seem on the surface, how bad things may seem to be getting, God is in control. God is in control. It might be getting dark, but it's getting gloriously dark because we're closer to the coming of Jesus Christ. And we need to keep our faith in Him Father, again, thank you for your word and how it pulls back the veil, and we get to look into the heavenly sometimes and see what's going on. See that there's a world that's hidden from our eyes, things that are taking place. But Lord, you're sovereign over all those things. And I pray that as we look into passages like this, that it would strengthen our faith. And our trust in you and what you're doing. You are sovereign God. And we worship you. And with all our heart, we confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Amen.