Matthew chapter 13. We've been dealing with these parables of our Lord Jesus, and now we come to the last parable that Jesus deals regarding the mysteries of the kingdom. And uh we're in chapter 13 down verse 47 and following, down to verse 52, and tonight it's the parable of the dragnet. Look at verse number 47. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net that was cast into the sea and gathered of every kind. Which when it was full they drew to the shore, and sat down and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bad away So shall it be in the end of the world. The angel shall come forth and sever the wicked from among the just, and shall cast them into the furnace of fire, and there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said unto them, Have ye understood all these things? And they said unto him, Yea, Lord. And then he said unto them, Therefore every scribe which is instructed unto the Kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a householder, which bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and things old. I was reading the story that was written by Walter Knight. He tells the story of two soldiers who were traveling by train on their way home. One soldier had spent three years in the South Pacific, and this was of course during World War II, and now he was returning home to his father and to his mother. all the rest of his family members and friends and his sweetheart. And they were all waiting at the station there in Chicago for him to return. And uh he was so eager. He could hardly wait to get there. Several times he would ask the porter, uh, how close are we to Chicago? There was such an excitement in his heart. But on that same train there was uh actually in the same coach There was another soldier, and he was a picture of gloom and dejection. In fact, he was handcuffed and he was in the charge of the military police. He was going to the same destination, but for him it would not be a happy arrival for him. It would be nothing but punishment that awaited him. Two men on the same train Bound for the same destination, one who is filled with eagerness for reunion, the other who is filled with dread for judgment. When I thought of that story, I thought of this parable here. And I thought about all of us. All of us, we are all on the same train. And you know what? We're all headed for eternity. All of us. However, for some it's going to be a time of wonderful reunion, while for others it's going to be a time of punishment. Because in the end, God will separate the righteous from the wicked. And those who have not repented of their sins and trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior will suffer the punishment of hell. And that's what Jesus reveals to us here in this parable. Let me just say hell is not a popular subject. You don't really hear a lot of preaching about it. And sometimes when you do hear sermons about hell, sometimes They're toned down or they're watered down. I've heard preachers say, well, surely God wouldn't send a person to hell for eternity. And there are therefore some who want to water it down and preach a a hell that is kind of a an annihilationism where a person dies and goes to hell, but they're only there for a moment. The fire is not one that necessarily punishes, but it's one that consumes. And so therefore, when they're consumed, that's going to be all. According to that view. And then there are others who teach kind of a metaphorical view of hell. They say the flames are not literal. It just speaks of unrest. The flames speak symbolically of the conscience which will torment you for all eternity. And then of course there are other views of that, but we know what the Scripture has to say about it. Jesus often talked about hell. In fact, when you read the scripture, you're going to find that he never toned it down. He always said it was a literal place Where there will be literal fire and literal torment for all eternity. He said it was a place where there will be weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth. One writer said this there is no way to describe hell. Nothing on earth can compare with it. No living person has any real idea of it. No madman in the wildest flights of insanity ever beheld his horror. No man in delirium ever pictured a place so utterly terrible as this. And all that is very true. Jesus spoke more about hell than he did about heaven. And beloved, that's not because he loved the subject It's because he wanted to warn people. He had compassion on people. Now here in this last parable that Jesus gives regarding the kingdom. It is a warning about what awaits those who do not repent and trust Christ. Now, let me just give you, again, just a little review before we finish up this final parable. You remember that Jesus is revealing mysteries of the kingdom to his disciples. He's answering questions that lingered in their mind regarding the kingdom of God and the future of this kingdom. Will this kingdom grow? Will it survive? what's going to happen with the future with those who don't believe? And so Jesus answers these questions in seven parables that are so skillfully put together. He's laying down earthly known things next to spiritual truth in order to reveal to us the truth of God's word, the mysteries about the kingdom. And you remember that in the parable of the sower and the soils, he teaches about the origin of the kingdom. There's the spreading of the word, just like a sower will spread seed. And then in the parable of the weeks and the tares, he teaches us about the opposition to the kingdom. How that whatever God plants wheat, Satan will come along and he will plant tares. And then in the parable of the mustard seed and the leaven, he teaches us about the outreach of the kingdom, or we could say the outgrowth of the kingdom. And although the kingdom will start out small, it will grow and it will influence the whole world All of the nations of the world will come to lodge in the branches of this kingdom. And then in the parable of the hid treasure and the parable of the great price, he speaks to us about the obtaining of the kingdom. And how people come into the kingdom. And now here in this parable of the drag nut, Jesus will teach us about the outcome of the kingdom. This is a again the final parable in this series. And so what I want you to see is just four things tonight, if you take notes during sermons. Just write down number one the parable. Let's talk about the parable itself. Look again at verse 47. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net that was cast into the sea and gathered of every kind. Now Jesus again is using something very familiar, whereas before he talked about farming and baking. Now he's going to use a story about fishing, which of course would be very familiar to the disciples who were fishermen And he said, the kingdom of heaven is like casting this net into the sea. Now in this time there were three methods of fishing. Now, the one we already know very well, just the hook on a line in a water with a pole, you say, was that done back then? That was done by Peter, you remember, in Matthew 17, where Jesus told him to go and cast uh a hook into the sea, go catch a fish, and you'll find the money for the taxes that we owe. It'll be in the mouth of that fish, which is an incredible miracle. Don't t tell me that the Lord is not in control of every fish in the sea. Because when he cat uh cast that hook into the sea, that one fish happened to have the exact amount of money that was needed. But that was one way of fishing, the use of a line and a hook And then there was a use of just casting a net. And we see this in Matthew 4, verse 18, if you want to write that down. When the Lord came to Peter and Andrew, he said to them, they were casting their nets, actually, the Bible says. And the word casting net here, the word there is referring to a very specific kind of a net. This is the kind of a net that a fisherman could carry with him on his shoulder. He could take that net and he could stand at the shore and he could throw that net into the water, or perhaps maybe if he was on a boat, he could throw that net into the water. And that net when it would hit the water, it would be like a large circle that would open up, there were weights on that net, and it would kind of go down And then there was the uh net was connected to a r uh a a wire or a rope that was on his uh wrist The fisherman then would pull that cord that was attached to his wrist, and that net would close like a sack, and then he would just pull it in, and that was the way he would catch fish in that sense. And this is what Jesus said to his disciples. He said, Come follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Whenever the Lord refers to that kind of fishing, he's referring to evangelism. He uses it as a metaphor to go and reach people for Christ. And then there was a third kind of a net, and that is, or the third way of fishing, I should say, and that is the use of a dragnet And this is what Jesus is referring to here in verse 37. When he uses the word for net here, totally different word. And this was a very large net. In fact, this net would cover about one half of a mile, just to give you an idea of how large it was. And because of the size of this net, it could not be done by just one man There had to be more involved in this. And this is what they would do. They would take one part of end of that net and they would connect it to the shoreline. The other part of the net would be connected to a boat, and that boat would go straight out until it stretched the net out completely straight. And then it would begin to make a large, huge circle and come back around to the shore. So it would make the boat would make one large circle. Now at the top of that net there were flotation devices, there were floats, we could say, and at the bottom of that net there were weights. So this net would make one huge wall in the sea. And this wall would just enclose around, and anything that was inside of that vertical wall was caught. That's the net that Jesus is referring to here in this parable when he talks about the drag net. Let me talk a little bit about the metaphor for fishing. We know that fishing in the Bible stands again for evangelism. And that again, that's what Jesus meant in Matthew 4, 19. I remember when I was in college, I was a part of the ministry called the Fisherman's Club. And that was a ministry that just went out knocking on doors, trying to win people to Jesus Christ. And that of course was a clever title and it was based on Matthew 4. 19. But also, fishing is also a metaphor for judgment Gathering in all men for the final judgment. And that's what this is referring to here. When it's talking about the casting of the net, again verse 47, again, the kingdom of heaven is like the net that was cast into the sea. What would the sea represent? The sea would represent the world, right? The sea of humanity. This net is cast into the sea, and the kingdom of heaven is like this large net. And it goes out and it will capture men and women, a huge net, and will deliver them one day before the judgment. The Lord is emphasizing two things. First of all, the size of the net. This is again immense. It is huge. Nothing escaped this net And again, this speaks of judgment. A fish would see this net coming and he would swim and get ahead of it, so far ahead that it perhaps in his mind he thought he had outrun that and he was safe. But what he didn't know is that that net was still closing in and he was still caught. And there are some men today that feel like they can outrun God's judgment. They can get away from God. They don't have to be judged. But I want to tell you something, dear friend. No man will ever outrun God. He will not outrun his judgment. Men try to forget about judgment, but it is coming. And notice also the scope of this catch. This catch was all inclusive. Again in verse 47, when it was cast into the sea and gathered of every kind, every form of life. All sorts will be caught in this net which again speaks to us at the time of judgment. There will be all kinds of people there. Revelation twenty Talks about the rich and the poor, the famous and the unknown, the Jew, Gentile, men and women, young and old, religious and pagan, all of these will be brought forth on the day of judgment And then there's the sorting of the fishermen. Look in verse 48. Which when it was full, they drew to shore and sat down and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bed away. So whenever this net was used, there was always a lot of sorting that was involved here. They would pull in whatever they had, and then they would begin to sort it out. This is a keeper, this is not. They would cast away, they would keep. And we've seen this on fishing shows, right? You see those shows, those guys get out there, they get their pods or the nets and they pull it in, and they begin to sort what they have, right? That's exactly what is going to happen here. Very common scene in that day. The fishermen were gathering and then they were sorting and they threw away the bed. Again, this was very simple. This was very understood by the disciples who were fishermen. So we see the parable then. Write down number two the principle. The principle. What is the emphasis here? What is Jesus talking about? Look again in verse 49. So shall it be at the end of the world, the angels shall come forth and sever the wicked from among the good the just. Let me ask you a question. What's the emphasis of this parable here? You know it is separation. He's going to separate. He's going to distinguish. And so Jesus said that one day the angels will even be involved in the separating from the good and the bad. In verse number 49, at the end of the world. So, during this time, the kingdom of God, in this age then, the kingdom of God is like a huge net cast into the world, and it's gathering people of all kinds. Which is to say that even in the kingdom, there are those who uh those who know the Lord and those who do not. There are those who understand what it is to be a Christian and those who do not. And so the principle then is separation. For a time God is going to allow the good and the bad to dwell side by side in the kingdom. You understand that that principle there? We saw this before. Remember, go back to the parable of the wheats and the and the uh tares. We remember this, right? He allows them both to grow together. Remember the men came and said Shall we separate them? He said, No, let them grow together. Look at verse 30 of chapter 13. Let them both grow together until the harvest And in the time of harvest, I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn. There's a time when God will allow the unrighteous to dwell beside the righteous. There's a sense in which there are some people who think that they're a part of the kingdom that are not really a part of the kingdom. They may dwell in the same field side by side with the wheat. They may dwell in the same net with those that are the fish that God will keep. But God says there's going to be a time when He will separate those who are real from those who are not. I want to tell you something, friend, this should cause all of us to fear. It should cause all of us to examine our heart to make sure that we know that we're in the kingdom. Because again, the parables, as we've seen, already teach that God will allow sin to coexist next to righteousness. He'll let the counterfeit coexist next to those who are real. But there will come a time of separation. And it's going to be a very sobering time when God will no longer allow them to dwell side by side. In fact, he mentioned this before. Go back to Matthew chapter 7 and look at this with me. You look at Matthew chapter 7. And Jesus speaks about this. Look in verse 22. In the time of judgment, many will say, in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name have done many wonderful works, and then I will profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work what? These were these who thought they were in the kingdom. They thought that they were really apart, but they're not. Jesus said, I never knew you. And then he gives a story about the two men, one who builds his house upon the rock, the wise man who builds his house upon the rock, verse 24. And you know the story, the rains descended, the floods came, the winds blew, beat upon the house, and it fell not. Why, it was founded on a rock, and then the foolish man Look at verse twenty six. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be like unto the foolish man which built his house upon the sand, and the rain descended, and the floods came, and the wind flew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. So here are these two men each build a house. The storm comes, one stands, the other falls. You say, what's the difference? This is not two different kind of believers here. This is a true believer versus an unbeliever. And a true believer is someone who hears the sayings of Jesus and what? He does them in verse 24. Look at it. Therefore, whoever heareth these things of mine and what doeth them. He's obedient to Christ. Another comes and just hears, but they don't do them. They don't obey. That's the difference. That's the difference between someone who is truly saved, who is truly in the kingdom, and someone who is not. What is it? It's obedience. Do you obey the commandments of Jesus? The storm that came was the judgment. So when the storm comes, will they be able to stand? Because the storm will be a time when God will separate those who are his from those who are not. When will this happen? Again, chapter 13, verse 49, Jesus says, the end of the world It'll take place at the end when Jesus returns. He'll set up his kingdom on earth, his spiritual kingdom. Now keep in mind in this parable here, Jesus is not giving us a full theology of eschatology He's not giving us the chronology of how things are going to happen point by point. He's giving a general statement. He's just saying all these things are going to happen in the end. In the end. In a general statement he's saying at the end time is when the judgment is going to come and God is going to separate He's going to distinguish between the good and the bad. Who are the agents of that separation? Again in verse 49, it are the angels The angels will participate in judgment. Write down Matthew twenty-four, verse thirty one. And he shall send his angels with a great sound of the trumpet, and they shall gather together his electric From the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. And then Matthew twenty-five, thirty-one says, When the Son of Man shall come in his glory and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory, and before him shall be gathered all the nations, and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd doth his sheep from the goats. And so the angels will gather together together, and then the Lord will separate the sheep from the goats. Again, those who are real from those who are not. You say, what's the difference between sheep and goats? I'll tell you the difference. When the shepherd says something to the sheep, you know what the sheep say? Yes. Yes, Lord. When the shepherd says something to the goats, the goat will say, Yes, but goats like the butt Yes, but. Yes, but. And they don't obey the Lord. And Jesus will separate them. In John 5. 25, Jesus said, There is coming a resurrection of all men, some unto the resurrection of life, and some unto the resurrection of damnation. And on we could go. And again, some people will ask, well, why does Jesus uh speak of separation? Didn't he already speak of that in the parable of the weeks and the tares? No, the parable of the weeks and the tares emphasizes dwelling together. This parable again emphasizes dwelling together. separation at the judgment when it is going to come. And so why does the Lord give this? Again, he's emphasizing this point. Of separation. Remember who he's talking to, the disciples. What did they see? They've seen all kind of people that said they were a part of Jesus' kingdom who were not obeying him. And they're thinking, what about them? What about all those who have mocked the message of Christ? What about all those who have blasphemed? The Lord says there's going to come a day when all those things will be taken care of. And another reason why Jesus mentions this is out of compassion. Out of true, genuine compassion. Because the Lord doesn't want to see people get judged. He would rather give mercy. He would rather give mercy. Go back to Matthew chapter 9 again. Let me just show you a passage. Look at Matthew chapter 9 and look down at verse number 35. And Jesus went about all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom. This is verse 35, chapter 9, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted, and because they were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Then saith he unto his disciples, the harvest Truly is plenteous, but the labors are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he will send forth labors. The word plentius there means filled full. The harvest is filled full. What does this mean? What is this harvest here? Some say the harvest is the lost. The harvest here is the lost. There are lost people right for salvation. Well, that may be true, but I don't think that's what the Lord is referring to here. Some interpret this and say, well, this is talking about the elect. I don't agree with that interpretation either. Some say this is those who are seeking after God. Let me tell you what the harvest is. The harvest that he's talking about here is the harvest of judgment. The harvest is ready. The judgment is ready. That's why he had compassion. That's why he said that pray that the Lord of the harvest will send laborers into the harvest. Why? Because the judgment is close And the judgment is ripe. Write down Joel 3. 13. I think this is what the Lord had in mind, Joel 3. 13. Put ye in the sickle for the harvest. is ripe, come get you down, for the press is full, the fats overflow, for their wickedness is great. I think that's what Jesus is referring to here, Joel's harvest in this Old Testament passage. Jesus was thinking about the harvest. That was going to come, and when that harvest comes, many people that do not know him will be plunged into eternal punishment. And therefore he had compassion And therefore, for he prayed that the Lord of the harvest would send forth laborers into his harvest because of the compassion that he had, because Jesus is looking with an eternal perspective here. And I want to tell you something. The thought of eternal judgment in hell should motivate all of us to tell people about Jesus Christ. Paul said this in 2 Corinthians 5. 11. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. Knowing the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. Paul also understood this. The writer of Hebrews 10:31 said this: it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. Jude verse 22, some having compassion making a difference, others stay with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment spotted by the flesh. You know what led William Booth to start the Salvation Army? By the way, when he started that it wasn't just a bunch of places that are giving away clothes. That's not the way it started. I'm not saying that's a bad thing, that's a wonderful thing. But the reason he started it was because one night he couldn't sleep. He walked down the streets of London. He saw all kinds of homeless people. He saw all kinds of derelicts. All kinds of people that were just abused and his heart broke for all those people and he wanted to do something about it and he determined that he wanted to raise up an army of people that would go out and tell them about Jesus Christ And that's how it all got started. It was just compassion that he had on people. The Bible says God does not take pleasure in seeing the wicked die. He is not willing that any should perish. And Jesus wept over Jerusalem saying O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often I would have gathered thy children together as the hen does her chicks, but you would not So let's go to the third thing. We see the principle of that of separation, then the punishment. Here's the most fearful verse in verse 13, or chapter 13, verse number 50. Notice what it says. And shall cast them into the furnace. He'll separate the the uh the good from the bad, the wicked from among the just, verse fifty, and shall cast them into the furnace of fire, and there shall be wailing and gnashing of Again, this is one of the most horrifying verses in all of Scripture. But the Scripture makes it clear, there is a hell, beloved. There is. And again, Jesus spoke of it often. There are many verses I could give you. In Matthew 8, verse 12, Jesus said that the sons of the kingdom shall be cast. out into outer darkness, and there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. In Matthew 11, Jesus began to upbraid those who did not believe on him. And he said, although they would be lifted to heaven because he was there preaching the word, doing miracles, they had been lifted to heaven because they didn't believe, they would be cast down into hell. And again, there's much description of this all over in Scripture. But let me just give you one thought. There will be degrees of suffering there. There will be degrees. Go back to Matthew 11. Let me just show you this one thought. Matthew 11, again in verse 20, I just quoted it, but I want you to see this. Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not Verse 21, and Woe unto thee, Corizon, woe unto thee Bessaiah. For if the mighty works which were done in you had been done entire inside, then they would have repented long ago and sacked off in ashes. But I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment than for you. And thou, Capernaum, which are exalted to heaven, shall be brought down to hell. For if the mighty works which had had been done in thee had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I say unto you that it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than thee. What's the Lord saying? The degrees of punishment in hell are according to the the the amount and measure of light that you had been privileged to To receive in your time on earth and how you have responded to that light. That's the principle. Jesus said, look, if the works that I did in you, Capernaum, had I done those same works in Sodom, you know what would have happened? They would have repented. They would have believed. But you didn't. So it's going to be more tolerable for them than it is for you. You know why? The greater the light The greater the judgment when you reject that light. That's the principle. That's what he's saying. I want to tell you, folks, we here in America, we've got a lot to answer for. We've been given a lot of light. A lot of light. We have a lot of responsibility. There will be degrees People that come to church and they hear the gospel and they don't repent, they don't respond, I want you to know that you're pileing up judgment against the day of judgment when you don't respond. And Jesus, there he was, the personification of truth in their midst, preaching and teaching the Word of God and the power of the Spirit, like no one has had power in their preaching. And yet they would not respond. And so there will be degrees of punishment. Let me give you the fourth thing tonight: the parable, the principle, the punishment, and then number four, the propagation. the propagation. So notice what the Lord says then and finally, notice what he says in verse number 51. Then Jesus said, by the way, this is another parable here. He just finished giving the seven parables. And he's done now. He's finished. He said, here's how the kingdom's going to end. It's going to end in separation. God will separate the good from the bad. The bad will be punished. What a scary thought. And then the propagation after that, look at verse 51. Jesus said to them, Have ye understood all these things? And they said unto him, Yes, Lord. That's good. Jesus finished. He says, Do you understand? Jesus is a good teacher. He wants to make sure they understand. Sometimes I want to ask that when I'm preaching, do you understand what I'm saying? You get it? Because I want to be clear with the word. I want to make sure you understand. And that's what Jesus is saying. Literally, have you put this together? Are you able to put together what I'm saying? Do you understand everything I'm telling you about the kingdom of God? Do you understand these things? Do you understand that the kingdom will be like spreading seed? on soil and not everyone is going to respond to the gospel because some because the soil is not prepared in some cases some seed will land on hard soil, some will land on shallow soil, some will land on thorny soil, and there won't be any response there, but some seed will land on good soil And there'll be fruit there. Do you understand that not everyone's going to embrace the gospel? Do you understand there's going to be opposition? You understand there will be the counterfeit that will grow next to Those who are true? Do you understand that? Do you understand that Satan will oppose you? He will bring in his people to try to cause you to stumble. Do you understand that the kingdom will be like a small mustard seed, but it'll grow and it'll be large? And like a woman who puts leaven in bread, it will permeate, it will influence, it will be unstoppable. And do you understand that a person gets into the kingdom when they see the exceeding value of it? And they're willing to turn from all the world and turn to Christ. That's how they get into the kingdom. Do you understand that some people will stumble upon this treasure while other people will find it because they've been looking for it? And do you understand that at the end of the kingdom, God will separate the wicked from the righteous? He wants them to know that. And they said, notice what they said, yes, Lord, we got it. We believe it. We get it. By the way, do you get it? Understand? All these sermons have been in vain. Understand the kingdom? And so, and by the way, if you don't understand this, you'll be ill-prepared for the things of the kingdom. If you don't understand, you're going to get discouraged. You're going to think everybody is going to get saved. Who hears me? Not everybody. I wish everybody would. But they won't. If you don't understand this, you're going to get discouraged. You're going to get depressed. You're going to wonder why some people fell away. I did all I could. You may have done all you could. But friend, there's just certain things we don't have control of You have to understand these things, or you'll be discouraged, or you'll become disillusioned. And so then when they understand, notice the commission that Jesus gives them. Look in verse number 52. Then said he unto them, Therefore every scribe which is instructed unto the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a householder, which bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and things old Now here then in this final word, Jesus gives just one more parable. Now this parable doesn't have to do with the mysteries of the kingdom. This has to do with the responsibility of the disciples. Now that you've got this, now that you understand, I want you to know that you are responsible. You're like a householder. Or actually you're like a scribe. Again, look at verse 52. Therefore, every scribe which is instructed, the word scribe, grammatos, learner, Or a teacher or interpreter of the law, someone who's instructed or discipled. Now Jesus is saying, now you are instructed Bible scholars. That's what grammatas means. You're a scholar now. You now have a great amount of truth. You're a student that has learned the scripture, and you are now a scribe. You're one of my scribes. By the way, the Rabbis back then, when they would teach their disciples and fully instruct them, this is the title they would give to them. You're now a scribe. You're now ready to go and take this out. You're now trained. You now have gotten a degree from the seminary of Jesus. That's the seminary I want to attend, right? They understand. And so he says in verse 52, you're like a householder. He says, which is instructed into the kingdom of heaven, every scribe which is instructed into the kingdom of heaven, watch this, is like unto a man that is a householder Which brings out of his treasure things new and things old. What is Jesus saying here? The word householder, okoi despotes, where we get the word despot, ruler. Of a household or master of the house. And what he's talking about is someone who is a master of the house, who has stored in his house all kinds of things. This is someone who does not throw anything away. This is a biblical justification for hoarding right here He's got it all his house. He's collected all these old things in his house. You know what happened back in the day? By the way, anybody here collectors? My wife is a collector. She doesn't throw anything away I can't get her to throw anything away. And by the way, this is biblical justification, so I'm gonna have to stop asking her right now. Here's a man, you know what they would do back in Jesus' day? They would collect everything, a householder would collect, they wouldn't throw anything away You know why? Because someone would come along and they would need that. And so you know what they would do? The householder would go into his storehouse and get his treasure. It calls it treasure. And he would give it to that person, whatever they needed. He would go into a storehouse. The householder would be generous. He would be kind. He would give it to them. And he would be a wise steward because he understands that he has been entrusted with a lot of things. And so he will dispense those things wisely. And give them as the need arises. He was a wise steward of everything he had possessed. Sometimes those things were old, and then sometimes new things would be added to his storehouse of things. And now Jesus said, this is what you're like, you disciples. You're now like a householder. You now have been given new things in your storehouse. What is the storehouse? The storehouse of knowledge. You've been learning, you've been under me for two and a half years, and now you're learning even more. And now I'm preparing you because you have to remember here, at this point, Jesus is preparing them because in just a short moment he's going to start to go to the cross. And so he's getting them ready. And he says, now I want you to add these things that I've just taught you to the old storehouse. Now you had old things, now you have new things. And then I want you to dispense them. Give it out. So how does that apply to us? Well, friend, that's what you are You've been learning truth. You understand that you're not supposed to come to church just to learn truth and that's it? You understand you're supposed to dispense it. And give it out and tell others and teach that we're responsible as stewards of the mysteries of the kingdom? Because God reveals these things to us, we now have to give it out. We have now have to dispense it. That's what he's saying. In verse 52, which says, when he says, which brings forth out of his treasury, the word bring forth literally means to fling out, to scatter abroad. Jesus saying, now that you have this treasure, I want you to scatter it. I want you to spread it. I want you to teach it. Why? Because he wants to warn others. He wants to continue to warn others. You know what that means, beloved? That all of us here tonight, we are stewards of the mysteries, all of us. God has revealed these things to us. We've got to get it out. We've got to tell others. God doesn't give us His word so that we can be scholars and that's all. He gives us his word that we would be stewards and dispense it to the needy. Give it out What are we doing to give it out? Vance Habner said this. We do not have a secret to be hidden. We have a story to be heralded. And that's true. Let me just close with this one story. Remarkable story that I read. On January 21st, 1930. A man by the name of Harold Vydian became uh somewhat of a hero in the nation of England. Let me tell you what happened. On that day The King of England, King George IV, was scheduled to give a very important address to not only his own country, but to be broadcast on radio all around the world. And this is by the way given in the book written by Donald McCullough in the book The Trivialization of God. And he says that when the king was about to give his address A few minutes before the king was to speak, a member of the CBS staff tripped over an electrical wire and broke it, cutting off the king's audience. Here's the king about to give this important address to the world, and a wire was broken, so no one's going to hear him And then he goes on to say with no hesitation, the Chief Control Operator, Harold Veidian, gas one end of the broken wire in his left hand hand and the other in his right hand, thus restoring the the current, and electricity surged through his body, ignoring the pain he held on until the king had finished his address. Let me tell you something, that's incredible. When I read that, I thought, man, that's a challenge to Christians. You know why? Because the King of Kings has something he wants to say to the whole world But only as we allow God's power to pass through us will they ever hear the message that He wants to be transmitted. And so the question is, are you willing to serve as a conduit for the message of the king, regardless of what it costs us? So that the good news, the word of God, will be proclaimed all around the world. That's what the Lord wants of all of us. May God help us to be a conduit of the King's message. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we we thank you for the understanding of these things. And now that we know these things, we are we're like scribes. We're like scholars that have learned at the feet of our master. But Lord, we know that you didn't teach us these things just so that we can keep them in our notebook But Lord, now we're responsible. We're stewards. And now we have to dispense out of our treasury things old and things New to all those who are needy. Lord, help us to be responsible stewards. And Lord, help us to understand the urgency of the hour. Lord, paint in our heart an image of eternal punishment, Lord, that will motivate us to go and tell others, whoever we bump into, whatever opportunity that you give us. to share Christ with those around. Lord, use these words, stir our hearts. And just a moment with heads bowed and eyes closed, it may be that you're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. You know, here at Grace, we're constantly throwing out the net. You know why? Because we want you to come to Christ. And my question to you tonight is this, are you absolutely sure that you're a part of the kingdom? Are you absolutely certain about that? Have you repented? Have you trusted Christ and your Savior? And friend, if there's any doubt about that, then don't let that doubt linger on. Deal with that And even after the service tonight, we'll be here to talk to you if you have any question about your soul. The Bible says give all diligence To make your calling and election sure. So, friend, just pray to God. If you're here tonight, you say, I would like to pray right now. Well, God will hear your prayer right where you are. Would you be willing to say this And mean it from your heart, God be merciful to me as sinner. And save me. Friend, if you'll pray that in me and Jesus will save me. Save you right where you are. If you'll reach out to him in faith. God be merciful to me a sinner and save me for Christ's sake. Father, save souls and bless your word of hearts. We pray in Jesus' name.