It's good to see you all here tonight. Would you take your Bibles, please, open to the book of Deuteronomy tonight. Look in chapter six. And we're gonna just be looking at this chapter tonight. Remember on Wednesday night we're doing a series on family called Family Matters. And tonight the title of our sermon is Parenting by the Book. And look in uh Deuteronomy chapter six and we're going to deal with this passage of Scripture that can really, I think, help us with Some good things about being parents. Look at verse 1. Now these were the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments which the Lord your God commanded to teach you that you might do them in the land whither you go to possess it That thou mightest fear the Lord thy God, to keep his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, thou and thy sons and thy son's son, all the days of thy life, that thy days may be prolonged. Former President George H. W. Bush was once asked this question, what is your greatest accomplishment? And uh, you know, he might have said, you know, it was his success during World War II as a Navy pilot. But he didn't say that. He might have talked about his eight years as being a vice president under Ronald Reagan, but he didn't talk about that. He could have talked about his own success as a president. uh uh he didn't speak about that. He didn't speak about his uh years as being director of the CIA or ambassador to uh China. He could have bragged about the uh Operation Desert Storm, a military victory over in Iraq, but he didn't mention any of those things as the greatest achievement of his life. He said this. This is what he answered. He said, My greatest accomplishment is that my children still come to see me. What a statement. When everything else in life is weighed and considered in light of its importance, there's no greater ministry given to parents than to your family and to your children. Your children are your greatest investment in the future, our children and our grandchildren. That is our ministry. That is our life. In America, we wrongly view success in terms of money or in terms of fame or in terms of our own career success, but that's not what the Bible calls success. The Bible views success in terms of godly, loving family relationships Now here in Deuteronomy chapter 6, actually it's chapter 5 and chapter 6, Moses is giving his farewell address to the nation of Israel, and he wants Israel to survive. They're about to cross over into the Promised Land, and he wants to see the the nation go forward. He wants to see it be blessed. He wants the nation to have a future. In fact, look in chapter five and look at verse number twenty nine. Just look up a few verses and you'll see this Where Moses says, Oh, that there were such a heart in them that they would fear me and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them. and with their children forever. And that's really the heart of Moses there. He wants it to be well with them. He wants it to be well with their children. He wants it to be well with with the families and with the nation. They were again preparing to go over into Canaan in the land of Canaan there would be many temptations. They would be surrounded by pagans. There would be the pressure to conform and uh Canaanized is one Old Testament scholar coined the term to be Canaanized is to be just like all of the Canaanite culture around them. But Moses wants the nation to do well. He wants the nation to survive. And he knows that as the family goes, so goes the nation. Plato said this, and I don't quo co quote him much, but he said the life of a nation is the life of the family written large And he's and there he's right. It'll only be well with the nation if it's well with the families. And it'll be well with the families if families love God and fear God and worship God and God is put first in the home. Now that is the key idea uh excuse me idea here, that in order for it to go well with the family and to have the blessings of God Then that means parents must love God fervently, parents must teach their children diligently, and they must live in this world carefully. And so I want you to see three these three principles as we look at this passage. So we talk about parenting by the book. Here's the first thing. In order to parent by the book, number one, you have to love God fervently. Again, look in chapter 6, look in verse number 4. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart. And with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. This is the most important requirement for raising godly children and having a godly family. And we want not only godly children, we want godly grandchildren. The most important thing in order to have this is that we exemplify loving God with all of our heart. Your children have to see that in you and in me first and foremost. They have to see that we love God fervently Before we can ever be successful Christian parents, we have to be successful Christians, period. We have to nail down our own walk with God. We have to make sure that we're putting God first in our life, that we're loving God supremely. Many kids are turned off when they see parents that profess religion. And maybe they're one way at church and in public, but they're a totally different way at home where they don't love God with all their heart. I know you knew the name Karl Marx. When he was a little child, he was raised in a Jewish family. And they lived in Germany. And one day Karl Marx's father came to him and he said, We're moving to another city. And when they moved to another city, rather than going to the synagogue, Karl Marx's father said, Look, now we're going to go to the Lutheran church. And Karl Marx said to his father, Why are we doing that? And he said, Well, it's strictly a business decision. I can get more business contacts by going to a Lutheran church. And something died inside the heart of Karl Marx. where he thought that religion was not there was really nothing to it, and he uh saw that his father had no real conviction, no real genuine love for God. And he moved to England and later on he founded a uh uh what we now know as communism. And in his writings he said this, religion is the opiate of the people. What did he mean by that? Religion is just something out there designed to take away the pain and the suffering of people that's not real. It's like a drug. It's like an opiate It doesn't really mean that you really love God or there's anything really to that. Where did he learn that? He learned that by his father's example. As one man said, many parents vaccinate their children with a mild form of Christianity so they don't catch the real thing What does it mean to love God? What does it look like? We kind of get some hints from this passage here in Deuteronomy. Here's the first thing that we see: loving God means having a correct theological knowledge of Him as revealed in Scripture. Look at verse number four. Notice what it says here. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. I want you to know that's a theological statement there. From Moses. That's theology right there in verse number four. We have to teach our children correct theology, and the only way to do that is for you yourself to know right theology about God. Now I know when I mention the word theology, people's eyes already start to get heavy, their eyelids start to close. Because we have this idea that theology is a boring subject. It's not boring. Theology is the most exciting subject ever. Because the word theology simply means the study of God. I can't think of anything more satisfying Or that should bring more joy than studying who God is. There's no such thing as boring theology, only boring theologians. I'll grant you that. I've been to some ETS meetings, Evangelical Theological Society meetings, and I've heard some of those guys read their papers, and believe me, I understand there are some boring ones out there. But when you study About God the right way. It should stir your heart. It should stir your affections. You know, you were created to know God, to love God, and to enjoy God. That's the reason you were created. And the more you get to know of God, the more you will love him, and the more you will enjoy him. The more theology that you study correctly, the more joy and love for God it will produce in you That's the way it's supposed to be. All real theology should lead to doxology. It should lead you to praise God. You ever notice how in the New Testament letters the Apostle Paul, when he wades through a deep theological subject, will all of a sudden just break out. And a doxology of praise to God. You ever notice that? For example, in Romans 11, after Paul waded through deep theology on the sovereignty of God, he breaks out in verse 33 and says, Oh, the depths of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. For who hath known the mind of the Lord, and who hath been his counselor Or who hath first given to him, and it should be recompense unto him again, for of him and through him, and to him are all things, to whom be glory for ever. Amen That's Paul praising God after learning some deep theological lessons. Later he wrote to Timothy after talking about God's Grace for saving the chiefest of sinners, and he said this under the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God be honor and glory for ever and ever You know what studying theology is? It's loving God with all your mind. That's what we're commanded to do. We're to love God with all our mind. I like what the psalmist said. He said, Great is the Lord. And greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. That's what studying about God should cause you to say. The more we learn about God, the more our Adoration and worship and joy increases because the more we know of Him, the more satisfied we are in our heart, and the more joy we have, it's just this constant circle Like the psalmist said in Psalm 40, verse 16, but may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. May those who love your salvation continually say, Great is the Lord. That is the result of studying God. But the problem is people don't know the God of the Bible. You know why? There's so much wrong theology being taught about God. People make up their own God in their mind. They worship a God that's not real, a God that's not revealed in Scripture. You ever hear people say, Well, my God would never do something like this? Well, I say, Well, your God probably wouldn't, but your God is not the God of the Bible And you don't have a right to make up things about God and say, This is my God. All that is, is that's idolatry. You're not worshiping the God who has revealed himself in Scripture. You're worshiping the God of your own fancy, of your own imagination. And that's what the heart of man does. That's what the Canaanites did. They they made their own gods, and then they made image to r images to reflect that. And that's why Moses is giving such a strong theological statement here about God. Again in verse number four, when he says, Hear, O Israel, this is a A key verse among the Jewish people is called the Shema. You may have heard that because the first word in verse number 4 here is the Hebrew word Shema. Hear, O Israel. This is a call. The call implies that the following words, what he's about to say, is incredibly important and something that they have to grapple with. You know, here, O Israel, the Lord. Notice the word the Lord there, if you're you have a King James Version, it's in all capital letters, and what is that? That's the divine name, the tetragrammaton, the four-letter name that uh that was so sacred to the Jews they normally didn't say it out loud. It is Yahweh. Yahweh is our God. Or we could say Yahweh is the one. It could also be rendered Yahweh as our God, Yahweh alone, and it means that Yahweh and only Yahweh is the true and the living God. He alone is to be the object of our worship. As the Lord said in Isaiah, I am the Lord, there is none other. Besides me, there is no other God. He is one God, not three gods, although he exists in three persons. There is one God Revealed in the scripture, revealed several places in the Old Testament, also made explicit in the new that he's one God revealed in three co-equal persons. And that's the doctrine of the Trinity. And the only way we come to know this one true God is by his revelation of himself to us through Scripture. That's why God's word is so important to us because it teaches us about God. So he is gracious in that he reveals himself to us. And and you know, we don't really have time, but there's already a lot of theology here in chapter six. We see his unity. We see that he is to be worshipped exclusively in verses thirteen and fourteen. We see that he is a person that you can have a relationship with because we are to love him with all our heart We see that he is gracious to his people in keeping his covenants. This is verses ten and eleven in chapter six. We see that reverence and worship is due to him. Verse thirteen, thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and serve him, and shalt swear by his name. And then he's jealous and angry in verse number fifteen when we worship or we put other things ahead of him. He's sovereign over our trials. He has absolute authority in verse 17 to tell us how to live. He is the God that redeems his people, and we see his goodness. In order to rear godly children and have a godly family, we have to love God fervently. He has to be first. To love God is more than having wonderful feelings about some vague being who is really the subject of our imagination rather than the God. Who is revealed in Scripture. And the reason I emphasize this is because I'll be honest with you. I hear on TV all these TV preachers making all these bizarre statements about God. And what really bothers me is that people swallow that. You know, one well-known TV preacher says that he follows Jesus because Jesus is such a positive person. Really? That's not the Jesus of the Bible. That's the Jesus of a man's imagination. To love God, we have to know who He is as He is revealed in the written Word of God. So that is the root. It starts right there. We have to know God. We have to know the God of Scripture. That means we have to study God's Word. And coupled with understanding who God is, there should be then a fervent love. A solid theology mixed with a fervent love from our heart to God, a passionate love. That's the idea of loving God with all of our soul, it says in verse number uh five Lord with all thine heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. In fact in the New Testament, Jesus adds mind And basically what it's talking about is the whole person. We love God with all of our being. Every area of our life must be consumed with this one thing of loving God. That's what it means to love God. But number two, another thing, loving God means obeying His word. Notice the emphasis that it puts here on obeying. Look in verse number one. Now these commandments and statutes and judgments Which the Lord your God commanded to teach you that you might what? Do them. That you might do them. Look at verse number three. Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to what? You guys with me tonight? You thinking about Halloween candy already? Look in verse 3 again. Hear, therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it. Again, look in verse number six. And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. You have to it has to be a part of you. You have to love it, you have to learn it, and then you live it out. By the way, later on Joshua would remind the children of Israel of this same principle in Joshua 1, verse 8, when they were getting ready to cross over into the land of Canaan. Remember what Joshua said? This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth. That means you don't stop talking about it. You just keep talking about it all the time. Then think about it. In verse number eight, he also said, But thou shalt meditate therein day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written there in him. We meditate on it. We think about it all the time. What is meditation? It is rolling something over again and again in your mind And the illustration I've used for this before is, you know, you ever you ever hear a song, you ever walk into like a 7-Eleven or playing a song, maybe it's a bad seventies or eighties song that you listen to when you're a kid, and then you you walk out and you know what that song is in your mind the rest of the day. It just keeps rolling around and you're like, man, I wish I could get rid of this song. But it just stays there all day long, you know. That's a form of meditation. You're rolling it over and over and over again. And that's what it is to meditate on scripture. We're constantly thinking about it, rolling it around in our mind. We speak about it, we sing about it. Really, singing when you sing scripture, that's a form of meditation Now, why are we to do all this? Well, the end result is what Joshua said, that we may observe to do according to all that is written therein. The bridge between information And application is meditation. You know, every time you come to church, I download you with a lot of stuff. And then if you're not careful, you can get up and forget about it. You can get out and walk out. All that study I did all week long is for nothing because you forgot everything I said. Don't do that. You know, take notes. Think about it. Not not not it's not about me. I'm I'll try not to be offended if you forget my sermons, all right? Again, really, it's not about me. It's about you learning God's word. And by the way, I'm guilty of the same thing, all right? I mean, I I can do that. I can come to love to hear the word of God, but if I'm not careful, I can get up and walk away and forget about it And we don't want to do that. And so we we write it down, then we think about it even more. And why do we want to keep thinking about it? Because when we think about something long enough, what will happen? We'll do it Meditation leads to application. That's what God said to Joshua. You talk about it all the time, you meditate it, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. You think about something long enough, you're going to start to instinctively do it. That's the whole point. That's the power of the mind. Listen to what Proverbs 23, 7 says. For as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. Meditation leads to action. It leads to obedience. And when you're meditating in God's Word, you will begin to obey God's Word. And when you obey God's word, that is the greatest expression of your love to God. Jesus would later say this in John 14, 21: Whoever has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. Here people say, Oh, Jesus, I love you. But they don't ever obey Jesus. They don't do what he says. Jesus says, Look, whoever has my commandment and who keeps them, that's the one who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and manifest myself to him. In John fourteen twenty-three, Jesus said, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him. Again in John fifteen, ten, if you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love. just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. So this is the great goal of knowing God through his word, that we might be obedient as Christians. I know sometimes when people say oh obedience, they immediately think about legalism, but that's not what we're talking about. We're not talking about an outward legalistic obedience. We're talking about an obedience that comes from a heart of devotion because you truly love God. An attitude of love towards the Lord. Now, the problem is that Uh m many Jews took these verses and they they took them literally. For example, look down at verse number eight. Thou shalt bind them for a sign upon but Upon thy hand, thou shalt be a frontlet between thine eyes, thou shalt write them upon the post of thy house and on thy gates. And what happened was there's some Orthodox Jews that actually took that literally, and they wore these little boxes between their forehead and also on their on their hands and also these mezuzas they called them and they would put 'em on their doorposts, little boxes that had scripture verses in them And they would put them on the doorpost. Some some Jews in every room in the house on the doorposts going into the room, they would have these little mezzoas, these little boxes with scripture. They took this literally But what God was doing here is God was actually just saying, let God's word be central in your life. Which leads to point number two. Love God fervently. But here's number two, teach your children diligently. Now we just read verses seven to nine, but then look in chapter six, look at verse twenty down to verse twenty-five. And when thy son asked thee in time to come, saying, What meaneth the testimonies and the statutes and the judgment which the Lord your God has commanded you? Then thou shalt say unto thy son, We were Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand. And the Lord showed signs and wonders great and sore upon Egypt and upon Pharaoh and upon all his household before our eyes, and he brought us from out from thence that he might bring us in to give us the land which he swear unto our fathers And the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes to fear the Lord our God for our good always, that he might preserve us alive. as it is this day. In other words, there's this idea we teach our children diligently and they will ask us questions and we'll be able to answer those questions. And we tell them diligently here has the idea of repetition. You just teach them over and over again. Um and let the word of God be central. And verse number seven, back up where it says When you sit in your house, this is talking about sitting down with your family. When you have a family meal, and by the way, if you're so busy that you can't have at least one meal together as a family, you're too busy. Rearrange your schedule. Sit down together as a family at least one time. And read the scripture together and pray together. before you eat. Or find a time to do it. I when we had family devotions with our children, we found the best time to do it was right before they would go to bed. Because you know why children would rather do anything than go to bed. You know, so when it was time to go to bed, that's when we would have our family devotion. In fact, they would be faithful to remind us of that. They would be saying, All right, it's time to go to bed. They would say, Dad, we gotta have family devotions. What's wrong with you? You know, are you backsliding dad? You know. We gotta have family 'cause they didn't want to go to bed. You know. And so this is the time that we thought we'll take advantage of this. So we would read scripture together. When they were really small, we would use these These uh books that had beautiful pictures, Bible stories, and talk about the story, talk about what God did, pray together. When they got older, we started reading verses together. When they got Much older, dad started holding them accountable and I would say, What did I preach on Sunday? That's when the family devotions kind of took a turn for the no, I'm just kidding. They were like under pressure. Now I gotta answer some questions from Dad here. You know. But the main thing is that you find time when you sit down, look at verse 7, where it says, when you walk by the way This implies when you go to places together, it might be to the grocery store or a family outing or on a hike or on a long drive. Verse 7 where it says, When you lie down, this points to bedtime. That's a great opportunity to talk with your children, to pray with them right before you lie down. Or when you rise up, that's in the morning in verse 70 Teach them how to start the day off right with the Lord. Again, your example teaches a lot. If your kids are always grumpy in the morning, Teach them how to start off with a cheerful heart. Now in order for that to happen, you have to be cheerful in the morning. How many here are morning people? Never mind, don't raise your hand. But in the morning when you get up, teach them how to start their way their day with God. In verse 8, where it says, bind them on your hands. That is, teach children God's ways by your actions. Again in verse 8, put them on your forehead. Again, Orthodox Jews took that literal, but it just simply uh took it literally, but it just simply means God should be on your thoughts and your attitudes and the way that you communicate truth. In verse 9, where it says put them on your doorposts. This is really speaking about a civic or social life. That's another opportunity, another chance to talk about God. Discuss national and world events from God's perspective. Surely our children must have questions about the events that are going on in the world. And you can talk to them about how God's word applies to all of that. And then you can answer questions. And verse we saw this in verses twenty to twenty five when they ask about, you know, how did we get here? You know, you can tell them about God's great redemption and deliverance. Tell them what God did in your family, what God did in your life. You know, um I know I've mentioned a lot about my my father's testimony And they passed away Sunday at 345. And uh, you know, we started coming to Grace in 1978. And the reason we did was because my my father actually came to church here at Grace and heard Pastor Johnson preach. Now my father, he worked on the Baltimore BO Railroad, and he was kind of a rough guy, rough character, to be honest with you. But I want to tell you, when God saved him, he totally changed. I just remember how that impacted me as a 14-year-old. I would come home and look at this guy and look at what he was doing. Reading the Bible, praying all the time, and I wanted to go up to him and say, who are you and what did you do with my father? Because he was so different. There was such a change. Now I'm not saying that he was a perfect man, because certainly I could see remnants of the old John Harmon that was there constantly, like all of us, were in this process of sanctification But what was different was that he had a love a genuine love for God. And a genuine love for the Word of God. And you know what? I don't want my kids to forget that. I mean it's very easy, you know, third generation to realize, you know Or forget that the transforming grace of God came into our family. I want to rehearse that. I want my children to remember that. I want my grandchildren to remember that because I want to tell you something. That's a precious thing When God visits your home and someone is saved by the grace of God and changed, you understand what a blessing that is? Speak of God's works, speak of God's redemption, speak of God's salvation that has taken place in your family, because that's a testimony, and that's what Moses is saying here. Listen, when your children ask you In years to come. What about this and why this? We should be able to answer those questions when they had theological questions. We should have enough understanding of the scripture that we can answer those questions. That means that we have to learn God's word. There's no easy way to do that. That's why you should come to Sunday school. That's why you should come to hear the Word of God when it's preached. That's why you should take advantages of Bible studies and listen to the Word of God in every opportunity you have. under sound preachers and preaching to listen and learn God's word so that you can teach that to your children and to your grandchildren when they come. That's what Moses is saying here. That, you know, when your children come to ask, you taught tell them about God's commandments. And you know, we have this thing out there that all of God's commandments are they're they're so negative. We almost like God is you know this cosmic killjoy, doesn't want us to have any fun. No. Look at verse 24. And the Lord commanded us To do all these statutes to fear the Lord our God for our good always. Remind your children that when God gives a commandment He's not doing it to take away joy, but quite the opposite. He wants us to be happy. He wants us to have joy. And all of God's commandments are for our good. They're so that we can enjoy the things that God has given us legitimately, not to take away joy. And so God wants us, He wants to bless us. In order to do that, God has to be central in our home. We have to love Him with all our heart. We have to know God's word and learn of Him through the Word of God. And so the Word of God will impact every area of our life. But let me give you the last thing quickly, and I'll just spend a few minutes on this. In order to parent according to the book, we have to love God fervently, teach our children diligently, and finally live in the world carefully. Because in verses 10 down to verse 19, and I won't read all of this with you, but this is a warning from Moses. He's saying you're going to face a danger. When you go into the land of Canaan, there's going to be temptations all around you. By the way, we're living in Canaan today in this culture. And there's temptations all around. And the world wants to wants to uh to conform uh our children to the way they think. We live in an ungodly world that that is robbing our children of their identity. And and we have to insulate them with the Word of God so that they're not crushed by the culture. But Moses' warning Then when you go into the land of Canaan and settle, there's going to be a lot of temptation around you. But you know the greatest danger that they faced? You want to know the greatest danger? Let me show it to you. Look in verse 11. Actually, back up to verse 10. And it shall be when the Lord thy God shall have brought thee into the land which he swear unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and to give thee great and goodly cities which thou buildest not And houses full of all good things which thou fillest not, and wells dig which thou diggest not, vineyards and olive trees which thou plantest not, when thou shalt have eaten and be full. Here's the danger, look in verse number twelve Then beware lest thou forget the Lord, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage. That's the greatest danger right there The greatest danger that your family faces, that we face, is that we can get so satisfied That we forget God. We forget the Lord. And then the progression is you get satisfied, you forget God. And then they followed other gods. Then you start to have idols in your life. You start getting pleasure and satisfaction out of things. And you put things ahead of God. Like the songwriter said, prone to wonder, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. God says, Don't forget me. By the way, this is a theme that runs all throughout the book of Deuteronomy. And I could just, we could go through the whole book and show you how that over and over again, God says to the people, lest you forget. Do not forget. Make sure you remember. Because God knows the nature of human nature. He knows how that we are prone to forget God. And when you do that. then you're open yourself up for danger. You know, um a while uh you know a while back there was a man who called me on the phone and uh he was in the hospital and the doctors had given him a diagnosis and he was you know, it was pretty much uh close to death. The doctors didn't give him much hope. And he asked if I would come and I would pray for him. And I went to the hospital. And uh and I looked at him, he he looked horrible. He looked like he was going to die. And I prayed over him. And I asked God to bring healing to them. And I shared the gospel with him. And he prayed and he asked Jesus to come into his heart. And they released him from the hospital. They actually released him, you know, thinking that he was going to die. And you know, God, who is so gracious, began to heal him. And uh he went back to the doctor after a few months, and the doctors were amazed. He made a turnaround, he started getting well. All the disease that was in his body was gone. During that whole time he was faithful to worship God, faithful to you know put God first, all these things, and God blessed him, and one thing led to another. He was blessed by the Lord until finally, you know, he was back normal. Everything was great in his life. And you know what? He just dropped off. He fell away. He went back into his old life. No longer worshiping God, no longer serving God, no longer, you know, where he needs to be in his spiritual walk. And the repentance that was born in the storm died in the calm. And he got sucked right back into the world. And God is saying, listen, this is the biggest danger for any family, but it starts with individuals. It starts with us, Dad. When we follow the Lord and we honor him and he blesses us and we have all these things that God has put in our life We seem to forget the blessings of God, and somehow we think that maybe we did all this and we turn away from the Lord. And I want to tell you that's a blessing. Let me tell you what the biggest problem with our country right now, America, America has forgotten God. Has forgotten God, and we are paying the benefits of it. Or I should say the consequences. of it as a can as a country, as a nation. And so God warns them, do not forget the Lord. Parenting by the book means you love God fervently. You teach your children diligently, you live in the world carefully, and you don't forget the Lord when he blesses you. It's far easier to build a child than to repair an adult. And so may the Lord help us to do everything in our power to be the best parents and grandparents that we can be. So let me ask you a question in closing tonight How would you feel if your child grew up to be just like you? Spiritually. How would you feel if your child grew up to be just like you? Think about that. What kind of Christian would they be if they were just like you as a believer? Would you be pleased with that? Would you be okay with that? Where are the areas of your life that need attention? You say, I haven't made mistakes. Who hasn't? We've all made mistakes. We can get mercy and forgiveness from Almighty God. But any change that we need to make in our life, it has to begin with God, who is so gracious, who is so merciful. And so we need to pray that we will be the right people for our children to follow. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Look at again these verses and think about the charge that Moses gave to the children of Israel so long ago. And we examine our own heart according to it. Lord, we're convicted. I know I'm convicted. There are things that I need to do better. There are things that I should repent of. There's times, Lord, when I got satisfied and I forgot how richly I was blessed by you. Lord, forgive us for this. Forgive us for being casual sometimes in our love for you and not loving you fervently with all of our heart the way we should, for allowing that love to grow cold. It's easy to happen, Lord, in our sinful heart. And so, Lord, I pray that you'll help us guard us our heart against the affections that we should rightly have for you being stolen away. By the things of this world, and maybe even the riches of this world, the things that you the very things that you give us that should cause us to love you and adore you more. Sometimes, Lord, can steal away our passion when we allow them to become idols. May we, Lord, through your strength. and your grace, be able to obey the charge that Moses gave to these families so long ago. The difference is, Lord, we have the Holy Spirit Whereas the children of Israel lived on the other side of the cross. But we now have the filling of the Holy Spirit. We have the ability through your grace. To be what you've called us to be. May we yield ourselves to you. May we see your hand of blessing upon us. And Father, we pray all of this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.