Look in James chapter 1, the passage we read a moment ago. I heard about a professor who gave a grade to a college student on a test that the student had taken, and on the paper was a big red F And the student said to the professor, I just want you to know I don't deserve this grade. And the professor said, yes, I know, but it's the lowest grade that we have. Can you relate to that? You ever failed a test that bad? You know, no one likes to fail a test. It's very miserable. On the other hand, passing a test is is wonderful And just know that in the Christian life, God has some tests for you and I to take. Just like in school we take tests to determine whether we're going to advance or repeat. Even so, in the spiritual life, God will give us a season of testing to determine the advancement of our faith, whether or not we would advance or have to take that test over again. I don't know about you, but I don't like to take a test twice. You say does that happen spiritually? Ecclesiastes 315 says this That which is already has been, and that which is to be already has been. God seeks what has been driven away. We say it like this. God what we drive away, God brings back. In other words, a lot of times we don't like to take the test. We like to run from it. But God says, I'm gonna bring this back and you're gonna have to go through this again. In our spiritual life, uh God will bring us testing, and we there's no way out of it. And if you try to get around it or you fail it, God says you're going to have to repeat it. So I'd just as soon not repeat a test. I would just as soon do well and advance in the Christian life. And that's why the book of James is so very important, because James is going to teach us about testing. And he's going to tell us how to pass the test of life. But let me just introduce this to you, this book, first of all. Who's the author? Well, look again in verse 1, James. a servant of God, that's the word dulas, a slave of God, and of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now who is this James? There are actually three men in the New Testament named James. Actually it's the Hebrew name Jacob is the Greek name James. And that was a popular name. Well, one of the James that we know in the New Testament is the brother of John, you know, Peter, James, and John, that trio. That's not the writer here, because he suffered martyrdom in the beginning of the Christian era. Then there's another James in the New Testament, James son of Alpheus. We really don't know a lot about him. So through the process of elimination, we come to the other James mentioned in the New Testament. This was the son of Joseph and Mary, the half-brother of Jesus. This is the writer of this letter here. Now if I were the half-brother of Jesus, I probably would go and let people know that. But James doesn't call himself necessarily the half-brother of Jesus. What does he call himself? A servant of God. You know why? Because James came to believe that Jesus was the Lord, the Son of God, the Messiah. And he was saved. And he became his servant. In fact, he became such a righteous man. The early church called him James the Just. Another title for him was camel knees. Why did they call him camel knees? Because he spent so much time in prayer on his knees. that his knees bore the marks of his prayer life, and so they called him camel knees. Now who is he writing to? The audience. Notice in verse 1 again to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad This is a phrase that refers to the nation of Israel during the dispersion time in the Old Testament, but this is used kind of in a figurative way here, talking about the church. The church, the believers were scattered abroad. Why were they scattered abroad? Because many of them were going through times of persecution. And James writes to encourage them in this time of testing, we could say, or persecution. What's the aim? Why does James write this letter? Well, really, it's all about um your faith being real, authentic James is the show-me letter of the New Testament. In other words, his whole message is don't just tell me that you're a Christian, show me that you're a Christian. Don't just talk about it, but live up to it. It's a living faith. That's really the theme of the letter of James And one of the ways that we show our genuineness in our faith is how we handle trials and testings when they come. And as I said, they will come. Testing will come to an individual. Testing will come to a church. Testing will come to a denomination. It will come to a nation. There are seasons of testings that God has for us. And so with all that in mind, I want you to see five things that you're going to need to know in order to pass the test of life. And here's the first one. If you're taking notes, write down number one, the fact of testing. It is a fact. Look again in verse number 2. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into divers temptations. Notice it doesn't say if, it says when. You see, the question is not will I be tested, the question is when will I be tested? Because everyone here, you're going to go through that season. We're all going to face it. In fact, as you sit here this morning, you're in one of three groups. You have been tested. You may be coming out of a season of testing in your life. Or you might be in another group. You are right now in the midst of a time of testing. God is putting you through a season of trials in your life. Or You say what? I'm not going through any testing right now. Everything's fine. Blood pressure down, bank account up. I'm I'm doing really well. Well, okay. But guess what? It's gonna come. Testing will come. You're not gonna get out of this world without trials. And heartaches and testing. Jesus said this in John sixteen thirty-three. In the world ye shall have tribulation The Apostle Paul said in Acts 14, 22, he said to his converts, We must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. Peter told the believers, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you. Peter said, Trials are not strange to Christians Don't treat it like it's some strange foreign thing. In fact, if you read through the scripture, you're going to find that God often tests his people. And the strongest saints are the ones that go through times of testing. God tested David, God tested Job, God even tested his son Jesus. You see, God knows that a faith that cannot be tested is a faith that cannot be trusted. Think about Abraham, the great man of faith. The Bible calls him strong in faith, and yet Abraham went through one test after another, after another. And God did that to advance his faith. And so there is the fact of testing. Write down number two. Here's the second thing I want you to see. Not only the fact of testing, but write down the forms Look again in verse 2. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into divers temptation. That King James word divers there is a word that is in the Greek simply means many colored Or varying. It's the idea of matching a test or a trial to the individual. God has multiple tests. Many tests, he might test one person one way, he'll test another person another way. But he's going to match it to what he's trying to do in my life. And what he's trying to do in your life, he will test diverse people, diverse ways, to diverse degrees. Some will be in a test longer than others. At diverse times. In diverse seasons of life, when you're young, when you're middle-aged, when you're old, there are different tests for each phase of life. But we are going to have different times of testing, different times of trials. Our life is made up of them. For some, it might come in the form of disappointments. Frustrations, misunderstandings, unfulfilled dreams, unmet expectations Great loss, great loneliness, fear, criticism, persecution, conflict, and on we could go. God matches the test to the individual. Let me just give you a few in the scripture. First of all, through circumstances In fact, I just put you in a circumstance. Remember last week we were talking about the children of Israel going through the wilderness. There was no water. But Abraham had made that trip years earlier and he dug wells and those wells were still there in the time of the New Testament. God knew where the wells were. But when he led them through the wilderness with his glory, he led them away from the wells. Why? To test them. And God will do the same with us. He'll put us through certain circumstances. Also through conflict. Judges 2 22, God refused to drive out any more of the Canaanites. Why? Listen, that through them I may prove or test Israel whether they will keep the way of the Lord. Who were the Canaanites? They were ungodly people who didn't know the Lord. Did you know that God might put an ungodly person in your path to test you? He did it to Israel. But then through a crisis. In John chapter 6, feeding of the 5,000, Jesus said to his disciples, How are we going to feed this multitude? Whence buy we bread that we may eat? Do you think Jesus didn't know what to do there? He's saying, guys, what should we do? No, no, the Bible says, and this said he to test them. For he himself knew what he would do. He wanted to see what they would do in the midst of a crisis. And a lot of times God will do that. He'll put us in a crisis. to see how we will respond. What will we do? And then he might use other Christians. In 1 Kings chapter 13, there's a story of a younger prophet who was actually tested by an older prophet. God might use a Christian in your life to bring testing to you. And then through choices, God one day appeared to Solomon, said, Solomon, tell me what you want. He was going to be the next king. Solomon, tell me what you want. And God gave him this choice to make, to test his heart. And Solomon did well. He said, Lord, I'm I'm just a child. I don't know how to go out and come in. That's a Hebrew um idiom for I don't know how to lead. I need wisdom. And God was delighted with that choice. And God gave him wisdom. In fact, think about the Lord Jesus Christ. When he was tested in Matthew chapter 4, it was really a test of choices, wasn't it? And Jesus chose the Word of God and to obey God's word every time. God might test you by putting before you a choice. Of what you are going to do. But there are many forms of testing that come in the life of the child of God So we see the fact of testing. We see the forms of testing. But then write down number three, the force. The force of testing. Look again in verse number two. My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall. into divers sensations. When you fall, that word fall here, it's only found three times in the New Testament. It's the word that Jesus used to describe the man who came who was going from Jerusalem down to Jericho on the way to Jericho. You remember that story? And the Bible says he fell among what? Robbers. He fell among the thieves. And it's the idea of something that happens surprisingly, suddenly. It just comes upon you. You know, Robert doesn't warn you when he's coming. Anybody ever get a voicemail from a robber saying I just want you to know we'll be at your house tonight? Doesn't happen that way. Surprisingly, suddenly, and by the way, that's the way trials come. Suddenly they come. Wham, it hits us. We get the phone call of some news. What a difference a day can make when things happen like that. Unexpectedly. When God came to Abraham And said, take your son Isaac up to Mount Moriah and sacrifice him. At that point in Abraham's life, everything was going good. There was total peace. He had everything he wanted. He finally had his natural-born son. And all of a sudden, God comes with a test. That's the way trials come, suddenly. Look at the life of Job. All at once, bam. Bam, bam, they come. That's the force. Winston Churchill said this. We must always be ready at our average moment to meet what the enemy will throw at us at his select moment. Satan has a select moment when he might come. But then write down number four. Number one, we saw the back attesting. We see the forms of testing. God does it in many ways. We see the force of testing. They come suddenly and swiftly and savagely upon us. But then number four, notice the facing of testing. Look in verse 2, my brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Look at the word count there. That's kind of a financial term. It means to evaluate. It means to think forward, to consider, to calculate. Paul uses this word in Philippians 3 when he becomes a Christian and he evaluates the priorities of his life. When he's thinking forward. And so the idea here is it's being used in this sense that when a testing comes, we don't run from it, we face it. We look into it. We look forward to the future of what it's going to bring in our life. Nobody likes to go through a trial or a test. He's not saying that we should be happy that we're having hard times. What he's saying is we should be happy of what it's going to produce in our life. That's the joy. I don't like to take a test. You ever notice on exam day in college, there's a lot of absences on that day? People don't want to face testing. But God wants you to stand up. He wants you to face it. He doesn't want you to run from it. His plan is victory, not vacancy. He wants you to counter the joy. And by the way, that's the reason why many Christians fail a time of testing, is because their attitude. You see, when God brings testing upon us, we we kind of We kind of think that why is God doing this? And we kind of think of God as some kind of cosmic killjoy, as if he's trying to take away joy in our life. Friend, that's the wrong outlook. And a lot of times it's your outlook that will determine your outcome when you're going through a time of testing. Instead of looking at testing as an obstacle to avoid, We have to look at them as an opportunity to advance in our faith and our faith. And so it's all about the attitude. That's why James says, count it a joy. A joy of what God is going to do in your life from this. How he's going to advance you in your faith. He's doing something great. It's all about the attitude. I was reading a story about Sir Christopher Wren. When I was over in London, I went to St. Paul's Cathedral and was noticing the beauty there. It was designed by Christopher Wren. And I read a story of a journalist who went to St. Paul's Cathedral when it was being built. to ask the workman how it was going and he interviewed three different men. The first man he came to, he said, what are you doing here? And this man said, well I'm cutting stone for ten shillings a day. And then he talked to the next person. He said, What are you doing here? He said, I'm putting in ten hours a day so I can feed my family. And then he interviewed the next person, and the third person said this, when he said, What are you doing? He said, I am building a cathedral for the glory of God. Different attitude. That's the way we need to take or the attitude we need to take when we're going through trials God's doing something in my life. Jesus went to the cross considering the joy that was set before him. Not the joy and the pain of the cross, but the glory that would come afterward. But the result that would come afterward. Paul said, For our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that outweighs all of them. I love the song that we sing. It will be worth it all. when we see Jesus. And so we need to maintain an attitude of joy. God wants us to face the testing. Now let me give you the fifth point and last point. The fact of testing and the forms of testing and the force and the facing. But notice the fifth point and last point. That is the fruits of testing. The fruits of it. Look again in verse number three. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience But let patience have her perfect work, that you might be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. Now the key word here is knowing. God wants us to know some things. He wants to know his purpose. And James gives us some reasons for the testing. And so, write down for our enjoyment. He wants us to have joy. He doesn't give us testing to take away happiness, but that we might have an eternal joy. A settled joy. You see, testing precedes triumph. When God brings you to a test, it's because He wants to bless you afterwards So that you're going to have great joy afterward. Testing is a prelude to joy and blessing. Write down 1 Peter 1 verse 6. In this you rejoice. Though now for a little while, if need be, you're going through manifold seasons of trials There's joy afterwards. But there has to be the conflict before the joy. There has to be the cross before the crown. There has to be the groan before the glory. If there is no opposition, there can be no joy. Let me illustrate it to you. You know, the Baltimore Ravens have lost two straight games. You aware of that? So I have a way for them to win all the rest of the games of the season. And here's the plan. If they show up early to the game when the other team isn't there, they can score as many touchdowns as they want. No more problem with the offense. They just get there early. It's just them. They can score as many touchdowns. Other teams not even on the field. He said, now wait a minute, that's crazy. That doesn't make any sense. Where is the where's the fun in that? Oh I see. Without opposition there can be no victory. Without opposition, there can be no joy of victory afterwards. And so God allows opposition. He allows conflict in our life so that, on the other hand, there will be great joy. There will be the thrill. There'll be the crown that comes after the cross. So for our enjoyment. But then I also write down another reason for God's testing is for our establishment. Look again in verse three, knowing this that the trying of your faith works patience. Notice the word trying there And uh it's a unique word. The word for temptation or trial is parasmas. That's a word that can mean either a temptation to do bad or a trial for our good. Whenever that word is used about Satan, it's always referring to a temptation to do bad. Whenever it's used in context of God, it's always referring to a trial to produce good. So it's kind of a neutral word depending upon how it's used in the context. However, the word for trying here that you see in verse 3, this is a different word altogether. This is dokimas. And what does that mean? It has the idea of testing something to see whether or not it's genuine, to see if it's real. You see, back in this day in the ancient world, there was counterfeit money being passed around all the time. So they had to have people that was able to look at a coin to determine if it was genuine. And this is the word that's used there to talk about that action. Is it real? And this is what God is doing in the life of people. Sometimes God will bring a person to a time of testing to see whether or not their faith is real faith. Is it genuine? Now God already knows whether or not it's real, but sometimes the people in the trial don't know. And God has to show us where we are. But here's the point. If your faith in God is a real, genuine faith, Then testing will reveal that. You know why? Because a person whose faith is real will not quit on God They will not walk away. They will not say, That's it, I'm done. I've heard of some people who are in church they were they called themselves a Christian and yet when a trial came they said that's it I'm done with God. This is not what I signed up for. And they move on. What does that prove? That was not a genuine faith. Because a faith that is genuine is not going to quit No matter how dark the trial. The jewelers jewelers called uh called a testing a water test. When they wanted to find out a diamond if it was real, when it was giving to them, they would they would give it the water test They would put the diamond under the water, and if the glow of the diamond was extinguished under the water, they said that's not a real diamond But if when they put a diamond underwater, if it was a genuine diamond, when it went under the water, it would shine brighter than ever before They didn't say that's a real diamond. You see, God will take a person, put them under the water of trials and testing, and you know what will ultimately happen? Ultimately, they will shine brighter than ever before. But if the light of their faith is extinguished under the water of trial, that faith isn't real. And so God will try a person to establish whether that faith is a genuine faith for our enjoyment. And by the way, that's assurance. You go through a trial and you come out on the end of that trial praising God, you don't ever have to worry about whether your faith is real or not. God establishes that it's a genuine faith. But then here's a third reason for our endurance. Look in verse 3, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patiently Look at the word patience there. That is a word that means endurance. It's an inner strength that is permanent. It's the idea of persevering. You ever say people say, well, I don't pray as I ought to. I don't witness as I ought to. I'm not as consistent in the Christian life as I ought to be. Okay, well you better get ready for trials. Because that's what God does in a time of testing. He develops in the Christian an inward stability, an inward strength, an endurance, a perseverance. So that you can finish this race of life strong. He will develop that patience in that person. Thomas Manson, the Puritan, wrote this: the worth of a soldier is never known in times of peace. And so God will put us through a trial to develop that endurance. But then here's another reason for our enlargement. For our enlargement. Look again in verse 4. But let patience have her perfect work, that she might be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. The word perfect here doesn't mean sinless. It's the Greek word telios. It means mature. Come to full maturity. And that's what he's talking about. A spiritual maturity. God is trying to mature us. In this time of trials. The Bible says of Jesus that he was made perfect, tellios, through suffering. Now he was sinless, but the perfection that it's referring to there is not sinlessness. It's talking about spiritual maturity. Even Even Jesus had to bring himself to spiritual maturity through suffering, through testing. And so it's the idea of growing strong. Growing stable, growing firm, growing mature. You ever see a big, strong oak tree? An oak tree is a teleos of an acorn. So someone wrote this, next time you're feeling discouraged, next time you're feeling blue, take a look at a mighty oak tree and see what a nut can do. But the ABC so spiritual maturity is this adversity builds character. And that's what God is doing in our life. A man saw a butterfly trying to escape from a cocoon, and he saw the struggle, and he felt sorry for that butterfly. So he took a razor-sharp knife and he cut the cocoon And the butterfly just fell out on the ground and fluttered a little bit, but could not fly. And it died. And you see the design was the struggle is what gave strength to that butterfly, so it would ultimately be able to fly. You see, this testing in the trials, develop your wings of faith so that you can fly as a Christian. But notice Not only for our enlargement, but then also for our enrichment. Look again in verse 4. But let patience have her perfect work, that she might be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. And the word entire here has the idea of being whole. Having every piece, not missing a thing. You ever try to put together a puzzle only to find that there are some pieces missing? Can't find those other pieces In the Christian life, a lot of times there are pieces missing. And so God will put us through trials so that those pieces will be put into place So that the at the end of the seasons of testings that God brings upon us, we can say that there's nothing missing That we might be perfect and entire, lacking nothing. Testing and trials completes the puzzle. the puzzle of our faith walk so that we can come to the point when we're not lacking a thing. Now think about the life of Abraham. You know what the Bible says about Abraham? One day God came to Abraham and Sarah in his old age and God said, You're going to have a child. And you know what Abraham did? He laughed. And Sarah laughed. Listen, when God tells you something, don't laugh. God didn't appreciate that. And God said, okay, we're going to call this son that you're going to have Isaac because it means laughter. And you're going to remember that you laughed when I gave you a promise. You talk about failing a test. But you know what? The Bible says of Abraham, he grew in his faith. Until the Bible says, finally, he staggered not at the promise of God. He got to the point that when God told him something, he believed it. He didn't stagger at that promise He completely believed. And that's not the way it was at first for Abraham, because if you read his life in Genesis, you're going to find that he went through one test after another In fact, there is that one verb in Genesis, leek leekah in Hebrew, it means go to. It's only used twice in the whole Bible Both of Abraham used in Genesis 12 and in Genesis 22. The first time it used, he says, Go from your family and go to a land I will show you. And the last time it's used is when he says, Go and take Isaac your son to Mount Moriah. And they act like bookends because that's the first time of testing that verb is used. And the last time of testing that verb is used. The first time God said, Abraham, leave your past. The other time God said, Abraham, forget about your future and trust me And in between that, there was one test after another after another. And some of those tests Abraham did really well in, and some he failed. There was the famine test. Famine hit the promised land. What did Abraham do? Did he trust God? No, he ran down to Egypt. Got into trouble. But he came out of that and God was gracious. By the way, aren't you glad that God's gracious when we don't do well? That he'll still bring us along. And then he went through other times of testing in his life. There was the fortune test when he was tested with the riches of the king of Sodom, and he said, I don't want a shoelace from you. Abraham passed that test Then there was the fight test when he had to fight against the kings of the east and he trusted God for victory and he did well there. And then there was the farewell test when he had to say goodbye to Ishmael, his son through the Hagar. And he trusted God there. And it all led up to the last ultimate test when God said, Abraham, take your son Isaac, take him to Mount Moriah, and sacrifice him there. And you know what the Bible says? He staggered not at the promise of God. There was no hesitation. He did exactly what God said. He didn't complain. He didn't argue with God. He didn't say, you know, Lord, wait a minute, you promised that I was going to have uh seeds like the stars. How's that gonna happen if Isaac is dead? He didn't do any of that. The Bible says that he believed that God was able to raise him from the dead. His faith had grown to the point where he was perfect and entire, lacking nothing. Every Piece of the puzzle was in place, and he staggered not at the promise of God. He had grown to that point. That's why God brings testings into our life So that we will get to the point in our maturity where when God says something, we say, absolutely. And God, I trust you. I know you know what you're doing. Might not make any sense on this side. Taking my son to sacrifice him on Mount Mariah doesn't make any human sense. But I know this, you know what you're doing. And I trust you. And I don't doubt you for a second. Now I don't know what you're going through. It may not make much sense to you. But God knows what he's doing. And he wants us to get to the place where we stagger not. at the promises of God. I'll close with this. Fanny Crosby was a little girl, and because of the error of a doctor, she lost her sight. And she didn't get bitter. In fact, she wrote this poem. Oh, what a happy soul am I, although I cannot see. I am resolved that in this world, contented I will be. How many blessings I enjoy that other people don't. To weep and sigh because I'm blind, I cannot and I won't. Sh I think she got an A plus on that test. God wants you to learn to pass the test of life. May God help us. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord help us to learn these lessons that you're trying to teach us. I don't want to have to go through a test again. I want to learn to have faith, to trust you. And Lord, I know that's the desire of every person here who knows you, that they would grow in faith, that they would advance in faith. And it may be, Lord, that right now there are some people here today. They're in a season of trials and testing right now. Right now, Lord, they need your help. Help them, Lord, to learn the lessons That you want them to learn. Help them, Lord, to have the right attitude in this time of testing. Help us, Lord, to learn to count it a joy. To know that in the end, you're going to do great things. That you're trying to advance us. You're trying to bring greater joy into our heart and into our life. When we learn to trust you, that we might be mature, complete. Bless your people here today. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And how many will say, I want you to pray for me Because right now I am in this time of testing, and I need God's help to pass the test of life. Is that your prayer this morning? Would you lift your hand and say, pray for me? I'm raising my hand, asking God for his grace to help me in a time of testing that I'm going through right now. God, keep your hands up for just a minute. I want to pray for you. Father, you see these things. Lord, meet you. The need of this person's heart, these people, I pray that you would give them faith. Give them wisdom. Help them, Lord, through the season of testing that you have sovereignly ordained, that they might advance in their faith. And learn to trust you more. You may put your hands down. It may be that you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. Let me tell you, the greatest test that you'll ever face is this one thing. What will I do with Jesus? Do you believe that He is not a Christmas? the Savior, the Son of God, that He died for your sins? Have you trusted Him as your Lord and Savior? And if you haven't, friend, right now is another opportunity that God gives you to say yes to Christ. If you're not absolutely certain that you're a child of God, would you be willing to pray and just just say these words in your heart. Just say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. And I ask you to please come into my heart, save me. Make me your child. And friend, if you'll pray that, reach out in faith. The Lord will save you right where you are. And friend, if you prayed that prayer, would you let us know? Talk to myself, talk to one of the staff men here after church. Let us know We want to encourage you. We want to pray for you. So Father, take these words, bless them to your people to bless their hearts, Lord, as they respond in faith to what they've heard. And we'll thank you and we'll praise you in Jesus' precious name. To elast