Would you take God's word this morning? We're going to look at Matthew chapter 14, verses 22, down to verse 36 today. Would you stand for the reading of God's word? Matthew chapter 14 verse And straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship and to go before him under the other side. while he sent the multitudes away. And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray, and when the evening was come, he was there alone. But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary. And the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit. And they cried out for fear. But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Being up be of good cheer, it is I, be not afraid. And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it bid if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid. And beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me. And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith Wherefore didst thou doubt? And when they were come into the ship the wind ceased. Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth, Thou art the Son of God Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God help us to understand this wonderful story here today and apply it to our own life. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we come before you today, we are so very thankful for uh narratives like this that give us stories about our savior. And Lord, as we read things like this, we can uh we can relate. Lord, we know that there are people here this morning that are in the midst of a storm. And I pray, Father, that this passage will minister comfort to their heart and speak to us all today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a hymn that we sing sometimes written by a man by the name of William Cooper called God Moves in Mysterious Ways. William Cooper was a man who struggled with depression all of his life. It is said that at one time he tried to commit suicide. Uh he got a rope to hang himself and the rope broke. And then he got a gun to to to shoot himself and the gun misfired. And then he uh hired a carriage driver to take him down to the river. His plan was to jump off a bridge into the river, but the night that he had the driver come get him, a thick fog rolled in and the driver could not find the river because of the fog. And so he brought him back to his apartment and William Cooper thought, you know, I can't even take my own life. And so later on, however, when reading scripture, he came to know the Lord Jesus Christ as his Savior, and he wrote to him The words to the hymn that we love to sing now, God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform, He plants his footsteps on the sea, he rides upon the storm Now I don't know if William Cooper had this passage in mind when he wrote those words, but certainly they could fit. Because what we see here in our narrative today is Jesus planting his footsteps on the seas And he rides upon the storm. And the very storm that you might be in now, or m a storm that might be causing you anxiety and worry. Just remember this, God uses those things as a bridge to come closer to you. He walks upon the storm. As Christians, we will encounter storms in this life. The question is not if The question is when. And the other question is, when the storm comes, how do we survive these storms? So let's look at this story here today, and I hope that this is something that will help you if you're battling with anxiety and worry and fear that God will use this to bring peace to your storm-tossed heart. here today. Now let's look at the context of this Matthew chapter 14. At this part of Jesus' ministry, hostility is then mounting against the Lord Jesus. In the first part of Matthew chapter 14, John the Baptist was was killed. And Jesus, after the death of John the Baptist, his whole ministry begins to change. He begins to focus on preparing his disciples for what will happen. Because that was a kind of a a signal of the impending death of the Lord Jesus. And Jesus wanted to get his disciples ready. And so he begins to prepare them. And we see again here in chapter 14 a test. What we see really are two tests for his disciples, we could call it. There's a test for provision. We see the feeding of the 5,000 here in Matthew 14. And to me, this is Jesus testing his disciples about dependence upon the Lord for provision. What they needed to learn is that in order to minister to people, they were inadequate, they were insufficient, but Jesus is always sufficient. That's a message that every minister needs to learn. We're not sufficient, but Jesus is sufficient. And they were able to feed the multitudes because Jesus multiplied the loaves and the fishes. They found their sufficiency in depending upon the Lord Jesus Christ. But now here's another test that they have. I call this the test of perseverance. The storm in this story could signify the difficulties of life which all of us will face. What will they do when the storm comes? How will they respond to adversity? Will they uh be overwhelmed by these struggles? Will they give up? What will they do? We learn how to survive the storm by looking at this passage here today. What I want you to see are just several encouraging assurances. If you're here today and you're going through a storm, maybe that's causing you great anxiety, I hope to give you comfort from this passage today because I want to show you several assurances that you could depend upon when you're in the middle of a storm. Here's the first one. Number one, just remember this. If you're in a storm, remember he placed me here. Remember that he placed me here. Look at verse 22. And straight away Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship and to go before him onto the other side while he sent the multitudes away. So the disciples were in the midst of the storm because they were doing exactly what Jesus told them to do. And we see this in verse 22. Straightway. That's immediately. And this account takes place right after the feeding of the five thousand. When Jesus fed the multitudes, there was immediately this swelling desire from the multitudes to make Jesus King. And Jesus saw this coming, so he told his disciples, he said, Look, I want you to get into this boat, I want you to go to the other side. He didn't tell them specifically where, he just said, I want you to go to the other side, and I will meet you there. This is a forceful command by the Lord Jesus. John's gospel gives us some light about what was going on here. The multitudes were ready to make Jesus king at that moment. I mean, here's a man that fed them a free meal with five loaves and two fishes. That's a guy that you can trust to put in charge of the economy of Israel. They wanted to make him king. They wanted to have a revolt. They wanted to uh basically throw off the the shackles of the Romans. But Jesus was not a part of that. He didn't want To be a part of that. That's not why he came. He came the first time to be a king over a spiritual kingdom, to be a king in people's hearts through salvation. Later when he comes the second time, he will set up his kingdom on earth. Amen So Jesus didn't want his disciples to be caught up in this hysteria of what was going on because they themselves had just been arguing about who would be the greatest in the kingdom. They wanted to see the kingdom come quickly. So he puts them in a boat. He tells them to go to the other side. Now let me ask you a question. Do you think that Jesus knew that a storm was coming? Of course he did. Did he deliberately direct them into the storm? Yes. And I would just say this, that God will allow and even appoint storms for you to go through in your Christian life. Why? Because God has a purpose in it. A Christian is safer in the storm in God's will than out of the storm on dry land. The storm was difficult, but what would have been worse? would have been for them to not obey Jesus and to stay with the multitudes. And so as you study the Bible, what you'll find is that God will use the pressures of life He'll use the stresses of life to work in our heart to make us what he wants us to be. Just like a potter will take clay and mold it. He'll use the pressure. of his hands to mold the clay. God will use the pressure of circumstances we face in life to mold us and make us into what he wants us to be. That includes the times that he will sending storms into our life Now in the Bible there are two types of storms that I can see. There are storms of correction. If you get out of God's will and you don't do the right thing, the Lord can send a storm to correct you. To get you where you should be, I think of Jonah. Remember Jonah? God said to Jonah, go to Nineveh. And Jonah said, I'm not going to Nineveh, no way. He went the opposite way. And you know what happened? God sent a storm to Jonah. It was a storm of correction to get him to see how wrong he was. God might use a storm to change your direction in life, but also there are storms of perfection. God will put us in a storm not to correct us, but sometimes just to do his work of sanctification and to teach us lessons that we need to learn. And that is the situation here. The disciples were in a storm because they obeyed Jesus, and Jesus had a purpose for it. He was perfecting them. He was going to use them for greater ministry. The disciples were tested once before with a storm, and that's in Matthew chapter 8. But on that storm, Jesus was in the boat with them. On this storm, however. Jesus is not in a boat. They are alone. This is a greater test for them. But whether it's a storm of correction, or a storm of perfection. God is certainly in the storm and he's using it in your life. He placed you there. And beloved, if he puts you there, he's going to take care of you there in the storm. So number one, you need to say, you know, God placed me here. But here's the second thing. He sees me God sees me in the storm. Look again in Matthew 14 and look in verse 23. And when he sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray, and when the evening was come, he was there alone But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary. Now Jesus sent the disciples away. And then Jesus sent the multitudes away. And then Jesus himself goes into a mountain apart and he is spending time alone. He is in prayer. He's praying there in the mountain. Often we see in the gospel is Jesus departing to pray. to the Father. And this is what we see here. Now while Jesus is in the mountain praying, the disciples were on the Sea of Galilee, and by this time night had come, they had set out across the lake And in fact, in fact, verse 24 says they were already a long way into their journey. Again, John's Gospel gives us some more insight. It says that they had gone 25 to 30 stadio and that is simply a measurement that is a stadio is about two hundred yards. So we could say 25 to 30 city was about three and a half miles. Now the Sea of Galilee was about six and a half miles wide. So they were right in the very middle. of the Sea of Galilee, you could say, halfway through their journey, and the Bible says a storm arose. This was a fierce storm. This lake, we call it a sea, but actually it's a lake. If you ever been to Israel, you'll you'll see that. The same word, the Hebrew word for sea could also mean lake. And so this this lake was known for its sudden storms. You know, basically there's mountains all around it. It kind of sits at the bottom and winds can come in. Very suddenly. And this what hap this is what happened. A storm blew in with fierce winds. And the Bible says that they were struggling against the winds and the waves. They were making Very little po progress. Verse 24 says they were tossed with waves. This is a word really that means to torture, to cause great distress. This word is translated in Matthew A. Tormented And it kind of gives you the idea of how difficult things were for them in the middle of this storm. They were miserable. They were tormented. They were afraid. They were fearing for their life This word is actually also used sometimes to speak of demonic activity. This has led some scholars to postulate that possibly the devil sent this storm. to the disciples. Um think about it. You know, here in this boat were the the disciples, that was the foundation of the very church. Now I mean if the devil wanted to stop the church from b coming into being, all he had to do is sink that boat right there. That was the the beginning of the church where the the disciples there. But again, when the Lord puts us in a storm, he's not going to let anything happen to us. The Lord was watching them, uh watching over them. In fact, the Bible says in verse 25, in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea. And so, what is the fourth watch there? You know, the uh thank you very much for that comment there. From three o'clock to six o'clock, is that say in your study notes there in your Bible? Actually the Romans uh divided it into four different watches. Uh the first watch was from six to nine p. m. The second watch was from nine p. m. to twelve, third watch from twelve to three, fourth watch from three a. m. to six So you're exactly right. Fourth watch, so they're so they're they've been struggling all night. That's the thing I want you to see. And to their credit, they didn't give up They were still struggling. It would have been easy to turn back instead of going against the wind. They could have gone with the wind. But they were obeying what Jesus said when Jesus said go to the other side. They were doing their best to do what Jesus said do. The sails were down, the oars were out, and they were literally driving the oars, and they were at the end of their strength. Now, maybe you can relate to that this morning. I'm in a storm, you could say, and I'm at the end of my strength. I've been doing everything I know to do. humanly possible to do. I'm trying to obey Jesus. I'm trying to be faithful. And I'm about at the end of my strength. What was Jesus doing? Jesus was in the mountain, the Bible says, and you know what? He saw them. He saw them. In fact, Mark's gospel says this in Mark 6. 48, seeing them straining at the oars Jesus could look down from where he was, and he saw them in the storm. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. If you're in a storm today, Jesus is watching you. He sees you. He knows exactly what you're going through. And he knows how much strength you have. Jesus has been watching them the whole time. And he's not going to let anything happen to them because again, if if that boat sank, that would be the end of the twelve disciples and the end of the kingdom that Jesus was building there with his twelve disciples. And so he wasn't going to let anything happen to them. You know what? Jesus knows you, he watches you, he sees you, and he is not going to let anything happen to you. The Bible says he keeps us. He watches over us. Now how could Jesus see him? There are two possibilities. Some say he could have it could have been just with human eyes, the naked eye, because again if you've ever been to Israel, uh to the Sea of Galilee, you can just be on a a high mountain and you can look down and you can see into the Sea of Galilee. And you can see the whole sea. But we have to remember this was m this was late at night. And some say, well this is springtime. There would have been a full moon. Um so with a full moon he probably could have seen them. And so one explanation is, you know, maybe with the human eyes he could look down and see him. But I think an even better explanation is that he this is divine omniscience He he can see because he knows all things. You know, and I believe this was divine. This was Jesus who is God And he saw the disciples. He watched them. He knew their heart. And again, friend, we could apply this to you as well. He knows what you're going through. He sees what you're going through. He knows that you're going through a rough storm. But guess what? He appointed this because he knows rough seas make the best sailors. And difficult storms make the most sanctified believers. He has not forgotten you, and he is watching you. But here's the third thing that you could tell yourself when you're in the midst of a storm, he's praying for me. He's praying for me. Again, we see in verse 23 that he's there alone. That there is you know emphasizes the fact that he wanted to be alone because of prayer. He was a man of prayer. And I believe that Jesus at that moment was also praying for his disciples. This is a beautiful picture of Jesus, our intercessor. You know what Jesus is doing in heaven right now? He's praying for you. It's praying for me. That's the reason we're able to make it. The Bible says there's one God and there's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. The Bible says in Hebrews 7. 25, wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that cometh unto unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth and make intercession for them. Uttermost is the word unto perfection. What God begins, he finishes. And you know what God is doing? He's perfecting you. Jesus is praying for God to do that perfecting work in you And so he prays for you in this time. That's why I know that when I go through the storm, I'm going to be okay. Because Jesus is praying for me. And beloved, he is praying for you. God will not allow that storm to do anything to you that He has not ordained for your good and for His glory. And so we need to remember that. I think of the passage in Luke 22. Remember what Jesus said to Peter, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has desired to have you that he might sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not, and when you're converted, strengthen the brethren. And this was in the this was during the the Pass uh the Last Supper when The disciples were all arguing over who would be the greatest in the kingdom. They were actually arguing over what seat to have there at the Last Supper. They all wanted the seat of honor. And Jesus pointed to Peter. Perhaps Peter was a ringleader in that conflict. I don't know. But he said, Peter, and I love the way he said it, Simon, Simon. You know, whenever my mother said my name twice, I knew something was up. She said, Jerry, Jerry, I'm like, all right, what did I do? Jesus said, Simon, Simon. You know, and I think this is a compassionate tone from the Savior. Satan has asked permission to get at you. He wants at you. And you know what? He's going to get at you and you're going to fail. But you know what, Peter? I'm praying for you And when you go through all of this, I want you to use this to strengthen the brethren. And you know the story about Peter, he failed the Lord, right? There was another man that failed the Lord, his name was Judas. You know the Bible says both of them went out went out, both of them wept. bitterly. But you know what Judas did? He went out and he hung himself. But what did Peter do? Peter wept, but then he got his heart right with the Lord. A total different outcome. You know the difference? Not because Peter is that much better than Judas. The difference is that Jesus was praying for Peter That's the difference. The reason I know that I'm not going to fall away and I'm not going to make an absolute ruin of my life is because Jesus is the one who is praying for me. And he's the one praying for you. That's what we need to remember. So when you're going through the storms, just remember. He placed me here. He sees me. He's praying for me. But then there's another truth, he will come to me. Look at verse number 25. And in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea. Oftentimes we feel as if Jesus has deserted us when we're going through harm hard times. You may be feeling that here today. The psalmist asks this question: why art thou so far from helping me? And Psalm twenty two eleven he said, Be not far from me, for trouble is near, for there is none to help And you may feel that the Lord is not with you, but I want to tell you something, dear friend. When you go through the storms of life, you need to learn this. Jesus will always come to you in the storm. He will not leave you alone. Isaiah 43, verse 2. Mark this down in your Bible. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, God says. When you go through the storm, I'm not going to leave you there by yourself. I'm going to be with you. Now the question might come, why didn't Jesus come to them sooner? I think he was testing their obedience. Were they going to continue to obey the Lord Jesus even when it got difficult? I think the Lord sometimes will do that with us. I think he was testing their perseverance. He was watching to see how long they could persevere in difficulty and continue on. God will leave us in the storm so that we can learn how weak we are, so that we can learn to be totally dependent upon Him. And I think also that He was testing their Dependence. He wanted them to learn to be fully dependent upon him for strength. And so Jesus waited. He waited until they were at the very end of their strength. And a lot of times that's what God will do in our life. He will wait until we have exhausted all of our own strength. He has to remove every prop that we depend upon until all human hope is gone. That's when Jesus will come to us. He'll come at the very end. He waits until this part of the uh until until you realize that you can't handle the storm on your own. And that only he can do it. But you know what? You'll never really understand the power of God in your life until you have reached your extreme, until you're finally fully exhausted on your own. So he comes to them. But then another question we ask: why did he walk on the water? This is a unique thing here. Again, look in verse number 25. In the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went unto them walking on the sea. Did you know that there are some commentaries that say he didn't walk on the water? Some commentators say that Jesus was just walking along the shore by the water, that's all. How ridiculous is that? But the Gospel of John makes it clear that he was walking on the water. John 6. 19. Then when they had rowed about three or four miles, they saw Jesus walking on the sea, drawing near to the boat. And they were frightened. And so it John says that they were three or four miles out in the middle, so he absolutely had to be walking on the water at this time. And did you know that in the Old Testament there's imagery about God, Almighty God, walking on the seas? You know what this is? This is Jesus again declaring who he is. That he is God. Listen to Job 9. 8, which alone spreadeth out the heavens, talking about God, and treadeth upon the waves of the sea. God does that. In Psalm 77, verse 19, Thy way is in the sea, thy path is in the great waters, thy footsteps are not known. And again in this, Jesus was declaring his deity, but also he was declaring his sovereignty because the biblical imagery of walking on the sea is an image of Jesus being over the nations because in the Old Testament the sea represents nations and peoples and he's over all of that But another reason he walks on the water is to show his disciples that the very thing that they feared, the sea, the water, the storm, that's the very thing that Jesus uses to come near to them. You see, that's the point. Often we fear the difficulties of life only to discover it's those things that Jesus uses to draw near to us. the very difficulties of life. He uses the very trials that we go through as his footpath to draw near to us. He comes not only in the storm, he comes on the storm. And so he will come to me. Remember that. He placed me here. He sees me. He's praying for me. He will come to me. And then here's a fifth thing that we need to realize. He will reveal himself to me. Look at verse twenty-seven and twenty-eight. Notice what it says, but straightway Jesus spake unto them saying, Be of good cheer, it is I, be not afraid. And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. Now, did you know that when you go through the storm, you're going to learn more about God? You're going to learn about more about who God is. And you know what? The disciples are learning still about who Jesus is. Sometimes we read the gospels with the idea that the disciples had no you know, wrestling about the the the the uh the personality of Jesus, who he was. No, they they were still struggling in their own mind and hearts About who Jesus was. They were growing in their theology. And this storm right here is going to teach them a huge theological lesson That they needed to learn. In order to prepare them for when he was gone, they needed to learn this. You know what? When you go through a storm, you're going to learn more about God than you ever have before. He's going to teach you more about himself. He's going to reveal more of himself to you. Notice the disciples, they didn't recognize Jesus at first in verse 26. You know, Jesus is far enough away, they don't recognize him Why did the disciples recognize them? Or why didn't they recognize him, I could say? Well, they were governed by fear, first of all. The Bible says they were troubled. Look in verse 26 where it says, They were troubled, saying, It is a spirit, and they cried out for fear. A spirit is actually ghost. It's a ghost. Now did you know back in this day that the Greeks taught that the sea was a place of evil spirits, and if a person drowned in the sea and they didn't have uh the proper burial, you know, with you know coins to get across the river sticks, you know, that they were destined to wander on the seas all the rest of their life. And that was kind of an ancient myth. Kind of a bedtime story. For the Greeks, some of them, however, it was real. But the disciples were so filled with fear, one of them said, You know, it's a ghost. They were referring to that story. You know, and so they were filled with fear, irrational fear, and they didn't recognize Jesus, but then they heard his voice. Look at verse 27. But straight away Jesus spake on them, saying, Be look be of good cheer, it is I You know, the Bible says, My sheep hear my voice and they know me. And when Jesus cried out, they immediately knew Who it was. They knew it was Jesus. They recognized his voice. And when he said, It is I, be not afraid. Let me tell you what the Greek literally says. It says, I, it's ego-e-me in the Greek. I, I am. That's what he said. I I am. And then take courage, or that is, don't be afraid. You know, stop being afraid. I I am. Now, when you hear that expression, I am, what does that make you think about? Remember in the Old Testament, Moses at the burning bush? When God said, you know, I am to Moses, revealed himself as God, this would immediately come to their mind. That was the name for God. I think again this is one of the clearest revelations of the deity of Jesus Christ in all of the New Testament. Here he is walking on the water. Only God can do that Here he is, he declares himself as the I am the God. And so here is the lesson in the midst of your storm. Jesus will come to you He will reveal himself to you in a wonderful way. And did you know that after this the disciples will no longer doubt who Jesus is? No longer will they doubt In fact, later on in John chapter 6, when all the disciples go away, remember they met Jesus on the other side of the Sea of Galilee. This was the same crowd he had just fed, and they were hungry, it was breakfast time, they wanted breakfast. This is the guy who gave them loaves and fishes. They wanted breakfast with Jesus, and instead Jesus gave them the gospel. And you know what happened? They started to walk away. And Jesus said to the disciples, you go away also? And you remember what their response was? Where are we going to go, Lord? You have the words of life. We know who you are. We're not going anywhere. You know what brought about that firm conviction? The storm? that they had just gone through brought about the firm conviction about who Jesus was. And so, friend, when you go through the storm, he will reveal himself to you. You will learn things. that he wants you to learn in the storm. But here's number six. He wants to walk. He wants me to walk with him. He placed me here. He sees me. He's praying for me. He will come to me. He will reveal himself to me. And then he wants me to walk with him. Look at verse 28. Now this is the great story of Peter walking on the water. And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. And he said, Come. Now I know that Peter here gets bashed by a lot of preachers and commentators saying, oh, he's sunk in the water. Well, let's give him some credit for getting out of the boat. Because there's a lot of their other disciples didn't even want to do that. And Peter says, Lord, if it's you, then bid me come under the water to thee. And Peter wanted to get out of the boat, and he didn't want to get out of the boat just for the fun of walking on the water. What was his purpose? He wanted to go to Jesus because the Bible says in verse 29 When he walked in the water, he went to go to Jesus. I love the fact that Peter would rather be with Jesus on the water than in that boat. And by the way, that's what God wants when we go through the storm. He wants us to come to Him. He wants us to walk to Him, to get close to Him. And so Peter says, Lord, if it's you, bid me come. And Jesus gave him one word. He said, Come. And Peter steps out of the boat and he begins walking on the water and he's making his way to Jesus. That is amazing. There's only two people that have ever walked on the water. One was God, and the other is Jesus here. And so he's walking on the water. And while he's walking on the water. He begins, the Bible says he gets his eyes off the Lord. Look in verse 30. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me. I'd love that when we obey the word of God, we have power to do things that we normally couldn't do. With one word come, Peter obeyed it. And he's walking on the water, and he's above the circumstances, and he's above the storm. And by the way, that's where God wants you to be. He wants you to be above the storm. He wants you walking with him on the water by obeying the word of God. You can have power over any storm in your life. But then Peter, when he got his eyes off the Lord. He saw the winds and he saw the waves and then he got filled with fear and he began to sink, the Bible says, and he cried out, Lord, save me! That's the most powerful prayer in all the New Testament. Because the Lord answered immediately. You know, I think sometimes we're too fancy in our prayers. The greatest prayer we can pray sometime is, Lord, save me. Lord, just save me. This is an intense prayer. This is a fervent prayer. And notice that Jesus comes immediately. The Bible says he lifts him up. Now think about this. He was far enough away they couldn't recognize him. But when Peter prayed, he was right there immediately. He came right to his side. And I want to tell you something, dear friend, in the middle of your storm, when you cry out to Jesus, he will be right there with you. He will come immediately to your side. And that's what he did for Peter. And he picks him up. I love this where Jesus said, Oh ye of little faith, why did you doubt Peter? Why did you doubt? I mentioned this Wednesday night, we're talking about hindrances to prayer, and one of them is doubt. And the word doubt actually is a Greek word which is di krino. Cranos cranium where we get the word your brain, you know, to think. That's the meaning of the Greek word die is to divide, to go through, divide in half. We could say it literally like this. Peter, why did you think twice? That's what doubt is. Doubt is thinking twice. The first thought was, if I obey Jesus, I can walk on this water. That's faith. The second thought was, wait a minute, I can't walk on water. And Jesus said, Peter, why did you think twice? You had it right the first time. Why did you doubt? As long as you look to me and obey me and trust me, you can live above the storm. And that is true for all of us. When we're in the middle of the storm, we need not doubt. He wants us to walk with him. He wants us, and the way we do that is we keep our eyes on the Lord. And we obey his word, and you know what? He will walk with us through the storm and he will keep us above the circumstances And you can have you could be at peace even in the midst of a fierce storm. He placed me here. He sees me. He is praying for me. He will come to me. He will reveal himself to me. He wants me to walk with him. Here's the final thing. He will see me through. Look at verse 32. And when they were coming to the ship, The wind what? The wind ceased. And look at verse 33. Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, of a truth, thou art the son of God. And this is the lesson they needed to learn. Who Jesus is. He's the Son of God. So friend, you can have peace in the midst of your storm, even when the storm is fierce. He's trying to teach you something. And so just remember these things. You know, the Lord is with you in the middle of the storm. He placed you here. He sees you. He's praying for you. I'll end with this. An old sea captain was quizzing a young naval student, and he said this, what steps would you take if a sudden storm came up? On the starboard, he said, I would throw out an anchor, sir. And then the captain said, Well, what would you do if another storm sprang up on the other side? He said, I'd throw out another anchor. And he said, well what if a third storm sprang up? He said I throw out another anchor. And the captain said, now wait a minute, son. He said, where in the world are you getting all those anchors? And the c and he said, from the same place you're getting all those storms. You know, the source of the storms we endure is God. But you know what? The God who might send a storm also sends the anchors so that we can go through the storms. And the anchors are very simply these. He put me here. He sees me. He's praying for me. He will come to me. He will reveal himself to me. He wants me to walk with him, and he will see me through. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, if you're here today and you're in the middle of a storm, would you just take a moment and just think about this passage of scripture, what the Lord is teaching you here? And may God use this to give you peace in the midst of your storm. If you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior. I would ask you right now, reach out by faith. Put your faith in him. Maybe the fact that you're in a storm is because he does want to reveal himself to you, but he wants to reveal himself to you as your Savior. The one who died for your sins on the cross, and who loves you very dearly and wants you to know him in salvation. You know what the Bible says there's going to be a storm that's going to come one day? It's called judgment. The only ones safe from that storm are the ones who know Jesus as Savior. That's the only ones that will be safe in that time. So I would ask you, friend, do you know Christ? Are you sure? If not, would you just right now make sure? Say, Lord Jesus, save me. Come into my heart, save me. Father, thank you again for your words. Speak to hearts here today, especially your people. Give them peace in the midst of their storms. Those that are struggling with fear. Anxiety and worry. May they learn to put their eyes on Christ, to obey his word, to depend fully upon him, to walk with him in the middle of their storm. We pray all this in Jesus' name.