Would you take God's word this morning and please open to the Gospel of John chapter fourteen? And we're going to look at verse twenty-seven. John chapter fourteen, verse twenty-seven. And would you stand please for the reading of God's Word this morning? John fourteen, verse twenty-seven. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Thank you. You may be seated. I know some of you just got up. Just made it up. Let's uh have a word of prayer for this. Father, thank you for the joy of being able to worship you. And Lord, I pray that you would help us today. We know that whenever we go through the Word of God, we need you to help us understand, to impart truth to our heart. So today as we look at this incredible promise given to us by our Savior, Lord, give us enlightenment to to really receive this and to apply it to our life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. On Sunday mornings I'm going to be doing just for a few weeks a series called God's Answer to Anxiety. I know that uh probably there are if you know people that struggle with anxiety here today, don't raise your hand. You don't have to I think all of us would raise our hand, right? At times in our life we've all struggled with anxiety. Did you know that the United States is now the most anxious nation in the world? It's been declared the most anxious nation in the world. Congratulations to us. The land of the stars and stripes has become the country of stress and strife. And uh this uh this is a costly achievement. Stress-related ailments cost the nation $300 billion every year in medical bills. And the usage of sedative drugs keeps skyrocketing. Americans more than double their spending on anti-anxiety medications. Someone wrote that people in each generation in the 20th century said this, quote, we were three times more likely to experience depression than people of the preceding generation. I think people today long for peace. They crave inner peace and relief from anxiety Sadly though, people can pursue it their entire lives and left to themselves they have no idea where to find true peace. Those who look for it by the superficial things that the world offers are all often disappointed Only God's word can really point us to true and lasting peace. The Bible gives us the source of true peace. For example, did you know that the word peace occurs 250 times in the Bible? In the Old Testament, it's the Hebrew word shalom. Shalom is the word that actually means it has the on the on the negative side, it's the absence of of strife or the absence of stress, but on the positive side, it has the idea of completeness, of wholeness, of contentment. of welfare or prosperity. When a Jewish person wished someone peace or shalom, they meant, I wish for you all that is good. All that is blessed, all that brings satisfaction, all that brings fulfillment and completeness in your life. The New Testament word is Irene, is where we get the name Irene. And it has the idea, same idea literally, a tranquil soul, a soul at rest, a satisfied soul. That's the biblical view of peace. And true peace is available to you if you want it. You can have it if you want it. But again, you don't get it from the superficial methods of the world. Jesus offers it and he offers it to us here in this wonderful verse. So I want you to see three things here today. First of all, I want you to see the promise of this peace. Look again at verse number 27. Peace I leave with you. Now when we talk about peace, we need to understand specifically what Jesus meant. What peace was he talking about here? When he said, Peace I leave with you, because first of all, there's peace with God, and then there is the peace of God. And you can't have the peace of God until you have peace with God. Or another way to say that is you can't have real inward peace until you know that you are a true child of God. Or another way to say it is There is objective peace, that is peace without on the outside of us. There is subjective peace, that's an inner peace on the inside of us. Objective peace has to do with our standing before God Since the rebellion of Adam and Eve, the human race has been at war with God. All humanity violates God's holy law. All deny Him glory. And are therefore the Bible calls uh lost man the enemies of God. The Bible calls this rebellion sin. And declares every person to be a sinner. The Bible says all have sinned. From birth, every man and woman opposes God. No one is neutral. Man's nature is fallen and in rebellion, and humanity hates God. The good news, however, is the enemies of God can be reconciled to enjoy eternal peace with God through faith in Jesus Christ. It is through the cross of Jesus Christ that God has chosen to reconcile all things. The Bible says in Colossians 1 twenty, and having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself, by him I say, whether they be things in earth or things in heaven It is through the death of Jesus Christ on the cross, his precious blood shed, that we are now able to have peace with God. The Bible says in Romans 5. 1, therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And why I said so? Because on the cross Jesus paid the penalty for man's sin. And those who put their trust in Christ, those who repent of their sin and place their full faith in Jesus Christ, they are reconciled to God. At the moment of justification, a person is objectively granted peace with God. The moment I trusted Jesus as my Savior, I was no longer God's enemy. I'm no longer at war with God. I have peace with God. That's what the Bible says. And where there is peace with God, then there can be the peace of God. And so another way again to say this is it is not until one has objective peace with God that they are uh uh subject to be able to have the subjective peace of God. So objective peace is necessary before you can have this inward subjective peace that God offers to all those that are His. The objective peace of justification results in this inward experiential peace that God gives to his children. This is the peace that passes all understanding. That is to say, it transcends human insight. It transcends human comprehension. This is the peace that will guard the hearts and minds of God's people. in Christ Jesus. This is the peace of God that protects believers from anxiety, from doubt, from fear, from distress. This is not passive, but this is active. The peace of God is not affected by circumstances. It triumphs over it. The peace of God turns sorrow into joy. The peace of God turns fear into boldness. It turns doubt into confidence. This is the peace that Jesus promised to give his followers. This is an experiential, internal, subjective peace. That is an essential part of the Christian life. If you're not living in this, you're missing out on what God has called you to. The Bible says that salvation is God calling us to peace and to have peace in our heart. Paul wrote this in Romans 14, 17, for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. Paul later wrote in the same letter, now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing. And again in 2 Thessalonians, a similar benediction, he said, Now may the Lord of peace himself continually grant you peace in every circumstance. Peace is one of the fruits of the Holy Spirit. If you have the Holy Spirit living inside of you, then part of the fruit of that should be in your life that you dwell or live in peace. That's what God wants for you. This is the promise of peace. But also I want you to see number two. I want you to think with me about the provider of this peace. Because notice what Jesus says again in verse 27: peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Notice he says, my peace. Now Jesus here is promising to give peace to his children. And there are several things to consider about this. First of all, it's providential. That is, God is the one and only source of all true peace. It comes from God. You can get this peace nowhere else. Now, theologians have divided the attributes of God into two categories for us in studying God. There are what are called the incommunicable attributes of God. What does that mean? That word just simply means these are attributes of God that He does not communicate with us. He doesn't share. these attributes with us. These are the attributes that make God distinct and separate from his creation. That make God transcendent above all of his creation. For example, an example of an incommunable attribute would be God's eternity. God has existed for all eternity, but we have not. Then there's the attribute of God's unchangeableness. God does not change, but we change all the time. There's God's omnipresence. God is everywhere present, but we can only be present at one place at one time. And then of course there are others, but the second category of attributes are what we call communicable attributes, or we could say these are attributes that God communicates with us or attributes that God shares with us, that He has chosen to give us. And this is part of How we reflect God, the image of God. And so an example of God's communicable attributes would be love God is a God of love, and guess what? We are able to display and have love as well. Knowledge, God is a God of knowledge, we're able to have knowledge. God is a God of mercy. We too are able to be merciful, and on we could go. But in Scripture, one of the attributes that defines God that He wants to share with us is peace. The Bible calls God the God of peace. Romans 15, 33. Now the God of peace be with you all. Again in Romans 6 20, and the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet. Philippians 4 9 Those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me do, and the God of peace shall be with you First Thessalonians 5 23, and the very God of peace sanctify you holy And then in 2 Corinthians 13, 11, finally, brethren, be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace, and the God of peace shall be with you. And on we could go. The Bible calls Jesus in Isaiah 9:6 the Prince of Peace. And so God is the one and only source of all true peace. He is the one who grants it. 2 Thessalonians 316. Now the God, the Lord of peace himself, give you peace. The Lord of peace is the one who gives it. And there in that verse, the pronoun himself is emphatic in the Greek text. God's peace is something that God gives, but again, he only gives it to his children. But I want you to see, secondly, not only is it providential, but it's personal. Notice again what Jesus said. He said, My peace I give unto you. Notice the personal pronouns in these verse here. Jesus says, peace I leave with you. This is something that I'm doing. My peace I'm giving he's not giving you just any peace but the very peace that Jesus has he's offering it to you he wants to give that to you again where he says I give unto you it is a gift from him to you God's peace is a sovereign, gracious gift bestowed on those who believe in Jesus Christ and those who want it. And according to Psalm 85, verse 8, if you may have never noticed this before the Psalm is stated, I will hear what the Lord will say, he will speak peace to his people. But what I want you to see is that Jesus is emphasizing here in this verse is that he wants to give you the very peace that he has, his peace, he says, I want you to have that. I want to give that to you. And my response to this is, well, I mean remember, when did Jesus say this? What was going on when he made this promise? This is what's so fascinating about this promise. At the moment that Jesus offers this promise to his disciples, this is the most dramatic This is the most potentially distressing moment of Jesus' life. Where is he when he makes his promise? This is the week of the passion. This is the week that he's going to go to the cross. In fact, this is on Thursday night. In just a few hours, Jesus is going to be arrested All of this takes place in the upper room. In fact, from John chapter 13 to John chapter 16, all the dialogue, all that goes on there, that's all in the upper room. This is right before his death. This is at the Last Supper. With his disciples. He knows he's leaving the world in a few hours. He knows that he will be executed. He knows every detail of everything that he's going to face. He will be falsely accused. He will be arrested. There will be false witnesses that will come and lie about him. He knows he will be beaten, whipped, crucified, and worse than that, he knows that in just a few hours he's going to have to bear the sins of the whole world upon himself. He who knew no sin was going to literally become sin for us And he was going to have to experience something that redemptive history has never known before. Jesus Christ is going to have to be for a moment separated from the Father. And that's where we hear the cry on the cross, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He knew that for that moment that when he was going to bear sin, there would be a separation, a fellowship within the members of the Trinity. Never in redemptive history has that ever happened. Never happened before that, hasn't happened since. That the second member of the Trinity, Jesus, would be separated from the Father while he bore the sin of the whole world. He knew that the disciples would scatter. He knew that the ungodly multitudes would cry, crucify him. He knew all of this. And yet, you know what? He's a perfect peace. He's a perfect peace. Do you think that Jesus could promise his peace if he was stressed out at that moment? Or if he was filled with anxiety at that moment? No. The disciple saw someone who was at perfect peace. I promise you that whatever crisis you're facing, it doesn't come close to what Jesus was facing. That whatever you're having to deal with, whatever you have to look to, it can't compare to what Jesus was going through at that moment. But he had perfect peace. Where did that perfect peace come from? It came from perfect trust in the Father. And friend, you mark it down, peace is connected to trust. If you trust your Father, you're going to have peace He trusted in the Father, and it was so clear, it was so consummate, it was so complete that the Bible says in Hebrews 12 that for the joy that was set before him, he went to the cross. When Jesus stood before Pilate, you know what? Pilate couldn't understand him because he saw a man who was at perfect peace. And Pilate was the one that had anxiety. He was a disturbed individual. And the more he dealt with Jesus, the more disturbed he became. Finally, in frustration, Pilate said to Jesus in John 19, 10, then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have the power to crucify thee and have power to release thee? He's saying, look, you don't speak to me? I mean, he's literally outraged that Jesus was silent. I mean, don't you get, Jesus, how important I am? I'm kind of a big deal around here. Why are you silent to me? Why are you not speaking to me? Don't you know that I have the authority to crucify you or I have the authority to release you? And Jesus' calm at that moment is stunning. You remember what Jesus said? Very calmly he said, You have no authority over me unless the Father gave it to you. You can do nothing to me that the Father has not ordained or allowed. And he trusted in his father. You have no authority unless it was given you by my father. That's trust. Whatever you're going to do to me, that's part of God's plan. Whatever you're going to do to me, this is what God wants. That's why I'm telling you that the peace that He gives is a peace that's built not only on the external reality of justification, but on the internal reality that we have of God and a Father that can be trusted. This is where subjective peace really begins to become strong. And the very peace that Jesus had, he offered to his disciples, and he offers that to you. And he offers that to me as a gift. There is no greater gift for the anxious than the peace of Christ. And he says, this peace I give to you. It's providential, it's personal, but also it's permanent. It's permanent. The peace that Jesus gives is in contrast to the false peace of the world. Notice again, he says, My peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth, give I unto you. The world offers peace, but it's a false peace. It's superficial, it's not real. Some people seek relief from their anxieties through the world's ways of offering a false peace. But Jesus says, my peace is in contrast to the peace of the world. This is a true peace based on truth. The world offers a false peace based on ignorance. True peace is permanent. False peace is temporary. This peace from God is not found in the human realm. It transcends all of that superficial stuff from the world. The world pseudo-peace, you know what it is? It's the bliss of ignorance. It comes from not truth, but falsehood, from these false ideas. Thomas Watson says this. Peace flows from sanctification. But they being unregenerate, talk about those who are not saved, have nothing to do with peace. The wicked may have something which looks like peace, but it's not They may be fearless and stupid, but there is a great difference between a stupefied conscience and a pacified peace. This is the devil's peace. He rocks men in the cradle of security. He cries, peace, peace, when men are on the precipice of hell. The seeming peace a sinner has is not from the knowledge of his happiness, but the ignorance of his danger. Understand what he's saying there? That the world, they might say they have peace, but it's based on deluded ideas, something that's not true. It's born of delusion. I hear this all the time. It's like a person who here's a person who never believed in Christ, never trusted in Jesus, never darkened the door of a church, never repented of their sin, never asked God for anything Never had any thought of God during his time on earth. Lived in disobedience. And then when they die, all their friends and family stand around, oh, haven't they got another angel? Or he got his wings. Or he got promoted to heaven. He received his promotion. Where did you get that idea? On what authority do you say that? You know, the world thinks that everyone who dies goes to a better place. And what is that based on? It's certainly not the Bible. That's a false piece. And the truth is, why do people say those kind of things? Why do people say that nonsense? Because it works. People just go around and say, oh, you know, they went to a better place. It's nonsense. People in the world who don't know God say these things. Because they really don't understand where real peace comes from. That's a false peace based on a lie. A person who has never trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior Who has never repented of their sin, they are in great danger if they don't get saved. There is no peace with God there, friend. None The Bible says, there is no peace, saith the Lord unto the wicked, Isaiah 48, 22. Again in Isaiah 57, 21, there is no peace, saith my God. to the wicked. Jeremiah excoriates the false prophets who heal the brokenness of his people superficially, saying, peace, peace, but there is no peace. In the end times in 1 Thessalonians 5, unbelievers are going to say, oh, peace and safety. Peace and safety and destruction, the Bible says. Will come upon them suddenly like labor pains on a woman with child, and they will not escape. Real peace is only available by knowing Jesus Christ Go back to John 14, chapter, chapter 14, verse 1. Let's just go back. Let me just again give you the basis of this Peace, true peace for people, for the children of God. Look at verse number one. This is the basis of all true peace for the child of God. Let not your heart be troubled Do you believe in God? Believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself. that where I am, there ye may be also. You see, that's the basis of all true peace. It's based on who Jesus is. So let me ask you, do you believe who He is Do you believe he's the Son of God, the only Savior of the world? And do you believe that he has the sovereign authority to determine your eternal destiny? And if you put your faith in him and trust in him, he's preparing a place for you in heaven, then what possibly could happen to you that would bring a sense of anxiety? You say, well, death. Well, you know what death does to a believer? It brings us into the presence of Christ. We have a home in heaven. And if we believe all of that, then that will release us from these anxieties. The worst thing that the world can do, maybe come up bring upon us, is death. Death for a believer, that's the best day of their life. When we go into the presence of Christ. This is why Jesus is saying to the disciples, Look, there's nothing to fear, there's nothing to be anxious about They were his followers. Jesus was going to be crucified. They were probably going to be next on the list of people that were going to be persecuted, and indeed they would all be martyrs eventually. But Jesus said, Look, where I am, that's where you're going to be. One day. This is the basis of all peace, knowing who Jesus is, knowing that he is the Savior. And then look in verse number six. Jesus said unto them, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. So I want to tell you something, dear friend. If you know Jesus Christ and you put your faith in him and you know that you're saved, that is the basis of your peace. That's why you had peace with God. And then Jesus says to his disciples, Look, you know where you're going, and I prepared the way, but also I'm going to leave my peace here with you until you get there. What else what else can he do? What else can he do for us? Promise us heaven and then give us his peace offer it? So I want you to see the third thing real quickly. There's the promise of this peace. There is the provider of this peace. But then number three, the pursuit of this peace. You see, now wait a minute, what do you mean pursuit? You just said it's a gift. Well, it is a gift. Jesus said, I'm giving you my peace. I'm leaving you my peace. But notice verse 27. Notice what he says. My peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Let not, this is called a prohibition imperative. We can say it like this. It's commanding an action to stop which has already begun. Jesus was saying, look, stop letting your hearts be troubled. Talking to his disciples. They're anxious. They see what's happening. And Jesus said, look, stop allowing your hearts to be anxious. Stop it. You see, even with these incredible promises, the truth of the matter is, as Christians, at times we lack peace. If we're honest about it. There have been times in our life where we struggled still with anxiety and we don't have peace from the Lord. And you know why that is? Because we have not applied it to our life. Because we haven't claimed this promise. We haven't taken the resources that the Lord has given us. You see, it's a gift, but you have to receive it. It's a gift, but you've got to unwrap it. You've got to apply it. You know, it's not strange to say, you know, your cupboard is filled with all kinds of resources. Now go and take some out and use them. You know, it's like saying, you know, you have a bank account with all the money you need in that account, now just go and draw some of that money out And that's exactly what Jesus is saying to his disciples here. He says, look, I'm leaving, but I'm leaving behind all these resources that you have. All you got to do is you've got to take them out You gotta claim them for yourself. Just claim it. You say, how do I do that? You just simply ask for it. Look in John 14. Look down in verse number 13. After talking about all these resources. Notice what he says in 1413. And whatsoever ye ask in my name, that I will what? I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. Please, you know what you do? You want this peace from Jesus? You know what you have to do? Jesus, please give me this peace. This peace that you promised me? This peace that is a gift. I'm asking in your name that you give it to me. All these resources that are given, that Jesus gives his disciples from John chapter 13 on to John chapter 16. I wish I had time to go through all the things Jesus said, Jesus, I'm going to leave behind a comforter, the Holy Spirit. He's going to remind you of everything I taught you and all these other things. If you just ask it in my name, I will do it. I'll give it to you. All you gotta do is ask for it. Just claim it. I heard a man who was on an ocean liner, he wanted to come to America. He saved all his money to buy the ticket. And when he got on He uh stayed in his cabin the whole trip just eating crackers that he had accumulated to survive on the whole trip. And he every once in a while would walk out and see people in the dining room eating all this wonderful food And he thought, man, I I wish I could have some of that. And by the end of the trip, when he was getting off the boat, he was almost starved. The captain looked at him and said, Man, you look like you had a rough trip. He said, Well, you know, I could I I used all my money on the ticket. I didn't have money to buy food in the dining hall. And the captain said, Look, that was all part of the ticket that you bought. That was all for you. It was all there for you. It was free. It's part of the ticket. You know what? There are a lot of Christians that are starving spiritually. When God has given you part of the ticket of salvation, He's given you all these resources. We're on the good ship Grace, we're headed to heaven, and there are Christians on board that are starving spiritually. And you know why? Because they haven't claimed what God has promised. And part of what God has promised is this peace. This peace is available to you. All you have to do is ask for it. Paul said at Philippians 4. 6, be careful for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God, and the peace of God will keep you, will guard your heart as a result of that. So how do we get this peace? We ask for it. But let me give you one more thing. We keep our mind focused on Christ. Stay focused on Christ. Isaiah 26, 3. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee because he trusteth in thee, O Lord So we focus on Christ. We confess that we trust him. We trust his hand of providence in our life. Whatever he does is best for us. The Bible says, let the peace of Christ rule in your heart. That is, let it dominate you. Not just have a part of you, but let it dominate you, let it rule in your life. And part of the way we do that is we just keep our focus on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what he says. And so there's the promise of this peace. There is the provider of this peace. It comes only from Jesus. It's available if you want it. And there's the pursuit of this peace. We have to claim it. We have to make it ours. And we have to say, Lord, give me this peace that you've offered. Thousands of people each year visit Winchester Mansion in San Jose, California. There's a massive structure that was built by Sarah Winchester. She's the widow of the gun company owner. For 38 years, from 1884 until her death in 1922, the house was under constant construction. There were teams of carpenters, masons, other workers. They were employed around the clock to build on this house. Now there are various stories told as to why she wanted her house to continually be built But most of it was because a lot of people said it was because she believed that uh that that um she would be haunted by the ghosts of people killed by her husband's weapons unless she kept building on the house. That was one story that was circled about about her. Another another story said that she believed that as long as she was building that she would not die. So as a result, there were workers building on staircases and rooms. And she continued all these renovations and all these construction, all this construction until she died. It is estimated that she spent more than $70 million. On building that mansion. And today there are more than 10,000 windows in that mansion. There are hundreds of doorways and stairs that lead to blank walls. That go really nowhere. 160 total rooms in that mansion is all there. It was all in a desperate search for peace, a peace that was doomed to fail. And many people today are seeking peace equally fruitlessly. They turn to pleasure, they turn to drugs, they turn to alcohol, they turn to immorality And other things, and like the staircases in that mansion that lead to walls, that lead to nowhere. The false peace that the world offers leads to nowhere It gives you nothing. True peace comes only from Jesus Christ. And it comes from knowing him in truth as your Savior and claiming the promise that he would give you his peace. That would help you overcome any circumstance that you have to face in this life. So the question is, do you want that peace from him today? Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you again for this wonderful promise. What a treasure that has been left to us from our Savior. That we can have the very peace of Jesus. Jesus said, My peace I leave with you. And Father, I pray for those that are here today. I pray that, first of all, that they would have peace with God. I pray that every person here under the sound of my voice has settled that matter, that they have placed their faith in Christ alone for salvation, and their trusting in Christ and Christ alone. Then, Lord, can they have the peace of God that will carry them through any and every circumstance that they may face? The very peace of Christ. I pray, Lord, that Christians here today would receive it by faith. Those that are anxious, those that are going through conflicts and sorrows. Those who have may or may have medical issues and they're anxious over what will happen, that Lord, they would have the peace of God, the peace of Christ. that will enter their heart, that will help them, whatever it might be, Lord, that they would claim this peace that you offer. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just I want to pray for you here today. If you're here, first of all, if you're not sure of your salvation, I want to invite you. To put your full faith in Jesus Christ so that you can have peace with God to have your sins forgiven. If you're not absolutely certain and you say, I want today, this very moment, I want to reach out in faith, and I want to put my Full trust in Christ, would you raise your hand? I want to pray for you, friend. Just pray this prayer in your heart. Just say, Lord Jesus, save me Forgive me for my sin. I want peace with you. I don't want to be the enemy because of my sin. Please forgive me. Save me Would you pray that prayer? Anyone here say that's me, Freezer? I'm putting my full faith in Christ today. That's my prayer. I want peace with God. And then secondly, maybe you're a believer already, and you've been anxious about whatever is going on, and you need the peace of Christ. in your heart. Would you claim it right now? Would you ask for it? Say that's my prayer with upraised hand. I'm asking God for this peace The peace of Christ to reign in my heart. Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you today? Anyone here? God bless you, friends. Father, apply this to those that reach out in faith. Ask for peace, Lord. I pray that, Lord, in response, they'll have that peace that passes all understanding. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful, matchless name, Amen. Reverend one