I hope you have a Bible handy close by. If you will, would you please take your Bible and turn to to the book of Matthew, chapter number six. I want to deal verse with verse Verses twenty-five down to verse number thirty-four. But I want to talk about worry-free living or how to have peace during a pandemic. And while you're finding that, I heard about a family that put their grandmother on an airplane for the first time. She was on a airplane and And she wasn't very confident about that whole experience. She worried the whole trip. And when her family met her at the airport, they said, Well, uh, grandma, did the plane hold you up? Okay. And she said, Well, yes. But then she quickly said, But I didn't really put my full weight down on it. And you know, there are many Christians that are that way. They the truth is we're sustained by Almighty God He's the one holding us up, but there are many Christians that are not fully resting in the Lord. They're not fully trusting in the Lord. And they're plagued with anxiety. They're plagued with worry. Someone has rightly called this the age of anxiety. We often hear phrases like being stressed out or having a panic attack. I read where psychiatrists tell us that the most common mental disorder they encounter is that of worry and anxiety. And now we have this coronavirus. which is causing great panic and great worry in the heart of a lot of people. People are anxious about their finances. They're wondering what's going to happen to the stock market. It just continues to go down. How are we going to pay our bills? Oh some certain certain people can't work. Um how am I going to be able to take care of my family? They wonder, what if I lose my job And then people are anxious about their health. What if I what if I get this deadly virus? And they're anxious about their their family members. And and they're anxious about the crime uh that seems to be going up, spiking during this difficult time. And we can go on and on and on listing reasons for anxiety. Let me just say this, and this is a message Let me just tell you that for Christians this is an opportunity to be a testimony to the world I was talking to a man the other day and he said, you know, uh what a great time to be a witness right now to those who What a great time to share the gospel with unbelievers. And you know he's right. This is this more than ever, this is a time to demonstrate our faith and trust in When the world looks at Christians, they should not see people who are filled with worry and anxiety and panic. They should see people who have peace in the midst of a pandemic. And we should live without worry. Now you say that's easier said than done. Well, that's true. But I want you to listen to the words of our Lord Jesus. He gives us great words here. words to live by. And our passage here, Matthew chapter 6, if you look at verse 25, notice what Jesus says. He says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life. Notice that phrase, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink. And then in verse 31 we see a similar expression. Verse 31, therefore take no thought, saying what shall we eat? Or what shall we drink? Or wherewith shall we be clothed? And then again in verse number 34, if you'll drop down and look at verse 34, take therefore no thought for the morrow. For the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. And so three times we see this statement, take no thought. The thrust of this whole passage is around this one statement, take no thought. Now in the Greek we could literally read it like this. The first time he says take no thought, literally the Greek verb could It's could read it like this or expresses it like this, stop being anxious. In other words, stop worrying. And then the next two times We could say it like this, don't start worrying, or don't start being anxious. And so therefore, Jesus brackets our passage with this meaning. If you are worrying, stop it. And if you haven't been worrying, don't start worrying. You know, it's interesting. I found a book called Worry Free Living written by Some Christian authors, and this is what they said in the book. They said, we suggest setting aside fifteen minutes in the morning and another fifteen minutes in the evening for active work. That was their counsel. You should set aside some time each day to worry. But let me just tell you, this is exactly the opposite of what Jesus said. is saying. Jesus says here in this passage, stop worrying. If you are worrying, stop it. And if you haven't begun to worry, don't start. Do not worry. And you know why? Because there's absolutely no good that can come to your soul from worry. In verse number 27, look at that verse. Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cupid to his stature? That is, there's no good, Jesus says. That can come from worrying. Where he never dried a tear, where he never lifted a burden, where he never solved a problem It has the same effect on you that sand has on machinery. Someone said a muddy lion can destroy and kill, but it's the little ant that picks the carcass clean. And worries like little ants gnawing at our soul that rob us of the peace that God would have us to have. So I want you to see in this passage here today Three reasons why as believers we do not worry, we must not worry, and why we should have peace. And so if you're taking notes, write down number one, worry dishonors our Father. You see, the answer to winning over worry is to keep your eyes on your Heavenly Father. And this is what Jesus is telling us here. You know, God knows what you need before you ask. He knows what you need better than you do. I know many are out there wondering, you know, with all the things that are happening and not being able to work and uh going to the supermarket and there being nothing on the shelves. How are we going to live? How are we going to make it? But friend, let me remind you that you don't have a need that God is unaware of. And God is faithful to take care of His Children, during this this difficult time that we're facing during this pandemic, we need to keep our eyes on the Lord. Robert Lewis Stevenson used to delight in telling the story of sailors on a ship during a storm. And he said they were being rocked up and down and back and forward in this ship in this violent storm. And one of the sailors went up to the to the captain, to the pilot house. And he wanted to see what was going on and he saw the captain behind the wheel and the captain looked down at him and smiled at him and a few minutes later he returned to his friends and he said, You know, fellas, don't worry. He said, I've just seen the captain He's behind the wheel and he smiled at me. And you know what the truth of the matter is? God is in control. He's behind the wheel. And you know what? He smiles upon you because you are his child. He's not going to let anything uh hurt you or harm you. He is smiling down on you. Now Jesus reminds us here that God He owns everything. Look at verse number 32. For after all these things do the Gentiles seek For your heavenly Father knoweth that you have need of all these things. Again, we see that expression, all these things. And in verse number 33, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Again, three times we see this expression. all these things. And Jesus here is referring to the temporal things that we need to live. The things of this world. God knows that. He owns all these things. Did you know that God owns everything? It all belongs to him. Psalm 24. 1 says this, the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein. In 1 Chronicles 29:11, it says, Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, for all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. God owns everything. The Bible says the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. God said in Psalm 50, verse number 12, If I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you why. The world is mine. Everything belongs to God, you know, sometimes people think that, you know, you can make God rich, or when you come and you give the church, you know, you're you're making God rich. Friend, God already owns Everything. He as I said in the prayer uh or we were talking about the offering, you know, God is not a collector, God is the giver. He's constantly giving. The money that you have in your wallet, it already belongs to God. The Bible says the silver and the gold is mine. You can't do anything to add to God. God is the one who graciously gives to us. Everything comes from him. Everything goes to him, everything goes through him. The Bible says in Romans 11, 35 and 36, or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again. And so it all belongs to God. Now, why is it important to know that? Well, because, friend, uh there's no shortage of God's resources. You say, well, I was down at the store the other day and there was a shortage of everything. Well, there may be a shortage in a supermarket, but there's no shortage with God. There's no shortage shortage with Almighty God. I was listening to a report from an expert who said this. He said he said, we're not running out of resources. He said there's plenty of everything we need in the supply chain He said the problem is people are filled with panic and worry and it's causing them to hoard up supplies. You know, I think something that can be more damaging. to our society than a virus is the greed and the selfishness of man that comes by panic and it comes by worry. Listen, there's no short shortage with Almighty God God owns it all. And here's the next thing. God is always faithful to take care of his creatures. Listen to what Jesus said. When you think about food, listen to what Jesus said in Matthew 6. 26. Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow, neither do they reap. Or excuse me, they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? And so Jesus is calling upon us to observe some things here in this passage. He says, you know what, you can learn a lot about your heavenly Father just by observation. Have you ever stopped to observe some of the things in creation? Jesus is saying, you know what? Think about the birds. Carolyn's just saying his eye is on the sparrow. And I know he watches me. Surely that song was based on this passage right here. Next time you're tempted to worry about how you're going to be sustained. Just think about the birds. This is what Jesus is saying. And I when when uh Jesus says this in my mind's eye, I picture Jesus Jesus standing on the hillside in Galilee, looking over the beautiful north end of the of the Sea of Galilee, and the sun bright in the sky, and the people were all gathered there together at his feet. It was a beautiful time. and birds were flying overhead. One writer says that the north part of this area of Galilee was a crossroads of bird migration. And so Jesus probably saw them fly by. And Jesus said, consider the birds. You never see birds getting together trying to come up with a strategy on how to survive. You know why? Because they're fed by their heavenly Father. This is what Jesus is saying. You can learn something by just looking at the birds. They they're not anxious. They're not filled with worry. They know They have an instinct, a divine capacity to understand inside of them that their Heavenly Father will take care of them. And Jesus says you're worth a whole lot more. Look in Matthew chapter ten in your Bible. Look at Matthew chapter ten, verse twenty-nine. Notice what it says, Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your father. Two sparrows sold for a farthing, or we could say sold for one penny. You could buy two birds. That's how inexpensive these birds were, and sometimes these birds would be used for different places different things when people would buy them. But Jesus says, not one of these birds, these little birds, is unimportant to God. And then he says, aren't you more valuable than they, the very hairs? of your head are numbered. Now if God sustains the life of a bird, don't you think God is going to take care of you? This is what our Lord is telling us. Every time you see a bird, let it remind you of the faithfulness of God. But then when you think about food, look at the birds. When you think about fashion, Jesus says, consider the lilies. Look in chapter 6, look in verse number 28. And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these And wherefore if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you And so I think again I'm I'm picturing Jesus standing on the hillside there at Galilee, teaching people that were perhaps consumed with worry and anxiety about days to come. And Jesus, I think, with a sweep of his arm, just points to the fields, and there dotting the hillside with these beautiful little wildflowers that would be blooming right at that time of year. Just beautiful little flowers. And he said, look at these lilies, look at these flowers. And you've never seen a flower worrying about what to wear. or behind a sewing machine, Solomon had no garment that surpassed these lilies in their beauty. And if God clothed these little flowers That have such a short-lived life with such beauty and adornment, do you think God is going to forget you? And of course, absolutely not. You are so much more valuable to God than a bird. You're so much more valuable to God than the beautiful flowers. And so the idea here is that it's an insult to God for you to worry or to be filled with anxiety. Worry is an insult. One person wrote this, Christians who worry believe God can redeem them, break the shackles of Satan. Take them from hell to heaven, put them into his kingdom, and give them eternal life, but just don't think he can get them through the next couple of days. Well friend, that's pretty ridiculous when you think about it. We believe God Can get us through anything. We know that He's a great heavenly Father. And why should we worry? Worry strikes at the character of God. When you worry, you're questioning the character of God. Here's a few verses to consider. Isaiah 49, 15. Can a woman forget her suckling child that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Yea, they may forget, yet will I not forget thee. You know, mothers normally care for their children, but there are times when even maternal instincts will fail. And a mother may forget her child, but God says, I will not forget you. You. That will never happen to Almighty God. The Bible says in Hebrews thirteen five. Keep yourself free from the love of money. And be content with what you have. For he said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. In Isaiah 41. 10 he said, Fear thou not, I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. And again in Psalm thirty seven, verse twenty five, I've been young and now I'm old, yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging for bread. And so worry then Is just blatant distrust of the power and the love of God. That's why we cannot worry as believers. We put our trust in the Lord. Worry dishonors our Father. But here's the second thing. I want you to see. Not only does worry dishonor our Father, but worry defeats our faith. If you worry, what kind of faith are you manifesting to those that are watching? With the world watching you and knowing that you're a child of God, if they see you all stressed out, filled with anxiety, what kind of faith are you portraying to the world? It defeats our faith Jesus calls it little faith. In verse 30, notice the phrase where he says at the end, O ye of little faith. Worry only causes you to lose ground in your Christian life. It does absolutely nothing for you. Someone said worry is like a rocking chair. It keeps you occupied, but it doesn't get you anywhere. And that's so very true. What will it do to us? Well first of all there's a loss of peace. There's a loss of peace. Again, I want you to look at some phrases here in this passage. Look again at verse 25. Therefore I say unto you, take no thought. Look at the word thought there Again, we see this word used in verse 27. Look again at verse 27. Which of you by taking thought can add one cupid Again, we see it in verse 28. Why take ye thought for raiment? And again in verse number 31, therefore take no thought. And we see it again, once more, in verse 34. Take therefore no thought. Now, this word for thought is the exact same Greek word used over and over again. And it is the Greek word for worry. And so really Jesus is using the word worry here in the Greek. And so what now the question might come up, why is it translated with the English word thought? Because in Old English, the word for worry or anxiety was thought. And you know why? Because it seemed that whenever worry came, where did it start? It started in the mind. It started with your thinking. How you would think. The peace of God guards your heart and mind, but worry is an enemy that attacks the mind. It begins by these thoughts. One person wrote this: worry is a small trickle of fear that meanders through the mind until it cuts a channel into which all other thoughts are drained. And so I think one of the keys to worry-free living is the control of your thoughts. The Bible says in Proverbs 23, verse 7, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. And so worry, we could say is kind of a mental strangulation that takes away our peace, takes away our calm, our quietness of soul. And it begins with the mind, the things that we think about. It's like the old trick that school children would love to play. You know, one child Looked at Billy and said, Billy, you don't look so well. Are you feeling okay? And then another child comes and says, Billy, you look terrible. Are you sick? And another child comes and says, Billy, you look really bad. You must be sick. And pretty soon, Billy, he was feeling fine, but now all of a sudden he feels sick. You know why? Because it starts in the mind. There was nothing wrong with him. And friend, that's the way the devil works. The devil will put thoughts in your mind. He'll put lies, he'll put rumors, he'll put things in your mind that are negative things that bring fear, and the next thing you know, you're all stressed out, you're all filled with anxiety, you know That's the way it is. It's very easy in this day to be filled with headline hysteria, all these reports that we're getting, all these things that are happening. And if we dwell on that, then we can be filled with worry just like anyone else. But you know what? Don't leave your mind open in that way. You need to focus not on the things that are happening around you, on the circumstances. Focus on God. Focus on the Word of God. What does the Bible say? Focus on the promises of God, not on the negatives that you're hearing all around you. Someone said negatives are the dark room where fears are developed. And friend, that's true. Do not dwell on those things. The Bible says this. Be anxious for nothing. This is Philippians 4, 6. But in everything by prayer and supplication, let your requests be made known unto God. I read about the story of J. C. Penny, the man who was the founder of the department store that's so very well known today. J. C. Penny, did you know that he came from a long line of Baptists Preachers. He was the son of a Baptist preacher. And he grew up learning the Bible. He grew up with deep convictions. He was, uh, it is said of him, he was honest. He was a hard worker. He had a great godly life. He never smoked. He never drank. But in 1929, the Great Depression hit. And Penny found himself in a crisis. He made some unwise decisions, some unwise commitments, and all those things turned bad. And he began to worry. And he worried so much that he was unable to sleep. Not long after that, he developed a painful case of the shingles, and he was hospitalized. And while he was in the hospital, things didn't improve. His anxiety grew. And it seemed that whatever they gave him didn't help. That the worry that he had was resistant to any tranquilizers or drugs and then his mental state began to deteriorate and so later he said this he said I was broken nervously And physically, I was filled with despair, unable to see even a ray of hope. He said, I had nothing to live for. He said, I felt I hadn't a friend left in the world that even my family turned against me. And one night he was so oppressed, he didn't think his heart could hold out. And he thought that he was going to die before morning. And so he sat down and he wrote a farewell letter to his wife and to his sons. But he did make it through the night And the next morning he heard singing from the little hospital chapel, and the words were the song, Be not dismayed, whateer be tied, God will take care of you. And he walked into that chapel, and he listened to the song, and he heard the scripture reading, and he heard the prayer, and then he wrote this. He said, suddenly Something happened. I can't explain it. I can only call it a miracle. I felt as if I had been instantly lifted out of the darkness of a dungeon into warm, brilliant sunlight. You see, all worry left him. As he realized more than ever how much the Lord Jesus cared for him and how God was going to take care of him. And from that day forward, J. C. Penny was never plagued with worry ever again. He called those moments in the chapel. He said, quote, these were the most dramatic and glorious. 20 minutes of my life. You see, the peace he lost through worry was regained when he When he he looked, he kept his eyes on the Lord and believed in the promises of God. You see, worry brings a loss of peace, but also it brings a loss of testimony Look at verse number 32 in Matthew 6. It says, For all these things do the Gentiles seek. The word for Gentiles here is a word that can mean Someone that is a pagan or a heathen or we could say someone without God, without Christ, those who don't know the Lord, the people of this world who don't know God, they're constantly stressed, they're constantly worried, they're constantly uh thinking about the temporal things. The word for seek there is an emphatic. They're seeking with all their heart. They're they're they're living for the the now. For the temporal things of this world, eat, drink, and be merry. They're grabbing all the gusto they can get. Now imagine a child of God approaching life in this way. Friend, that is not a good testimony for the Christian faith. What we're saying is there's really no difference with the world and us if we approach life the same way. They beg, borrow, and steal and scratch and scrape to get what they get. You see, they need the world needs to see in the child of God a peace. That passes understanding. Why? Because our trust, our faith is in our Heavenly Father. We're never going to make a difference in this world until the world sees a difference Nietzsche, the German philosopher, he was the founder, by the way, of the Nazi movement in Germany. He was the first man in history to come to the conclusion that God is dead, that philosophy that God is dead. And he came to that conclusion by looking at Christianity. You know what he said about Christians? This is what he said. He said, if you want me to believe in your Redeemer, you're going to have to look a little more redeemed. What a blot against the church. Does the unsaved world see hope in you? Does the unsaved world see peace in you? Do they see real faith in you because you of your faith in God, or do they see in you what they see in everyone else? The late Peter Marshall, chaplain of the United States Senate, prayed this prayer at the opening of Senate. He said this, help us to do our very best this day. And be content with today's troubles, so that we shall not borrow the troubles of tomorrow. Save us from the sin of worrying, lest stomach ulcers be the badge of our lack of faith. Well there's the loss of peace, there's the loss of testimony, then there's the loss of our health. Again in verse 27, Jesus said, Which of you by taking thought can add one cupid to his stature. Jesus was saying, worry does nothing for you physically. In fact, it's quite the opposite. It zaps you of your Charles Mayo of the Mayo Clinic said this worry affects the circulation of the heart, the glands, the whole nervous system. He said, I have never known a man to die of overwork, but many who have died of overworry. A Johns Hopkins University doctor said, we do not know why it is that worriers die sooner than non-warriors, he says, but it is a fact. And then E. Stanley Jones added to that. He said, but I, whom a man of simple mind, think I know. We are inwardly constructed in nerve and tissue, brain, cell, and soul, for faith, not fear. That's the way God made us. And I believe I believe he's right, friend. God has made us to depend upon him, to put our faith in him. So worry dishonors our Father. Worry defeats our faith. But let me give you the third and final thing. Worry distorts our focus. Look at verse number 33 and verse 34. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. And take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. And so this tells us very clearly, and by the way, I think this is the one dominating idea in this whole passage. Everything that Jesus said leads up to this one idea. Our focus. Our focus is to be on the eternal, not on the earthly. We are to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. You see, worry causes us to lose that right perspective. If we're not careful, all we're thinking about is just this temporal life. And by the way, Jesus is giving us this right on the heels of Talking about materialism and covetousness. Earlier on in chapter six he speaks about that. And verse number twenty-five, or or excuse me, verse number twenty-three and verse twenty-four, verse twenty-three says, But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? No man can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. And so if he's saying here that uh if you're so focused on materialism And mammon or money or the things of this world, that that becomes your whole focus. And if all of your life is just about getting money and getting more, He calls that your eye being evil. As children of God, that's not the thing that we focus on. God did not put us here just so that we can make more money or get more things. uh uh in this temporal world. That's not to be our focus. And Jesus said, if if that's your focus, your eye is evil, and if your eye is evil, your whole body is full of darkness. And if your light be darkness, how great is that darkness? There are some people out there thinking, well, you know, they're doing well by just focusing on these material things And Jesus said, no, that's not it. Our focus is not on these earthly things. As children of God, we're to have an eternal focus. We should be worrying more about feeding our soul and pursuing the things of God The Bible says this in Colossians 3. 1. If ye be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. We should be more concerned about spiritual matters. than earthly matters. More concerned about the eternal than the temporal. And so Jesus is telling us here, set proper priorities. Seek first the kingdom of God. This is to be our focus. And I think sometimes maybe God brings providentially things like this, these this coronavirus or other perhaps trials and tribulations. To remind us that we're not to be focused on these earthly things. Our focus is to be on spiritual things, is to be on eternal things. Set proper priority. Seek first. The Greek word is protas, first in a line. It should be the very first thing that we are focused on is not this world, but the kingdom of God. And Oswald Chambers says this about this verse. He says, this is the most revolutionary. Talk about this verse. Words. that human ears have ever heard. Why? Because it goes against the social current of human nature. We're always taught to to look out for number one first. But here Jesus says, no, you seek the kingdom first. Seek proper priorities. Seek personal purities. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Let me just tell you, friend, you know what? You'll never go to heaven without the being righteous. And you know what? None of us have any righteousness in us. You know how a person goes to heaven? It's not by anything we can do. It's by the work of Jesus Christ. You know, you have to be righteous, but we have no righteousness. But the good news is when you get saved, when you put your faith in Jesus, he gives us his righteousness. Sometimes people say, well, you're not saved by works. Well That's true. We're not saved by my works, but we are saved by the works of Jesus, what he has done. And Jesus came to this earth and lived a perfect life. And on the cross he took all of our sins and he paid our sin debt. And when we put our faith in him, God takes away our sin. From our account, and he puts righteousness on our account, it's the righteousness of Christ. And Jesus says, this is what you're to seek. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And can I ask you, friend, do you know that you're going to heaven because you have been given the righteousness of Christ when you put your faith in what He did for you? This is a thing that you're to be concerned about. And during this time, what you need to do is examine your own heart and make sure that you know that you're saved. That you put your faith in Jesus Christ and Him alone. And that God has put on your account the righteousness of Christ. That's the thing that you're to seek. And now that you and when you know that, if you know that Then you're to live out that righteousness that God has put on your account. We live it out in our life each day. That's to be our focus. That's our priority. Paul said it like this, Brethren I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind Reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press towards the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. What was he talking about there? Practical righteousness? Once we're saved and God has declared us righteous by giving us the righteousness of Christ, now we are to live that out practically Paul said, that's what I'm pursuing. That's what I'm pushing for. That's the prize. You reach a new level of spiritual maturity when your mind is not dominated By material things, but it's dominated by spiritual things. It's dominated by righteousness. And then the next thing is see, promise, prosperity. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness And what does Jesus say, verse 33? All these things will be added to you. God said, I'll take care of all these temporal things. I'll add this to you. If you have the right priority Then I'll take care of all the rest of it. You take care of my kingdom. Focus on my kingdom. I'll take care of your world. I remember one time when I was in England, I went to Spurgeon's College, and there's a beautiful stained glass window. It was a picture of a hand holding onto a cross And below it was in Latin, et teneo, et teneor, which in Latin is I hold and am held. And the idea was this, you hold to the cross of Christ. You hold to the things of God and he will hold you. This is what Jesus is saying there. You seek first his kingdom, and God will take care of you of you. Focus on the eternal, not on the earthly. But here's the next thing. Focus on today, not on tomorrow. Look at verse 34. Take therefore no thought for the morrow. For the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Jesus was saying, Don't focus on the future, focus on today. Tomorrow will have its share of problems They have their way of working themselves out in time. Just take one day at a time. In Deuteronomy, God gave her promise. He said, As thy days, so shall thy strength be. What's God saying? That God gives you enough strength today to get you through today. As each new day comes, God in His grace gives us strength to make it through that day. But you know what we do? We take today's strength. And use it and spend it with worry on tomorrow's fears. And so we're taking the strength God gave us for today and using it for tomorrow, and we have no strength left for today. You see, we drain our energy and strength on tomorrow's perceived problems. Mark Twain said this. I'm an old man and have had many troubles, most of which have never happened. One person said, don't tell me worry doesn't help. I know better. The things I worry about don't happen. And that's normally true. Corey Timbu said, worry does not empty tomorrow out of its sorrows, it empties today out of its strength. Worry is the interest we pay on trouble before it is due. And Jesus says, look, don't worry about tomorrow. I've given you strength enough for today. Just focus on today. And you know what? Tomorrow, God will give you new strength for that day. The Bible says the mercies of the Lord are new every day. morning. Each day is a gift that we should enjoy from Almighty God. Don't push yourself into the future and forfeit the day's joys over some Or some of tomorrow's troubles, things that may never even happen. And so, friend, in conclusion, then we should never worry Jesus tells us that. Worry dishonors our Father. Worry defeats our faith. Worry distorts our focus. We're to seek first his kingdom. And the righteousness of Christ and all these other things will be added unto you, the Bible says. And let me close with this story. Charles Davis tells the story of a man who was hiking on a mountain. He was caught up in the wonder and the beauty of the landscape. And he lingered on the trail until darkness overcame him. And uh he had to feel his way home in the dark. And he slipped, fell over a cliff, and he managed to grab on to a tree limb, and he hung there for hours. hoping that someone would happen to come along and help him. But after hours, his strength gradually slipped. And finally he had no more strength. So he turned loose and he plunged down a full six inches and landed on a rock. You know, many Christians are like that. We're kind of hang in fear. We're using all of our strength just to hang on Worrying, stressed out, filled with anxiety. We're using all of our strength. And finally we let go only to find that we land on the rock that is beneath us. You know who that rock is? That rock is Christ. Christ and He is the one that will hold you up. He is the one that will sustain you. Put your faith and your trust in Him. I love that song that we sing. He will hold me fast. And he will, friend. He will hold you fast. Shall we pray together? Can we bow for prayer? Would you bow with me? Father, thank you for your word and the encouragement and the strength we get from it. And I pray, Lord, for those who have been watching and have worshiped with us by way of webcast. I pray for blessing in their life. Lord, if there's some that have been filled with anxiety and fear and stress over all the things that's happening around them. Lord, may we look at these verses afresh and anew. Verses that are very familiar to us. We've read over many times. And yet, Lord, we haven't applied them. cases. So help us. Let these words bring strength and peace to your children. Lord, let us be a testimony in these times. Of worry-free living, putting our faith, our trust in our faithful Creator who will sustain us, who is our rock, who will hold us fast, and who will bring us through. Whatever calamity may come. Father, give us this peace. Bless those that are listening. And Lord, I pray for if there's someone that's listening that's never put their full faith in Christ That today they will run to Him for salvation. That they'll put their full faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved today. Bless these words to hearing hearts, we pray in Jesus' name Jesus' name. Amen. Now, friends, let me just give you a few final remarks and we're going to be done. Again, I want to remind you, if perhaps as some were tuning in late, um we've had people call and ask us. Um what can we do? Because we want to continue to give to the church. We know when the church is in meeting that uh the church still needs um our resources to to uh continue its ministries. You can give your offering online if you go to our website. There's directions there on how you can participate in online giving. And then of course you can just simply mail your offering in or bring it by the office. We're open from eight And a reminder that there's no Sunday evening service. We'll have no public worship services. All of our services for the time being will be done via this uh webcast through Facebook. Our next service will be on Wednesday at 7 30. We will have our prayer meeting and Bible study. And so join us for that. We're going to pray together. Obviously, we need to pray a lot in time. So we'll have a prayer time together and then we'll we'll we'll go to God's Word and study God's Word together. So I hope to see you again on uh Wednesday night at 7 30 So again, just a reminder, all the services and the activities at Grace will be canceled for the time being. Please do keep in touch with us through our our ministry by text you can text Grace to 43905 and get updates or go to our website. We'll keep you informed about what's going to happen. Obviously things are kind of constantly changing. Um and so we're going to take it from week to week. But uh one thing I I do look forward to, when all this is done, we're gonna have a big homecoming service together where we all come back together in God's house, and I hope that That again your heart longs for that as mine does as we meet together here in God's house. Thank you for tuning in, God bless you