Would you take your Bibles tonight open to uh First Kings, please, the Old Testament Book of First Kings, if you just go to chapter 3 and verse 3. We're going to begin a brand new series of messages through 1st and 2 Kings in the Old Testament. And tonight I want to title this study, People in High Places. So look in 1 Kings chapter 3 and look down at verse number 3. 1 Kings 3, 3. And Solomon loved the Lord. walking in the statutes of David his father, only he sacrificed and burnt incense in high places Whenever something catastrophic or bad happens, we usually want to find someone to blame. And usually that someone is God. When 9-11 happened, for example, the big question was, where was God when this took place? It's funny how people are really not concerned about where God is under normal circumstances. But they only ask that question when something bad happens. This question has kind of resurfaced during this corona crisis. Where is God? How come you haven't come to protect us? How can you allow this to happen to us? People all over the U. S. are asking these kinds of questions. And in doing so, they imply that somehow God has failed. And so God is the scapegoat again. It's God's fault. Somehow he was off duty when this coronavirus got into our country. Or he saw it coming, he just decided to uh not do anything about it, just to sit back and passively allow this thing to happen. And so America and the world conveniently blame God. After all, it could not possibly be our fault. It could not possibly be punishment for our bad behavior. One thing about man is that the heart of man never changes. Blaming God for bad things is something that goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden. The Bible says in Proverbs 19:3, the foolishness of man perverts his way, and then his heart frets against the Lord. You make your own mistakes with your own bad decisions, and then you blame it all on God. That's what the Solomon says. Centuries ago, Israel had their own 9-11. Their twin towers happened to be the Temple of Solomon. The terrorist that brought all of it about was a man by the name of Nebuchadnezzar. He brought the Babylonian army into Jerusalem. In fact, he did it three times on three different occasions in 606 and 598 five eighty six BC, these three invasions, uh each time he uh uh left the city in worse shape. On the final invasion, he destroyed the temple. He carried away captives. Jeremiah the prophet watched all of this take place from his Grodo, his cave there, just outside of Jerusalem. And while he watched it, he wrote the book of Lamentations that we find in the Bible as he wept over the destruction of the city. The city burned. Many Jews died. The king was pulled off his throne. The rightful heir was carried off into captivity. This was one of the darkest days in Israel's history. And the question that they asked was, why? Why would God allow this to happen? Well, the books of 1 and 2 Kings are the answer to that question. The books of 1 and 2 Kings prove that the reason for Israel's punishment and their exile was not because God failed. It wasn't because God failed to keep his promises. In fact, it was quite the opposite. The reason for Israel's 9-11, the reason for their punishment, is because God did keep his word. That's why that happened. So let me tell you some things about first and second Kings. This first sermon is going to kind of be an overview. I want to give you a general flavor of uh these books, or I should say book. Let me talk about the about the book, first of all. Did you know that First and Second Kings were originally one book in the Hebrew text, not divided into two? And they and the name of the book was simply Kings. It comes from the first word in verse one, Malachem. And also Vah Malaich, which is now the king or and the king. The Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, divides the book Divided the book into two, whereas originally it was one. And that was followed by the Latin Vulgate, and then every English translation after that kept the division, and so now we have instead of one book, we have first and second Kings. Let me talk to you about the authorship of the book. The identity of the of the author is somewhat unknown. There's no real direct claim in the book about who wrote it. However, there is strong evidence that the these books, or I should say, book was written by a prophet. 1 and 2 Kings emphasizes the ministry of the prophets. Nearly every chapter records either a prophet or it records a prophecy made or a prophecy fulfilled. And based on this, scholars propose that 1 and 2 Kings was perhaps written by a prophet who lived in exile in Babylon with the children of Israel. Jewish tradition says that the writer of 1 and 2 Kings was Jeremiah. He lived in the days of Josiah. He lived there in the city of Jerusalem all the way up until the destruction of the city and the Babylonian captivity. And so some scholars say it was no doubt Jeremiah. In fact, 2 Kings 24 18 to 2530 is the same as Jeremiah chapter 52, if you compare them sometimes. And Jeremiah would have access to the royal records. He would be able to use some of the historical resources to write. these books or book. We don't know for certain that it was Jeremiah, but he's the likely candidate. We do know this, that these books were inspired by Almighty God. They were written under divine inspiration. And the Bible says in Romans 15, 4, for whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning. That we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. These stories were written down so that we can learn from them. God chronicled the life of these kings of Israel and Judah so that we personally today can learn lessons from them, from their bad example and from their good example. Did you know that you can learn from a bad example just as well as you can learn from a good example? And so this is the ri the chronicle of these kings. These books were written from the perspective of a prophet. It shows the destructive results of an evil life or immorality, of lawlessness, of violence. of idolatry, of false worship. It reveals the end result of disobedience to God. And so these books take us from the death of David to the transition of Solomon all the way to the divided kingdom and the children of Israel in exile in Babylon. So really it takes us from the golden age of Solomon to the dark days of the destruction of Jerusalem and the exile. It takes us really from Israel's highest point From Israel's lowest point. And it reveals how Israel got there. Was it God's fault again? No. Let me just take a moment and and make an application. Do you think that the country today is God's fault in any way? No, I don't think so. I think there are other reasons. The other thing about these books, they were written to defend the character of God and the reliability of His Word. The faith of Israel in this pre-exilic period was built mainly around two promises. And one promise was a dwelling place, a place where God would put his name, a place where the Israelites could go and worship him. And God said that that place was Mount Zion or that place was Jerusalem. God said in Deuteronomy twelve, He would choose a place where all Israel would worship him. Once they got into the land of Canaan, God would Mark out that place. God would choose that place where they would worship him. And God chose that place through his servant David. It would be Mount Zion. It would be Jerusalem. Psalm 76, 2. In Salem also is his tabernacle and his dwelling place in Zion. Psalm 132, verse 13, for the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his habitation And the temple being built there was a demonstration of God's choice. So that was one promise. But it was Israel's faith was also built on another promise, and that was God's promise to David of an enduring dynasty. In 2 Samuel 7. 13, God said, He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. There are two promises. Jerusalem would be the place where he would put his name, where people would worship him, and David would have an everlasting dynasty to sit on the throne of Jerusalem. However, when Nebuchadnezzar invaded the city, he destroyed Jerusalem, and he carried away into captivity the heir, the king. So there was no king on the throne, no son of David was sitting there, and Jerusalem was destroyed. The temple had been reduced to smoke and ruin. So the question again was, has God failed? Did God fail to keep his promise? Was Marduk, the Babylonian God, greater than Yahweh? Was God not able to keep his promise? And so the books of 1 and 2 Kings. is the writer setting out to explain the destruction of Jerusalem and the exile in a way that rescues the faith of the people of Israel by answering these questions. How did we get here? How did we get to this point? How did this tragedy happen? And so they were experiencing this tragedy again, not because God's word failed, but because God was faithful to his word. It wasn't God's fault, but rather it was the leader's. If you want to find out the problem with Israel, you know where you look? You look at the kings. Look at them. Look at the way that they reigned. Look at the way that they led. And again I say, has it ever occurred to you that the reason we're in such sad shape as a nation here in America is because of perhaps leaders who don't fear the Lord? Or because of people that don't honor the Word of God? Jeremiah said this in Lamentations. He said, For the sins of her prophets and the iniquity of her priests that have shed the blood of the Just in the midst of her. Jeremiah said basically the reason for the punishment and the exile was because of all the innocent blood that was shed that these leaders allowed to take place. Beloved, I can't help but think with all the innocent blood shed here in our country, we're, you know, we're not really yet being judged the way we deserve it. I don't mean to sound pessimistic. I just mean to say that God is a holy God. And God punishes sin. But let me talk to you about the aim of the book. Again, and I think I've already mentioned it, so I won't dwell too long here. The writer proves that Israel's exile was not God's fault. It was their own fault. Let me quote you from uh two Old Testament scholars, Gillard and Longman. They write, quote, In order to show that the exile was the product of the nation's disobedience The writer of Kings adopts a precise literary program. He takes laws that are unique to the book of Deuteronomy as the spectacles through which he assesses the history of the nation In this respect, Kings is transparently Deuteronomic history. I like when they make up those Deuteronomic you know words like that. It's uh it's really re rehearsing the history of the book of Deuteronomy. I guess maybe his way is better of saying it. Who knows? If you want to know why the temple was destroyed and God's people were in exile, just look what God said that they were supposed to do in Deuteronomy and look what they actually did. There was first of all the disobedient kings. Take a moment with me. Look in Deuteronomy chapter 17 real quick. Look in Deuteronomy chapter 17. Look down in verse fourteen. Here's God and he's kind of gonna give some guidelines for the kings of Israel. Verse 14 he says, When thou art come into the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee and shall possess it and shall dwell therein, and shall say, I I will set a king over me, like as all the nations that are about me. I saw this coming. And that's exactly what happened. Verse 15 Thou shalt in any wise set him king over thee, whom the Lord thy God shall choose, one from among thy brethren, shalt thou set king over thee, that thou mayest not set a stranger over thee, which is not thy brother Verse 16, but he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt, and that he should multiply horses, for as much as the Lord has said unto you, ye shall henceforth return no more that way Verse 17, neither shall he multiply wise to himself that his heart turn not away, neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold. Verse 18, and it shall be that when he sitteth upon the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write him a copy of his law, and in a book out of that which is before the priests of the Levites. See some of the guidelines here God said, you know, here's what the kings need to do. First of all, don't multiply horses. You know Solomon built many stables because you know why? He had a lot of horses. Well, check that one off. Don't depend on Egypt. Solomon made a political alliance with Egypt, marrying Nephara's daughter. God said, don't multiply wives. Well, Solomon he only had 300 wives. Seven hundred concubines. Like the old joke, you know, when they said, Do you love me? He said, Honey, you're one in a thousand. The kings were to keep a copy of the Word of God right there by them. They were had to have their own copy right there. They were to read it every day. They were to reference it every day. That's what it says in verse 19, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God to keep all those words of the law. We know that they didn't do that. How do we know that? Well, because you remember the story of Josiah. When he became king, he did a renovation project of the temple. And guess what they found in the temple? They found the book of the law, the scroll. And what does that imply? It had been lost. And why was it lost? Because they really didn't care about having it near them. None of the kings were copying their own law or keeping it with them. And so they they just completely disobeyed the Lord. They did not follow God with all their heart. They were not like David. And by the way, this is a theme that you'll see throughout the books of 1 and 2 Kings. The kings will be constantly compared to David. Do they measure up to David? How do they compare to David? David was the standard, and as you read through 1 and 2 Kings You'll you will find that the kings either walked in the way of the of David their father or they didn't. Or maybe in some things they did. But the more you were like David, the better you were as a king. And you know what you'll find as you read through? There were very few like David. Very few that walked like him. And then there was another issue. Not only bad kings. Bad leadership, men who didn't fear the Lord like they should, and men who disobeyed God's word. But the other issue was the high places. God clearly commanded what Israel was to do when they settled. Look in Deuteronomy, look in chapter 12 real quick. Look in Deuteronomy chapter 12. Here's another thing God said. Look what he said. These are the statutes and judgments which ye shall observe to do in the land. CHAPTER Twelve, verse 1. Which the Lord thy God giveth thee, giveth of thy father, giveth to thee to possess it, all the days that ye shall live upon the earth. Verse 2, Ye shall utterly destroy all the places wherein the nations which ye shall possess serve their gods, upon the high mountains and upon the hills, and under every green tree. And ye shall overthrow their altars and break their pillars and burn their groves with fire, and ye shall hew down the graven images of their gods, and destroy the names of them out of that place Ye shall not do so unto the Lord your God, but unto the place which the Lord your God shall choose out of all your tribes to put his name there Even unto his habitation ye shall seek, and thither shalt thou come. So you know what God said to them? All the high places, I want you to destroy them. Pull them down because I've given you a place to worship. I put my name upon a place. In chapter 12 of Deuteronomy, God had not not yet settled in Jerusalem, but God said, I'm gonna Give you a place, and so therefore you tear down all of the high places. What are the high what are high places? What are they? Well, these are elevated sites. They would usually be found on mountains, tops, or hills. They were places where Canaanites worshipped. They would normally have an altar there. The average high place would have an altar, would have a carved wooden pole that depicted the female goddess of fertility, Asherah. They would have a stone pillar symbolizing a male deity. They would have other idols. And again, it was always under a tree somewhere on a high spot. They would build these high places, and the people would sacrifice animals there, and they would burn incense to their gods there, and they would pray. there and they would be involved with male and female cultic prostitution there that was a part of some of the pagan rituals of their worship. Second King 17:10 says this, and they shall set up images and grows on every high hill, and under every green tree And there they burned incense in all the high places, as did the heathen whom the Lord carried away before them. And so These were places of the worship of Baal, the worship of the Ammonite god Molech, the Moabite God Kamash. They also worshiped their, you know, whatever God or whatever thing they wanted to do. And um the picture that you see behind you is one of the high place in Dan. King Jeroboam set up that high place there in Dan. That's the actual place. And you know, there was an altar built on that platform there, and then a calf on top of it, and on top of that they would uh burn uh the sacrifice and so on. That's a picture I took myself, by the way, when I was there in Israel, there at Dan's high place. And so these high places, God said, tear them down. Now why did God want them to be torn down? Well, because they would steal the people's hearts away from God. Did you know sometimes Jews would go to these high places and they would go there sincerely. They would go there to worship their own God and burn uh uh make a sacrifice unto their own God there But going there and doing that, they rubbed shoulders with pagans, and they were introduced to other forms of pagan worship And God did not want his people doing that. And so these high places were a constant temptation for idolatry. It would be very easy for them to fall into some idolatrous practice there. And people Who worship different gods would would uh influence them. So to prevent this, again, God set up a central place to worship and God said tear down all of the high places in the in the in the land of uh of Israel. And by the way, this was the mar the the uh I should say yardstick to measure What kind of kings they were. Good kings, you know what they did? They abolished the high places. Mediocre kings, they tolerated them. Evil kings, they patronized them. And some even built new high places. So go on a journey with me. You guys ready to go through your Bible here a little bit? I didn't hear anything. I guess silence is consent. Look in chapter three, look down in verse number uh three again. And Sodom and loved the Lord, walk walking in all the statues of David his father. Only he sacrificed and burnt incense what? In high places. So we see that there. But then look in uh Chapter 11, look down at verse number 7, 1 Kings 11. 7. Notice what it says in 1 Kings 11. 7. And uh it says this, actually we'll start in verse five of First Kings 11. For Solomon when Aster went after Ashtareth the goddess of the Zidonians, and after Milcom the abominations of Ammonites, and Solomon the evil in the sight of the Lord, and went not fully after the Lord, as did David his father. And then did Solomon build a high place for Kamash The abomination of Moab in the hill that is before Jerusalem. Can you believe that? Here is Solomon. And not only is he not tearing down a high place, what is he actually doing? He's building one Started out just kind of ignoring it and then he built one. Look at Jeroboam. Look at chapter twelve and look down in verse number thirty-one of chapter uh twelve verse thirty one and verse thirty two um it says this and he made a house of high places And he made priests of the lowest of the people. Who is this? This is Jeroboam the king. He also is making high places. Look in 1 Kings chapter 14, look in verse number 23. What about Rehoboam? Is he any different? It says in chapter 14, verse 21, Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, reigned in Judah and he re he was forty one when he began to reign. Look down at verse twenty-three. For they also built them what? High places and images and groves on every high hill and under every green tree. So Rehaboam didn't obey the Lord. Look at look at um chapter fifteen, look down at verse number nine. This is Esa. And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam, king of Israel, reigned Asa over Judah, and forty and one years reigned he in Jerusalem. And look at verse 11. And Asa did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, and did as David his father. And but look at verse 14. But the high places were not what? Removed. Nevertheless, Asa's heart was perfect with the Lord all his days. He was a good king, but there was only one problem. He didn't do what? He didn't remove the high places. Look in 1 Kings chapter 22 and look down at verse number 41. Look at 1 Kings 22 down in verse 41. And notice what it says. This is King Jehoshaphat. Verse 41. And Jehoshaphat, the son of Asa, began to reign over Judah in the forty fourth year of the Ahab King of Israel. And Jehoshaphat was thirty-and five years old when he began to reign. Look down at verse numbers forty-three. And he walked in all the way of Asa his father, turning not aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of the Lord. Nevertheless The high places were not taken away, for the people offered and burned incense yet in the high places. Look in 2 Kings, look in chapter 12. Go to 2 Kings chapter 12. And look at Joash, 2 Kings chapter 12, and look down at verse 1 through 3. And in the seventh year of Jehu, Joash began to reign. Look down at verse 2, and Joash did that which was right in the sight of the Lord and all the way His days were in Jehoida the priests instructed him. Look at verse 3. But the high places were not taken away. And the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places. Look in uh second Kings chapter 14, look down at verse 3. This is King Uzziah. Look at verse 3, and he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. Yet not like David his father, he did according to all things as Joash his father did. Verse 4. How be it the high places were not taken away. As yet the people did sacrifice and burn incense on the high places. And so this is Amaziah I should say. The next one is Uzaya. Get these guys mixed up sometimes. Second Kings chapter 15, look at verse number two. Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign. This is Uzziah. Verse 3 did that which was right. In the sight of the Lord according to all that his father Amaziah had done. Look at verse 4. Save that the high places were not removed. And you know what? We can go on. You guys tired looking at these verses? They kind of seem the same say the same thing, don't they? Same thing could be said of Ahaz and Jotham and Hoshia and On We Can Go and Manasseh. None of these guys took away the high places. In fact, some of them built up. the high places. So what do we learn from this? See how does all this apply to me? Well, let me give you a few lessons here and we'll be done. Number one, the high places represent for us anyone or anything that steals our heart away from God. That's what these things were doing. They were stealing their hearts away from the Lord. Anything that replaces God, or anything that we depend on more than God, anything that we love more than God, any secret sin that we take delight in that displeases God and weakens our commitment and love to God. What are the high places in your life that God wants you to tear down? What are the high places that you ignore or you refuse to tear down? Is it a person? That you're putting ahead of God? Is it a secret sin? Is it dependence on material things? Is it a love for the world and the things in it that zaps your passion for God? A love for ease, what secret idol of pleasure do you have that you have not torn down that God says you need to get rid of? Get rid of the high place in your heart. Number two, another lesson, ignoring the high places is spiritually dangerous. It's spiritually dangerous. I mean think about it. You know why Israel was Punished, and why they were carried off into captivity, the seeds of their destruction were set by who? Solomon Solomon set a bad example for all those that would come after him. Now Solomon truly loved God. I believe Solomon loved God, but he had one problem. He didn't take away the high places. And there are many people that really love the Lord. I'm convinced you love God. But if you don't get rid of the high places, they could really end up hurting you. And Solomon ended up building High places. Number three, here's the third lesson. God is looking for leaders whose hearts are fully committed to Him Did you know that in the books of 1 and 2 Kings, there are only two kings that tore down the high places? Only two? Do you know who they are? If you can guess, I'll give you an extra bulletin. Actually we don't have any bulletins. Who are they? Okay, stop now stay out of my preaching, all right? Yeah, you got it right. Look look in 2 Kings chapter 18. Look at 2 Kings chapter 18. Look down at verse 1. Now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshiah, son of Elih, king of Israel, that Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz, king of Judah, began to reign Look at verse 3. Drop down there for sake of time. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord according to all that David his father did. And verse 4. And he removed the high places, and he break the images, and cut down the groves, and break in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made. For unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it. And called it Nahushtan. And he trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him there was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him. Verse 6 For he claved to the Lord and departed not from following him, but kept his commandment which the Lord commanded Moses. And the Lord was with him and prospered whithersoever he went forth. There's King Hezekiah, and he was fully committed to God. And he pulled down the high places. And he trusted in the Lord with all his heart. He was a man whose heart was fully committed to the Lord. And you know what? God prospered him. And the second one is Josiah. This is why I named my one son Josiah, because I love this king. Look in 2 Kings chapter 23. Look in 2 Kings chapter 23. And look down at verse number eight, Second Kings chapter twenty-three. And look down at verse number eight. Now this is after he had found the book of the law in the house of the Lord. And the Bible says this. Actually, back up to verse number Let's back up to verse number five in this one. And he put down the idolatrous priests whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in high places. in the cities of Judah and the places around about Jerusalem. Them also that burned incense on the bale to the sun and the moon and to the planets and to all the hosts of heaven. And he brought out the grove from the house of the Lord without Jerusalem under the Brook Kedron, and burned it all at the Brook Hedron, and stamped it small to powder, and cast the powder thereof upon the graves of the children of the people, and he break down the houses of the Sodomites that were by the house of the Lord. And on it goes down to verse nine. Nevertheless, the priests of the high places came not up to the altar of the Lord And look down at verse number thirteen. And the high places that were before Jerusalem, which were on the right hand of the mount of the corruption, which Solomon the king of Israel had built for Ashtaroth, the abomination of the Zidonians, and Kamash, the abomination of the Moabites. And from Milcom, the abomination of the children of Ammon, did the king defile in verse 14, and he break in pieces the image and cut down the groves and filled their places with the bones of men. And on we could go down in verse 15. Again, he break down the high place, stamped it small to powder, and burned the grove. And Josiah turned himself, and he spied the sepulchres that were there in the mountain, and sent and took the bones of the sepulchres and burned them upon the altar and polluted it So here he is, he's pulling down all these high places, he's destroying all this idolatrous worship because that's what his heart was, was totally committed to the Lord. There's no compromise in him. There was no compromise in Hezekiah. There was no compromise in Josiah. So again, I ask you, what are you doing with the high places in your life? Are there is there anything that you're holding on to that needs to be removed? Today's idols are more in, someone said, in the self than on the shelf. The heart of man is an idol factory. Things that constantly we need to get rid of that zap our spiritual passion for God. For some, the high place might need might be the thing that you watch that you need to change. The things that you listen to that need to change, the friends that you have that don't really help you in your sanctification, that keep you away from God. Change the things that control you. I'll just say this and I'll be done. Pastor and author Tim Keller offers this definition of sin. He said: sin isn't only doing bad things, it is more fundamentally making good things into ultimate things. Making good things in the ultimate thing. Sin is building your life and meaning on anything, even the very good thing, more than God. That's a high place. And you need to tear it down. You need to get it out. And you need to have a heart that's fully devoted to the Lord. Let me give you the last thing here. King Jesus, the Son of David, is our standard. He's the one that we use to measure our life. If you want to know how you're doing in your spiritual walk, just compare yourself to Jesus. How much like Christ are you? There is one high place that we can cling to. You know what it is? It's the cross of Calvary. That's our high place. That's what we cling to. We cling to Christ. We cling to the cross. That's where we get our power. That's where we get our fellowship by clinging to Christ and the power of his cross in our life. On that high place. Jesus was sacrificed to pay our sin debt. And friend, that's the one high place that God not only allows but encourages in our life. That we cling to Christ with all of our heart, and we get rid of all other idols, all other things that in any way hinder our spiritual passion for God. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So, Father, I pray that as we begin the study of these these books, That you will just use it to encourage us, to warn us, to correct us, to inspire us. As we look at the lives of these kings, Lord, we find some that were fully devoted to you. Help us to have that kind of heart. Give us the heart of Hezekiah, the heart of Josiah, where there's no compromise, but a heart fully devoted to obeying you in all things. And Lord, help us to take warning by looking at those who disobeyed you, who dared to ignore your word. And ignore your commandments. We can see the end and what it brought for them. Let that be a warning to us. So teach us, Lord, help us. I pray, Lord, for anyone who's listening, who's never trusted Jesus, that they would go to the high place of Calvary. That they would see that Jesus is their Savior. He's the one who came to pay their sin debt. That they would place their faith in His finished work. And Lord, may we say like the Apostle Paul, God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let us let that be the only thing, the only high place that we glory in And we pray in Jesus' precious name, Amen