Would you take God's word tonight and would you open please to the New Testament letter of Revelation? We are in Revelation on Sunday nights and we are dealing tonight in verses twelve down to verse seventeen We're looking at the church at Pergamos. Now we've been studying the seven churches here as we go through the book of Revelation. And On each of these churches, we're going to learn something that we can apply to our own life. As we study these seven churches, we really need to examine our own heart to see where we are. that if any of the things that are true of these churches are true of us, and some of the things that Jesus writes about these churches are very commendable. There are things that we need to imitate. We need to be like them in these in many ways But there are also things about these churches that uh Jesus where he will correct them. And they this is something in their life that they need to get right. And if we see some things in our life that need uh fixing, we need to do that as we study these churches. Now as we looked at the church at Ephesus, we saw that The thing about this church, there was a lot to commend this church. They were very hardworking, they were orthodox, but they had left their first love. There's no replacement for loving Jesus supremely. And then we looked at the church of Smyrna, and we saw again a people that persevered through a lot. They persevered through suffering. They were a suffering church. And really as we looked at Smyrna, we saw no word of correction from the Lord to that church. They were a church that were crushed and then they were crowned. It was a church that were faithful even during the times of suffering, and it reminds us that when we go through difficult times, the Lord is with us, and we need to be faithful even in those times. And now we come to the Church of Pergamos. And what we learn from this church primarily is that the Lord is concerned about the purity of his church. He's concerned about a church that does not compromise with the world. He wants Christians that are pursuing holiness in the fear of the Lord. So look in verse number 12. Notice what the Lord says. And to the angel of the church of Pergamos, right These things saith he that hath a sharp sword with two edges. Notice this is the church at in Pergamos. Now Some things that are characteristic here about this church that I see right off is the things that they were holding on to. The word hold is a very a key word in verse 13. I know thy works. Where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is, and thou holdest fast my name. Look at the word hold there in verse thirteen. Jesus said, You're holding on to me, you're holding on to my name. But then you get down to verse fourteen. He says, But I have a few things against thee because thou hast there that them that hold the doctrine of Balaam. So they're holding on to Christ, but then there are some that are holding on, Jesus said to the doctrine of Balaam. And then you get down to verse fifteen and you see that word again. So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which thing I hate. So they're holding on to Christ. with one hand, but they seem to be holding on to other things with the other. The doctrine of Balaam and the doctrine of the Nicolaitans. We're going to look and see what these are. But in some we could say that they're holding on to Christ with one hand and they're holding on to the world and to sin with the other. And friend, you can't do that if you're a child of God. What the Lord demands from us is full devotion to the Lord. You can't hold on to the Christ and hold on to the world. You can't please the Lord that way. Now, why was this happening in the church? Well, as we look at this church, we're going to find that they were in a very difficult location. In verse 13, we already saw this, but look again, I know thy works where thou dwellest. Even where Satan's seat is. And the word for seat here is the Greek word thronos, and it literally is the word throne. This is Satan's throne. Jesus said that this city of Pergamos, he called it Satan's throne. That's why I called this The uh sermon tonight, a a thorn on Satan's throne. He must have really hated this church that was right there in Satan's seat, as Jesus said. Here in this place that was infested with all kinds of sin and idolatry, here was a church, a practicing church that loved the Lord. But again, it was a very difficult place. Now, why does the Lord call it Satan's seat or Satan's throne? Let me tell you why I think that's the case. is because they had so many pagan temples there, even more so than in other cities. As we look at some of the other cities we we noted that in these cities of Asia Minor there were many pagan temples, but I think Pergamus Among all those cities had more than any of the others. They had a temple for every major deity there in the city of Pergamos. And so the Christians who lived in that city lived in a very difficult, a very pagan environment. That might be your position tonight. You might say, yeah, I I work in a difficult place. I don't work in a place where there's a lot of Christians. In fact, I'm the only Christian that works where I work. Or maybe in your home you might be the only Christian in your house, and it's hard for you at times to stand for Christ and to still love all those around you and graciously stand for the Lord. Well, if that's your case, then um then the Lord certainly sympathizes with you just as he sympathized with this church. That's why Jesus said, Look, I know where you dwell. I know that you're living in a hard place where Satan's throne is. And so here are these believers living in this pagan satanic environment. And it was because of all these temples that lined the streets of Pergamos. And so no matter what people desired back then, or whatever they needed, or whatever they dreamt for, they were available for the people in one of these temples. with these gods. For example, if you lived in Pergamus and you uh had a special need, you needed God to really work on your behalf, you would go to the Temple of Zeus. There was a a temple of Zeus right there. Zeus was considered the god of gods. Um he was the chief of the pantheon of all the gods and according to Greek mythology he dwelt on Mount Olympus and in fact the Olympic Games were uh dedicated to him The Olympic Games that took place back in that day. So if you needed something done for you, you would go to Zeus, you would go to the altar, you would ask Zeus to work on your behalf, because he had all power, and you would depend upon him to take care of that need for you. Or perhaps you were living there in Pergamos and you had a desire for pleasure. You were seeking pleasure. Well then you would go to the temple of Dionysius, which was the god of wine and revelry. And what took place in that temple was just really bad. People would go in there and they would get drunk. They would just fill up with wine and then they would uh literally pass out. That was considered a a religious ritual. You would get so drunk that you were um considered to be able to commune with the God of Dionysius And also there were all kinds of immoral things that went on in that temple. There was it was filled with prostitution, it was filled with um all kinds of revelry. And in fact, at times it got so bad that even people would be murdered sometimes in that kind of an atmosphere. But they were seeking pleasure. If you lived in Pergamus and you were seeking food or a good crop, then you would go to the temple of the goddess Demeter This was the goddess who could guarantee you a good crop. She could guarantee that you had food on your table, that you had a wonderful yield at the end of the season. So you would go there at that temple, you would burn incense on that altar, you would worship. the God of Demeter and hope for a good crop. Or if you lived in Pergamus and you were sick and you needed healing You would go to a temple, the temple of Asclepius, or as some pronounce it, Asclepeon. This was the the God of healing. In fact Based in on this temple, there was a medical school that was built right there in Pergamos. This was one of the major spots for healing in Asia Minor. Pilgrims from all over came to this one temple. For whatever sickness they had, they would come there hoping to get healing. And what was unique about this temple was it was the snakes in the temple that did the healing. Yeah, that's right, I said snakes. Because this is what would happen. People would come to the temple, the priests would uh basically put the people in a trance, perhaps something they gave them to drink that would help them do that. And then they would supposedly get a vision of what was wrong with them, tell the priest, and the priest would try to apply the right medicine to them. But then they would also do another thing. Another strange ritual. They would take the sick people, put them in a large courtyard, a large room at dark, they would uh unleash the snakes, and the snakes would crawl all over them all night long. And if you were sick and you got touched by a snake, you would supposedly be healed. I don't know about you, but I think I'd rather be sick than to do that. But that was supposedly the way of healing. And by the way, it's interesting that even today the medical symbol of healing that we see is snakes wrapped around a pole. Right? That goes all the way back to this temple, this healing ritual at Pergamos. And if you needed wisdom, then what you would do is you would go to the temple of Athena, who was the goddess of wisdom, and she was the goddess who formed great military strategies to help Rome wins some of their biggest wars. Or if you simply wanted to affirm that Caesar was your Lord and that Caesar was your Savior. You could go all the way to the top of the mount of that city, because there they had a temple of the imperial cult of Rome. It was called the Temple of Trajan, and you could go there and you could worship the emperor, you could burn incense on the altar there. Now that was a scene of Pergamos, and that was a scene in which these believers lived Now you can imagine if a if a person got saved and and that was all part of their past life, that after they got saved and they no longer went to those temples, They no longer wanted to do those things because they found in Christ all that they needed that they were per pretty much ostracized by a lot of the citizens of that city. When they got saved, Zeus was no longer their God because they found Christ was all powerful. They no longer went to the temple of Zeus. They didn't need Dionysius because Christ was the source of their joy. the source of real joy. They didn't need uh Demeter because they depended on Christ to feed them. They didn't need Asclepius because they trusted Christ for all of their healing. They didn't need Wisdom. They didn't need Athena because Christ was their true wisdom. And they certainly didn't need Caesar because Jesus Christ was their only Savior. And so Christians that would no longer go to these temples and go through the various rituals that they had in these temples were looked upon as weird. That's why they were called atheists, not because they didn't believe in the one true God But because they didn't believe in the other gods and they refused to believe in those gods, they believed in Christ alone. And so they were living in difficulty there. Standing for Christ in this city. And by the way, a few more things about the city. This was a very beautiful city. It was built on a on a high rock. overlooking the Mediterranean Sea. Legend has it that supposedly it was built by the son of Hercules. This was a city that had great arts and and painting and they also had a library there. This was a city that um where parchment was invented. This was the uh where you would write on um basically uh animal skins and so this was a city that was known for this But it was a very difficult place for these Christians. But notice what Jesus says to them. It's interesting in verse 12. He says that the angels of the church of Pergamus write, These things saith he which hath a sharp Sword with two edges. It's interesting that the Lord introduces himself this way to this church, and I think every time as we we're going to see this as we go through the seven churches. That the Lord will introduce Himself in a very unique way to the church, and it's very applicable to the situation in that church. And here Jesus introduces himself as the one who has the sharp sword with two edges. And uh what is a sword known for? A sword is known for uh cutting, for separating things. um for um judgment sometimes. And normally people feared the sword in that day. Did you know I found an interesting fact The governor of the whole province of Asia Minor set up his headquarters there in Pergamos. And he was it was said of him that he had what was called the right of the sword. Which simply meant he had the right to uh to enact capital punishment on anybody that he wanted But also another thing about him that's interesting is whenever he would parade through the streets, there was always someone in front of him carrying a large sword on display before all the people, and that was meant to intimidate all of the people there. And I'm sure it intimidated some of the Christians that live in that city. So it's interesting to me that when Jesus introduces himself, Jesus introduces himself as the one who has the sharp two-edged sword. And in a way what the Lord is saying, you don't need to fear that man, you need to fear my sword, not him. You don't need to fear men, you need to fear God. And you need to remember that I carry a sharp two edged sword And again, what does a sword do? A sword separates. And I think again, specific to this situation, when these believers When they came to know Christ, it it forced them really to have to separate from their old life. Separate maybe relationships that they had in the past. Friends that they would go to the temple with, they couldn't go there anymore. They were different now. They were Christians. And what does the Bible say? Come out from among them. Be ye separate, saith the Lord. Touch not the unclean thing. You can't go to the temple of Baal and the temple of Christ. You can't do that. And so what salvation does when you come to Christ is it separates, it divides. It it separates friendships. This is what Jesus meant in Matthew 10, 34, when he said, I came not to send peace, but a sword. And what did he mean by that? I came to, when you trust me, it's going to sever you from other relationships in your life. The friends that you had, you can't have anymore. Even in your own home, it might cause a division. And we know this, we've seen this. with Christians that have gotten saved and other members of the family that don't want anything to do with Christianity no longer have any relationship with that person. I remember I was in Africa and uh I was in uh Ethiopia and I went to to to preach to a a group of converted Muslims. And they told me the story there was one lady there with her children and they told me the story of this one woman that this church had come together to take care of her and they were literally supporting her, and the reason why is because when she came to faith in Christ Her husband got so angry that he beat her unconscious. And then he threw her out of the house. And then because of all the Christians Followed their mother in embracing Jesus Christ. He threw all the Christians out of the house, all the children out of the house because they were Christians. And so they were on their own. They had no one to take care of them. And what had happened was when this woman professed faith in Christ, uh, she was literally separated from her old family, her old life Because they had hated her. I mu I I imagine that a lot of this happened at the church at Pergamos because they had embraced the Lord Jesus Christ and they were no longer doing what they used to do. So this sword was a symbol of separation. It's the Lord sometimes that will do that in our life. But also it's an instrument of judgment. And I think that this also serves as a warning because what we're going to find is that in the church, although while there were some who were very faithful to the Lord, There were others that were not. There were others that didn't hold fast to the faith. And this is a reminder from the Lord that The sword is a sword of salvation and separation, but it's also a sword of judgment. In fact, at the end, he says If you don't get right, if you don't repent, I'm going to come with to come to you, verse sixteen, and I will fight against them with the sword of my mouth. All of those who are compromising, who are not holding on to Christ This sword becomes a sword of judgment. So this is kind of a fearful thing. But now what I want you to see are just two things. Number one, I want you to see, first of all, how Satan corrupted this church And then after that, we're going to look at how Christ uh corrected this church. But first of all, how Satan corrupted the church. Now, when Satan attacks a church, first of all, he tries with persecution outwardly. And again, we see this. Look at verse 13. I know thy works, where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is, and thou holdest fast my name, and hast not denied my faith Even in those days where Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you where Satan dwelleth. And so again, Jesus comes with comforting words. I know uh your experience, I know where you are, I know what you're going through. And he commends them at first because there were some in the church that were still holding fast to the name of Christ. And of course the name of Christ is all that he is, all of his character. They would not compromise Christ's name. That is to say, they wouldn't participate in a lot of those rituals that Rome d demanded the imperial cult by sprinkling incense on the altar and worshiping Caesar. They would refuse to do that. They would not compromise in this way. He said, You've held fast to my name, and you've held fast to what else? You have not denied my faith. You haven't denied the faith. Now, what is the faith? What is Jesus talking about here? I think the faith is really the whole body of Christian teaching. of truth that we learn from the Lord Jesus. We could call this the doctrines of the faith The fundamentals of the faith. What does the Bible tell us in the book of Jude? That we are to contend earnestly for the faith once delivered to the saints. So we can say that the faith is really the objective body of truth, propositional truth that we must believe And I emphasize that because there are some out there that say, well, you know, faith is kind of, you know, whatever you believe, whatever you feel is right, that's what is right. And and really that's what Christianity is all about. It's all about your faith and what you really think is True. Well, faith is not subjective. It's not a subjective act of believing. It's not a psychological thing. It is embracing what the Bible teaches It is embracing what the truth of Scripture says. It is objective. And again, I make this point because we're living in a world where there's all this subjectivism about faith. about Christianity. And where did all this come from? It comes from I can just say one place. Back in the um eighteenth century there was a man by the name of Friedrich Schleiermacher. And that's a long name. He's obviously German, but he grew up in a uh a Prussian home where his father was an Orthodox Christian. He was a chaplain in the army. But Schleiermacher went to school and he ended up denying the faith that his father had taught him even from a child. And Friedrich Schleiermacher is basically called the father of theological liberalism. And why is he called that? Well, because This was his approach. He says it's a mistake to think of Christianity as an intellectual thing at all, as embrace as embracing propositional truth. It's not something to do with your mind, he says. It's not something to do with knowledge or truth. It's something that deals with religious feelings or it deals with emotions. You see, Schleiermacher saw that science and history were a threat to Christianity. He didn't think that Christianity could withstand the scrutiny of science and history and all that investigation. He said, we can't really just continue to change Christianity based on all the recent findings of science and history. We need something more stable than that. We have to have a stable Christianity. And so what we need to do then is we need to connect Christianity not with What is propositional truth? We need to connect it to our emotions and feelings. Christianity is all about feelings. It's all about emotions. And so this is what he said. He said, a feeling that we need to focus on that reveals God is a feeling of absolute dependence And so he says this, it matters not what conception a man adheres to, he can still be pious. In other words, he's saying, it doesn't matter what you really believe as long as you feel right. As long as you feel the right thing, you can still be pious. Doesn't matter what you believe, as long as you're sincere. How many of you ever heard that? As long as you're sincere. You're gonna be okay. Doesn't matter what your belief is. And this was popular and this gained root and In fact, the influence of Schleiermacher was immediately felt in Germany in the nineteenth century. The churches there embraced this. They became very liberal That at that time Germany what Germany was the fountainhead of of this kind of poison. And American ministers would go to the seminaries in Germany and study theology and they were basically influenced by this kind of thought And so the faith was no longer objective, biblical, truth. It was how you felt. And that infested the churches, and that was brought to America. And a lot of people in churches in America began to embrace that. And so the the faith was lost. we could say, or even denied and replaced by this this subjective emotional feeling type of thing When the twentieth century there there came a guy by the name of Jay Gresham Machin who um wrote a book called Christianity and Liberalism, and in that book He basically says Schleiermacher is the guy who started all this nonsense in the church about emotions and feelings and dispositions. And his whole book was directed to show how the Christianity is not all about emotions and feelings, but in fact, Christianity is a matter of the mind and believing what the Scripture says. What does the Bible say? Be ye transformed by the renewing of your what? Of your mind. And it's embracing the truth in your mind. It doesn't mean that it doesn't have emotions. But when God starts to teach us and change us, he starts with the mind and he starts with objective truth, not feelings. Christianity is believing the objective truth of the Bible. That is the faith. And I want to tell you, beloved, it is constantly attacked all around. We always have to be very, very careful about that and hold fast to the faith. And this is what this church does. No matter the the the crazy ideas that were going on. They held to Christ's name, he says, and you have not denied my faith, even so much that there was a martyr in the church. Look again in verse 13. Even in those days where an Antipas was my faithful martyr. I'd love the name Antipas. You know what it literally means? Anti is against The uh the word PAS or PASA in the Greek is a Greek word for everything. Against everything. I like that guy. Bless God, he went for nothing. He was against everything. And when we say everything, what we're talking about is all the false notions, all the false doctrine, all the false cults that were back in that day, he was against it all. He stood against all of it. It reminds me of the Old Testament name of Elijah. My God is Yahweh. He stood against all of the idolatry in the Old Testament. This guy's kind of the Elijah of the New Testament. He's against all of the world. There was a man by the name of Athanasius at one time in church history when the church had capitulated and began to believe that Jesus was not fully God. And there was one man in the church that stood up and said, no, he is fully God and fully man. He is God in the flesh. And there was a time when for that doctrine he literally stood alone. His name was Athanasius. And at one point Someone came to him and said, Athanasius, don't you know that the world is against you? And Athanasius said, Well then therefore I am against the whole world. And that's where you get the expression, Athanasius Contramundum, Athanasius against the world, because for a time there he literally stood against all of that false doctrine. about Christ and he stood against the world. And we think of Antipas here. He was in a very difficult environment where there was a lot of compromise going on and he stood and as a result of that Jesus calls him my faithful martyr. So he's referring to a time in the past when this church stood firm and there was one martyr there. that he commends. And again I go back to the Roman governor of that region at that time who said he had the right to the sword, that he could execute anyone whenever he wanted to. He had the authority to enact the death penalty That's what the sword meant. The sword of Rome was a symbol of authority and power. And death by the sword came in a lot of ways. And death was pronounced against Antipas because he would not compromise. And history tells us that in 92 A. D. , this is how he died, he was roasted to death. In a bronze kettle that was placed on a bull-shaped altar that was used to cast out demons. He was placed on that altar, and he was literally burned to death. He was roasted to death there on that altar. And Jesus calls him my faithful martyr, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth. And so at there was a time in the history of this church where they stood faithful and there was one man particular who did. But there was another thing that Jesus says about the church. Well I see here another way Satan attacks the church and that is inward in infiltration. Look at verse 14. But I have a few things against thee Even though they stood fast in the past, they had a faithful martyr. Here the Lord says, I have a few things against thee, because thou hast them there that hold the doctrine of Balaam. So here's the problem that Jesus has. There are some holding to this doctrine of Balaam. Now again, when Satan tries to attack the church, one of the things he will do is this if he if outward persecution doesn't Cause them to weaken. And history shows us that persecution is only strengthened the church. The next attack that Satan does is inward infiltration. Satan says he kind of slithers into the church like a snake and says, you know what, I'll just join them and I'll corrupt them from the inside. And this is exactly what the doctrine of Balaam is. Jesus said, There are some in your church, while some might be holding fast, there are some in the church that hold to the doctrine of Balaam. And he describes it more. Look at verse 14. Who taught Balak to cast the stumbling block before the children of Israel And to eat things sacrificed unto idols and to commit fornication. And so Jesus is referring to this story in the Old Testament as an illustration of something that was going on there in that church. You remember what happened in the Old Testament with Balaam and Balak? Let me just give you this story real quick. Remember the children of Israel, they were traveling to the Promised Land, and they had to go through the country of Moab And and Balak was the king of Moab. And he didn't want them going through his land. He didn't want them to be blessed. He wanted a curse upon the children of Israel and back in that day they believed that certain prophets could could call up a curse against the people and they would be cursed. And so he finds this prophet named Balaam. Now Balaam wasn't a prophet from Israel. He was a Gentile prophet. And he was a prophet for hire. He would always sell out to the highest bidder. He would prophesy for whoever paid the highest price. And Balach goes to Balaam and says, Look, I want you to curse the children of Israel. I want you to curse these people, this multitude of people coming through my land of Moab. And Balach Balaam basically says, well, I I don't know if I can curse Israel. Let me go pray about it. You know, some of our prayers are really ridiculous, you know. How can he pray about ask God to do something that God would never want to do? God, I want to curse those your blessings. I want to curse your people. That's an insult. And so long story short, he tries to curse Israel, and guess what? When he opens his mouth to give a curse, what comes out? Blessings come out. And uh he tried it again, a second time, and the same thing happened. He tried it a third time, three times. Balaam tried to curse Israel. Each time God stopped him. And one time he even used a a donkey to speak. After uh the donkey basically uh sees an angel that Uh Dr. Erickson, you can use this on your class, you know. He sees an angel there right away. The donkey sees him. Not Balaam. And then the donkey kind of turns out of the way and Balaam gets mad and gets off and he starts hitting uh the donkey in the head and the donkey starts, you know, you have a you have a Mr. Ed here in the Old Testament. Because the donkey begins to talk. Hey, what's your deal, man? This is in the Hebrew. What's your deal? Haven't I been a faithful donkey for you? Have I ever done anything like this before? I mean, what's your problem? And finally God opens the eyes of Balaam and he sees this angel and he realizes that he's in trouble. But you know the the funny thing, that doesn't stop Balaam. He realizes at this point that he can't curse Israel. That's not going to work. But the next plot is even worse. What does he do? Finally he says, you know, I can do something that will bring a curse on Israel. Since I can't curse Israel myself, I can do something where God will curse them. And this is where he gets a real satanic, devilish plot. And what was the plot? Basically he says to Balak, look, send your Moabite women. to intermarry with the Israelites. Why don't you just have a big feast, uh a feast where there's idolatry and there's all kind of immorality that goes on? And there can be intermarrying with the men of Israel, with the Moabite women. And if that happens, you won't have to curse, I won't have to curse Israel. God will curse Israel because of their sin. And you know what? This is exactly what happens. And sadly, the the plot works. And the men of Israel compromise themselves and they intermarry and they They worship a false god and they have a feast where they eat meat sacrificed unto a false god. This gigantic feast that lasts many days. And what would happen? And what happened? God ended up cursing the children of Israel. He punished them because of this horrible sin. Now Jesus refers to this event in the Old Testament because That was a paradigm of what was going on in the church of Pergamos. You say, what was happening? Well, Christians in the Church of Pergamos, there were some that got tired of standing and being faithful. to the Lord. Because, you know, let me just tell you, beloved, when you determine in your Christian walk that you're going to be faithful to the Lord, don't think that's always going to be easy. At times it's going to be difficult. At times it's going to be hard. At times it's not going to be very inspiring for you. You won't have any inspiration. You'll just do it out of sheer duty, out of doing what is right. Even when there's all these things that are going against you, when your family is against you and others are against you, you just have to continue to be faithful And be willing to pay whatever price. But there were some Christians that were getting tired of it. They were tired of the flight. They were tired of standing. Or maybe they weren't really believers at all. Maybe they just had a superficial faith and they decided that that was it. Because what they did was they went back into the old life. They went back to the old temples. Whereas bef after they knew Christ they they they departed from all of that. Now they were going back into those temples And they were going through those rituals. And some of them were marrying women who were pagans, who worshiped these other gods, because maybe they were there was pressure from the family put on for them to do that in a marriage. Maybe it was a marriage of economic convenience they were being pressured to do, and Christians were compromising, and they were going back into these temples, and they were eating meat sacrificed on the idols in these temples, and they were doing the very thing that the Israelites did in the Old Testament. When Balach corrupted Israel, and this is the doctrine of Balaam, this is what Balaam taught. And the Lord said, I hate this. I hate when my people will compromise. And so you can imagine some Christians just going back into the temple and they were eating meat sacrificed to idols. Now remember when Paul wrote about this to the Corinthians? Remember he said, you know, if you're a Christian and you go to the agora or the marketplace, you and you buy meat sacrificed to uh uh a an idol or a pagan god You can buy it in the marketplace and take it home and eat it. There's nothing wrong with that because we know that the the m uh the teaching about you know, spirits entering into meat. That's that's not true. There's only one God. And you can take that meat and you can take it home and you can eat it. It's not unclean for a Christian to do that. However You should not go into a pagan temple and eat meat there. That was a totally different issue. And Paul made that very clear in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 that a Christian should never go into a pagan temple, eat meat there, because that was an act of worship. And that compromised Christ. And Paul said in 1 Corinthians 10, don't you realize that when you do that, you're literally fellowshipping with devils? Because although there's only one God, these false gods are not real. There are demons that represent these false gods and make it seem like they're real. And when you go into those temples and you eat meat And you go through the rituals, you're literally having fellowship with devils, fellowship with demons. And so this was something that was terribly wrong. Now, God wants his people to be separate from the world. God wants his people to be Holy. Again, 2 Corinthians 6. 14, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, and what communion hath light with darkness? And what concord has Christ with Belial? Or what part hath he that believeth with an unbeliever? Or what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing. So a disaster was taking place in the church of Pergamus. Believers were no longer separated. They were no longer Leaving those places of worship, they were going into those temples, and the testimony of the church was being destroyed, and the name of Christ was being brought down, and this was a terrible thing that was going on. And this is why the Lord says here that there are I have this against you, because some hold to the doctrine of Balaam. And who taught Balach to cast a stumbling box before the children of Israel and to eat think sacrifice unto idols and to commit fornication? And then he goes on in verse 15, so hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which thing I hate. This is the other thing that the Lord has against them. There's another problem in this church. Some were not going into pagan temples and marrying unbelievers. They were just simply living however they wanted to live. They were living as if There is no law. I call this we call this anti-nomianism, anti-from no or gnomianism from Nomas Law. That is having absolute license, just living however you want to live And these are believers who profess the name of Christ and they go out and they live just like a lost person and they say, oh, I'm a Christian. I've trusted Jesus. And you know, I'm just a carnal Christian. They kind of hide under that title carnal Christian. And that that's kind of one of the things I really dislike. I I feel like in the church we've made up a category of people who claim to know Christ and they live a constant, disobedient, immoral, fleshly life, and yet they still claim to be a Christian. They just say, well, I'm just carnal. I'm just carnal. And so they live like there's no law with absolute license. Like the Corinthians who said, Oh, all things are lawful. I can do whatever I want. And Paul would come behind and say, Yeah, but all things are not expedient. The doctrine of the Nicolaitans was simply a doctrine of loose living. And there was all this loose living that was going on in the church, and it was compromising the name of the Lord, and it was bringing the church down. And here Jesus is angry at that. And notice in verse 15, he says, which thing I what? I hate? I hate this. I hate the compromise. I hate the loose living, the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, that you can live however you want to live and still name the name of Christ. This was something that the Lord was warning them about. So notice the second thing I want you to see. We see how Satan corrupted this church, but number two, how Christ corrected this church. In verse sixteen, Jesus gives them one strong word, repent. You need to repent of this. This is not difficult You need to turn from this. Or what? Or else I will come unto thee quickly and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth. This is again a warning from the Lord of judgment. If you don't repent of this, if you don't stop living this way, then I'm going to judge you. I'm going to come against you with the sword of my mouth. And so he warns them about this, about continuing in sin. He commands them to repent. He warns them about continuing in Sin repent or else I'm going to come and I'm going to judge you. Now, we know as Christians we can't lose our salvation, but we can certainly be chastised by the Lord. And there are other things that we can lose. There are blessings we can lose from the Lord. There's ground that we can lose in our Christian life. And by the way, if you are a true child of God. Jesus is not going to let you continue to live that way very long. He's not going to let you continue to dishonor his name very long. He will come against you. He will correct you just like he threatened here to this church. But then I want you to notice the next thing. He reminds them of their reward. Look in verse 17. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. And to him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna. And will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth, saving he that received it. So Jesus reminds them of a reward if you overcome If you're able to overcome, this is gracious of the Lord. Look, if you repent and you are able to overcome, and by the way, that word overcome is one of John's favorite words. He uses it a lot in 1 John. He uses it in Revelation. He talked about overcoming the wicked one in 1 John 2 13 and 1 John 5. 4, for whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. When you become a child of God, you have it within you the ability to overcome the world and its fallenness and all those things. And Revelation 12, 11 he says, They overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, by the word of their testimony. And here Jesus said, Look, if you overcome, there are two blessings I have for you. Number one, there's the promise of hidden manna. Now what did he mean by that? Um well manna, uh of course in the Old Testament We know what that was when God said the children of Israel through the wilderness. Actually the word manna means what is it? You know, they came out into the out of their tents one morning and saw this stuff laying on the desert floor and they said, What is it? You know, it's manna, bread from heaven. Now there was a tradition among the Jews that Jeremiah the prophet when he Took the Ark of the Covenant that contained the golden pot of manna. He took the ark, and this was right right before uh J Jerusalem was attacked by the Egyptian, or excuse me, by the Babylonians. He took the ark and he fled to Egypt. to protect the ark from the Babylonians destroying it. And there were some Jews that taught that when the kingdom returned at the initiation of the kingdom, Jeremiah would come back and he would bring back the ark and he would have this hidden manna and he would feed The Jews, a feast with hidden manna that had been hidden for centuries. That was a Jewish teaching. And by the way, there were some in Jesus' ministry that they thought he was Jeremiah. Because especially this was said after Jesus fed the multitudes in the uh you remember the feeding of the five thousand, there were some after that said, Oh, this is the prophet. They were thinking this is Jeremiah. And Jesus said, No, I am the true manna that came down from heaven. I'm not Jeremiah the prophet, I'm the true manna And so the manna really refers to Christ, and it refers to the spiritual sustenance and blessing that Jesus gives us as his children. This is the manna that the world doesn't know anything about. It's like I was talking about this morning, our oneness with Christ, the fellowship that we have with Christ, the sustenance and strength, the nourishment that we get from Christ. The world doesn't know anything about it. Jesus is our hidden manna. He is that refreshing food of fellowship that strengthens his people. And Jesus said, look, if you overcome this, I will come and I will strengthen you and I will be the hidden manna for you. But then there's a second promise he gives them. There's a promise of a white stone. And what is that? Again he says in verse 10. Or excuse me, down in verse uh seventeen. To him that overcometh will I give to Eve the hidden manna, and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written Which no man knoweth saving him that receives it. Now what is this white stone? There's a I've read a lot of different things about this. Back then when a person was acquitted from court, they were given a white stone with their name on it. Some people think that's what the Lord is referring to. Or when an athlete or a gladiator was uh victorious in the games, sometimes they were given a white stone with their name inscribed on it. But I think this is the right view. A white stone back in this day with a person's name on it served as a ticket or a pass. Or an admission to a very special event. It was normally a feast, a lavish feast, and normally these were held in idol temples. So you couldn't get into these temples unless you had a white stone with your name on it. And Christians back in this day that lived in Pergamos They never had a stone like this. First of all, they the ones that were really gods who really didn't want to compromise, they didn't desire that. They they stayed out of those places. So they never got a white stone with their name on it. They were never part of that. Others were a part of it. But Jesus here is saying, look, if you overcome I'm going to give you a white stone. I'm going to give you admission to a special feast. I'm going to give you a ticket to the temple of God in heaven with a feast with the Messiah And you'll be in and that you'll be invited to that. Some of you Christians of Pergamus, you might have never received a white stone with your name on it, but if you stay faithful to me, I'm going to give you one. And one day you're going to be in heaven with me, and you're going to be in my temple, and you'll fellowship with me. And so this really is a a promise of a future blessing, a promise of an eternal inheritance of joy and fellowship in the presence of Christ. And again the principle we see this in many of the churches when Jesus commends them or when he offers them a reward. Whatever you get on earth is nothing compared to what you're going to get in heaven if you stay faithful to Christ. Whatever the earth or this world offers you, whatever the ungodly offer you, whatever the world offers you, it is nothing compared to the reward that you'll get. if you're faithful to Jesus. So if you just stay faithful, the Lord said, I will give you a white stone and a new name written on it, which no man knoweth, saying him that received it. And so Jesus tells them very clearly, you need to repent of this, and you need to be faithful, and remember the reward that you'll get for your faithfulness to me. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So we're out of time. Let's bow for prayer. And again, I want you to just take a moment and just think about the words of our Lord. Compare your own life. To the words that Jesus gave to this church. Where are you, friend? Are you holding fast to the name of Christ? Are you holding fast to the faith? Or are you compromising with the world? Are you letting down your guard? Are you Because you're tired of standing, you're tired of being faithful, you begin to compromise. And you begin to allow things in your life that before you just wouldn't. And you know what the Lord says to you today? He says, repent of that. Repent. Or else I will come to thee quickly. And fight against you with the sword of my mouth. You know what the Bible says? If we judge ourselves, we don't need to be judged by God. And the Bible says if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So examine your heart. And if you're here and you've never trusted Christ, I just say that, friend, you're going to face Christ either in judgment Or you'll face him in mercy and salvation. But really, it's up to you. If you turn to him, if you repent, if you trust Christ, there'll be mercy and salvation. If you don't, there'll be judgment. The sword has two edges, and I encourage you to put your full faith in Christ. Trust him, friend. Father, again we thank you for your word and how Relevant it is for us, may we take to heart what we've heard here, your words to the Church of Pergamus. May we examine our own heart and life, and may we make sure, Lord, that there's nothing in our heart Or nothing in our life that would cause us to hear the words, I have this against you. I have something against you. Cleanse us, Lord, draw us near. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Amen.