I want you to take your Bibles tonight and open please to the book of Jeremiah, chapter thirty-seven. We've been studying through Jeremiah the prophet, and tonight the title of my sermon is Perseverance. Persevering through the pits of life. There's a sermon about just perseverance, and we need to hear that from time to time as Christians. One of my favorite football players, uh You know, growing up I watched the NFL. I love running backs. That was my favorite position. I I often had dreams of being in the NFL as a running back. That dream died a long time ago. I love being I love running backs. One of my favorite was Walter Payton. Uh he played thirteen years for the Chicago Bears. Uh give you a little stats here. During his career he rushed for sixteen thousand seven hundred and twenty-six yards. Think about that. That's nine miles rushing nine miles during his career. But what makes this uh spectacular when you think about it is that he achieved it by somebody knocking him down every four yards. He averaged four yards a carry So every four yards some big guy just knocked them down. So think about running nine miles and every four yards some big guy would knock you down and then you have to get back up and you have to And so uh that's what's amazing about this. Uh he was so very durable, and I don't think he ever missed a season by injury. He just was a guy who just kept getting back up with There's something admirable about a person who when they're knocked down, they don't choose to stay down, they get back up. And that's really what we think about. Jeremiah the prophet. Perseverance that he had and persevering through a difficult time in his life. He too kept getting knocked down, but he kept getting back up. You know, the prophet Jeremiah was thinking about this. He won't be remembered for any miracle. We don't read of any miracle that Jeremiah did in the scripture at least. We don't have it recorded. Uh you know, he didn't raise the dead, he didn't heal the sick, he didn't part And this is again something that we need to look at and learn from because I think there is in all of us this Tendency to want to run away from our problems or to want to run when things in life get difficult. Like one Peanuts comic strip read. No problem so big or complicated that it can't be run away from. And I think sometimes that's our attitude. We we would you know it's human nature to want to run away uh when a problem comes or when a difficulty comes. Jeremiah did not run away from any of the problems that he had in front of him. Instead, he tackled every problem head on. He faithfully preached the word of God. No matter how difficult it was, he did what the Lord called him to do. And there's some things that we can learn from So, really, there's two things I want to show you tonight. If you're taking notes, I want to two headings really that we'll talk about when we look at the life of Jeremiah. Here's the first one: the circumstances that require first thing. Number one, the circumstance that requires perseverance. And as we look at this uh these narratives here in chapter thirty seven and thirty eight what we're gonna see are some of the problems that he encountered And these are just a few of them. I mean we could go through the whole book of Jeremiah and just to list them. But just a few right here in this brief section here. First of all, he was hated. They hated him. Now, as we come to chapter 37, this is really a narrative about the third imprisonment of Jeremiah. He's already been imprisoned twice Because of what he preached and people didn't like it. But here's the third time. And really, this is the climax. What's going on here? And let me give you the setting. This is kind of the climax of the Babylonian invasion. You remember if you've been coming on Wednesday night, remember that the warning has been against Israel that the Babylonians are going to come and they are going To punish Israel. They're going to destroy Jerusalem and carry people away into captivity. And this would be God's punishment because of their sin. But still, people refuse to listen And if we come to chapter thirty-seven, it's it's the climax of the Babylonian t uh invasion. Uh but here's the thing, people started getting optimistic. And let me tell you Why? Because the Babylonians had kind of come and they kind of began to make a move against Jerusalem. But the Egyptians came and the Babylonians then kind of folded up their tents and they left. And so when that happened, there was this real optimism in Jerusalem. And look in chapter 37, look at verse 5, where it says, then Pharaoh's army was come forth out of Egypt. And when the Choldeans that besieged Jerusalem heard tidings of them, they departed from Jerusalem. And now all of a sudden the people in Jerusalem are saying, You know what? Uh This is a miracle. We're not going to be invaded after all. This bad thing that Jeremiah's been preaching is not going to happen. Wow. God uh is going to give us peace And so they kind of come to Jeremiah after that and they say, Jeremiah, what do you think? Do you have any word? What do you have to say about what just happened? Look at verse 6. Then came the word of the Lord unto the prophet Jeremiah, saying Thus saith the Lord the God of Israel, thus shall ye say unto the king of Judah that sent you unto me to inquire of me Behold, Pharaoh's army, which has come forth to help you, shall return to Egypt and And the Chaldeans shall come again and fight against the city, and take it and burn it with fire. Thus saith the Lord Deceive not yourselves, saying, The Chaldeans shall surely depart from us For they shall not depart. For though ye had smitten the whole army of the Chaldeans that fight against you, and there remain but wounded men among them, yet should they rise up every man in his tent And burn this city with fire. Wow, that's not a very positive message again. So the king sends word, what do you think now, Jeremiah? The Egyptians or the Babylonians have left. And Jeremiah Jeremiah says, thus saith the Lord, guess what? The Egyptians are going to leave, and the Babylonians are going to come back. And you know what? Don't deceive yourself with this false hope. God's going to do what he said he's going to do. And so uh you can imagine that the king doesn't receive this very well. But you know, all Jeremiah is doing is speaking the truth. But you know what? People don't like the truth sometimes. You know, the church, we are the pillar and ground of truth. You know what And it shouldn't surprise us if the world hates us for speaking the truth. But we're not trying to be hated. I I like to I don't know about you, but sometimes just by speaking the truth, the world's going to hate what they hear. And what happens here is that Jeremiah is hated By the people because he's not giving them what they want to hear. They want to hear hope and peace, but if he was to preach that like the other false prophets are doing, that would be a false hope. And Jeremiah not about to do that. And so he's hated. You know what? There's going to be times in your life when it may be that someone's going to hate you. It may be some circumstance that happens in your life, something that comes up, and someone's gonna hate you. And again, nobody likes to be hated, but friend, we have to persevere even through those times This is what Jeremiah does. He was hated, but also he was misunderstood. Look in chapter thirty-seven, look at verse eleven. It came to pass that when the army of the Chaldeans was broken up from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh's army Then Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin to separate himself thence in the midst of the people. And when he was in the gate of Benjamin, the captain of the ward was there whose name was Arijah. Now let me tell you what's happening here. When the Babylonians leave, Jeremiah's cooped up in the city and he thinks, this is my chance now to go talk Home. He wants to go home. Uh and I think what's going on here is you remember a few chapters ago, he bought a piece of land from a cousin who wanted to sell it because at a very cheap price, you know Being the land is being invaded by Babylonians. And Jeremiah, God says, Jeremiah, buy that piece of land. And now when the army leaves, Jeremiah has says, This is my chance, I can go check on the land, uh you know what's going on there. And so he's leaving the city, he's going through the gate, and the Bible says there was a man named Arijah, the son Of Shelemiah, and he sees him, and he and he grabs Jeremiah, and you know what he accuses him of? He accuses him of treason. He's defecting to the Babylonians. Look at verse uh um uh look at the end of verse thirty or verse thirteen. Thou followest away to the Chaldeans. Jeremiah, you're turning against us You're a traitor. You're going to the Babylonians. You're leaving. But you know what? That's not at all what he was doing. Here he's completely misunderstood. So what do they do? They bring him to The officials of the city. And they accused him of treason. Now, Jeremiah was a very loyal patriot, and what happened was his actions were totally misunderstanding. Sometimes people are just going to misunderstand your actions. I mean your your motive and your intention is one thing, and when someone sees you do something, they totally misread you and they accuse you of doing something That's not even remotely close to what you're doing. You know, it's hard sometimes to be misunderstood when people see you do something and they think this is what you're doing, and it's And this is what happens here for Jeremiah. It's a very difficult thing. But he has to pray. Persevere through that. He was hated, he was misunderstood, and then he's abused by the leaders. Look at verse 14. Then said Jeremiah, It is false. I fall not away to the Chaldeans, but he hearkened not. So Erijah took Jeremiah and brought him to the princes. Wherefore the princes were wroth with Jeremiah and smote him and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe for they They had made that the prison. And it says in verse sixteen, he remained there many days. So what do they do now? Now he's going to be abused by the leaders. They smote him. That doesn't mean just a slap across the face. The word here, and we saw this word in verse twenty, it's a word that means to give really hard, even fatal blows. And according to the Mosaic Law, this will be 40 strikes given. So he's beaten. And then he's put into a prison. And then after a while, Zedekiah the king Jeremiah? I mean, you know, if you were beaten and put in prison for a long time, and then you're brought out and the king says, What do you have to say now, any word now? You know, some people would be tempted to kind of Lighten up a little bit on what they were going to say? Maybe, but not Jeremiah. He basically tells them the truth. But he says, Is there any word from the Lord? And Jeremiah, um, look in verse 17, he answers, and Jeremiah said, There is, for said he, Thou shalt be delivered into the hand of the king. King of Babylon. Wow. You're going to be delivered into the king of the hand of Babylon. Now, a lot of people would have said, you know what? Now I don't really have a word right now. Give me a little while and I'll come back to you about that That, but not Jeremiah. He gets right into it. No, you're going to be delivered. And so uh he's abused, and yet there he is. He's being faithful And then he's falsely accused. Look down in chapter thirty-eight and look at verse number one and pray for me as I pronounce these names in verse one. Uh Shepatiah, the son of Maton, and Gedaliah, the son of Pasher, and Jukal, the son of Shel Amaya, and Pasher, the son of Melchi Jeremiah heard the words that Jeremiah had spoken unto all the people, saying, Thus saith the Lord, He that remaineth in this city shall die by the sword, by the famine, by the And they're hearing this and they're not liking again what they're hearing. So these four Guys, they take they go to the king. If you look there in verse number four, chapter thirty-eight. Therefore the princes said unto the king, We beseech thee, let this man be put to death. So they come to Zedekiah And say, look, we have got to take Jeremiah. We've got to kill him. I mean, what he's preaching is treachery. And he's disheartening the warriors. And basically They're really falsely accusing him of of simply trying to demoralize everybody around them. And of course again, Jeremiah, he wasn't doing that. His aim wasn't to demoralize What was he doing? He was simply obeying God. He was simply preaching the word that God gave to him. That's all he was doing. He had no other motive. No other agenda. And yet here he is falsely accused. And these guys are saying we gotta kill him. And they don't kill him. Zedekiah is kind of a weak, vacillating king. You know, he kind of does something Sometimes what the people ask, and then sometimes he is sorry for it and he kind of tries to make it up to Jeremiah. And so he's kind of going back and forth. And so he says basically, okay, we're gonna put I'm gonna put them in your hands and you guys can do what you want They don't kill Jeremiah, but here's what they do. Here's the next thing. They throw him into a pit. Look in verse number six. Then took they Jeremiah and cast him into the dungeon. of Malkaiah. Now the word for dungeon here is a Hebrew word that simply means a cistern or a well. See what's a cistern? And I was over in Israel two summers ago and And uh on an archaeological dig and it got you know, really bad weather started to rain, and I kinda climbed you know, the rocks were such that I can climb down into a cistern. A cistern is like a narrow hole in the ground, but if you go down into it it kind of opens up kind of like a bottle it's really wide at the bottom narrow at the top and what was it there for it was there to collect rainwater it was there to gather water so People could have water in that dry climate. I remember just sitting down in that cistern and it was kind of muddy at muddy at the bottom, but it was very dry, and pretty soon the rain would fill in and But here he's put into this cistern and it doesn't have any water in it, but it is very muddy at the bottom. So picture in your mind him being loaded Lowered down into this pit, and when he gets up uh when when he gets in there, the mud kind of comes up perhaps to his waist. It's so muddy. Just this terrible, terrible pit that he's put into this cistern that's dug out of a rock. And he's left there basically to die. That's the way they decide he's gonna die. We're gonna put him in this Pit. We'll let him starve to death. He'll rot in this cistern here. And he's literally put into this muddy, horrible pit. You know, sometimes we just have to persevere through the pits. Sometimes we have we're put into a terrible dark pit. And this is what happened here to Jeremiah. Uh he's just there and he's left to die. What a terrible way for a man to die who had been faithful and obedient to God's word. Now we're going to see God's not going to let him die because God's going to But he had to persevere through that. He was hated for speaking the truth, he had to persevere. He was misunderstood, he had to persevere. He was abused by leaders, he had to persevere. He was falsely accused, he had to persevere through that. He was thrown into a pit, and now he's got to persevere for this. You see, he He's getting knocked down constantly, but he's getting back up. But now here he is in this pit. Well the Lord delivers him because in verse seven of chapter thirty eight there's one servant in verse Verse 7 it says his name was Evid Malek, the Ethiopian, and he was one of the king's servants. He was a eunuch there in the king's court, and he's really concerned about the way Jeremiah's been treated. So he asked for permission to go get him out of the pit. And he does that. He's able to pull Jeremiah out. Look at verse 13. So they drew up Jeremiah with cords, took him out of up to out of the dungeon And Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison. Now, what happens later on is the king will come again to Jeremiah, and again he'll ask Jeremiah, Do you have a word from The Lord now? And Jeremiah says, Look, if I tell you, you're going to kill me. Or even if I do tell you, you're not going to listen anyway, so why should I? And the king says, I won't And so Jeremiah again faithfully delivers the word of the Lord to this king. And so he's suffering for just doing what's right. And yet he perseveres. You know, sometimes just doing right it may cost us. Happened here with Jeremiah, the truth costs Sometimes it hurts. And by the way, the sufferings of Jeremiah, we can see a picture of our Lord Jesus. Really, there's a lot of parallels I see between Jeremiah and Jesus. They're really worth noting. Jeremiah ministered under the menace of Babylon, Jesus under the menace of Rome. Both were considered traitors. Jesus was called a traitor. They were opposed by Religious leaders, both of them. They both wept over the city of Jerusalem. Both were arrested falsely and persecuted unjustly. And so Jeremiah And by the way, He's also our example of perseverance. We look to Jesus. We look to him as our author and finisher. So these were all the circumstances. And let me just say this. I don't know what circumstance you're in. God knows it may be some difficult place that you're in right now, and you know what? You can quit, you can give up, or you can say, God being my help. going to persevere through this. I don't know what your circumstance is, but God does. There are things that are going to happen to us that require for us, by the grace of God To pick up and move on. Now let's go the second thing. We talked about the circumstances that required perseverance. We see this in Jeremiah's life, but here's number two The character that reveals perseverance. Because what I want to do now is just we we saw what happened to him. What are the things that we see in his life that we need to embrace? In order for us to persevere. And really he's an example to all of us. Let me just give you four lessons here under this second heading, the character of that reveals perseverance. Here's the first thing. Number one, we just have to stand by our convictions. This is what Jeremiah does. Go back to chapter thirty-eight. Look at verse twenty-one, where he's saying, But if thou were Notice the next part of this verse. This is the word that the Lord has shown me. And that's a really key phrase there. And over and over Again, we see Jeremiah saying, This is God's word. This is what the Lord says. And so Jeremiah is standing on the truth throughout all of his ordeals, all the circumstances. You know what he kind of defaults back to? Look, this is what God told me to do. This is what the Lord's word says. And I'm going to stand on that. Remember at the beginning of Jeremiah Ministry, God said, I'm gonna make you an iron pillar and a bro like a bronze wall. And literally he becomes that. He was a man of unfaltering conviction. So what is perseverance looks like it looks like this it's someone who says I'm gonna stand on God's word I'm not gonna I'm not gonna uh give up my convictions And what is a conviction? It is a Bible-based belief or duty that God requires of us. It's not a preference. A preference is a matter of personal taste based on experience. You know, sometimes people want to push Their preferences on others. We can't push preferences on others. You might have a personal conviction, and that's all good and fine. Don't go against your conscience, but don't try to push it on someone else. A conviction is something that is Clearly revealed in Scripture where God says, Look, I require this of you. And as a Christian, we don't yield our convictions. We stand firm on our convictions. And that's what Jeremiah does here. He stands firm. He doesn't yield on the conviction. But here's another thing that he does that we need to emulate that really is what perseverance is And here's the next thing, make making the right choices. Jeremiah has to make a choice every day. He's been knocked down again and again. So the choice is, is he going to stay You remember in chapter 20 where you know he was put in stocks and beaten, and then he said, You know what, I'm not going to mention the Lord's name anymore because it always gets me in trouble. But then what did he They say, but his word is in my heart. It's like a burning fire. I I I can't not speak the word of God. And so he makes a decision to continue On, he makes the right choice. You know, when we're in a difficult situation, we need to be careful not to make wrong choices. You know, really True of all of us. We are the sum total of our choices. And I've told you this before, but wisdom in the Bible is not theoretical, it is very practical. Wisdom is the choices that you make. Making right choices. And more specifically in the Bible, godly wisdom is making righteous choices. And so that's why the Bible says the The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom because the fear of the Lord is a reverential attitude that leads to right actions, to right choices. And so we have to be careful. And Jeremiah does. Because you know what his choice is each and every day? Obey God. Look look again. Look down at chapter 38 and look down at verse number um uh twenty, where it's our verse twenty where it says, But Jeremiah said They shall not deliver thee. Obey, I beseech thee, the voice of the Lord, which I speak unto thee, so it shall be well unto thee, and thy soul shall live. And here's Jeremiah, you know what he's doing? He's pleading with the king, and he's pleading with the people. Here's what you need to do: you need to obey God. Obey the voice of the Lord. Obey the word of God That's always the right choice. And that really is wisdom right there. That's the fear of the Lord practically lived out. It's I'm gonna I'm gonna choose to obey And believe me for Jeremiah, this wasn't always easy for him. Because again, he was put in real real bad circumstances because he did obey God's word The word of God. And yet every morning he would make the same choice. I'm going to be faithful to God. I'm going to be faithful to his word. I'm going to obey the word of God. That was his choice. And that's perseverance. Perseverance is standing by your convictions. It is making the right choices. And you know what else it is? It's just enduring hardness. Enduring hardness because what do we read here? What do we just see? He's gone through one difficulty after another. He's been beaten again and again, he's been in prison again and again. He's been thrown into a pit. And you know what? He's just enduring it. And you know, sometimes the only thing we can do is just say, God help me to endure. Just Help me to endure. And calling upon the Lord. What did Paul say to Timothy? He said this: Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And then he goes on to say, Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Endure hardness. I was reading this in the book called True Religion The guy was writing it. It's a very interesting story. He said, My brothers and I traveled to the western edge of Zimbabwe, to the Zambezi River. We bordered Thunders. And so basically they were going to go down in these rafts and the Zambezi's white water rapids are like graded a seven or eight. The worst we have here in America is a graded Five, as far as being so vicious. These were like seven and eight. And notice what he says here. He says, he was wondering how dangerous can it be? Is a question he asked. But then our guide said when the wrath flips, there was no if the wrath flips, or on the chance we get flipped, but But when the raft flips, he went on, stay in the rough water. He says, look, when the raft flips, not if, but when, it's going to flip. But when it it happens. Stay in the rough water. And he said this. You will be tempted to swim towards the smooth, stagnant water at the edge of the banks. Don't do it. Why? Because it is in the stagnant smooth water that the crocodiles are waiting for you. They are large And hungry. Even when the wrath lifts, stay in the rough water. Stay in the rough water. And then He goes on to say, stagnancy will kill your spirit. The Church of Tomorrow must resist stagnancy. He says, as God needs us out there in the rough waters, Pouring our lives into people live in the rough waters, live in the white waters. And you know what? And the truth of the matter is all All of us in this river of life that we're all navigating, it's not if our raft flips, it's when it flips. Because guess what? And the temptation is going to be to swim to to to ease, to go to the smooth place. And I think sometimes God says, you know what, stay in the rough waters. Endure hardness. Don't look for the easy way, the easy road. Endure hardness as a good soldier of Christ. Christ. But here's the next thing. What's perseverance? It's standing by your convictions. It is making the right choice choices. It is enduring hardness. And here's another thing. It's doing right It's just simply doing what's right before God. You know what? There's kind of a sub-narrative here in the story of Jeremiah that I want to point out to you. Go back to chapter 38. Look down at verse 7. Remember, we were introduced to a guy by the name of Ebed Malek, the Ethiopian. And Ebed is from the Hebrew word servant. Malek is the Hebrew word king. Servant of the king. He was a servant of the king. And he didn't like the way Jeremiah was being treated. And he's the one who went to the king and said, Look, is there anything we can do? And see You know what he does? He gets permission to get Jeremiah out of the pit. And then notice in verse eleven of chapter thirty-eight. So Eved Malach took the men with him and went into the house of the king under the treasury. And took thence old cast clouts and old rotten rags, and let them down by quartz into the dungeon to Jeremiah. Isn't that very thoughtful of him? You see, what's he doing? He's taking old cloth and rags Putting it on the end of the rope. Why is he doing that? Basically, he's doing that for Jeremiah's comfort. He doesn't want him getting rope burns. So he he does this And he pulls them up, and he's just so gracious and kind to God's servant. He's very thoughtful, he's very generous, he gives them food to eat, he makes sure that Jeremiah has enough bread to eat after that. He's just a man who was very thoughtful and honoring to God's servant. And I really like that. You know what? He's just trying to do what's That's right. But you know what the Lord does? The Lord honors him. Because later on, notice what God does for Ebid Malach. Look at chapter thirty-nine, look at verse fifteen. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jeremiah while he was shut up in the court of the prison, saying, Go and speak to Ebid Malek, the Ethiopian, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will bring my words upon this city for E Verse 18, for I will surely deliver thee, and thou shalt not fall by the sword, but thy life shall be for a prey unto unto thee, because thou hast put thy trust in me You know what God says through Jeremiah? God says to Ebid, May like, you know what? All these things are going to happen to the other people in Jerusalem. It isn't going to happen to you. I'm going to protect you And I'm going to bless you because you have chosen to trust me. How did he choose to trust in the Lord? Just by being good to the servant of the Lord. Just by honoring him and being good to him. That was him putting his trust in the Lord. And you know what? God said, I'm going to reward you. And let me just tell you this: that in the midst of difficulty, and by the way, this was probably hard for Evan Maylock. He was probably the The only one standing up for Jeremiah in a court that really hated him. But you know what? He did what was right before God. And you know what? God rewarded him. And let me just tell you this. You, during difficult circumstances, you just say, I'm going to do what's right before God. And you know what? The Lord is going to reward you. He will bless you. And that's what he does for this servant here. Part of perseverance is just simply doing what is right before God. And then the last thing, and I don't have have time to really elaborate on that, but it's just refusing to compromise. And again, despite all of the difficulty, Jeremiah just would not compromise. What God put in his heart or what God put in his word for Jeremiah to do. He just wouldn't do it. And so the Lord again honored him. What it's going to take is going to take that and the help of God for us to persevere. Now, again, it may be that you're here tonight and you're in a circumstance in your life. Maybe your raft has flipped, and you need to persevere. And we need to follow the example of Jeremiah. Look, stand by your convictions, make the right choices. Endure hardness, do what's right before God, refuse to compromise. You've been knocked down, but you know what? You need to make a choice. Get back up by the grace of God, by the help of God Help of God, you can do it by His strength. Get back up and continue on. Let me just close with this illustration. I think when I When you preach about perseverance, you know you almost have to mention William Carey. Who is William Carey? He's called the father of modern missions. Let me tell you about him. He was born in a Desperately poor family. He had a poor education. He was an apprentice shoemaker, but he really couldn't cut it as a shoemaker. So he tried running a school and it failed. His marriage was not a very happy marriage. He had a daughter that died early. Were tedious and boring. Yet despite that, he had a call on his heart to be a missionary, to take the gospel to the regions beyond. And he decided to do that. Even though others discouraged him, he decided to do that. And we know him now because he was a great missionary in India And you know what? He translated the Bible into over thirty languages. Can you imagine that? Over thirty languages. Bengali, Swahisi. uh Swahili excuse me, Sanskrit and others. I mean he was just amazing. At one stage when he was doing translation work, a fire came and he lost ten years worth of Translation work. What did he do? He started over again. He just started again. Before he died, he was dying. His friends came and they were talking about writing a book about him. And let me tell you what he said to his friends. He said this: if one should think it worth his while to write about my life. I will give you the criteria by which you may judge me. He said this. If he gives me credit for being a plotter He will describe me right. If he gives me credit for being a plotter, he will describe me right. Anything beyond this will be too much He said, I can plod. I can persevere. In any definite pursuit, I can plod. He said, To this I owe everything You know what he said, I'm just a plotter. I just persevere. I just continue on. You know what? There's a lot to be said for that. For perseverance. May God help. us to persevere through the pits of life. Let's bow for prayer together. And so Lord, we come before you you because we are a people so in need of your help and your grace. And all of us will go through life's pits We'll all have circumstances that bring us down. And Lord, it's those times when we need your strength, your help, your grace. As you told Timothy, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And Lord, that's the only way we can be strong because we really have the strength of ourself. We need the strength that comes only from your favor and your grace. And so, Lord, give that to us. Help us to persevere. When the raft flips, help us to stay in the rough water and trust in you. Lord, I just pray for these, your people tonight, many who may be in a difficult circumstance. Lord, that you'll give them your grace. And how many here with heads bowed and eyes closed say that's my prayer tonight? I need God's grace to help me to just applaud Just to go forward. And so, Father, bless these your servants. And Lord, give them what they need. You are a gracious and merciful, kind God And so, Lord, we trust you for this. We ask you in Jesus' precious name, amen.