This study, if you've been coming on Sunday nights, you know we're going through this uh epistle of Colossians, which is uh just uh a powerful letter from the Apostle Paul. And we're going pretty much paragraph by paragraph. And we're looking at tonight, chapter 2, verse number 8 down to verse 10. So, Colossians chapter 2. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. Here is a key phrase in Colossians. Actually, these verses are so very key. For in hand dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. And ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power. And so tonight I want to title the sermon, Philosophy or Christ. Philosophy or Christ? Homer, uh let me tell you a story about two brothers, Homer and Langley Collier. They were the son of a respected New York doctor. They both had college degrees. In fact, Homer studied at Columbia University to become an attorney. But when their father died, he left the two sons. and inherited an inheritance that was just incredibly rich and wealthy. They inherited the family home and all the fortune of their father. So both of these men who were bachelors were now set for life. But they chose to live a life that was very peculiar, especially in light of the fact that they were now so very rich. This is the life that they lived. They lived in total, almost total seclusion. They boarded up the windows of their house. They padlocked the doors. All the utilities from their home were shut off, including water. No one was ever seen going in or coming out from the house. From the outside, it appeared as if the house that they lived in, which was a pretty big house, it looked like it was empty. And though this family, the Cal Your family, was quite prominent in New York society, no one could uh heard of them anymore. It's as if they dropped off the map. On March 21st, 1947, police received an anonymous phone tip that a man had died inside the boarded-up house. So they went to the house. Unable to force their way through the front door, they had to enter through the second story window. And when they entered in, they find they found the body of Homer Collier uh on the bed. He had died clutching a newspaper in his hand. But they also found something else that was somewhat grotesque as they began to look through the house. It seems as if the brothers were collectors They love to collect junk. And so what they found was that the house was crammed full of broken machinery Auto parts, boxes, appliances, folding chairs, musical instruments, rags, assorted odds and ends, bundles of old newspaper. Virtually all of it was worthless And this was all piled up in an enormous mountain of debris, so much so that it blocked the front door. The investigators couldn't get in the front door. They had to use the second story window for weeks or a side window for weeks to get in. And after three weeks of hauling out heaps of junk Someone made a grisly discovery. They discovered the body of Langley Collier buried beneath a pile of rubbish, some six feet away from his brother Homer, where he had died. It seems as if Langley had been crushed to death in a cruel trap that he built to protect his own junk pile. And so they continued to uh haul away garbage. The the total removed from the call your house was it totaled more than 140 tons. of junk that was in the house. No one ever learned while the brothers were stockpiling this pathetic treasure. And it was just an incredible story. This story kind of acts as a fitting parable to many people that live in the church today. You say, what do you mean by that? Because there are many people that have a great inheritance spiritually. You are rich, and yet there are still people that seem to feed off of the junk of the world. These brothers who w had an incredible inheritance of riches were living off of a trash heap. rather than turning to the treasure that they had been given. Now with all that in mind, the Apostle Paul is going to warn us here in this next passage of Scripture. To hold on to the real treasure that you have been given as a Christian and don't turn to the trash heap, the worthless trash of this world. And that's what we're going to look at here in verses 8 down to verse number 10. Now I want to just do three verses tonight because I want to slow down just a little bit. Because it seems like there's so much packed into these verses and literally you could spend years in the book of Colossians. We're not going to do that But there's so much in here. Now there are some sermons that are given to be a comfort and an encouragement, and some sermons that are to warn. And that's what this is basically tonight. This is a strong warning from the Apostle Paul. And remember what his major concern is. We've entitled this series that we're doing through Colossians, Christ is All I Need. And the major idea through the book of Colossians is the sufficiency of Christ. You don't need to go outside of Christ to find Your needs, your spiritual, your emotional, your psychological, all truth and wisdom is found in Jesus Christ. You don't need to go anywhere else Now the world is out there offering substitutes. They're offering things. And that was the thing that scared the Apostle Paul. We learned already that there was a heresy that threatened the Colossian Church, and it was called Gnosticism. But we also are learning here, however, that this Gnosticism was also mixed together with kind of a man-made philosophy. And we're going to see later on, it was also a mixture of Jewish legalism. And these Colossian heretics who taught this synchronized idea of needing more, we're going to see that they were giving this, they were offering this as a spiritual additive. They taught that a believer could not reach where he needed to go spiritually without this new knowledge, without this new wisdom. And so Paul is going to warn them to beware of this idea. And a big part of this philosophy or this teaching again is philosophy. Look again in verse number 8. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy. Now he's going to warn them about this idea, this philosophy, about There can be more truth. There's knowledge out there that you can't find in Christ. There's wisdom out there that you can't find in Christ And this is a message that the church needs today. You know why? Because many in the church are turning from the Scripture, they're turning from the Lord Jesus Christ, and they're trying to find knowledge and wisdom in other places. And you don't need to do that. You see, this kind of Gnosticism never really died. We still see it today. There's a neo-Gnosticism out there, and it's this idea that in order for us to really have what we need We thank the Lord for what we have in Christ, but we need to go in other places too. And the book of Colossians says Christ plus anything equals nothing. You don't need anything else. All you need is found in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we still see strands of Gnostic influence. out there. In fact, we see it all throughout the history of the church, even to today. Let me read to you what one writer said. He said, quote, where imprecise doctrine and careless Bible exegesis are tolerated And where biblical wisdom and discernment languish, people always tend to look for something more than the simple sufficiency God has provided in Christ. Today, as never before, the church has grown careless and hazy with regard to biblical truth, and that has led to an unprecedented quest for hidden knowledge. End quote And I think he's true. There's a danger out there. And so Paul warns the believers. Paul is saying that all that you need is in Christ. And what we're going to see in verses 8 to 10 is he makes a contrast between philosophy and Christ. He shows the deficiency of human wisdom, the deficiency of philosophy, and he shows the sufficiency of Jesus Christ. And that's what we're going to see tonight. So if you're taking notes, just write down, here's the first thing. We're going to look at two things. Number one, I want to consider what I want to call the slavery of philosophy. The slavery of philosophy. Look again in verse 8. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit. Now the word philosophy is a combination of two words in the Greek, and you probably already know this, Phileo, love, and Sophia, wisdom. And so, as far as etymology, the word means the love of wisdom. But it really has a broader sense. It's really philosophy is man's attempt to explain the universe or to find truth or meaning in life outside of God. It's man's attempt to answer basic life questions without the Lord. In Paul's time, everything that had to do with theories about God and the world and the meaning of human life was called philosophy. The first century Jewish historian Josephus said any elaborate system of thought and moral discipline was called philosophy. And here Paul is condemning any philosophical theory that proposes to answer life questions outside of divine revelation. He's condemning that kind of philosophy. And by the way, that's exactly what's going on in our world today. Do you see that? There are people out there that propose to have answers to questions outside of God. Questions like this, is there a God? Is he knowable? Who is man? Why am I here? What is the purpose of life? And Paul is saying, beware of any philosophical system that pretends to answer these basic life questions outside of what God has already told you and what God has already revealed to you. Let me say it like this. When you add the ISM, the ism, at the end of a word, what does it do to that word? It elevates that word to a school of thought, does it not? And it makes it a philosophy. It makes it a system of thought For example, if we take the word existence and then we add the ism, the ISM at the end of that word, now we have existentialism. Now we have a system of thought that proposes to explain existence, the philosophy of existence and finding meaning. And existentialism teaches that The only meaning that you have in this life is the meaning that you make for yourself. And again, this is outside of God And so it elevates this to a system of thought. We take the word human, and then you add the ism at the end of human, and what do you have? You have humanism And what is that? That's a school of thought that makes man ultimate. Man is supreme and not God. It's anthropocentric instead of It's theopocentric. It's not God-centered. It's man-centered, and man is the ultimate authority. And man is the ultimate being and the ultimate creature. And that's what humanism basically is. And then there are others. There's secularism, there's pluralism, there's relativism, and then on we could go. All these isms out there, all these Schools of thought, all these philosophical systems that Dr. R. G. Lee says is-ms that ought to be was-ms, because they answer no real depth of answer of anything And as we're going to see, they're pretty empty. And by the way, America is filled with all of these isms. And it's competing for the mind and the soul of men. You know that America is not a monolithic culture. And when I say monolithic, what I mean by that is a monolithic culture is a culture where there's only one definable school of thought, one worldview, one value system. We're not a monolithic culture. If you want a uh an example of a culture or a country that is monolithic, there's some place like Red China. You go to Red China, they have one basic worldview They have one basic system of thought, and it is anti-God and it is atheistic. And everyone is required to conform to this one basic worldview, this one basic idea They have to conform to it. They even have to dress like it. They have to swallow everything that is fed to them by their leaders. But America is not monolithic. What is America? America is the opposite. America is pluralistic. America is a melting pot, right? That's the ideal And so we have all these beliefs and all these philosophies that are competing for acceptance within our culture. Now, America is not a pagan uh nation because paganism uh supposes no gospel at all. We started out as a Christian nation. We started out really monolithic because we believed and we were built upon the Judeo-Christian value system. However, America has far removed from that. It's gone from that And now what we live in is a pluralistic culture where you have all these philosophies and all these ideas that are competing for the mind of men. You say, what's the problem with that? Well Paul's going to give some dangers here. And look at the first one. What's the problem? Well, philosophy like this, first of all, these philosophies They are enslaving. Look in verse 8. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy. Look at the word spoil there. That comes from the Greek word that actually just means to carry away into captivity. This is a very unique word. It's only used here in the Greek New Testament, and it just means to carry off. It's the idea of kidnapping Use of a slave dealer carrying away people from a conquered nation into slavery. And it's the idea of someone kidnapping you and enslaving you. And this pictures the way that Christ plus philosophy heresy was abducting the Colossians away from the truth and bringing them into the slavery of error. You know, false teachers don't win their own converts. They kidnap converts from other places. They have to do that. And so this it's enslaving. Now some of you can relate to this. How many of us have known people who have before been in the slavery of sin, and through the power of the gospel and the power of Jesus Christ, we have seen the Lord change their heart and life. And they repent and they get saved. And now they're filled with the love of God and they're filled with praise and worship. And their life has been transformed. And they begin to continue in the Christian life and walk in the Christian life, but by and by there's some idea, some philosophy outside of Christ that seems to captivate them, and what happens? They embrace this philosophy. They embrace this idea, and all of a sudden the passion for Jesus Christ is gone. All of a sudden the worship And their heart is gone. What has happened has their mind and their soul has been kidnapped into a system, a philosophical system that has no meaning. All of a sudden they're back into bondage. They're back into slavery. Spurgeon said this, beware those who pretend that they're going to enrich you, but whose real object is to plunder you. They say that they will give you advanced thought, deeper ideas, a system, more acceptable with the age. He said plenty of people will spoil you in this way by teaching you their profound thoughts, their grand inventions, their bright ideas. Beware of all of them. You will philosophize men into hell, but never into heaven. So true. And so, first of all, Paul said it's enslaving. But here's the second thought. Not only is it enslaving, but it's empty. Look again in verse 8. Beware lest any man spoil you. Through philosophy and what? Vain deceit. And the word vain speaks of something empty, something that is devoid of truth. Something that is futile. Something that is fruitless. And look at the word deceit there. It's an interesting word. It has the idea of a fish hook. It's baiting a hook. You know, the fish does never gets what he expects, right? And that's the whole idea here. This philosophy is a baited hook. You go after this and you think you're going to get something real and substantial, but in fact you get nothing. There's nothing there. There's nothing to it. I was talking about all of the philosophies that are in our culture here in America. All these isms out there. But there's one dominant idea that is the common denominator to all these philosophical systems outside of God. There's one umbrella, one uh school of thought that unites all of these systems together. In one common denominator, it incorporates all of these philosophies together. Do you have any idea what it might be? It's called secularism. Secularism. You say, what is secularism? Secularism comes from the Latin root saculum, which means world. This world right now. There's actually two Latin words for world, mundum, which is a world in a sense of a place. We're in this place here. But sacculum is the word for world in the sense of time. meaning the present time, the now. And so when we talk about secularism, we're talking about this idea that all of reality All of human activity, every human value must be judged and understood in the light of the now. Whatever happens right now. And it's the idea that there is no eternal realm There is no transcendent realm. We live in this box, this closed system, and there's no eternal realm. And so everything then has to be judged now. How does this conflict with Christianity? You can see that we live for the eternal. Jesus descended out of the eternal realm to tell us to repent and to offer us eternal life. And so everything that we do, we do it with eternity in mind. With the eternal realm. For the Christian, the motto is, right now counts for eternity. Right now counts forever But the motto of the secularists is this. Right now counts for right now, and that's it. There's nothing beyond. That's their motto. And you've heard it a million times. You see it all over today. There are no absolutes. There are no abiding principles. There is no afterlife. This is the philosophy called the hik et mun, the here and the now. This is the now generation. And you know what you find with people who embrace this secularism that's in our culture? You know what you find? It is a philosophy of despair because you see people in despair who embrace this whole idea The philosophers who thought this up, even them, they are in despair. Osguinnas wrote this. He said contemporary man with his self-drawn picture of society as the closed room with no exit is caught metaphysically in the darkness of the room, evidently without windows and without doors, he gropes around. Around and around. And that's what man is like today. He's groping around for answers. He's in a self-imposed room where he says there is no eternal, and so he's in a dark place and he can't find any answers. The 20th century French existential philosopher Jean-Paul Sorter put it like this, life is an empty bubble on the sea of nothingness. And that's what it brings them to. And that's what Paul's talking about. This philosophy is vain. It's empty. There's nothing to it. No wonder men like uh Nietzsche, who is a a German philosopher, who came up with the originally with the idea God is dead, not that God is dead Literally, i he's dead in a sense, the idea of God is dead because there is no transcendent realm, there is no eternal realm. And you know what happened to Nietzsche at the end of his life? He spent the last eleven years of his life in an insane asylum being the victim of his own ideas. And he capitulated under the weight of that despair. Martin Lloyd Jones said it best. He said, if a philosophy of life cannot help me to die, then it cannot help me to live. So what's the problem? It's enslaving. It's empty. But here's the third thing. Write this down. It's earthly. It's earthly. Look at verse 8 again. After t the tradition of men. Where do these human philosophies come from They're man-made. They're earthly in a sense that they're made of men. The word tradition here means things that were handed down, things that were passed around. Paul is saying this these philosophies, it's just men perpetuating their ideas. It's really men, an error perpetuating that error. You know philosophy is just a bunch of guys getting together, coming up with their own ideas, and then other men taking those ideas and breaking away and then adding to those ideas or or or embellishing on those ideas really all of human philosophy, we can almost trace it back to Socrates, who had a disciple named Plato, and he had a disciple named Aristotle. And Aristotle had a disciple named Alexander the Great who helped to spread all this Everywhere. You know what it is? It's just men trading ideas. It's men trusting in men. And that's what Paul is saying. It's based on man's ideas, man's tradition. Let me show you a passage of scripture. I showed you this before. I want to show it to you again. Just go in the Old Testament book. Go to the book of Jeremiah. Actually, I want to show you two verses. Look in Jeremiah and look in Jeremiah chapter 9. And uh Jeremiah chapter nine, and look in verse number twenty-three, Jeremiah 923. You might want to mark these down. 923, thus says the Lord, listen to this, let not the wise man glory in his what? Wisdom. Neither let the mighty man glory in his mighty let not the rich man glory in his riches, but let him the glory glories in this what? That he understands and knows me. There's where real meaning is found. Not in man's wisdom. Don't glory in the wisdom of man. Glory in the fact that you know God. Look in Jeremiah chapter 17. Let me show you another verse. Jeremiah 17. I love this passage of scripture. You talk about a contrast. There's a contrast here between a bush in the desert and a tree by the river. Look at Jeremiah 17, verse 5. Notice what he says, Thus says the Lord, and you might want to again mark these verses down: cursed be the man that what? Trusts in what? Man. You want to have a curse on your life, you put your trust in men. And that's how you get it. And that's what a lot of these philosophies are. They're man-made ideas and traditions that other people put their hope in. And God says, that doesn't bring any blessing. What's the result of it? That trusteth in man. Notice this, that maketh flesh his arm. Now watch this. Whose heart departs from the Lord. Anytime you put your faith in a man-made philosophical system, you know what's going to happen? Your heart will depart from the Lord. It doesn't draw you close to Christ. You departed. Look at the the image, verse six. For he shall be like a heath. That's a a shrub. A shrub of the desert. In the desert and shall not see when good comes But it shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness and a salt land not inhabited. So here's a picture of this shrub in a dry, arid, empty wilderness, and it does not see when any good comes. He's in this dry, barren wasteland. God says that is the picture of anyone who puts their faith and trust in man. But on the other hand, look at verse 7. Blessed is the man that what? Trusts in the Lord, whose hope the Lord is. You see, here's the opposite. When you trust in God, when you depend upon God, your heart doesn't depart from the Lord, but all of your hope is in the Lord. And what's the picture there? He shall be as a tree planted by the waters that spreads out his roots by the river. You see the contrast there Exact opposite. He's not in a bare-a barren wilderness, a desert, a wasteland. He is like a tree planted by the water. And he doesn't see when the heat comes. Why? Because he's so much by the river that the roots are spread out, and they're drawing that nourishment from the river. And he's going to be fruitful. He's going to continue to yield. God said that's the contrast. And beloved, that's the contrast between placing trust in the traditions of men, these philosophical systems, and God. Now, let me just also say this These systems are very deceptive in that a lot of these philosophies will wear a Christian cloak. Anytime someone says, Well, I have this is a Christian philosophy, you better check it out and make sure it's from the Word of God. You better make sure that that is God's truth and that it's from the Scripture. Because that's part of the way that these philosophies kidnap the minds and the souls of Christians. It pretends to be Christian. But you can't add anything to Jesus Christ. You can't. Let's go back. Let me show you another characteristic of this Man's wisdom, the slavery of philosophy is enslaving, it's empty, it's earthly. Let me give you another thing. Look in chapter 2, look in verse 8, it's elementary. It's elementary. Look at verse 8. Again. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy in vain deceit. After the traditions of men. Now watch this. After the rudiments of the world And not after Christ. So here Paul is giving the source of this philosophy. He calls it the rudiments of the world. And the word rudiments here means the elements of the world, the elementary things of the world. Now there's two ways that you can look at this. And I and quite frankly I'm I'm still not even sure myself exactly. I think it's going to be the second one. Let me just tell you the two ways First of all, in its literal sense, basic elements means the ABCs. Literally it means things in a row, like A, B, C or 1, 2, 3, these elementary things, these basic things. And so if that's the thought, and this is what Paul is saying, if you turn away from Christ and turn back into the world to man's philosophy, it's like turning away from a mature understanding back into infantile things. Back into elementary things. Back into the ABCs. A person who's saved, who knows the Lord Jesus Christ, and you know the Word of God. And for you to turn away from that back into philosophy is like a PhD student going back to kindergarten. That's really what he's the idea there is. If this is what Paul means by that. But then there's another way to understand this. And that is, it can also mean rudiments of the world has a possible meaning of elemental spirits or spirit beings And this is what some believe this is really he's saying here because this phrase rudiments of the world has been used in other places to say that. Elemental spirits uh cosmic spirits. You say now now why is this? Because you have to understand that the people of that day were bound up and associating spirits with stars and with planets. And it's really the ancient system of astrology. You know, people were heavily involved in astrology back in Paul's day. It's amazing that people today think astrology is something new when it's the oldest, mustiest thing around. People back then were doing that. For example, Julius Caesar was dependent on astrology. He would never do anything until he got a report about from the stars. And so it was that way of Alexander the Great. In fact, let me read to you what one scholar said, Barclay. He said this. It is almost impossible for us to realize how dominated the ancient world was by the idea of the influence of elemental spirits and stars. Astrology was then, as someone has said, the queen of the sciences. Back in that day, it was the queen of the sciences. And people wouldn't do anything until they read the stars. And there's a sense in which they were captive. To this kind of determinism that the stars told you what was determined, what was going to happen, and they wouldn't move until they read these elemental things, these elemental spirits And so there's a sense in which it put a person into a kind of a prison. And the only way out of this determinism was to have secret knowledge. And this is where the Gnostics came along and they said, oh, we have that knowledge We can give you that secret knowledge that'll help you be free from these elemental things. We have this and not Christ. And Paul's saying, beware of this. Beware of this whole idea. And so this philosophy, it is enslaving, it is empty, it's earthly, it's elementary, but let me give you the last thing. It's exclusive. Look again in verse 8, last phrase. And not after Christ. And we don't have to spend time there. It is godless. It doesn't lead you to Christ. It leads you away from Christ. So that's one side. The slavery of philosophy. Now the remainder of the time, just a few minutes, I want to spend on the sufficiency of Christ. Look in verse number 9 and 10. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. Look at verse 10. And ye are complete in him. Which is the head of all principality and power. Now remember this heresy attacked people on two fronts. It attacked the person of Christ. It attacked the position of the believer, and here Paul addresses both in verses 9 and 10. And really what he's saying in these verses, I can give it to you in one phrase. You are full in the full one. That's what he's saying here. You are full and the full one. Notice, first of all, the person of Christ. Look again in verse 9. For in him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead of the bodily. Now if you've been with us on this study, you know this word fullness has been used before. And it's the word pleroma. Look in verse 19 of chapter 1. Same idea, for it pleased the Father that in him that is Christ that all the fullness should Dwell, and this word means the sum total of all that God is. All of His being, all of His attributes, it's all in Christ Remember, we saw in verse 15, he is the visible manifestation of the invisible God, all the fullness of God. And again, this is a favorite word used by the Gnostics Who when they felt like they were reaching spiritual perfection, they would use this word. Paul uses this word not in the way that they use it, but he uses it in the way to say that all the fullness of God dwells in Christ. It dwells in him bodily. He is the God man. Now you say, now how does that help me here? How does that help me with this idea of philosophy? Well, notice the next thing, the position of the believer. Look at verse 10. And based on that, now watch, and you are what? Complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power. Now here's what I want you to see. Look at the word complete there. And look at the word fullness in verse 9. Now we what you might want to do is circle both of those and draw a line between them. You know why? Because it's the exact Same Greek word here. Exact same word, ploroma. So we could say it like this, you are full in him He is the fullness of God, and you are full in him. That's the idea. All of the fullness of God dwells in him. And listen, your fullness comes out of his fullness. of God. You see, Kenneth Weiss translates it like this. Listen, and you are in him having been completely filled full with the present result that you're in a state of fullness. That pretty much says it well. You're in a state of fullness. You are in him, and since you're in him, you are sharing. Here's the remarkable thing: your union with Christ means that you're sharing in this fullness. Let me kind of illustrate it. Do you think that God needs anything? Do you think God needs counsel? Do you think God needs this world's wisdom to help him out on any decision? No, you know why? Because he's God. He has everything he needs. And you can't add to God anything. You can't give God anything. He doesn't receive. He's the giver And he has it all, he knows it all, he's totally complete in and of himself. And see, all of the fullness of God, all of that fullness is in Christ. And when Christ was walking this world in his earthly ministry, you don't read about Jesus going up and trying to find out answers to questions Or trying to find wisdom from other places. You know why? Because all of the fullness of God was in him. He was the truth personified. And out of that fullness, we are complete. We are filled. Again, to use an illustration, suppose you were standing on the beach, on the shoreline, and you look at that vast Atlantic Ocean. You're just a dot alongside that infinite expanse. And suppose you were to take a plant-sized jar and just dip it into the Atlantic Ocean. Instantly the ocean would rush into that jar, and that little jar would be filled with the fullness of the Atlantic Ocean But there's no way that you can get that whole ocean into that jar. Because that jar is finite. But here's the thing, Christ is infinite. And all of the fullness of God dwelt in Jesus Christ. Now listen. He holds all the fullness of God. And whenever one of us finite creatures unites with Christ, we are dipping our tiny little vessel into him and we become full of the fullness of Christ. Does that help you understand this idea here? So much so, and here's the point. He meets all of our needs. And he will give us what we need at the moment that we need it. Whatever you need at the moment of need, he is there to give that to you. Sometimes, and there may be people here tonight and you're in a crisis and you need wisdom. At that moment, guess what? The fullness of Jesus Christ gives you the wisdom that you need. And whatever trial you go through, he will furnish you the strength, the emotional strength that you need. He will furnish you the comfort that you need. He will furnish you the courage. and the peace and whatever need you have, it is found in Jesus Christ. So you don't need any philosophy. You don't need to turn back into the world's empty philosophical systems to find answers and to find needs. You already have all of that in the Lord Jesus Christ. Why would you turn back? Why would you live on the empty trash of the world when you have the treasure of Jesus Christ that has been given to you. There was a Story about a woman who became seriously ill and taken to the hospital. And that evening her husband asked how she was doing. And he was told that she was improving. And the next day he was asked, How's she doing? And the doctor said she's improv And the third day, same response until he came the fourth day, and tragically, when he asked, they said she had died. And the man in grief, with a bit of sarcasm, said, What did she die of? Improvements? Did she die of improvements? You know what? There are churches and Christians that are out there dying of improvements. Because they're trying to improve upon Christ, and you cannot. It's like turning away from a satisfying river into broken, corrupt cisterns of water And I close with these words from Charles Wesley that I think really summarize everything that I've been trying to say here today. Sometimes I think we sing these hymns without thinking about the words. Listen to what he wrote. Other refuge have I none. Hangs my helpless soul on thee. Thou, O Christ, art all I want. More than all in thee I find plentious grace. With thee is found. Grace to cover all my sin. Thou of life the fountain art, freely let me take of thee. Spring thou up within my heart Rise up to all eternity. He's all that we need. All that we need. Let's bow for prayer. And so, Lord, we uh again just thank you for the fullness that we have in you, the completeness that we have. I pray, Lord, tonight we will take heed of this warning that none of us here will ever be brought into captivity, into the slavery of empty philosophies that lead us away from the sufficiency of God. Christ. Lord, we live in a dangerous world where we have all kinds of ideas out there competing for the minds and the souls of men. Lord, help us to see through these things. Help us to know the truth and the sufficiency of Christ so well that we would never dare think of trading the treasure that we have. for the trash of this world, the empty philosophies of this world. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I just want to, before we close tonight, give this invitation. Friend, do you know the Lord Jesus? You know him. To know him is to be rich. It may be that you're here tonight and you have been looking for some answers. You've tried everything. You've tried every ism out there. And still there's emptiness. You know why? Because none of those things can fill your heart. Only Jesus, friend. Only Jesus. And it's no accident that you're here tonight. You're searching, you're looking, but God is searching for you. He's seeking you. And he wants you to come unto him. And turn away from the empty ideas of this world that bring nothing. And turn to Him, the fullness of God. And friend, you know what? He'll meet the need of your heart. He'll save you, he'll give you eternal life. But you have a choice to make tonight. Everyone here, it's either philosophy or Christ. I choose Christ I choose the sufficiency of Jesus Christ. Is that your choice tonight? If you're here tonight and you say, man, I I want to know Jesus, would you pray this prayer in your heart and mean it? Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner. And I'm asking you right now to forgive me. Come into my heart and save me, Lord Jesus. And fill my heart with your fullness. Give me eternal life. Friend, if you'll pray that mean it, you can know that you're a child of God. Father, take these words, speak to hearts. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.