Well, take your Bibles tonight. Open please to the book of Revelation. As you know, we're preaching through Revelation. We're doing this study in this wonderful book. I hope it'll be an encouragement to all of us as we study. And we're looking at the seven churches of Asia Minor, and we've come now in chapter three to the church at Philadelphia. We're going to start at verse seven down to verse thirteen. And verse 7 says to the angel of the church in Philadelphia, write, These things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David. He that openeth and no man shutteth, and shutteth and no man openeth. I know thy works, and behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it. For thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name. And behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews and are not, but do lie. Behold, I will make them to come and to worship before thy feet and to know that I have loved thee. Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I will also keep thee from the hour of temptation which shall come upon all the world to try them that dwell upon the earth. And behold, I come quickly, and hold that fast which thou hast that no man can take thy crown. And he that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go out no more And I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is New Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God, and I will write upon him my new name, and he that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the church. So we come now to this church of Laodice of uh Philadelphia, excuse me. Laodicea will be next week. I'm ahead in my sermon notes here. Ephesus was the loveless church. You remember we studied that church, and the problem there was the church needed to love. Jesus more. Smyrna was the suffering church, and they taught us that we have to persevere through difficulties. And Pergamus was the compromising church, and it was a warning that we In order to be effective, we must remain separated from the world. And Thytire was the corrupt church, and they tolerated sin in their midst and A woman was there teaching them the wrong thing and they tolerated it. And now we come and and then there was the church at Sardis, the dead church, and they were d living off of past victories and we're not dependent upon the power of the Spirit of God and had allowed the gospel to be corrupted. Now we come to the church of Philadelphia, and the characteristic of this church that really kind of stands out when we read the passage is the fact that God says, I have set before you an open door. I call this the church with an open door What is an open door here? I think it's an opportunity that God has given this church. Taking full advantage of the opportunities that are around us. And that's the lesson that we can learn from this church right here. I heard of an organization in Montana that offered a bounty for of $5,000 for every wolf that a person could bring in alive. And two hunters named Sam and Jed decided they wanted to head for the hills and make a lot of money capturing wolves. And so Day and night they went out looking and combing the the hills for wolves and they couldn't seem really to find any. And after hunting for a while, they finally uh a collapsed in exhaustion and they slept really hard one night. But during the night Sam suddenly woke up and he noticed around them that there were a p was a pack of fifty wolves And they had red eyes and snarling teeth, and they were about to pounce upon these two hunters. And Sam nudged Jed and he said, Hey, wake up. We're going to be rich. Sometimes when we're surrounded by what appears to be difficulties, may really be opportunities. And this is what we learn about the church of Philadelphia. It was a church that had some difficulties. But they also had along with it they had great opportunities. And with opportunities comes responsibility. So let me tell you a little bit about the city that will help us understand the words of our Lord to this church. First of all, the city Philadelphia was the youngest and smallest of all the cities addressed. The word Philadelphia, of course, you know this, comes from two Greek words, which means brotherly love. We have a Philadelphia not far away from us And we call it the city of brotherly love. It was named that because of a king named Atlas, who was the king of Pergamos, who had a brother that uh he was very close to and this brotherly love is what prompted uh the name of this city, Philadelphia Now the city was located in a narrow pass between two mountain ranges. It literally stood as a doorway to Asia Minor and Asia, or between Asia Minor and Asia. And so it was really situated on a main route. From Imperial Rome into the east, and people traveling through this highway would pass through here all the time. And so this church, because of its location, seemed to have a tremendous opportunity Another thing about the city was that it was built on a geological fault, and as a result, the city was plagued by constant earthquakes and tremors In fact, people were constantly running out of their home because of a tremor that would come. In A. D. 17, there was a terrible earthquake that destroyed the city. And the earthquake was so devastating that Rome basically uh exempted the city of Philadelphia from any taxes um for five years. And the city was kind of hoping to get some help from Rome, but Rome really didn't do much to help them rebuild the city, and so the city kind of felt neglected by the emperor. In fact That neglect turned to really a sense of betrayal because Domitian, who was the Emperor of Rome at that time, commanded that all the vineyards that were around the city of Philadelphia that they be torn out Um and why did he do that? Well, because the vineyards around the city of Philadelphia were so were so good that they rivaled the vineyards around Rome. And Domitian had them torn out so that Rome could be on the front edge of commerce in this area. And in doing that, basically he broke the back of the economy. in the city of Philadelphia. So the people that were there, they felt absolutely betrayed. And I think the Christians in this city as well felt betrayed by the authority. So you can imagine how encouraged these believers were were when they got a letter from Jesus. And notice how he presents himself again in verse 7 and to the angel of the church of Philadelphia. Right, these things saith he that is holy and he that is true. That's a great message from Jesus to people who felt like they were betrayed by people over them. In a sense, Jesus was saying he would never do them wrong. He would be faithful. He would be true. This was a word that the Christians at this time desperately needed to hear. Let me talk to you a little bit about the church because again, Jesus said in verse 8, I've set before you an open door. Now we don't really know who started the church of Philadelphia. All we know is what the Lord tells us here in these verses about it, that the Lord says, I've opened the door before you. And that might be because many of the people in the church experience kind of a closed door. Let me let me explain you why I say that. Jews who were persecuted fled throughout Asia Minor, and they would go to these little towns and they would They would set up these synagogues there in the town, and they would meet in these synagogues for worship. The uh the The the normal pattern was they would try to find the highest place in the town or they would set up a pole straight up so that anyone coming into the town could see the synagogue because they wanted people to come and join them there. And this might interest you to know that some of the early Christians were Jews that were converted to Jesus Christ. They understood Jesus to be the Messiah and they converted to Christ. And so some of the Christians would go to these synagogues And they would meet in these synagogues and they were welcomed there at first by the Jews that were there in the synagogue. But at any time, as they were in the synagogue and they would begin to teach and preach about Jesus Christ being the Messiah And they had this evangelistic fervor. It was rejected by some the Jews that were there in the synagogue. And so finally they would ask them to be quiet about it. And then it got to the point where they said, You're no longer welcome to come to the synagogue. And they kicked him out And they were not allowed to go back in. So that meant for some of the Jews there, this meant that they became alienated from their family, they became alienated from their friends. The synagogue was considered the center of Jewish social life, and so in a way they were lonely, they were forgotten, and they would also suffer shame because you can imagine a Jewish Christian walking in town and someone saying to them, Hey The synagogue is meeting with shouldn't you be in the synagogue? Shouldn't you be there with your folks? And they would have to bear the shame. of saying that they were now alienated from that group. And I can imagine some of them trying at times to go to the synagogue to go in to be with friends and being met at the door by one of the Jews there saying, You are not welcome here, and shutting the door so that they could not go and be there. So there is a sense of rejection. There is a sense of exclusion. They were separated from family. They were separated from those in the community. And it also meant that their names were taken off the rolls in the synagogue. And that kind of left them at risk. You know why? Because the Jews, remember that Caesar demanded that everyone burn incense once a year to Caesar and say, Caesar is Lord. Did you know, however, the Jews were exempt from this practice? They were exempt because uh years earlier um the Jews had done some things that were Caesar favored, and so he decided to exempt Jews from doing that one practice. And so if you were a Jew and you were part of a synagogue, your name was on the roll, you were exempt from having to go and to the imperial temple and burn incense on the altar once a year and saying that Caesar is Lord. And now that these Christians were excluded from being in the synagogue, their names were also taken out of that registry. Their names were taken out of that book. In fact, this might be what the Lord was referring to. We remember we studied Sardis last week where Jesus said, I will never take your name out of the book of life. I'll never take your name out of that registry. Here, this had happened. And so here is a group of Jewish Christians that were totally alienated. The door had been shut for them to be with their society of people and friends and family, former friends, I should say. And what Jesus is saying to them is, look, that door may be shut, but I set before you an open door. In a way, I think what the Lord is saying is, you belong to me, you will always belong to me, and I will give you an open door. And I think that when the Lord mentioned open door, it was symbolic, obviously, of several things. In fact, when we go through the scripture and we study an open door, what does it really speak to us about? I think one of the things that an open door talks about is opportunities for service. Write down 2 Corinthians 2. 12. Paul said this, furthermore, when I came to Trias to preach Christ's gospel, a door was open unto me, O the Lord. Paul had an opportunity to serve the Lord there in that place. God had opened up a door for Paul to serve in Colossians 4, verse 3, with all praying for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds. Paul said, pray for us. Pray that God will open up a door so that we can Serve the Lord. In 1 Corinthians 16, 9, again, Paul said this, for a great door, an effectual, is open unto me. And there are many adversaries. I think this is what the Lord is referring to here in this letter to this church. You may have been had a closed door, you may have been shut out from that community, but don't worry, I have received you, and I'm going to give you an open door, an opportunity to do great things, to serve me. And I think we need to apply that to us today. Do you know that God has set before us an open door? All around us are opportunities to serve our Lord. What is 750,000 miles long and reaches around the earth 30 times and it grows 20 miles longer each day? You know what that is? Let me tell you what it is. It is the line of people who are without the Lord Jesus Christ who are not saved. You know what we have? We have an opportunity to share Jesus all around us, all around us. And we all need to be engaged in doing that. And sharing Christ, we need to understand the urgency of the hour. We are living in a day when there is an open door And of course, with an open door, there always comes challenges, there comes difficulties, but nevertheless, God has set before us an open door. Now, what I want you to see are just what I call three lessons from this passage about open doors, three things we can learn from. And here's the first thing. An open door number one reveals God's sovereignty. It reveals God's sovereignty. Because you would agree with me that God is the one who opens doors and closes doors, right? We don't have that power. It is the hand of God Now let's go back. Let's look at the character of God. Notice his character again. Jesus introduces himself as the one who is holy and true. He is the holy one. The Bible calls him the Holy One of Israel, God. Angels cry, Holy, Holy, Holy. Jesus is the Holy One. He is the righteous one. You say, how does this relate to an open door? I think before we can effectively really be a witness We have to really understand who Jesus is, and we have to be engaged and empowered through worship You know what? When you come to God's house and your worship is meaningful, you know what that does? It empowers you to go out and to be a good witness. I think good worship must come before effective witness. When we come to God's house, we gather together to worship God. When we leave God's house, we scatter to be witnesses wherever we go. Worship must come before witness. Remember in Isaiah chapter 6 when uh Isaiah had the vision in the temple there? That's a beautiful passage when he saw the Lord high and lifted up And he saw that vision, and there was the seraphims that flew around the throne of God, and the angels cried, Holy, holy, holy. Do you remember what Isaiah's first response was? What did he say? Woe is me. Woe is me. You see, when you're in the presence of a holy God, you know what's going to stand out? How unholy we are. And he said, oh Lord, woe is me. I'm a man of unclean lips. He must have had a problem with his speech. And he needed to be cleansed from the Lord. But then you notice what his second response was? His second response was this. When God said, Who will go? Who will I send? What did Isaiah say? Here are my Lord, send me. You see, worship, effective worship, has to come for come before being an effective witness. We have to understand That God is holy and also true. Notice he enters introduces himself as the one who is true. Now there are two Greek words for true in the New Testament. One means you make true statements, you say what is true. The other means that you are truth itself. And the word for true here is Christ. He's not saying I make true statements, although Jesus does speak nothing but truth. But the word for truth here is I am truth. I am the embodiment of truth. Jesus, all truth is in Jesus Christ. And so this is his character. But notice his claim in verse 7 where he says that he hath the key of David, and that he openeth, and no man shutteth, and shutteth. And no man openeth. Here he has the claim of having ownership of the keys. When you have the keys, that means you are in control. You are in a place of authority He has total authority. That's the whole idea here. When you're given keys, you have that authority. You know, when I became pastor here at Grace, one of the first things that happened was I was given a bunch of keys. I was getting so many keys I can't carry them all around. I I wish we we need to get one master key, you know, here But whoever holds the key, you know, that makes them in authority, that makes them responsible, and so on. The idea here is that Jesus holds the key. He has the keys of David, he holds the keys. The Bible says in Revelation 118, he has the keys of death and hell. And so he is the one who can unlock the grave of death for those that come to know him. And he's the one that opens up the door and gives entrance into the kingdom of heaven for those that call upon Jesus. and will repent of their sin and trust him. So we see his character, we see his claim, but then we see his control Again, where it says, he that openeth and no man shutteth and shutth and no man openeth. And again, this is a statement that reveals sovereign control. The keys of providence swing at the side of our Lord Jesus Christ. He is in absolute sovereign control. You can't open what God shuts, and you can't shut what God opens. You know, sometimes we are guilty of attributing too much power and credit to man or to men Sometimes pastors get too much credit for things that happen. Let me also say they get too much blame, too. Let me throw that in there. Not that anyone's blaming me for anything, but in case you're tempted to blame me for something. We get too much credit when things go good, and we get too much blame sometimes when things go bad. But I want to tell you God is the one that opens doors and shuts doors. And I want to tell you, beloved, when you see people coming to know Jesus Christ and getting saved, that's the work of God. Only God can do that. We can get the message out. But God is the one that opens the doors. God is the one that opens the heart. Listen to Acts 16, 14. There was a certain woman named Lydia, a cellar of purple in the city of Thytira. Which worship God heard us. Listen to this, whose heart the Lord opened. It was God that opened her heart. And she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul, God is the one that opens the hearts of people so that they will hear. In Acts 14, 27, listen to this. And they that were come and had gathered the church together, they rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how that he had opened the door of faith Unto the Gentiles. You know what was happening? The gospel was going out. And there were all these Gentiles that were embracing Jesus Christ and coming to know Christ And you know what they said? They said it was God that opened up the door of faith unto the Gentiles. This was something that God did. It was his hand opening these doors. And then the Bible says this in Luke 24, 45. Then opened he their understanding. This is talking about Jesus. This was when the disciples were on the road to Emmaus. And Jesus was going through the scriptures, pointing out things about himself, prophecies about himself. And then it says, Then opened he their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. You know who really causes you to really understand truth? It's Jesus that does it. He opens, he illuminates the mind. He opens your eyes so that you can see spiritual truth. That's not me that does that. That's the work of the Holy Spirit and Christ that opens the minds so that you can understand The word of God, so that you can understand Scripture. And so this is the work of God. It's not my personality. It's not my power. It's not anything of like that I can do or any man can do. I don't hold those keys. Only Jesus holds those keys. And he's the one who does it all. And so we must recognize that an open door reveals God's sovereignty. But here's the second thing. An open door requires God's strength. It requires God's strength. Look again in verse number eight of chapter three. I know thy works, and behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it. For thou hast a little strength. Notice here that when the Lord opens the door of opportunity and service, in order for us to take full advantage of it, We're not really strong enough to do that. We need the help of the Lord. We have a little bit of strength. And so we and the Lord says to this church, I know you have a little strength. And so, in order for us to take full advantage of the open door, we must depend upon God to help us. We need his help, first of all, to discern God's hand. Again, he says, I step before you an open door. We have to have God's help to even recognize his providential hand. Where is God working? We need to see that. We need to understand that And we need to move on when we see God working. That's called the providence of God. Learning to see the providential hand of God at work in different situations. When we fail to discern God's providential hand, we miss those opportunities. A book that I read years ago was really a life-changing book for me. And I've told you about it before. It's the book written by the Puritan John Flavel called The Mystery of Providence. And this book had a profound impact on my life because what he did was he helped me to be able to learn to see the hand of God. to look for God's providential hand. And Flayble basically says in the book, he says, it is the responsibility of every Christian to learn to read the providential hand of God. In fact, when you see the word behold in Scripture, he says, that is a call from God to read, or call from God to the believer to read his hand work, what he's doing, to study his providential ways. And he he says in the book, John Flavel, that to be careless about this, to be dull about this Is is really he in his estimation was a sin that we are called upon to read God's hand. And so We need to see that. And when God opens a door, when God sets before you an opportunity, you need to see that from the providential hand of God. And you need to be ready to move. You know, I know here's the problem we have in the church in America. That is, the church in America has this mindset that any ministry that happens, it should be the pastoral staff that does it all. Now I know that we don't believe that here because we have so many people serving in God's work here, and we need more to continue to serve and to do. But a lot of times people get this idea that, you know, um the the the the clergy, they're the ones supposed to do all the ministry. The laity really are just supposed to pay the clergy to do the ministry. Like one preacher said, the clergy get paid for being good and the laity are good for nothing. No, I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. I didn't say that. That was somebody else that said that But the truth of the matter is that if you're saved, God has you as a servant, and He's going to give you some ministry that you can do. Some way that you can serve him. And God might put in front of you an opportunity. And you need to be able to read the providential hand of God that's saying, Hey, here, I've got this for you, and I want you to serve me in this Area, I know a lot of times people come and say, Pastor, give me a list and you tell me what you want me to do. Well, that's very difficult because first of all, I don't really know all of your gifts. I don't know your personality. It takes time to develop all of that and find all those things. And sometimes, you know, the best way to do it is to pray and say, God, what would you have me do? God, you put before me an open door. And when God does that, don't lag behind. Be willing to go through that door. Be willing to serve the Lord Whatever door he puts in front of you. Listen to Psalm 32, verse 9. Be ye not as the horse or as the mule, which have no understanding, whose mouth must be held in with bid and bridle lest they come near unto thee The psalmist is saying, look, don't be like the horse. You know what the horse has a tendency to do? To run ahead. I don't want to run ahead of God. He said, don't be like the mule. You know what the mule has a tendency to do? To lag behind I don't want to lag behind. I don't want to run ahead. I want to be right in God's will. And I want to be able to read God's hand of providence when he opens up a door and discern it. And be able to go through it trusting God that He will help me to do the thing that He is calling me to do. So we need God's help to discern God's hand, to defend God's word. Look again in verse 8 where he says that for thou hast a little strength and hast kept my word. God says, you know, you have kept my word. Even though you have a little strength, you've kept my word. That means you the word keep here means to guard, to watch over. They were watching over the truth. They were guarding the truth. They were holding on to the truth. They were faithful to the truth of God's word. There's a lot to be said for that. For a church that's faithful to the truth, but we need God's help to help us defend God's word, but also to declare God's name. He says again in verse 8. Thou hast kept my word and hast not denied my name, even though they were in a difficult position. And for them, it would have been a lot easier for them to deny the name of Christ. To be welcomed into the synagogue by those who didn't believe in the Messiah, it would have been an easy thing for them to do, but they refused to deny God's name. And so we need God's help in these areas to never compromise God's name, to declare God's name, but also we need God's help to defeat God's enemies. Look in verse 9. Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews and they're not, but do lie Behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet and to know that I have loved thee. And again, I think he's referring here to these Jews in the synagogue that have absolutely rejected Christ and rejected these Christians And they say that they're God's people, but they're not, Jesus says. They say they are Jews and they're not, but they do lie. And Jesus says to this little church, I'm going to make them see that I have loved you. They may have shut the door on you, but I have not. They're going to see that I've loved you, and I'm going to cause them to worship before thy feet. one day. They're going to see how wrong they really are. And sometimes God will do that He'll turn up people to make them see how foolish they have been in their unbelief. I read a story about Two of the world's most prominent skeptics. Their names were West and Littleton. And when they would get together, they would make fun of Christianity. They were these brilliant intellects. And they would uh talk about Christianity and talk about how ridiculous the whole notion was. And one day they were together and they said, you know what, we want to rid the world of Christianity. There are two things that we have to explode or expose. If we are going to rid the world of Christianity, and one of them is we gotta we gotta explode this whole idea of the doctrine of Jesus Christ, the deity of Christ, and that he rose from the dead. And so West said, I will explode that, I will blow that up, I will deal with that. And Lyttleton said, and the second thing is we have to explain away the Apostle Paul and his whole life and ministry. And Lyttleton said, you know what, I'll do that. I'll take on the Apostle Paul. And so these men spent months researching. And preparing arguments that they could use to expose Jesus and Paul as being frauds. And after months they met together. And when they met together, Wes said this, he said, uh, Littleton, what have you discovered? Because I got to tell you that I have spent months studying the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I've got to tell you something. After studying all the history about Jesus, I believe that he really was the Son of God. And I believe that he really did come out of that grave. And he said, Lyttolton, I've got something to tell you. He said, I have received Jesus Christ as my Lord and my Savior. And you know what? West looked at him and he said, Well, I'm glad to hear you say that. He said, because after studying the life of the Apostle Paul I came to the same conclusion that Jesus Christ is indeed the Son of God. And here, these two men that were these skeptics now became these brilliant apologists. And they wrote an outstanding apologetic for the Christian faith. That's what Jesus can do sometimes. He can cause the enemies to come and worship. at the feet of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me give you the last thing and we're done. An open door reveals God's sovereignty. An open door requires God's strength. But here's the third thing, an open door rewards God's servants. Because look in verse 10. Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I will also keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon the world. And to try them that dwell upon the earth. Behold, I come quickly. Hold that fast which thou hast, that no man can take thy crown. And so God has blessings in store for those that are faithful to him. In verse 10, he says, I'm going to deliver you. From the hour, I'm going to keep you from the hour of temptation, or we could even say tribulation, which is to come upon the world. And m many Bible scholars see this as speaking about the the tribulation period that will come upon the earth when the Lord comes back again and we know that the Bible says that Jesus is coming again. And we believe that Jesus will come and he will take his church out of this world. God's people will not endure the wrath of God. God will pull his people out. God will deliver us from the wrath to come. The Bible says that in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse number 10. And so many scholars see this as a prophetic reference to that time. I think that it could be something that has a dual fulfillment where it is being fulfilled it was fulfilled in the time of that church But here, it could be a persecution that was worldwide. Under Domitian, the persecution to the church spread, not just in Rome, but outside of Rome, not just in Asia Minor. But all over the world there was a persecution against the church. And so it could have that near reference to that time of testing and trial that was to come. But prophetically, I believe this speaks about when the Lord Jesus will return and he will bring down upon this world tribulation, the Bible says. It'll be wrath. And so here's the assurance that Jesus gives his church that I'm going to keep you from the hour of temptation. And here he warns us that we are to see in verse 11, behold, I come quickly, hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown. You don't want to lose your reward. Now, beloved, as a believer, you can't lose your salvation. You're secure in Christ. But you can certainly lose your reward. And here Jesus is saying, don't lose out on your reward. Because there is such a thing as that happening for a believer in 2 John verse 8. It says, Look to yourselves that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. I don't know about you, but when the Lord comes, I want to receive a full reward. I don't want to lose out on anything. That requires us to be faithful. Hold fast. In Colossians 2. 18 it says, Let no man beguil you of your reward. You can be deceived, you can go out of the way, you can uh no longer be faithful to the Lord and lose your reward. in that way. So claim your reward. And what is it? Look in verse 12. Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall no more or go out no more, and I will write upon him the name of my God. Here's the promise of a standing pillar. Did you know in that day whenever someone did something great or notable, they would erect a pillar and put that person's name on that as a way to honor that person? And here Jesus is saying, that's what he's going to do for us. He's going to make us a pillar in the temple of God. And then he notice where he says, and that you will no more go out. What does that mean? Or go out no more? I think this was a significant statement because the people who lived in Philadelphia, remember I told you that they spent their lives being afraid of earthquakes. And whenever there was a tremor, they would run out of a building that they were in. And so they lived all of their lives being very insecure and very fearful because of the geological fault that that city would rested upon that caused these earthquakes and these tremors. But here, Jesus is saying, look, when you come to my house, when you come to live in my city, you don't have to worry about that anymore. You know, you will no more go out You will dwell secure in my city. So we see a secure promise and also a sacred pen. Look, I call this a sacred pen because look again in verse number 12. where he says, and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is the New Jerusalem. Which cometh down out of heaven from my God, and I will write upon him my new name. Here, God is going to do some writing on us. You know, what does he say? He's gonna write on us. What's he gonna write on you and me? The name of God? That's the first thing That God's going to write on us the name of God. You know what that shows? Ownership. God says, you belong to me. You know, and the name of the city, of God's city, the city of my God, the New Jerusalem. You know what I think about when I see this, I think about these uh these shirts that we wear that have the names of our city and our baseball teams and football teams on it, you know? Baltimore Ravens. I don't wear Baltimore Oriol shirts anymore for obvious reasons. They haven't had a winning season in I don't know how many years. And I told the Orioles organization, you know, they used to give me a clergy pass, which meant I can get in there free and go sit wherever I want. Every year they gave me a clergy pass, and while they did that, you know what? God bless them. Because they have winning seasons. You know what happened when they took away my clergy pass? The next season they lost 105 games. I wrote to Orioles organization, I said, you will not have a winning season until you give me back my pass. So I don't wear their shirts anymore. I'm just kind of kidding there. It reminds me of that we we like to wear shirts that advertise the things that we're proud of. And God says, one of these days I'm going to write on you the name of the city of my God. You know, we're citizens of heaven. We should be proud of that. We are citizens of the new Jerusalem. God says, I'm going to write my name on you. I'm going to write the name of my city on you. I'm going to write the new name of Christ. is going to be written on you. Again, this shows absolute security and ownership. You now will wear my name. Because that, again, is a symbol of the oneness that we have with the Lord Jesus Christ. What blessings God has laid up. For his church. And again, what what we see here again is we see this in the other churches that whatever the rewards are here on earth God kind of compares those rewards to the rewards he's going to give us in heaven, and there's no comparison. The things that God has laid up for us in heaven are so much better. than any of the rewards that we could ever get here on earth. It's so much better. And so that should motivate us to be faithful. And so the Lord says to this church, look, I'm setting before you an open door. I know you have a little strength, but you've been faithful to my name. Hold fast. Be faithful. And I'm going to reward you for that. May we all take that to heart as God's people. Let's bow for prayer together tonight as we're out of time. And ask yourself this question, is God setting before you some open door? Where he's calling you to do something might be something that's out of your comfort zone. But undeniably, as you look and you Read the providential hand of God, is the Lord saying to you, I'm giving you an open door here. And I want you to trust me in this. Depend upon me. You might have a little strength, but that's where we depend upon God. We could do nothing in ourselves. We need the help. of God. Ask yourself, Lord, is there an open door? Or maybe you want God. You want to be used by God. Ask God to put before you His open door that you might serve him and be used of him. Father, again, thank you for your word Help us, Lord, to be instructed by it, to be challenged by it. And Lord, help us to be faithful, that we lose not our crown. That we lose not the things that we have wrought, but that when we are finally called home to that new Jerusalem, that city that is our city, our heavenly home, that we will receive a full reward And hear you say, Well done, good and faithful servant, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.