We're studying through 1 Corinthians on Sunday night. And while you're finding that, 1 Corinthians chapter 4, we're going to deal with verse 6, going down to verse number 13 of 1 Corinthians. While you're finding that I heard of a big mean lion who met a monkey in the jungle in the jungle and the lion pounced on the poor monkey and said, Who's the king of the jungle? And of course the monkey said, You are a mighty lion. And the lion let him go. Next there was a zebra, so he pounced on the zebra. Said, Who's the king of the jungle? The zebra said, You are a mighty lion. And the lion let him go. Next the lion met up with an elephant. Said, Who's the king of the jungle? Well the elephant picked them up, slammed them around, twirled them around, threw 'em. The lion got up and said, just because you don't know the answer doesn't mean you have to get so rough. Well, the uh Corinthians in 1 Corinthians 4 were kind of acting like they were the king of the jungle, so to speak. And the Apostle Paul is about to get rough with them. here in chapter four. Now what is the issue that Paul is dealing with here as we come to these verses? It is the issue of pride. He's going to talk about the sin of pride. This was the sin, the original sin committed by Satan. It's the sin that God hates, and yet all of us deal with it in our own heart. We deal with pride, and pride sometimes causes us to boast. Uh I heard about Muhammad Ali when he was in his prime. He was on an airplane and the stewardess came by and said, uh sir, uh fasten your seatbelt. And this was in his prime when he was filled filled with bravado and he said, Superman don't need no seatbelt. She said, Supermen don't need no airplane. Fasten your seatbelt. Well these Corinthians were kind of acting like they were super saints. And there's an expression that is unique to Paul. He uses it many times. Look at verse number 6 of chapter 4. And notice again, in these things, brethren, I have it a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sakes That you might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed up for one against the other. Look at the phrase puffed up there That is the expression that Paul is using here. It's a Greek word, physia, which means to inflate, to swell. And it's really a Greek word that's related to a pair of billows. And of course he's referring here to pride and to arrogance. This is the sense of the word, to act in pride, or to make proud. I I heard of a missionary who was trying to do translation work to a particular tribe and he found it hard to translate the word pride or at least the concept and finally he came to the idea of using their word A word which meant the ears being too far apart. And that's the word that he went with. In other words, it conveys the idea of an inflated head. And that's really kind of the idea that Paul is using here. And he uses the word, again, several times. Look in chapter 4, look in verse 18. Notice that verse with me. Now some of some are puffed up as though I would not come to you. They thought that Paul didn't wasn't going to come and face them. He had talk talked about coming to Corinth and facing them with over some of the issues, and some of them were, Paul said, puffed up. Look at verse 19. But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will, and will know, not the speech of them which are Puffed up. But the power. So he uses it in these two verses. Look at chapter five and look at verse number two. Now this is a sin that has been committed in the church. And notice the response. And Paul says, and ye are puffed up And have not rather mourned. That is, you should be mourning over sin in the church instead. Some of you are Puffed up about it. You're actually proud of it. Look in chapter 8. We see this expression used again. He says, Now as touching things offered unto idols, we know that all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but charity edifies. Now, of course, this was the issue over meat sacrificed to idols. And some were saying, you know, we have liberty. We know there's nothing wrong with eating this meat. And that knowledge made them Puffed up or proud. And Paul again is referring to their attitude. Look in one more place. Look at chapter 13 and look at verse number four. So you Paul uses the expression again In chapter 13, verse number four, he's talking about real love, and he said, charity suffers long and is kind. Charity envy not, charity wanteth not itself, is not what? Puffed up. It's not puffed up. So again, this is an expression that Paul used that was unique to the Apostle Paul. He used it often, and he's talking here about the sin of pride. He uses it in one other place in Colossians chapter 2, verse 18, talking about those who Claim to have visions in worshiping of angels and they're vainly puffed up in their mind. Same expression, same idea there. And all that is an expression that is referring to pride. Just having an arrogant attitude, proud. Now the Bible says that God hates pride. He just hates it. And uh the Corinthians were puffed up about their human wisdom. They were exalting human wisdom over the wisdom of God. They were puffed up about their human teachers. They were puffed up about their giftedness. They were puffed up about their riches. And so what is Paul going to do here in these next few verses? He's going to try to humble them. He's going to try to keep them humble and give them some perspective. And so what he's going to do is he's going to try to deflate them, we could say. I call the sermon pins for puffed up Christians. Because he's going to put a few pins here into their pride. And he's going to seek to bring an attitude of humility to them. And by the way, beloved, humility is, I believe, one of God's chiefest virtues on his list of virtues. that we should be humble. And so what are the things that Paul is going to use here to kind of bring them into the proper frame of mind, to where they're not puffed up? To where they're humble as they should be. Well, let me give you four that I see here in the passage. Number one is simply Scripture. What's Paul going to use to bring them down, to humble them, that should humble us as well? Scripture. Look again in verse 6. These things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sakes that you might learn not to think of men above. Notice the next phrase, that which is written That which is written. That no one of you be puffed up for one against the other. Paul said, I don't want you thinking outside what is written I want you to think biblically. Now you might remember we looked at this verse last week where he says, I have it a figure. That's one verb in the Greek. meta schemata, which meta to change the form, change your thinking. Paul says, I want to change your thinking. I want you to stop thinking in pride. Stop using these human teachers. And by the way, you remember the background, I think I've said it several times, of how Greek philosophers, Greek sophist teachers would teach our students to to act this way and be puffed up about the teacher they had and uh and to ridicule the deficiencies of other teachers. And really the people who were acting like this were using these teachers to make themselves look good. They were kind of name-dropping, oh my Great teacher is so-and-so. And by associating him with that teacher, he was puffing himself up. Really the issue wasn't the teacher, the issue is them They were acting in pride. Oh, I studied under the great Dr. So and so. Sometimes I hear that in seminary. Oh, I studied under Dr. Flavius Fluffyhead. And you're supposed to make the mental connection that since you studied under him and you were a good student under him, that you're smart like he is. That's kind of name-dropping. And that's kind of acting in pride, walking in pride. And Paul says, look, you're overestimating and evaluating Servants. Now we are to respect every servant of the Lord. They're worthy of respect. And the Bible says that those who labor in the Word and doctrine are worthy of double honor. There's nothing wrong with giving true honor to whom honor is due. In fact, we ought to do that, and we ought to express that love and appreciation. But we don't want to go beyond what is written And that's what the Apostle Paul is saying here. Don't go beyond the word and being puffed up one against the other. And Paul gained these analogies so that they would think correctly. Remember the analogies? God's servants were like spiritual parents The church is like children in a family. We're trying to bring them to maturity. God's people are like crops in a field. We're just farmers. One plant in another waters. We're like construction on a foundation. We're just builders We're stewards of the mysteries of the kingdom of God. We're third-level galley slaves. We're laboring. None of those analogies that Paul gave uh uh gives any room whatsoever for boasting or pride. None of them. None of 'em give room to exalt a person beyond the Bible says what is written. And Paul says, I gave you these figures that you might learn in us not to think of men above what is FF Bruce translates it like this, that you may learn by us the saying, not beyond what is written. In other words, that was kind of a slogan. Don't go beyond what isn't written. We could say it like this, keep to the book Keep to the word and the way that you think and the way that you evaluate. Again I say God's faithful servants are to receive proper honor and respect. But we don't want to go beyond what is written. And so this is the issue that he's dealing with. the right kind of thinking with regard to the servants of the Lord. There needs to be humility. So Paul is saying, look, just scripture. Stay to the word. And how does that apply to us? You know what keeps us humble? Just study in the Word of God. That's right. Stay in Scripture. You show me someone who is inflated or proud, I'll show you someone who hasn't spent a lot of time in the Word of God. Or at least if they have, they haven't read it, right? Because I want to tell you there's nothing that humbles you or me like knowing the Word of God and God speaking to us through His Word and God showing us the sanctification that we need. There's been times in my own personal study that I've been so convicted by the things I've studied, I had to stop and and get my own heart right and get on my face before God You know, sometimes people come out and say, oh preacher, that that sermon was convicted, why guarantee you this? It convicted me a whole lot earlier than it convicted you It dealt with me thoroughly. And there's been times even in tears where I've had to say, Lord, I'm not worthy to even preach this. I'm not living this right I'm not doing this right. And I've had to get my own heart right. Pride is something, it kind of grows like weeds. It has to constantly be plucked out of our heart. And what does that scripture does? Scripture. Here's number two. Scripture. But there's another thing Paul's going to use, sovereignty. Sorry, look at verse 7. For who maketh thee to differ from another? What hast thou received not received? Now if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory as if thou hast not received it. Now what Paul's talking about here in verse 7 is an understanding of God's providential working in our life, an understanding of God's sovereign hand working in our life will humble us. And what Paul does in this verse is he simply asks three rhetorical questions to make his point. And what is the point? That everything that they had or have, God gave it to them And the same is true of us. All that we have and all that we are, God has given it to us. God and His providence gave them The things that they had, the things that they boasted in. He gave us what we have. And so Paul uses these pointed questions as a deflation device to get them to think. And we ought to think about these things as well. It ought to humble us when we think about it. What's the first question? Who made thee to differ from one another? Verse 7. Or who made you judge to determine who's better than the other? The word differ here, interesting Greek word die, which is through crano, we get the word cranium, to think through. And so it has the idea of to discriminate or to judge. And what Paul is saying is who makes you the judge of of who's a better minister, or who's a better servant, or who's a better Christian, or who's a better person? Paul says, who made you the judge of that? Who made you to be the give you the ability to do that? Or what makes you think that your group under your teacher is better than someone else? That's the question here. You're made of the same stuff they are. You've been redeemed by the same Lord. You're no better than anyone else. That's the idea. God hates this type of pride, this type of pride that looks down. The Bible says God hates a proud look. And so sometimes we have this even in society, some we think they're better than others. So one s one person said, we put titles on ourselves to make us feel more important than others. And and we don't see that in the scripture. I heard about two Texans who were trying to impress each other about the size of their ranch and one asked the other, What's the name of your ranch? He said, Oh my ranch is called the Rocking R A B C Flying W Circle C, Bar U, Staple Ford, Box D, Rolling M ranch. I said, man, that's quite a Maine. How many cattle have you branded? He said, well, we don't really have any cattle because none of them survived the brand. What makes you think that your brand is better than somebody else's? And that's really the question that Paul is asking here. What's the next question? What do you have that you haven't received? Look again in verse 7. For who maketh thee to differ from another? And what hast thou that thou didst not receive? Paul reminds them that whatever knowledge or giftedness that they have, it's only because God has given it to them. What does anyone have in one way or another that was not given to them? That's his point. We don't give ourselves life. The food, the care, the protection that we had as babies, that was all given to us. Everything we have, God has given it to us, the education, the talent. the country we were born in, the opportunity to earn a living, the IQ, the ability to work hard, any of those things. You say, well I studied in school and I was successful. Well God gave you that IQ and He gave you the ability to study and work hard It all came from God, his providential hand. And by the way, the Corinthians, they had a lot. Go back to chapter one and look at verse number five, because Paul mentioned it He said in chapter 1, verse 5, that in everything ye are enriched by him in all utterance and in all knowledge. Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you. Paul said, you know what? You are gifted. There's no question about that. In verse 7, you come behind in no gift. I mean you have the giftedness and you have knowledge. No question about that. But whatever you have, God gave it to you. God's given it to you. It was his gift to you. Ben Witherington wrote a wonderful commentary, and here he says this. He said the Corinthians are a perfect example of how abundance Not just material abundance, but even abundance of spiritual gifts leads to a loss of perspective and a loss of restraint. It's all been given to you. And so here's the third question. Go back to chapter 4, verse 7. Now if thou didst receive it, Why dost thou glory as if thou hast not received it? If you received it as a gift, why do you boast as if it was of your own origin? Why do you act like it all came from you? Paul said you all act like you're the source of all of this. And you're not God is the one. If they possess anything, it's only because of what someone has given them, and God is the one who's given you all these things. And what you need to think about is how God has worked so wonderfully in your life. And think about that. Years ago, I read a book that had a profound influence on me by John Flavil. It's called The Mystery of Providence. And in that book, basically, Flavel says that it's the Christians' duty to meditate on the providential working of God in their life. And really the whole book is based on one verse in Psalm 57, the one who performs all things for me. And he said, you ought to think about it, you ought to look in the rearview mirror of your life And recognize and see the providential hand of God that has been working all through your life, doing all these wonderful things in your life, and you want to recognize that providence And knowing that providence should humble us, and it should cause us to be so grateful to God, whose hand has given us all things. And so Paul says, you know, you need to remember this. Remember the providential, sovereign working of God in your life. One writer said this, Richard Douglas wrote, The modern American seldom pauses to give thanks for the simple blessings of life. One reason is that we're used to having so much. We simply assume that we will have all the goods of life. Another reason is that it hurts our pride to be grateful. He goes on to say, we do not want to admit it, but God is the provider of all good things. We are simply his stewards. And so it's a humbling thing to meditate on God's sovereign working. So to humble the Christians, he uses Scripture. Secondly, he uses sovereignty. But here's the third pin. Sarcasm. Sarcasm. You say, you mean Paul's going to be sarcastic? Yes. I call this kind of a sanctified sarcasm. You ever had someone be sarcastic with you to kind of bring you down? That's what Paul's doing here. Now why is he doing this? You know, remember the context in which he's writing, you know, how the the Corinthians prized Greek rhetoric. Did you know one of the rhetorical devices that these Greek Sophist teachers like to use was, you know, sarcasm. And so there's a sense in which Paul is using their weapon to prove a point. And so he he gets very sarcastic here in verse number eight. Look what he says in verse eight. Now you are fool Oh, you're full. This drips with sarcasm here. You know. You have it all? And we saw in verse number seven three questions. Here we we see three exclamations. And really again he's ridiculing them. When he says you're fool, this word fool is a very interesting word. It's only used twice in the New Testament. It's the idea that you're completely satisfied, you're totally filled, and you don't need anyone or anything. And there's the idea of Paul saying, Oh, you don't need us. You're full. You have it all. They were acting as if they had all the knowledge they needed, all the spiritual growth that they needed. Man, they they had already arrived. That's the idea. I heard about a minister, a boy scout, and a computer expert that were on, they were the only passengers on a small plane, and the pilot came back to the cabin and said, you know, if this plane's going down, we only have three parachutes. And I have a wife with three children. I need to take one. So he jumped out. The computer expert said, look, the world needs me I'm the smartest man in the world and if I don't uh survive, technology will come to a halt. And so he took a parachute and he jumped out. The Boy Scout and the minister were there and the minister said, you know, son, I've lived a full life and And uh, you know, you go ahead and take the last parachute and you go ahead and jump out. And the Boy Scout said, Don't sweat it, Reverend. He said the smartest man in the world just took my backpack and jumped out of the plane. The Corinthians thought they were smart. They were they had all knowledge. Paul said, you're full. They were self-satisfied. Notice the next phrase. Now you're rich. Not only you're full, but you're rich. Again, referring to spiritual riches. When I read this, this reminds me of the Laodicean Christians who thought they were rich and increased with goods and had need of nothing. That's the attitude here. And the Laodiceans didn't see themselves as wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. And so Paul's sarcastically saying, Oh, you're full, you have all knowledge and you're rich, you have all spiritual riches You know, Paul himself hadn't arrived. He said in Philippians 3, I hadn't attained, neither am perfect, but I'm pressing toward the mark. And yet here these feel like they have arrived. Someone said when you wear your halo too tight, it gives other people a headache. And then he goes on to say in verse 8, you've reigned without us. Now you're full. Now you're rich. You have reigned as kings without us. Oh man, you're already in the millennium reigning as kings and you don't need us. And it could be that Paul's referring here. to some of the ideas that philosophers held back back in that day. They claimed, philosophers, that they were of the only true kings and they they alone had the character of nobility because they of the knowledge they had, they alone had the right to rule. And Paul may be referring to that understanding of philosophy back then. But he's basically saying, look, you don't need us. You're already the reigning light kings. You're already at the millennial table. Luther said this. He said Paul mocks them, for he means the opposite of what he says. A. T. Robertson says, they have got a private millennium of their own. Paul said, you already have begun to reign. Now Paul switches immediately in verse 8, and he gets deadly serious We see sarcasm, but then look at the last part of verse 8. And I would to God that you did reign, that we also might reign with you. Paul said, I wish it was true. I wish you did rain, because if you rain, that means that Jesus had come and we're reigning with you. You ever hear someone say, Boy, I wish the Lord would return? This is what Paul's saying right here. Man, I wish the Lord was already here. I wish we were in the millennial reign. I wish that were true. I wish you did reign But he's using sarcasm to show how silly, how ridiculous they're acting. You're acting as if you're fool. You have everything You're acting as if you have all riches, that you're already reigning like kings, that you've arrived. Here's the fourth thing he uses. Scripture, sovereignty, sarcasm, but then suffering. Then he uses suffering. Look at verse number nine. For I think that God has set forth or set us the apostles last. As it were appointed to death. For we were made a spectacle unto the world and to angels and to men. And so we see here why Paul had a humble spirit. This is why he wasn't puffed up. You know why? Because God had allowed Paul to experience suffering, and that suffering keeps kept him humble. And one of the ways God will keep us. Humble is simply through suffering. You know, I think it was Martin Luther who said, God made the world out of nothing. As long as we're nothing, God can make something out of us. And so God has to humble us. And Paul refers to this. Hold your place here. Go to 2 Corinthians real real quick. Look in chapter 12. And look uh notice verse chapter 12. We'll look at verse 7. This is again talking about God using suffering to humble us. Now, in chapter 12 of 2 Corinthians, Paul's referring to his visions that he had with the Lord. He was caught up to heaven, the third heaven. He saw things there and when he speaks in verses one to six, he uses third person. He's talking about himself. But he's kind of doing it in a in a humble way. He doesn't want to boast or brag, but he says, you know, I was taught up to the third heaven. I heard unspeakable words which is not lawful for a man to utter. And then look at verse number seven. Unless I should be exalted above measure, through the abundance of the revelations That were given to me, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. The messenger of Satan to buffet me. Why, Paul? Lest I should be exalted above measure. Paul said, You know, I had all of these revelations and visions of Jesus. And if you read the New Testament, you're going to find about six or seven different times when the Lord Jesus came and appeared to Paul personally. And on one occasion, he was taken up to heaven. He was called up to heaven before the Lord there. That's an incredible experience. Now if Paul were living today like some people today, he would write a book about it and there would be a movie come out and everything like that. But Paul said, I don't want to tell you about those things. They're not lawful to utter But you when you think about it, think about the incredible things that God did in Paul's life. They would have a tendency to make a person proud. Think about that. I mean, look, if Jesus appeared to me six times I mean I I would I would work that into every sermon that I ever preached. I'd let you know about that. It could puff you up. And Paul says, look, to keep me humble, lest I should be exalted above measure, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan. Now there's a lot of different interpretations as to what this messenger might be. I'm persuaded it was a man in the church that was undermining Paul. and his authority and and and people weren't listening to him anymore because of this one man who was attacking him. But whatever it was, one thing was for sure, Paul asked the Lord to take it. The Lord said, No, I'm not taking it Why? God was using this to keep his servant humble, and the Lord said, My grace is sufficient for you What's the what's the point? God uses suffering in our life to keep us humble before him. Go back to First Corinthians And Paul is going to again mention, he's going to use the words to describe the conditions that he himself has experienced, even as a servant of the Lord. And really there are just a few words here that he uses in verse number nine. He says, We were made a spectacle unto the world. What does he mean by spectacle? He's referring there to an ancient tradition in Rome when the defeated army was marched in through the triumph, you know, there was a victorious general. and behind them was the defeated general chain of the chariot. And then the defeated soldiers were marched in. You know what they would do? They would march him down the Via Triumphant, all the way to the Circus Maximus. And they made these prisoners a part of the gladiatorial games. They would make fun of them. Really they saved them to the end when they would kill them. They would sometimes throw them before wild beasts. Or sometimes uh gladiators would come and they would kill them, but they became a spectacle, literally, to all the people that were there in that Arena watching. This go on was a kind of a form of entertainment where the people would watch them get slaughtered and laugh That was their entertainment. In fact, the word spectacle here means theatron, where we get the word theater. They were gazing and watching and laughing and scoffing these people who were a spectacle and they were killed and executed By the Romans. And Paul said, you know, there's a sense in which, as believers, sometimes we're like a spectacle to the world. And this is what Paul's saying: we're like spectacles to the world and unto men. There's another word he uses in verse ten. We are fools for Christ. And again the message is that Paul the the message of the cross is foolishness to the world. Paul already talked about that. And so the world counts us as fools. Because we hold to the Word of God. We hold to the Scripture. You realize that today, you know, people laugh and scoff at those who hold to a literal view of Scripture? You know, I have my PhD in the Old Testament. Um I don't want you to think high about that brand. The only reason I bring that up is because I have found in the Old Testament world of scholars, very few hold to a literal view of Genesis. It's not popular to do that. They put science above the Bible. And they say, oh, you believe that six-day creation idea? Yeah, I do. Right. Because it's in the Bible. And it's it's what the Bible says and people count that kind of thinking as foolishness. We're spectacles to the world. We're fools, the Bible says. Despise, look at verse eleven, even unto this present hour, we both hunger and thirst and are naked. We are buffeted. We have no certain dwelling place. And labor, working with our hands, being reviled, we bless, being persecuted, we suffer, being defamed, we entreat, we are made as the filth of the world and the all-scouring of all things unto this day. That is, Paul says, you know, we're just despised. We work with our own hands. We labor with our own hands to the point of exhaustion. By the way, the Greeks looked down on manual labor. They despised it. And this was something that was done by slaves. And Paul says, yeah, we work with our hands. I'm not ashamed to tell you that I work with my hands. To do the Lord's work. And when we're reviled, we bless. When we are persecuted, we endure it. When we're slandered, we just try to seek conciliation. That's just the way we operate. And so that's what we are to the world. That would have a tendency to humble someone, to be treated as a spectacle, as a fool. Despised. And then he uses the word scum in verse 13. Being defame, we entreat, we are made as the filth of the world. and are the off-scouring of all things unto this day. Filth of the world is a word that literally means scum. It's a word that talks about the um The ring that is left in a tub when you're done when a person's done bathing. You ever sit take a muddy child, put them in the bathtub, and then you know when you when you drain the bathtub what's left there? That's the idea with his word here That's this word here. We're the filth of the world. We're the ring in the and the tub that's left. We're the off-scouring of all things. He says. And literally the word here is a word that was used in Greek literature to talk about someone who was sacrificed to one of the Greek gods to satisfy one of those gods. Someone who was looked down upon in society. Whenever they felt like one of the gods that they worshiped was angry, they would always take a person and sacrifice them to that God. And who would they look to first? They would look to the lowest People in society first. The scum, the off-scouring of the world. Paul said that's how we are treated. And that's how the world looks at us. And I think the reason Paul's bringing this point up is because part of the reason why the Corinthians wanted to boast is they wanted to be accepted and received in the eyes of even the world. Let me tell you something, dear friend. If you're a Christian and you know the Lord Jesus Christ, don't try to find acceptance with the world. Don't even worry about it. Just forget that. Because if you truly walk and live for Jesus Christ, you're not going to be accepted. Just accept that. But Paul Paul is saying all this like I I'm not ashamed, but this is how we're treated. And this is the way it is. He's not being negative. He's not being pessimistic. He's just saying these Christians who are so puffed up and proud, listen, you need to be humble. And one of the ways that God humbles his people is through just simple suffering. And we suffered all these things, and this is how we're counted. that we might remain humble before the Lord, and that we're not measuring ourselves by the world's standards. We refuse to do that. We refuse to measure ourselves by the world and the way the world looks at us. We don't use that standard. A little boy came running to his mother and he said, Mom, I'm nine feet tall. She said, you're not nine feet tall. He said, yes, I am. She said, how did you measure I measure myself? I'm nine feet tall. She said, how did you measure yourself? He said, I took my shoe off and I on nine of my shoes You line it up, nine shoes, nine feet? He says, Then I hate to tell you that's not the way we measure. There are some Christians that are trying to measure themselves with the wrong standard. And Paul says, Don't look to the world Be humble before the Lord. Don't glory. Don't boast. Be humble before God. You know the one thing that we can glory in? The cross. That's it. We glory in the cross of Christ and Christ alone. Paul said, God forbid that I should glory Except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, help us to receive your word. And to take this to heart. Lord, we're grateful for all that we have and all that you've done in our life. We realize, Lord, it's not of us. Lord, it's all of you. It's all your grace. Thank you for your word, Lord. Thank you, Lord, that you've not left us in this world without a guide, a map. A revelation, Lord, to teach us. And this word of yours, Lord, it keeps us humble as we stay in your word. It teaches us how to think biblically. Against the onslaughts of every worldly philosophy that creeps up and tries to work its way into the church, Lord, we have your word. Lord, help us not to think beyond what is written. Help us to think biblically. Help us to recognize your providential work in our life. And Lord, whatever suffering. That you in wisdom allow us to endure. We know that in that you're doing your sanctifying work in our life And we're learning to look to you. We're learning to trust in you and to depend upon you all the more. So Lord, help us to take these words too heart. And Lord, we pray all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.