Would you take God's word, please, and open to the book of 1 Thessalonians? If you're visiting with us, we've been preaching through 1 Thessalonians on Sunday morning, and this morning we're going to look at chapter 4 Um with the help of God, verses one to twelve. And uh you don't have to stand this morning. I just want to read one verse before we get into our or message. Verse 1 of chapter 4. Furthermore, then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk. And to please God, so you would abound more and more. Would you pray with me today? Father, what a privilege it is to be here and to worship you. And Father, I just pray that you'll use your word to just strengthen our hearts. Lord, let it be a word of warning to us, a word of encouragement, a word of challenge. And I pray, Father, that you'll do your sanctifying work in every heart and every life. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. A brilliant young concert pianist was performing and was doing just a tremendous job. And when he played his final note, the audience rose up on their feet with uh an ovation. Um there was only one person, however, in the audience that was not standing. And when the pian pianist came off the platform he was a bit dejected and the stage manager said, Hey, you look, you did a tremendous job. He said, Everyone's standing except that one old man. He said, Yeah, that one old man is my teacher. Said, you know, if if if if he didn't like what I did, it really doesn't matter what anyone else thinks. You know, as Christian people, we should desire to please God above all Our Lord's approving smile is what really matters. In fact, the essence of the Christian life is this, pleasing God. Dr. Adrian Rogers used to say, if you please God, it doesn't matter who you displease, and if you displease God, it doesn't matter who you please. Paul wrote this, Paul was a servant of the Lord. He certainly wanted to please the Lord. In Galatians 1 10 he said, Do I now persuade men or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I yet please men I should not be the servant of Christ. The goal of every servant of God is to please God. And this should be the goal of every Christian as well. Again in Colossians 1. 10, Paul said, that you might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. One time God the Father said of Jesus, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. You're never more like the Lord Jesus Christ than when you're pleasing the Father. And this was what Paul wanted for the Thessalonians. He wanted them to walk pleasing. We please God according to how we walk. And Paul basically compared the Christian life to a walk. This is one of the favorite metaphors that Paul used to uh would use here in the New Testament of the Christian life in Ephesians 4. 1. He said, I I therefore the prisoner of the Lord beseech you that you walk worthy of your vocation. In Ephesians 5:1, he said, Be therefore followers of God as their children, and walk in love. The Christian life begins with the step of faith and it continues and leads to a walk of faith. And we talk about your walk, we're talking about your pattern of life. It is your testimony as how others see you. You've heard me say before your walk talks and your talk talks. But your walk talks louder than your talk talks. And so Paul wants the Thessalonians to have a walk that is pleasing to God. And if we're going to have a walk that is pleasing to God, it needs to be characterized by three godly paths. Here's the first one. Number one, we must walk in holiness. We have to walk in holiness. And this is what Paul talks about. Look at verse number two Where Paul says this, for ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus. Verse 3, for this is the will of God, even your sanctification that you should abstain from fornication. Fornication is the Greek word pornia. It's a general word that speaks about all types of sexual immorality. And Paul knew that the city in the atmosphere of the Thessalon uh Thessalonica was a problem because it was steeped in immorality. And Paul's not writing because he believed that there were people in the church that were committing this sin. This is m really uh preventative maintenance. The people in Thessalonica, they were an exemplary people, but he also knew that it's possible for even godly Christians to succumb to temptation. Especially in the atmosphere in which they lived. He knew how powerful temptation was in that city of Thessalonica. He knew that many of them were saved out of the pagan religions and started following Christ. That's the night that was steeped in pagan religions. And those pagan religions had a part of its uh pagan rituals, um, ritual prostitution. The Greek goddess of that time was Apaphrodite, was the goddess of sex and beauty. Her servants were sent out as prostitutes to roam the streets at night. And this was the ungodly atmosphere that the Thessalonian believers had to live in. And so this was a constant temptation. It was a debased One writer said this. The city was rife with such sinful practices as fornication, adultery, homosexuality, including pedophilia. Transvestitism, and a wide variety of pornographic and erotic perfusions, all done with a seared conscience and society's acceptance hence with little or no accompanying shame or guilt. That sounds like society today. That sounds like the society that we live in. Another writer said that in that time faithfulness to one's wife was regarded as an unreasonable demand. It was taken for granted that men would naturally seek satisfaction outside of marriage. F. F. Bruce, the scholar, wrote this. He said, A man might have a mistress who could provide him with intellectual companionship. The institution of slavery made it easy for him to have a concubine. while casual gratification was readily available from harlots. He said the function of his wife was to manage his household and be the mother of his legitimate children and heirs Another historian said that this that the Roman Empire in this period was a picture of sexual license and the wildest corruption was taking place at that time. And so, again, this was the atmosphere that the believers there in Thessalonica lived. It was constant pressure on them, the pressure of temptation. So Paul writes, again, this is kind of preventative maintenance. And by the way, the pressure is just as real in the society that we live today. Just as real. Our society has the same ungodly view of uh immorality as that of a Greco Roman world. It's safe to say that we live in a world where this kind of temptation is easily uh accessible, readily accessible, probably perhaps more in this day than in any day, with the rise of the internet and a smartphone, um it's uh also there is the rise of temptation. It's just now because the smartphones and the internet is just a few clicks away to go to places you shouldn't go and see things that you shouldn't see. And so one survey reveals, as I was researching this, 66% of all men have extramarital affairs By age 20, 81% of today's unmarried males, 67% of today's unmarried females commit uh immoral sexual sin. Now with all this in this x-rated world, God expects his people to live pure lives. That's what God expects And Paul gives several reasons why God expects this. And we're going to look at this. Sexual sin, first of all, disobeys the command of God. Look back in verse 2. For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus. Paul dealt with this issue when he was with them. The word command is a military term, referring to orders handed down. We are soldiers in God's army. We're not to to to be involved in s uh civilian affairs of this world. And in this world where there's no moral assolutes, where there is no black and white, everything is gray God still is clear in his command. Flee fornication. Thou shalt not commit adultery. This is the command of God. But then also it disregards the will of God. Look in verse 3. For this is the will of God, even your sanctification that you should abstain from fornication. When normally we think about the will of God, we think in terms of geographical location, but when the Bible speaks about the will of God, it speaks more in terms of spiritual dedication. God's will for your life is to walk in holiness, to abstain from fornication. God wants you to be godly like his son, the Lord Jesus. The word abstain here, complete abstinence Staying away from anything, any thought, behavior that would violate the principles of God's word. Beloved, purity begins in the mind. If you don't win the battle on the inside, you're not going to win the battle. It starts there in the mind. And so you have to be willing to win the battle in that area where no one else sees. I was reading one time Michelangelo, the famous Italian artist. was meticulously painting one secluded section of the Sistine Chapel. Observers saw that and they thought he was wasting time in that area. Finally one person asked him, Why are you spending so much time in an area where no one will see? And Michelangelo said, I'll see it. And our prayer should be that God would do his sanctifying work in our life in areas where no one else will see but us and God. Sexual sin disobeys the command of God, it disregards the will of God, it defiles the temple of God. Look in verse 4. That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. The word vessel here is referring to our body. Our body is that vessel. Paul speaks of our uh this is about the same metaphor in 2 Corinthians when he said that you know we're we we we're earthen vessels, we have this treasure. and these earthen vessels. Our body is a vessel that God wants to use for his glory. In 1 Corinthians 6, when Paul was talking about the same sin to the Corinthians, he said, you know, our body is the temple of the Holy Spirit of God. And we need to know how to possess our vessel in honor. Possess means to gain mastery over. Paul exhorted the Thessalonians to learn how to gain mastery over your body in this area. We have that responsibility. Paul says, you know. The word know here, oda, the idea of having knowledge. Every Christian needs to know how to possess their body. God has given us this knowledge. There are two things you need to know. You need to know yourself, you need to know your weaknesses, and you need to make provision against sin because of those weaknesses, and you need to know the Word of God. That's how you possess your vessel in honor. And the word honor here has the idea of others see you and they respect you. And so it disobeys the command of God, it disregards the will of God. Sexual sin defiles the temple of God, but also it disgraces the name of God. Look at verse number five. Not in the lust of concupiscence Even as the Gentiles which know not God, that lust of concupiscence is a passion out of control. We don't behave in a way where our passion or lust is out of control, Paul says. Paul says that's the way the Gentiles live. That's the way it might have been before you knew Christ, but not now that you're a Christian. You're not to live like the rest of the world. And the principle is that we are called to maintain purity in this immoral world. We don't walk in the lust of the flesh. We now have the Holy Spirit living inside of us. We walk in the Spirit. We don't walk in the flesh. And when we succumb to a temptation like this, we shame the name of God. If you are a believer, you claim the name of God, and you don't live up to that calling, then you shame his name. when you don't live up to that calling. And then here's another thing. Not only does sexual sin disobey the command of God, Disregard the will of God, defiles the temple of God, disgraces the name of God, but also it defrauds the children of God. Look at verse number six. He said that no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter. The word defraud here means to selfishly, greedily take someone, advantage of someone for your own personal gain. And Paul views this sin as defrauding your brother or sister, defrauding their own rights. You cheat your fellow man, Paul says, when you commit this sin. It's adultery is a sin against your spouse. It's a sin against your children. It's a sin against your God. It's a sin against your church. It defrauds others when you do this. The world talks of free love. There's no freedom in that. None at all. There's a heavy price to be paid for immorality. In fact, that's the next point that Paul makes here. It demands the judgment of God. Look in verse number six: that no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter because that the Lord is the avenger of all such As we also have forewarned you and testified, God is the avenger of this kind of sin and behavior. The word avenger here is a legal term. It means one the one who punishes. God is the one who takes vengeance against sin. The Bible makes that very clear. He's the one who meets out judgment. The Bible says the the marriage of bed is to be undefiled. For fornicators and adulterers, God will judge. God is directly involved in punishing the sin of immorality And the Bible makes that clear. And we see this in the life of David. David, the man after God's own heart. If you think that you're too spiritual to succumb to a temptation like this, remember David. The man after God's own heart fell into this. And you know the story of David and Bathsheba. And uh one day on the rooftop uh he he saw things he shouldn't see and say and said yes to everything he should have said no to. And succumb to this temptation. But if you look at David's life, if you read 2 Samuel very carefully, it gives an incredible illustration because in 2 Samuel, the very first part of the book You see David being blessed. There's one triumph after another, after another. He defeats all his enemies, brings back the ark of God, establishes Jerusalem as the capital city, one blessing after another, after another. The whole movement of the book is upward, upward, upward. And you read that and you think, man, how God is blessing David. I mean, what what more is can is God going to do for this guy? Then all of a sudden you get to 2 Samuel chapter 11, and what you see is David's transgression. You see triumph, transgression, the sin with Bathsheba, and then you know the book turns like on a hinge. All of the rest of 2 Samuel is tragedy after tragedy after tragedy after tragedy. His life just turned because of that one thing. And these were punishments from Almighty God. David lost an infant son. One son raped a stepsister, and then another son killed that son. And you have one tragedy one after another after another after another. The next time you're tempted to give in to this kind of thing, just remember the life of David and how even the man after God's own heart was subject to the severe judgment of Almighty God. And this is what Paul says. God is the avenger of this thing. You know, the Corinthians, they were You know, they were under the influence of Greek culture. They would go around quoting slogans like meats for belly and the belly for meats, fornication for the body and the body for fornication. What they meant was, oh, it's all natural. It's as natural as eating. And they would quote the Greek poets of that day, greet meat for the belly and the belly for meats. And Paul would say, yeah, but God's going to destroy both it and them. And then he said Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. And the Lord for the body. Now that you're saved, He owns you and your body. Your body is for the Lord. Not to live an immoral life. To live that kind of life is to live dangerously. Especially in this world today where you have all these STEs being passed around in this society. One teenager one time went to his grandfather and he said, Granddad, what did your generation do? They didn't have all these social diseases. What What's what safety measures? What do you wear to to b to v to stay safe in this? He said, a wedding ring. And that's so true. But also, sexual sin defiles the call of God. Look in verse 7. For God has not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness. You weren't saved just so that you can, you know, escape hell. Salvation is not just a fire escape from hell. Salvation is a call to sanctification to be like Christ. If you haven't changed, you say that you're saved and you haven't changed. Then you need to re you know re examine your salvation and make sure that you're saved. Because if there's no sanctification taking place in your life, the sins that you used you per participated in now you should hate. And you should run from before you were running to sin, now you're running from it. That's the mark of someone who is a true child of God If there's no sanctification, friend, that means there's no justification. You were called to this. And if you don't live up to that calling, you defy the call of God The great pastor and theologian Augustine was an immoral man before he got saved. And after his conversion, he was walking down the street in Milan, Italy, and there was a woman that he knew in his past life. And when he saw her, he turned and he began walking the other direction. And she said, Augustine, it is I And he began to run. And he yelled back and he said, Yes, but it is no longer I. Not the same person anymore. Sexual sin disobeys the command of God, it disregards the will of God, defiles the temple of God, disgraces the name of God, defrauds the children of God. Demands the judgment of God, and it defies the call of God. And finally, this, it despises the Spirit of God. Look at verse 8. He therefore that despiseth despises not man but God, who has also given unto us his Holy Spirit. You despise this command from God. You despise to live in this pure way. You're not just despising man, you're despising the Holy Spirit. That God placed in your heart. The Holy Spirit is a great weapon against temptation if we just allow the Spirit of God to reign in our heart and our life. And that's the whole point here. When you walk in the Spirit, you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Let me give you number two. You want to please God Walk in holiness. And again, Paul, this was preventative maintenance. Paul knew that the Thessalonians, they were exemplary exemplary believers. Paul was saying, look, you're an example to all other believers. But he also knew that they lived in this ungodly environment, and anyone can succumb to this temptation. And so if you are ready to fall into this, just remember these things. What it does. We have to walk in holiness. But then number two, we have to walk in harmony. Look at verse number nine. But as touching brotherly love, ye need not that I write unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another. Paul makes the transition from holiness to love. Really, the more we grow in holiness, the more we're going to love one another. If a Christian truly loves his brother or sister, he will not sin against them. And notice the root of this love in verse 9. You're taught of God, Paul says, to love one another. Paul's commending them, man, you're doing great. You're taught by God to love. You see, when a person is converted to Jesus Christ, the Bible says the Holy Spirit comes and lives inside of us, and the love of God is spread abroad in our heart by the Holy Spirit. This is a legitimate sign that you are truly converted. First John 3. 14, we know we pass from death unto life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. This is a sign that you're a child of God. You're going to love other believers. And Paul's commending them because they do. And the word he uses for love here is agape love, a godly kind of love. And and you know we have one word for love in the English, but the Greeks had four words. There was eros, that's a sensual, fleshly love, where we get the word erotic. There was phileo, that was more of a friendship love You know, the love of a friend. Then there was Storgay, that's that's a family type love, the love that family has together or parental love. And then there's the word agathe, which is the godlike love, a godly love. This is the word for that Paul uses here. You're taught by God. To have this kind of love for each other. And notice the fruit of it in verse number 10, where he says, and indeed ye do it towards all the brethren which are in all Macedonia. Now, the key word here is do. Because Paul's saying, you know, God's love is in what you do. It's not just a feeling, it's actions. It's how you treat others. It's what you do for others. Love is action. In John 13, verse 34. He said, This a new commandment I give unto you that you love one another as I have loved you. Jesus said, look, follow my actions. Do what I do. That's how you love others. You follow what Jesus did. In 1 John 3. 18, my little children, let us not love in word and tongue, but in deed and in truth. It's demonstrated by what you do And then finally, the pursuit of love, because in verse 10, the latter part, Paul says, just keep on with that. But we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more. In other words, in our vernacular, keep the pedal to the metal. Keep loving them. Keep doing what you're doing. Now remember the the churches in Macedonia were given sacrificially. That's part of the way they demonstrated love when Paul is taking this love offering for the poor believers in Judea. The Bible says the churches in Macedonia were giving sacrificially. And the Thessalonians were part of that. Paul said, you're an example, but just keep doing it. I want it to increase. Greek word, superabound. I commend you for what you're doing, but just keep on doing it. Keep on loving one another. Boy, I can truly say that for grace. This is a loving church. I would just say what Paul said to Thessalonians, just keep doing what you're doing. Keep loving each other and the and the and the way that you treat one another. But then here's the third thing, gotta move on We must walk in holiness if we want to please God. We must walk in harmony. But finally the third thing, we must walk in honesty. In honesty. And we see this in the remainder of these verses, verses 11 and 12. Now Paul is writing to correct the problem because when he was with them, he taught them about the second coming of Jesus Christ, and some people there were applying that doctrine wrongly. Because Paul taught that Jesus is coming again, some of them were, they quit their job waiting for the coming of Christ. And some were actually going around kind of filled with headline hysteria telling everyone what was going to happen at the end times, you know. And in a way they were coming a b becoming a bit of an irritant to some people in the way that they were uh proclaiming the coming of Jesus Christ. One writer said that they were living lives of frenetic evangelistic agitation. You know, sometimes Christians can be brutal with the truth. Did you know that? We need to be careful in the way that we present the truth to a lost world. And so they were depending on others to take care of them. They quit their jobs. They were running around like glorified chicken littles all over the place. And Paul was saying, look, you know, let me give you some advice here. Three pieces of advice. First of all, lead a quiet life. Look in verse 11. And that you study to be quiet. What does that mean? Study here is the idea of strive earnestly, make it your ambition. Quiet means to just be silent. Don't speak out inappropriately. Be at rest, be at peace. You know what the world should see when they look at Christians? They should see people who are at peace and rest. We believe that Jesus is coming back, but it doesn't cause us to have headline hysteria. It causes us to have great peace, and people should see the hope that we have in Christ. And we should witness in that way. We don't become obnoxious with the truth. That could do more harm than good. He says, first of all, study to be quiet. Here's the second piece of advice. Mind your own business. Did you know that was a biblical expression? Somebody go around quoting that verse all the time. Mind your own business. That's what he says in verse 11. And to do your own business. And this was actually an expression that was used a lot back in Paul's day. You thought that that was new. Paul said it back then, mind your own business. Mind your own business. And what he was saying to the Thessalonians is look, concentrate on your lives. Take care of your job. Don't meddle in other people's affairs. Again, because some people had quit their job waiting for the Lord. That's not what God wants you to do. They were in all everyone else's affairs. So Paul says to them, look, get to work. Look again in verse number 11, where he says, and to work with your own hands as we commanded you. That you might walk honestly towards them that are without, that you might have might lack nothing. And so You know, the Greeks believed free men should never stoop to do manual labor. They looked at manual labor as degrading. Paul kind of turned that around. It's not degrading. Paul himself worked with his hands as a tent maker. And he said, look, you know, it's not degrading. It is honoring to work hard with your own hands. So and then he said later, he'll say this in the second letter to the Thessalonians, if you don't work, you shouldn't eat. You need to be busy. You need to be busy doing what God's called you to do while you're waiting for the coming of Christ. Two women were waiting for their husband to get home from work. The first woman when her her husband got home, when he came home, she was still in her robe, her hair was still done up in uh coat hangers or whatever. Sorry, I don't know. The house was a mess. And uh he said to her, What have you been doing? She said, waiting for you The second man came home, his wife, when he got home, the house was immaculate, there was dinner on the table, music in the background. She was wearing a beautiful dress and he said, What have you been doing? She said, waiting for you. There's a difference in how you wait. And as God's people, God doesn't want us sitting around doing nothing. He wants us to be busy about the master's business until the Lord Jesus Christ returns. And so Paul said to them, look, you know, get to work. That's how you please God. You want to please God? You do these things. I'll close with this. There's a story about an old man and a little boy that was traveling from village to village. This was a story passed down from generations. They were traveling Um to a village and they were they had a donkey. The man was in the front, walking in front of the donkey, the little boy was in the back. They came to the first village and the town people said that the old man was a fool for not riding So he got on the back of the animal. Then they went to the second village, and the people said the old man was cruel to let the child walk while he rode. So he got off and put the boy on and he went to the next village and the people there said that the little boy was lazy for letting the old man walk and hem riding. And so they both got on the donkey and they went to the next village and that village said, You're cruel for making that donkey carry both of you. So finally the man was seen walking out of that village carrying the donkey on his back. There's a moral to that story. You know what it is? You can't please everybody. So stop trying to please everybody. But I want to tell you something, dear friend, there's someone you can please. And that's Almighty God. In fact, that's the essence of the Christian life. That we please God. And if you want to please God, Paul said you have to walk in holiness. And you have to walk in harmony. And you have to walk in honesty. That's how you please God. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you here today, are you absolutely certain that Jesus Christ is your Savior? Do you know that for sure, friend? If you're here today and you're not certain of that, I want to give you the opportunity to respond to the call of salvation. The Bible says that God commands all men everywhere to repent. That's right now. Now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. Right now God is calling out to you and He's saying Receive my son. Put your faith in my son, Jesus Christ, who died for you. That's the way you have your sins forgiven. You have eternal life in heaven. By putting your faith in Jesus, the one who died for you, he is the only way of salvation. The way, the truth, and the life. You say, how do I do that? Turn from your sin. Reach out in prayer. The Bible says, as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. That whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Would you right there where you are, just reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, save me. Cleanse me of my sin. Make me your child. I'm turning today from my sin and I'm turning to you, save me. Jesus, I'm a sinner. And I need your forgiveness. Is that your prayer? Could I pray for you? Anyone here like that? Would you just raise your hand so I can pray for you, dear friend? Are you absolutely certain of your soul's salvation? And then if you're here and you're a child of God, I would just encourage you to think deeply about these words of Paul. And that you make it the goal of your life to please God. Just live every day of your life saying, I'm going to please God. Father, thank you again for your word. Thank you, Lord, for how you convict us and speak so clearly in Scripture. Use it, Lord, to sanctify us For your honor and for your glory, we pray in Jesus' wonderful name, Amen.