Take your Bibles now, open to the book of Romans, chapter 16. This is the last sermon in this series of Romans, I promise. Because we're going to deal with the last few verses here in Romans. Verses 25 down to verse 27. You're to be commended, those of you that have been in this series with us on Sunday nights here at Grace. I don't know how long we've been in here. It seems like about at least a year and a half maybe two years. And uh but don't judge me too harshly. I know of pastors that preach through the book of Romans and it took them five and six years. So you are fortunate to have someone who goes through it so quickly. But you know, it's such a book that ha or it's a book that has such depth in it theologically. And um really I I kind of feel like in a way we rushed through it because there's so much more that we could soak in. I hope that you get a good understanding of the theology that Paul gave us here. And I think that uh the book of Romans, as I've told you before, is kind of the closest thing we have in the Bible to a kind of a systematic theology where Paul deals with the various topics uh that talk about the gospel and salvation. Now how do you end a great epistle like Romans? Well Paul ends it with a doxology. Look at verse number 25. Now to him that is of power to establish you according to my gospel. And the preaching of Jesus Christ according to the revelation of the mystery which was kept secret since the world began, but now is made manifest. and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandments of the everlasting God, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith. To God only wise be glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen. And that's the doxology that Paul ends on. Now, what is a doxology? A doxology is basically comes from two words. Doxa is the Greek word for glorious things. And Logos is where we get the word uh ology from, and it just simply means uh means a speaking, or in this case a short word of praise, and so from this many uh throughout the history of the church have composed doxologies following the pattern of scripture, where a writer of scripture every once in a while would be so filled with praise and good and thankfulness for the message and the what they've heard about God that they they just burst forth in praise to God. Now I've said this before in our systematic theology study with our men and teaching systematic theology from time to time, and it's it's not an original with me. But it's a phrase that is so true, and it is this that all theology ought to lead to doxology. That is, when we study about God and the greatness of God. We can't help but just burst forth with praise to God for who he is. When you really study theology correctly, it ought to lead to doxology. And so in the Bible there are places where the writers of Scripture, as they're writing about God and the greatness of God and the character of God They be get so filled with thankfulness that they burst forth with a doxology. And so we see this in the Old Testament. Did you know there are 150 Psalms. There are actually five books of Psalms that are collected together in 150 chapters. And at the end of each of the books, the five books of the Psalms, there is found a special doxology. We also see it through the New Testament. Paul, we saw here, breaks forth in doxology, but go back to Romans chapter 11 real quick. We saw him do this one other time. Look in Romans chapter eleven. Look down in verse number thirty-three. Notice what he says there. For who hath known the mind of the Lord and who hath been his counselor, or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompense unto him again? For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory forever. Amen. Isn't that good? I love that. And so Paul right here in the middle of the letter kind of bursts forth. He can't help but he's talking about the sovereignty of God and the greatness of God. uh and and the way God has been working his redemptive plan and then he just gets filled with praise and he bursts forth with doxology. Well he when he ends the letter of Romans, he does the same thing. But again we see it in the New Testament. At the birth of Jesus, the angels said, Glory to God in the highest. And on earth, peace, goodwill towards men. Jesus at the end of the Lord's Prayer said, For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory. forever. Amen. And so this is something that is not without precedent. Now why is Paul praising God? Very simply, he is praising God for the message of the gospel. Really, these verses say, praise God for the gospel. Thank God for the message of the gospel. Can I ask you tonight, are you thankful for the gospel message? Where would we be without it? It is the great message of salvation. And now notice how Paul designates this my gospel. Look at verse 25. Now to him that is of power to establish According to my gospel. Now we see him use that phrase before in chapter 2, verse 16. He said, In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. And 2 Timothy 2. 8, remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel. Now, why does Paul call it my gospel? I'll just give you a few reasons in the introduction. I think because, number one, this was a gospel message that was personally taught to Paul by Jesus. The Bible tells us in the book of Galatians, when Paul was writing to defend the fact that he was a legitimate apostle, one of the things that Paul said was, the gospel that I preach unto you, I didn't get it from men. It was revealed to me by revelation of Jesus Christ. Think about it. Jesus met Paul on the road to Damascus and confronted him over his sin. And then later on, Paul talks about how he went into the desert of Arabia and God began to show him and teach him. You talk about a seminary education. Paul went to Arabia Theological Seminary And the Lord Jesus personally tutored him in the message of the gospel so much so that that gospel message Paul took ownership of it and said, This is by gospel. This is what the Lord taught me But I think also another reason he calls it my gospel is because there were many different gospels that were being preached In fact, that's the whole reason for the writing of the book of Galatians. Because when Paul got done teaching the gospel to the believers there in that region, there came behind him Men from Jerusalem, supposing to be true men of God, that taught another gospel, which Paul said in Galatians is not another, or that is to say, it's not the same. The gospel that you learn from them is not the gospel that I taught you. And let me just tell you something, beloved. There's only one true gospel. Only one. But there are people around teaching other gospels, supposing them to be the true gospel. But I want to tell you, friend, there's only one gospel that will cleanse your soul. And get you ready to appear before God, deliver you into heaven. I was reading that in Argentina, they had many rivers, but they were uh according to this report, uh there was only one river in Argentina whose waters can be used to wash wool clean for manufacturing. Consequently, Argentina has to take its wool and send it away to be clean, to be manufactured, because of all the rivers, of all the streams in Argentina, there's only one that can actually cleanse it. And uh it's too far north for them to use. May I tell you there's only one gospel that can cleanse you? There's many streams out there, many people supposing to preach the real gospel. But they're not the real gospel. There's only one. Did you know that in Matthew 11, Jesus one time was talking about John the Baptist? And he was saying at the preaching of John the Baptist, T people were violently pushing to get into the kingdom when they heard the message. And uh the question I like to ask today is, why is it it that people are not pushing to get into church today? You would think that the way the world is, with all the things that are going on in this world, with all the hatred and injustice, all the wars and rumors of wars. That there would be people just pushing to get in to hear the one true message of salvation. But we don't see that, do we? You know why? Because there are so many different gospels that are being preached today that people no longer feel the need to repent before God. If someone comes here and they hear me preach the gospel that they're a sinner and that they need to repent and trust the work of Jesus, that there's nothing good that they can do to get to heaven. that what they must do is trust fully in the finished work of Christ. They must come humbly be to God, turning from their sin. Now, let me just tell you the gospel message has an offense to it, does it not? No one likes to be told that they're a sinner No one likes to be told that there's nothing that you can do before God that would accept you into his presence. There's no work that you can do. It's all of God. It's all of grace. You're nothing but a sinner. If you do anything, you need to repent and turn from your sin. Now, people don't like to hear that. Because in order for them to come into the kingdom, they have to humble themselves. They have to realize that they're a sinner. And again, people don't like to be told that. And so if they don't like that message, that's okay because they'll just leave here and they'll find another church that preaches the gospel that they do like. Where the offense of the gospel is totally removed, where people are stroked and they brag upon them for their goodness and their religiosity and how that they're pleasing to God already and that God's not going to cast anybody into hell and that we're all children of God. I want to say something, friend, that's a message of the devil. You need to repent before a holy God and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. There's only one gospel. And Paul says, this is my gospel. Again, this is the gospel that Jesus taught him. This is the gospel that Paul preached. And Paul said, It's my gospel. Now remember When Paul is writing this letter to the Roman church, remember he wants them to understand exactly what he believes because he's hoping that they will support him as a missionary, that they will help him to launch to the regions beyond on the other side of the Mediterranean, so Paul can go to places where the gospel has not yet been preached. And so Paul in the in this letter of Romans just lays it all out from the very beginning What is the gospel? The gospel that he was taught by Jesus, that he embraced, that they also embraced. And so Paul says, this is my gospel. And this is what we've been studying in the book of Romans, the clear message of salvation by grace through faith. Plus nothing else. And I think another reason Paul calls it my gospel is because he had absolute, total confidence that the gospel could do the work. He he talks about that in verse twenty-five, to him who is able to establish you. And so Paul had absolute confidence in the message of the gospel to do the work of God. Now, with all that in mind, can I just lay upon you tonight just Some truths about this gospel that Paul gives. Now, here's the first thing. Number one, think with me about the substance of it. Back up to verse 24. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ Be with you all. That's really the substance of it. The gospel is a gospel of grace. You know, grace has been called the queen of all Bible words. The Bible says that we're saved by the grace of God. What is the grace of God? It's the Greek word cheris, which actually means favor and love. God's love to us, God's favor to us. And it's really hard to just summarize this powerful grace that God has bestowed upon us when He saved us. I heard of a pastor who went by the house of one of his members because he had received terrible news that this mother had an infant baby that had died And when the pastor heard that terrible news, he immediately went to the home of that grieving mother. He went into the living room and saw the mother holding this child that had no life. And he saw the love of that mother, he saw the grieving of that mother, he saw the yearning of that mother, and he could see the expressions of love. And he was impressed with the power of that mother's love as she uh hugged that child to her heart. And he later said, That if a mother's love could resurrect and bring life, it would have happened right there. We may love our children, but the love that we have doesn't have the power to resurrect life out of death. But may I tell you that God's love does? You know that's what happened when you got saved? We were dead in trespasses and sins, and the grace of God hugged us back to life. Gave us life. That's what the Bible says. You who were dead in trespasses and sins hath He made alive For by grace are you saved. You're saved by the incredible love of God that loved us back to life. And friend, that's what happens when the grace of God comes upon us. He gives us life. That's the substance of the gospel. But think about the sufficiency of the gospel. Look in verse 25. Now, to him That is of power. Who's the hymn there? Notice the person. That of course is referring to God. Let me tell you something, friend. All praise goes to God. Because if anyone gets saved, let me tell you, it's God who does it It's not because of the wit and wisdom of the preacher. It's not because of the creativity of the preacher. It's all the work of Almighty God. It's all his work. All praise goes to God, and it is a God-centered message. It's about, and Paul has shown us this in the book of Romans. It is about how God bestows upon us his righteousness. Go back to chapter 1, verse 17. Just look at it. And I'm just reminding you of things that we already studied. But look in Romans chapter 1, verse 17 again. Take this journey back to verse 17 with me. It says, For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. You see, the gospel is all about God revealing his righteousness. And the way he does it is by giving us and bestowing upon us the imputed righteousness of Christ the moment we put faith in the world. In Jesus Christ. A lot of times we hear we say you're not saved by works, and that's true. But actually you are saved by works, but it's not our works, it's his works We're saved by the works of Jesus. What he has done. And see, when you put faith in Christ and the leisure sheet in heaven, God takes all of your sin. And he lays it on Jesus and puts it in his leisure. He takes all of the righteousness of Jesus and he puts it onto your account. So that you know that when God looks at you now, you know what he sees? He sees the righteousness of Christ. Because you have been given that imputed righteousness. Isn't that wonderful? The Bible says without holiness we won't see the Lord. I have no holiness. But when I got saved, God gave me the holiness of Jesus. It's the imputed righteousness of Christ that we're given when we come to Him by faith. It reveals God's righteousness. But also, Frank, can I also say it reveals God's wrath? The Bible says the wrath of God is revealed from heaven. You know, a lot of times when we preach the gospel, we start out with the with God's love. But Paul, when he starts out the gospel message, he starts out with God's wrath. And I'll tell you, that's what people need to hear today, because lost man has a tendency to take God's love for granted, to think lightly of it. People need to understand that they are in danger. If they haven't repented of their sin. Because they are under the wrath of Almighty God. You see, it's that message, the bad news about the wrath of God, that makes the gospel the good news. Because although God is a God of wrath and he must judge sin, he's a God of love and he doesn't want to judge us. And so we see then This is all about God. It's all God-centered. His righteousness, his wrath, his love bestowed upon us. But then think about the power. We saw the person. Look again in verse 25. Now to him that is of power, and the word power, dunami, where we get the word dynamite, the gospel has all power. It has the power to change a person, to totally transform a person. Uh this week I had a young man come to me who's struggling with an addiction in his life, and he wants to be free from that addiction. And uh He talked about going to various programs that could reform him and help him get rid of that addiction. And the truth of the matter is there are some good man-made programs out there that can help a person get off of certain things But they can only reform an individual. None of those programs can transform an individual. The only thing that can do that is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I shared the gospel with this young man. I said, look, you can be reformed from the outside, or you can be transformed from the inside. And that's what the gospel does. The gospel is the power of God that absolutely transforms a person's life. I was reading recently of a book that was put out, and there's a section in that book entitled Different Times Require Different Messages. And the whole idea in this section was, this was written by a pastor who pastors a large church. And basically the whole idea here is as he said. That in this day and time we need a different message. And he said this: modernity has taken a high toll on the human spirit. As has the high cost of the American dream, he says. The stress of modern life has had a greatly negative impact on the self-esteem of modern man. And so he says, consequently, there is a high level of fragility in the modern human ego. And he says people are fragmented and shattered by this modern-day, fast-paced, modern-day development. That's why people today, he says, are in a very fragile state. And so he goes on to say that what we need is a different message. And he's trying to encourage preachers to preach a different message. And how does he tell us that we should find this different message? He says this. He admits that preaching should accommodate the spirit of the age. So how does he think a pastor should determine what is the appropriate message for his time? And this is the advice that he's giving me as well as other pastors. Number one, visit those how-to sections in your local bookstores. Number two, regularly have a small home, a small group submit a list of their greatest challenges at home and on the job. Don't bother submitting that to me. Similarly, acquire inventories of needs from several secular people in your community. Periodically examine issues of in Time magazine, Newsweek, and USA Today, as these publications tend to be on the cutting edge of the felt needs and fears that people are facing. Number five, he says, apply practical aims to every study or program in your church. Practice composing Catchy titles for your messages from various biblical texts. I thought I already did that, but whatever. Limit your preaching to 20 minutes. Because people don't have too much time to spare. And don't forget to keep your messages light and informal, liberally sprinkling them with humor and personal antidotes. This is his advice. Now, call me crazy, but to me that's a recipe for weak preaching. It's also diametrically opposed to the ministry of the Apostle Paul. You know, we don't need to do all those things. You know why? Because I believe in the sufficiency of God's word. And this is what's going to help you and me to live the life that God wants us to live. Biblical preaching, there was a day when it was God-centered, sin exposing, convicting, it was life-challenging. It is a direct opposite to today's light informal sermons, these how-to sermons. I don't deny that there are needs, that there are surface needs out there that people need to be instructed about with respect to the scripture. I I understand that, but a lot of those surface needs reveal that there's a deeper need that people have. And the Bible addresses those deeper needs. Your biggest need is to make sure that your relationship to God is where it should be. That's the biggest need that you have. And I want to tell you something, friend. If you take care of that relationship to God and you keep Him number one, if you do as I said on Wednesday night when I was preaching, treasure God above all things. And keep that relationship number one. You know what I find? That God gives his people the grace to handle the other things that come. He just does. He will help us with whatever. And so there's this idea out there that we need to kind of water down the message of the gospel. We need to replace Bible preaching with this late, how-to, superficial approach. But I want to tell you something, friend, that is damaging to the church. And I think that what it reflects is that there are those out there that have lot lost confidence in the power of the gospel. and the power of the word of God. As I read here, Paul, he doesn't lose confidence in it. He is praising God. for the power of the gospel because he has seen this gospel change hearts and life. Notice the product he says in verse 25, now to him that is of power to establish you According to my gospel. The word establishes uh sterizos, where we get the word steroids, it means to make strong. This message of the gospel makes us strong. Now, here when I'm talking about the gospel, I'm not just talking about uh the the gospel of getting saved, but it's the whole message of Christ. Not only justification, but sanctification. And anything that has to do with them with knowing Jesus Christ And knowing him intimately in this thing of sanctifying in our life, the sanctification in our life. The Word of God, the gospel, Paul says it makes you strong. And by the way, let me just say, you know, there's no such thing as the quick fix. And sanctification. You know, people want to they want to go to a conference and kind of just get a quick fix, you know, that all of a sudden it takes away all of your problems and it makes you holy and everything is good in your life. It doesn't work that way. Sanctification is a process that takes place over years. As you faithfully study the Word of God, As you faithfully walk with the Lord, as you pray, as you seek his face. That's why as Christians we need to make sure that we are practicing spiritual disciplines in our life. Because that those spiritual disciplines over time God uses to conform us into the image of Christ. I'm talking about Bible reading, I'm talking about prayer, I'm talking about meditating, I'm talking about being in God's house. Being discipled. I'm talking about all those things which are spiritual disciplines that God uses to sanctify us as now that we're saved and we are learning more. We're growing in the gospel As we do all of those things. And it makes us strong, Paul says. Notice the preaching of it in verse number 25, where he says, and the preaching of Jesus Christ. Again, all the gospel, it's all about Jesus Christ and what he has done for us. But then I want you to see, here's the third point. We talked about the substance of the gospel. It's a gospel of grace. The sufficiency of the gospel is able to make us strong. It's all about Jesus. It's God-centered. But here's the third thing, the secret of the gospel. Look what Paul says at the end of verse 25. According to the revelation of the mystery, Which was kept secret since the world began. Now what is Paul saying there about the gospel? That there's a part of it that was kind of a mystery that was kept secret. The word is mysterion. And it was used in Greco-Roman mystery cults to talk about something that was a secret that was later revealed. What was the secret that was revealed fully in the New Testament? It was in the Old Testament But in the New Testament, it was fully revealed. And by the way, there are many mysteries that the New Testament speaks about. In fact, Paul said that in 1 Corinthians 4. 1, talking about us ministers, that we are ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. But here's one mystery. It's the mystery of the gospel, which was made clear in the New Testament. And you say, what was it It was simply the mystery, and Paul talked about this in Romans chapter 9, 10, and 11, that the gospel would be for all people, not just for Jews. But for Gentiles as well. That the Gentiles would be part of the Commonwealth of Israel. That Gentiles are brought into the family of God through faith. It's not a message just for the Jewish people. It's a message for everyone in the world. I was witnessing to a Jewish guy this week. He was talking about his Jewish heritage, and he was talking about all the Jewish feasts and when he was growing up and how they were a part of his life. And I was sharing with him the gospel. And when he brought up the fact that he was a Jew, my first response to him was, well, you know what? I'm a child of Abraham too. Really? Are you Jewish? Well yeah. Yes, I am. Maybe not nationally, but spiritually I am. Because if you know that was God's plan from the very beginning. To make all the people of the world children of Abraham by faith. You know, Abraham is the father of the faithful. That's those who come to God by faith. And you know that song that we sing growing up in church, you know, Father Abraham had many sons. Um, I am one of them, and so are you. You know, let's all stand together and sing. No, I'm just kidding. You know that song, you know, you sing it in a in when you're a kid and you know it kind of breaks out into this sanctified hokey pokey, you know, type thing when you're singing the song. But y I want to tell you something, there's a lot of truth in that song. Father Abraham had many sons Many sons said, Father Abram, I am one of them, and so are you. So let's just praise the Lord. That's the mystery right there. The mystery was from the very beginning, it was God's plan. To share the good news of the saving gospel, not just to the Jewish people. God would use the nation of Israel to be his light, but through them he would bless the whole world. That's what he told Abraham. I'm going to bless you That you might be a blessing to everyone. That's the mystery. The gospel is for everyone That will come to God by faith. It was veiled in the Old Testament, but it was fully revealed in the New Testament. And that's the mystery that Paul is talking about. Look at verse 26. But now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nations. For the obedience of faith to whoever comes to God by faith, if you will obey this gospel message and put your faith in Christ. This message will change you. It's for all nations, for the obedience of faith. Now let me give you the fourth thing quickly. We talked about the substance. The sufficiency, the secret of the gospel, but then number four, the spreading of the gospel. Look at verse again 26, is to go to all nations. For the obedience of faith. This gospel is to go to every creature. That's the responsibility and job of the church. To share the gospel all over this world. I was reading some statistics, kind of interesting here. Talking about the population of the world. At the time of King David, according to this uh research, there were 150 million people in the earth. By the time of Christ, it was 300 million. It goes on to say by the 1600s, when the pilgrims immigrated, there were 500 million people on the planet. By 1750, Uh the beginning of the Industrial Revolution in Britain, the world population may have been as high as 800 million. By 1800, the world reached one billion. By 1930, the population reached two billion. By 1974, 4 billion. By 1999, 6 billion. 2018. Do you know what the population is in 2018 was? It was 7. 6 billion people. Estimates say by 2025, it could be 7. 8 billion or more. By 2050, they say nearly 9 billion people will be on The planet. And you know what the job of the church is? To share the gospel to every creature, every person God wants this message of the gospel to go everywhere. And you know what? Reading Philip Shaft, a great church historian, who wrote really an eight-volume set on the growth of the church. One of the things he says that was captivating to me is he talked about the early church and how during those early years the gospel spread so quickly. It ran swiftly around the world. And remember, that was in a day when there was no social media, there was no internet. In fact, in the early days there was no printing press. That wasn't invented later until Gutenberg invented it. And it was kind of the internet of its day and it it helped to spread the Word of God even faster. But even before that How did the gospel spread? And he writes this section, and let me just read you this brief section. He says, and while there are no professional missionaries devoting their whole life to this specific work, Every congregation was a missionary society, and every Christian believer was a missionary, inflamed by the love of Christ to convert his fellow man. He said that's the way it spread It's person to person, sharing the love of Christ. And I think that's still the best way for the gospel to spread Just by sharing the love of Christ. And that's our call, beloved. That's what we have to do. We have to share the gospel. We have to get involved. It's everyone's responsibility. It's my responsibility. Your responsibility. There's no such thing as professional evangelists. Oh, we're paying you to do that for us. No, that is your responsibility. That is my responsibility. to spread the gospel all over the world to all nations. And let me give you this last thing tonight and we're done. Not only does the substance and sufficiency and secret and spreading of the gospel, but the last thing is the summation of the gospel. Look at verse 27. To God only wise be glory through Jesus Christ forever. And that Simply, this is the reason for the whole gospel. You know why we preach the gospel? To glorify God. It's for his glory What is it to glorify God? In simple language, it's to make God look good as he truly is. God is truly good. God is truly glorious. But sometimes people don't really get that until we bring to the world the glory, the goodness of God. We glorify God. That's why we spread the gospel. You say, well I've witnessed to people and they don't get saved. That doesn't really matter. What matters is you glorify God, that you make God look good. And you know what? God will do his work. God will accomplish the task that he wants. We share the gospel, whether someone gets saved or not. That's not the point. Now we want people to get saved. We long for people to get saved. Friend, I don't want anyone to die without Jesus Christ. I want no one to die without Christ. I'm sure you heard this afternoon the terrible news of the famous basketball player Kobe Bryant. Was in a uh a helicopter crash and his thirteen year old daughter and two other three other people there. And I'm sure your thought was the same as my thought. I hope he knew the Lord Jesus. I hope that he was saved. Just such terrible news. And we really need to pray for that dear family, that wife. I can't imagine the grief that she's feeling right now, beyond description. And we need to pray for her and that family. But friend, I don't want anyone to die without knowing Jesus. I would to God that everyone got saved, but I don't have that power. I do know this. We can glorify God by the spreading of the gospel. And that's our major reason. to share the gospel with the hope that people will turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul ends this letter by saying praise God for the gospel. I believe it. It is my gospel. I stand on it. I don't apologize for it. It doesn't need any help from the world. It will do the work. We just need to be faithful to it. Amen Amen. Let's pray together. And so, Father, how thankful we are for your word. Thank you, Father, for this wonderful message of the gospel. And may we, like Paul, have absolute confidence in the power of it. And say, like Paul, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation to anyone who believes. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, can I ask you, friend, have you believed this gospel message? Have you reached out in faith to Christ? Are you sure of that? If you haven't, will you do it right now, right where you are? Just make the spot right where you are a a place of prayer, an altar of prayer. And would you reach out to God in faith and say, Jesus, I believe. I believe in who you are. I believe in what you've done for me on the cross. And I'm putting my faith in your finished work. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me Friend, pray that and he will save you. He'll forgive you for your sin. He'll give you eternal life in heaven. If you pray that, would you please let us know We want to rejoice with you. We want to encourage you in your Christian walk, in your faith. Father, bless these words to every hearing heart tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.