It's good to see you here tonight. Would you take your Bibles, please, and open to the book of Matthew, chapter six. We're going to continue uh talking about prayer and this great passage where the Lord is teaching his disciples to pray and thus teaching us to pray, the greatest prayer really ever given as a model on how we as believers ought to pray. Look at Matthew chapter 6. We're going to just read this prayer, starting in verse 9. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. I want to talk tonight about praying for daily bread. After the Korean War ended, South Korea was left with a large number of orphaned children. And relief agencies came in to deal with all the problems that arose connected to these many orphaned children. And there was a particular problem they encountered with the children. Even though the children had three meals a day, And they were provided for. They were very restless and sleepless at night. They were so anxious at night that they just could not sleep. And as they talked to the children, they soon discovered the children had anxiety about whether they would have food the next day. That was the thing that really concerned them. And so to help resolve the problem, the relief workers in one particular orphanage decided that each night when the children were put to bed, the nurses would place a single small loaf of bread with them in the bed Each child's hand had a little loaf of bread that they would cuddle around that night. The bread wasn't to be eaten. It was simply intended to be held as the children slept. And that was kind of a security blanket for them reminding them that uh they were going to eat the next day. That would be their provision And sure enough, just having that bread calmed the children's anxiety, and they were able to sleep very peacefully. The security blanket for the child of God is this request that we just read in the Lord's Prayer. It's a guarantee that God is going to meet the needs of his people. Whatever that physical need might be, he is going to give us daily bread. In this model prayer, Jesus is teaching us that this is what we should pray for each day. We should pray this particular part of the prayer, give us this day our daily bread. And I believe that really understanding these seven words can really change us. And it can change our prayers when we truly understand what the Lord meant. And really to put it in simplest term the simplest terms, Jesus is saying that you need to depend completely upon God, entirely upon God. Absolutely, totally upon the Lord. Jesus in this whole prayer is teaching for all of us the importance of a prayer life. Do you have a prayer life? I mean it's very natural for children to ask their parents for things. Any children any child that doesn't speak to their parents or parents to the child, that's a dysfunctional relationship. A dysfunctional prayer life demonstrates that either you don't know the Lord or you're not walking close to him. Because if you're saved, we have the Holy Spirit that lives inside of us, and what does the Holy Spirit teach us to do? It teaches us to cry out. He teaches us to cry out. What have a father? So it's a very natural thing for us to do. In fact, it's a sin not to pray. Samuel said, God forbid that I should sin by ceasing to pray for you. And remember in this prayer that the Lord is teaching us, this is in response to the disciples' request, Lord, teach us to pray. One scholar said of these six petitions, the whole of life is captured in these petitions, taking into account every need. Great things, small things, spiritual things and material things, inward things, outward things. There's nothing that is not included in this prayer. Now we looked already at the petitions that are God-centered, and we now move to the petitions that are man-centered. We talked about the pattern after this manner. We talked about the perspective, our Father, which art in heaven. We talked about the priority of hallowing his name and the plan of thy kingdom come and the purpose, thy will be done. And once we place God's concerns first, you know, Thy name, Thy Kingdom, Thy will, then we focus on our needs, our bread, our debts, our temptations. And this here in this part of the prayer, I call this the provision of prayer. And the Lord shows us how that we can come and pray for our needs. So there's really three lessons I want you to think about with regard to this. First of all, if you're taking notes, write down the source of it. The source of it. Again, we are being taught here to completely depend upon God. That's implied in this request. Give us this day our daily thread. Who are we talking to there? God, right? Because God is the source. And this prayer, this part of the prayer is teaching us to be dependent upon God. We must depend upon God for our needs. That's what God wants And I told you before that spiritual maturity is learning to be more dependent on God. We grow to more and more dependent on the Lord The more we mature and the more we grow spiritually, the more dependent we are on the Lord. Are you completely dependent upon your Heavenly Father? One family was sending their uncle Oscar on his first airplane ride. He was totally apprehensive about riding on an airplane. And when he got off, they were eager to find out how he enjoyed the flight. And I said, How was the flight? He said, Well, it wasn't as bad as I thought it was, but I have to admit that I never did put my full weight down on that plane Some Christians are like that. They haven't really learned to put their full weight on the Lord. The Bible says, casting all our care upon him, because he cares for you. So what are you trusting in? Are you what are you dependent on? Some people put their trust in their boss or on their job for security. Some people put their trust in Washington, D. C. , a government program or government leaders. They put their trust in Uncle Sam. The Bible says in Psalm 118 verse 9, It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. In Psalm 146, verse 3 it says, Put not your trust in princes, nor the sons of men in whom there is no help Stop trusting your uncle and start trusting your father. Some people put their trust in their own savings, their own investments. In Psalm 39, verse 6, it says, Surely every man walketh in a vain show. Surely they are disquieted in vain. He heapeth up riches, and he knoweth not who shall gather them. So I'm going to say, yeah, go ahead and go ahead and save all that, but you're never going to really be sure who's going to get it in here and may not be us In Proverbs 11, 28, he that trusteth in his riches shall fall, but the righteous shall flourish as a branch In Psalm 62, 10 it says, Do not trust in a oppression and do not vainly hope in robbery. If riches increase, do not set your heart on them. For you to put your trust in anything but God is to place trust in an idol. And an idol is anything that you substitute for God, anything that you trust more than God. And God hates idols. It's very easy for a person who has been blessed. Maybe you started out in your Christian life trusting in the Lord. And then somewhere along the line you forgot to do that. Maybe as you were trusting in the Lord, God began to bless you. And then when the blessings came, you took your eyes off of the Lord. You put your eyes on the blessings instead of the blesser. And you forgot to trust in God. That very thing happened to David. 1 Chronicles 21 gives us an illustration of it The Bible says one day David got an idea. He decided to take a census and to number the people. And what David did made God angry. And as a result, God punished David and He removed his blessings from him. Why did God do that? When you read this story on the surface, I remember as a younger believer reading this whole story, and I thought, yeah, what's the big deal here? I mean all David is doing is take a s a census of his army. Why is God so angry? You know, should we not count people? Is it wrong to count numbers and and so on and church and other things? The reason for God's anger is not in what David did. There's nothing inherently wrong with taking a census. In fact, God commanded that to be done in some places in the Old Testament. The sin is not in what he did. The sin is in why he did it. Why did he do that? This was a military census. It seemed in the fact that David who did David ask to take this census? It was Joab. It was Joab. Joab was his general of the army. David wanted to know how many fighting men he had. Why? Not because he was preparing for battle, not because he was preparing for war. It was because he wanted to gloat in all the victories that he had It was an exercise in pride. And the Bible says Satan was behind him, tempting him to do this. Satan is the father of pride. It was suggested that rather than trusting in God, David was now trusting in his military might. He was doing the opposite of what he once wrote. in Psalm 20 verse 7, some trust in chariots, some trust in short horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. This is the same David who he when he went out on the battlefield as a young man and he met Goliath He had the courage to face him because he trusted totally in God for victory. Remember what David said in Psalm 7, excuse me, in 1 Samuel 17, 45, then said David to the Philistine Thou cometh to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. And this day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee and take thine head from thee, and I will give the carcasses of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air, and unto the wild beasts of the earth That all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel, and all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's. Wow, that's pretty good. God doesn't use military weapons. He's the one that we put our trust in, not military weapons. David knew the victory didn't come from weaponry or man's power or strength. It came fully from trusting in the Lord. But now David is an older man. And he was blessed by God. And somewhere along the line he forgot that. Now he's trusting in his own military strength. Now he's trusting in the number of his military men. And that happened in David's heart, that can happen to all of us if we're not careful. We can forget to trust the Lord. You know, this same David that was uh made the the subject of all the songs that the women of Israel sang, Saul has slain the thousands, but David is ten thousands. Now he's going to be defeated. Because of his pride. Now even Joab could see that this was wrong. Even Joab said, you know, hey, look, don't do this. This could cause God to get angry. You'll cause Israel a sin. You know, but David wouldn't listen. And finally when Joab got the number, he brought it to David and 1 Chronicles 21, 6 says that Joab gave the number to David, but he didn't really finish numbering them all. He just gave the number that he had at that time and said, look, here's where we are. It was almost as if he's saying, look, is this big enough number to to s to satisfy your ego Is this enough here? Do I have to continue to count? And the Bible says that God was displeased. Again, David had transferred his trust. from God to the idol that he called military, his military. And if it can happen to a man after God's own heart, it can happen to me And it can happen to you. And so this is why Jesus is teaching us to pray this way. This prayer is an expression of our absolute, total, full dependence upon God in all things. Psalm 9, verse 10, They that know thy name will put their trust in thee, for thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. Isn't that a great verse? Put your trust in God. He will not forsake those that seek him. Psalm 25, verse 2, O my God, I trust in thee. Let not me be ashamed. Let not my enemies triumph over thee. And so the question tonight is, are you dependent fully upon God? And the greatest demonstration of whether or not you're dependent on God is your prayer life. Are you praying every day? Are you saying, Lord, give us this day our daily bread God is the source of every good and perfect gift. Men are nothing but secondary agents in the hand of God. If your boss gives you a raise, that's God that gave it to you, not your boss. Your boss is just a secondary agent. If your investment has a profit, know that God is the one who gave that increase. If you land the job that you wanted, know that it was that God was the one who did that. Exaltation comes from the Lord. He's the ultimate source of all things. 1 Chronicles 29, 14. All things come of thee And of thy own have we given thee. Everything, Lord, that we have, it all comes from you. That's why we're totally dependent on you. And so this prayer teaches us to trust In God and in God alone. We are confessing, Lord, you are the source of all things. We're saying, like James, Lord, every good and perfect gift comes from you. It comes from above. The earth is the Lord's in the fullness thereof. And all that we glean from it comes from him. One night at supper, seven-year-old Brad asked his dad, Why do we thank God for eating food that came from the grocery store? And the father picked up a roll and he said, Where did this come from? Right, said from the store? He said, Where did they get it? He said, I don't know the bakery. Well he said where did they get it? Well they made it. The father said made it from what? He said well from flour. He said where did they get the flour? He said well from the wheat. Where did the wheat come from? Well it came from the farmers. Where did the farmers get it? Brad said, well they grew it. From what? From seed. Well where did they get the seed? And Brad said, from God? And the father said, That's right. It all comes it's all from him. And that's why we thank him. It all is from him. So we see the source of it. But secondly, the other thing I want you to think about with me is the sustenance of it. Again in verse 11, give us this day our daily bread. I want to focus on the word bread here. I think the word bread has not only a literal meaning, but it also has a metaphorical meaning. Often in scripture the writer might use one word to speak of the whole. One word might represent a whole series of events or all things happen that happen behind that one word. That's a literary device we see often in Scripture. For example, John would use this when he said, This is he that came by water and blood, not by water only. What did he mean by water? Well, he was talking about the baptism of Jesus. Um, the word water stands for everything that took place at Jesus' baptism. What's the whole point of that passage? He's proving that Jesus is God. What happened at the baptism of Jesus that proved he was God, that gave witness that he was God? There was a voice that came from heaven, the Holy Spirit descended like a dove. And John said, This is he that came by water. Water stands for everything that took place there. And then blood. What does blood stand for? That stands for everything that took place at the cross. There were a lot of things that happened at the cross that proved that Jesus was God. Now, bread has a metaphorical meaning of all that is necessary to sustain life. Everything that takes place for us to get bread, and bread really stands for all the sustenance of life, everything that we need for life, the basic provisions of life. When God cursed the earth, he said to Adam, In the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat bread. In other words, you have to work to earn all the necessities of life. Whatever is necess uh necessary and needful to live, you're gonna have to work for that. And so that's the idea of bread. Bread is the broad term that stands for all of our physical needs and all of the strength and the willpower, all that is necessary to get that bread. All of it. That would include um the preservation of life. F food of course, all food, a healthy body. How are you going to get a healthy body if you can't work for bread or how are you going to get bread if you don't have a healthy body to work for it? Good weather. We have to have good weather to grow our crops. You have to have a home. That's a necessity, a house. All these things that are necessary for life are included in this word bread. Not the luxuries of life. But just simply the necessities of life. We're acknowledging that God is the source of all of these things, all these necessities of life. We might already have food in our pantry when we pray this prayer, and and you know not many of us do without, but what we're praying is, God, I realize that all that I have comes from you. You're the source of all of that. All my food, all my clothing, all my shelter. And I will continue to trust in you and you alone every day to supply all of my needs. To sustain me for life. Ecclesiastes 3. 13 says this, and also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor. It is the gift of God. The fact that you can labor and you can benefit from your labor and enjoy all of that and eat and drink, all of that is a gift from the Lord. In Ecclesiastes two twenty four, there is nothing better than for a man than for a man that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labor, this also I saw that it was from the hand of God. And then Ecclesiastes 5 18 Behold, what I have seen to be good and fitting is to eat and drink and find enjoyment in all the toil with which one toils under the sun the few days of his life that God has given him for his lot. Every one also to whom God has given wealth and possession and power to enjoy them, to accept his lot, and rejoice in his toil, this is the gift of God. Again, all of this. is from God. And we have to recognize that. And so I'm convinced that God will allow us to go through sometimes times of lack. to emphasize the point that we need to trust in Him for our daily needs. I think God sometimes will purposely put us through what I call a poverty cycle. So that he again is reminding us to totally depend upon him. He'll he'll give us a crisis in order to do that. Now I remember learning this as a young college student. In my college, you know, you had to pay your bill by a certain time if You know, you could be sitting in class and someone would come in with what they call the financial withdrawal list. You didn't want to have your name on that list. I remember one time I was working a third shift job trying to work and go to school and they came in the class one day and they had read all the people's names who were behind on paying up their bill and my name was on the list. And I remember just, wow, you know, I had to get up out of class and leave. That's pretty harsh, isn't it? And I remember just leaving class. I wanted to go to the business office and take care of whatever it was, you know As if I could, I didn't have any money, but you know. But I remember walking to the office and I go on the way there someone handed me a check, say, Hey, someone told me to give this to you. Really? Good timing. I went to the office and I said, uh how much do I need to stay in school? They said three hundred and sixty-six dollars. And the check was for three hundred and sixty-six dollars. Probably someone who saw that and they they they saw the actual need and they wrote the check for me knowing that. But that's the Lord taking care of the needs um that that we have. One time that happened to me in seminary, I I knew it was short two hundred dollars. I went all the way through the registration line. Lady said, Well you're short two hundred I said, yeah I know She said, but you know, last week someone came in and said, Give put two hundred dollars on Jerry's bill, you know. And you happen to have enough here. I can't plan out those things But all those are lessons, and I know you've gone through some of the same things. Why does God do that? To teach us to daily depend upon Him for sustenance. We have to totally depend upon him. So we see the source of it and the sustenance of it. But here's the third thing I want you to see is the schedule of it. Again, it says, give us this day Our daily bread. This day is actually one word in the Greek. It's the word for today. So we can say it like this. Give us today. And notice that the emphasis of is today, this day. Now, daily, the the the Greek word here is is a word that you know can mean the coming day. That which is needed for our daily support. The word daily has been the source of great controversy. The problem stems from the fact that this is the only occurrence of this work, this word in Greek literature. It's not it's not used anywhere else in the Bible It was found once on a non-literary source on a papyrus fragment, and what they found, this word was on a papyrus fragment, and guess what it was? It was a grocery list. Where it indicated, you know, what was needed for that day. That's very interesting. And so linguists tell us that the word can mean either today's bread. Or tomorrow's bread. Leon Wood wrote this. The word daily is difficult, but a survey of the evidence indicates that the ancient understanding of daily fits the facts as well as any for the coming day. Has the same meaning. So really it depends on when you're praying. If you're praying at night and you're praying for daily bread, you're praying for tomorrow. If you're praying in the morning, you're Praying for that day Jewish people pray both in the morning and at night. And so the prayer is just, again, encouraging people to pray daily for God's sustenance. I would propose to you that in today's culture and society, it's a bit harder to trust God daily. And the reason for that is because, you know, we we already you know, we get paid by the week or every two weeks. You know, sometimes it's hard to say, Lord, give us this day our daily bread. I remember I was pastoring another church. We had this woman in the church that could bake bread, and it was outstanding. It was great. I mean, she would sometimes give us this bread. What I noticed, however, was a day or two later it wasn't so good. You know. Her bread didn't have all the preservatives that we have in our bread today. You know, bread today lasts for a month, you know. Watch all the sodium they put in that stuff. But um But you know, the way it was back in that day, they didn't have preservatives in the bread. In that culture, in Jesus' day, when when bread was made, it was done literally on a daily basis. Women worked inside the home. And every day women would make bread for that day. Again, this was something that was very common. They would break enough bread for their family and for the servants that were in the household. And maybe a little bit of extra for someone else who might be a guest that might stop by. And so every day they would make new bread. And so the people back there would understand very easily what Jesus meant when he said, give us this day our daily bread. And baking bread was a simple process. A person would first take a batch of dough, prepare it, knead it. They would take a piece of sour fermented dough from a former loaf, and they would place it in the new loaf In fact, this is where leaven came from. Um a woman would just take a little small portion of that dough and unbaked dough from the previous day and And put it in the new loaf. You remember the parable that Jesus gave of the woman who put a little bit of leaven and three measures of meal, and it spread all throughout the bread And so it was a daily thing. And men also worked daily. You know, we get our wages at the end of the week or every two weeks, but back in this day, if you were a day laborer, you got your wages at the end of the day You would wait sometimes in the town square for someone to hire you. If you didn't have a regular job as a householder or a house servant or a houseworker, you would just be a day laborer. And and you were and you would go to the marketplace hoping that somebody would hire you. And the wages weren't always that high. At the end of the day you were given your wages and those wages took care of your family for the next day. That's why the Bible was very concerned for people like this. It says in Leviticus 19, 13, you shall not oppress your neighbor to rob him. The wages of a hard worker shall not remain with you all night until the morning. That is, at the end of the day, when that person has worked for you, give him his wage that night. Don't hold it until the next morning. That's not a the right thing to do. You pay the hired man at the end of the day. Now again in our day we don't really live from day to day, but rather we live from week to week. But the principle is the same. Most of us know when we wake up our pantry is already stocked, but God demands that we depend on him every day. That we trust them every day. Because it might be true that you have all that you need in your pantry, but you don't know what a day is going to bring You have no idea. And so God establishes this principle. He demands of us that we trust him day by day, one day at a time. Deuteronomy thirty three twenty five Thy shoes shall be iron and brass and as thy days, so shall thy strength be Psalm 138, verse 3. On the day I called, you answered me. My strength of soul, you increased. On that very day, Lord, when I called upon you, you gave me the strength for that day that I need And God will give you enough strength for whatever you're going to have to deal with tomorrow. And so it's a day-by-day thing. Each day. Just to remind you of this, go to Exodus 16. We'll close with this. But look in Exodus 16. We see this principle of thought there. This is the giving of manna, just a great story in the Old Testament. Look in Exodus 16, look in verse number one. And they took the journey from Elam, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came into the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elam and Sinai on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt. And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. And the children of Israel said unto them, Would to God we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when we sat by flesh pots, when we did eat bread to the full For ye have brought us forth into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. Verse four. Then said the Lord unto Moses, Behold, I will reign bread from heaven for you, and the people shall go out and gather a certain grain every day that I may prove them whether they will walk in my law or no. And there God is establishing that principle. I'm going to feed you day by day. I'm going to g I'm going to rain bread down from heaven On a daily basis, and this will be a test for you to see if you're going to trust in me each day. I'm going to give you manna. Actually, the word manna means what is it? They went out on the floor and saw this stuff and said, what is it? You know, they didn't understand what it was. The size of it we see in verse 14. And when the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of the wilderness, there lay a small round thing. And so it was kind of like a someone said the size of a peach seed. They would collect it, they would grind it up into flour, they would make dough out of it, and they would bake it. And notice the sweetness of it. We see it verse 31. And the house of Israel called the name of it manna, and it was like corander seed white, and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey. It had a sweet honey like taste to it. And we see the simplicity of it in verse number thirteen and verse fourteen. The Bible says that they it was right there in the camp They just had to go out. Verse 13 came to pass that at even when the quails came up and covered the camp, and the morning the dew lay around about the hosts. When the dew that lay was gone up, behold the face of the wilderness there lay a small round thing And so there it was every day. They had to go out and they had to collect it. Verse 21 said, every morning. Verse 21 and they gathered it every morning, every man according to his eating. And when the sun waxed hot it melted. You better get out there and get it in the morning. Because after a while it's going to be gone. And so God is setting a pattern on how His people are to trust Him for daily bread, day by day. He didn't rain it down once a week and everyone got enough for the week or a month. It was day by day. And we see the satisfaction of it. Each family gathered according to their need. And the incredible thing was it was exactly what they needed, never too much, never too little. And the supply of it in verse 35, it says, And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years until they came to the land inhabited. They did eat manna. Forty years on manna. Don't you know they had some serious recipes for manna? On how to make it. You know Someone estimated that two quarts per person, two million people would take four freight trains of 60 cars each every day. And yet they never ran out 40 years. And this is all a pattern that God established. This is the object lesson. for us that we trust in the Lord for our daily manna. We look to God. We trust him daily. And we don't really, you know, trust in what's stored up because if you tried to store up manna, what would happen? It would go rotten. God said, no, don't trust in that. Don't you can't make storehouses of this stuff. You have to trust in me. And you have to do it every day. And so this is God's pattern for us. He wants us to learn to trust in him every day. And again, all this speaks to us of Christ. He is the bread from heaven. He is the daily manna that we need to feast upon. You know who we need to learn to trust more and more every day? That's Christ. Put our full trust in Christ. So we see the source of it and the schedule of it, or excuse me, the sustenance of it and the schedule of it. We need to pray daily. And I'll close with this. There was a preacher from down in Texas, and he spoke of these elevators and these high-rise buildings, and he talked about how that he never really liked to be in these elevators because, you know, something could go wrong. And so he was he had kinda had a fear then of getting on an elevator. Um you know, it's just something about it to him about being in this box, several hundred feet off the ground. And one day he did get into an elevator and one day it did stop right in the middle. And the car was, you know, between floors, way up high, and he noticed that the people on the on the on the elevator, they became frantic And some people began to bang on the doors and yell, hoping to get someone's attention. But nothing happened Until finally, this man quietly made his way to the front of the car. He opens up a little door right there on the wall. There was a little telephone there. And immediately he was connected to somebody on the outside. He didn't need to beat on the wall. He didn't need to yell. And tell them what their need was. In this world, you know what? We're going to get stuck at times. Isn't it comforting to know that All we have to do is whisper. All we have to do is say, Lord, be my help. Lord help me. I'm trusting in you Please help me through this. This is what God wants from us in our daily walk. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, uh, thank you for this precious prayer taught to us by our Savior. Lord, I pray that we'll incorporate all these elements into our prayer life. This is a beautiful pattern for us to follow. And Lord, help us to trust in you, depend upon you for every little thing. Give us this day our daily bread. Lord, there's no way I'm going to get my bread unless I look to you. You're the one who gives me strength You're the one who gives me the ability to do anything that I do. All things come from you. And we thank you for that. And we Lord, forgive us for the times when we have taken our eyes off of the blesser and put it on the blessings. Forgive us for the times where we have forgotten to be dependent fully upon you. So, Lord, may we pray from our heart this prayer to give us this day our daily bread. And we pray in your precious, wonderful name. Amen.