All right. Well it's good to see everyone here tonight. And uh I know that uh a lot of our workers are down with VBS and uh we've had a great week for that. We appreciate everyone praying for that tonight. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the book of Exodus, chapter 32? As you know, on Wednesday nights we've been doing a series on prayer called Prayer Matters, and I want to continue that and talk about prayer tonight. But tonight the topic is this, prayers that cause God to repent. Look in Exodus chapter 32, and look down in verse, we'll start at verse number 7. Notice what it says. And the Lord said unto Moses, Go thee, get thee down, for thy people which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them. They have made them a molten calf, and have worshipped it, and have sacrificed therefore, and said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt And the Lord said unto Moses, I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people. Now therefore let me alone that my wrath may wax hot against them, that I may consume them, and I will make of thee a great nation And Moses besought the Lord his God and said, Lord, why doth thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth out of the land of Egypt, with great power and with a mighty hand? Wherefore should the Egyptians speak and say, For mischief did he bring them out to slay them in the mountains, and to consume them from the face of the earth? Turn from thy fierce wrath and repent of this evil against thy people. Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou swearest by thy own self, and said unto them, I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven And all this land that I have spoken of or spoken of will I give to your seed, they shall inherit it forever. And the Lord repented of the evil which he thought to do unto his people When you think of the word repent, what do you think about? Normally when you hear the word repent, you think about a sinner turning from their sin and turning to God. But the word of repentance is not a word that we would normally apply to God. However, we just read here in Exodus 32, 14 that God's response to Moses' prayer was that God repented. Another version of the Bible says it like this. The Lord relented. The New American Standard Bible puts it like this. The Lord changed his mind. But any way you put it, there must be something to learn about prayer from a man who uh whose prayer had such a powerful effect on God. Moses prayed, and God repented. Now there's a big difference between the repentance of man and the repentance of God. Whenever man repents, he is repenting from his sin, as I said before, and he's turning to God. But when the Bible speaks about God repenting, it is not in relation to sin because we know that God is absolutely holy, and it is impossible for God to sin. The word repentance here is a word that does simply mean a change of mind. But now this raises a theological dilemma. Does God ever change his mind? If God knows all things, past, present, and future, and God is perfect, by implication that means that God does not change his mind. If God ever really changed his his mind, this would suggest that um God was not perfect. Or it would suggest that somehow he was mistaken about something and that he had to change his mind in order to fix the mistake on the previous uh thought. That's what some theologians, however, would have us to believe. There are some theologians that call themselves open theists And they use a verse like this to say that God does change his mind. So what is an open theist? An open theist is someone who believes that God doesn't know the future perfectly, but that they believe that God is still learning about the future. God knows everything that can be known, but future, however, is not yet reality. And according to an open theist, God is learning, he's learning this thing about being God. And sometimes God in that has to change his mind. They'll use illustrations like, you know, when God created the world, you know, he saw the sin of man. And it says, you know, God repented because of of that and that he destroyed the world. You remember in the story of the flood? But after the destruction God then saw, you know, how, you know, it really hurt him to see that. And so he repented that he actually destroyed the world. And so they'll use passages like that and they'll say, God is changing his mind. God makes some mistakes, but he's learning about how to be God. That's a terrible view of God, and that's a blasphemous view of God But that's what open theists believe, and they use verses like this to tell us that God is working everything out as he goes along. But the doctrine of the immutability of God, however, assures us that God does not change. He does not change in his character, he does not change in his perfections, he does not change in his purposes, his promises. And he does not change in his plans. Any changes in any of these areas would suggest that God is less than perfect. If God changes his mind, then how do we know that God's going to keep his promises? How do we know that he will fulfill all that he planned in salvation if God changes his mind? If God does change his mind, then all of us are in jeopardy. But the Bible is very clear that God is immutable. He does not change. For example, you might want to write in your margin, Malachi chapter 3, verse 6, I am the Lord. I change not. Therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. Thank God that his love and mercy towards us never changes. If that happened, then we would all be consumed In 1 Samuel 15, verse 29, it says, And also the strength of Israel will not lie, nor repent, for he is not a man that he should repent. And then of course we know the verse in the New Testament, Hebrews 13, verse 9, Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and what? And forever. So if all that is true, if God is immutable, he does not change. Then how do we explain this verse and others like it that say that God repented or that God changed his mind? When Scripture speaks of God repenting, It's viewing God from man's viewpoint. This is also called anthropomorphism Now, I want you to go home and look that word up and memorize it. You'll be quizzed on it next week. No, I'm just kidding. Anthropomorphism, what does that believe? That's a really big word in theologians use it. Anthro Po, which is Greek, which simply means man, morphism is in the form of. Anytime in Scripture God portrays himself in the form of man, what God is doing is he is actually Revealing himself in a way that man can understand. It is God, an infinite God, trying to reveal himself in a way that finite man can understand. So from man's viewpoint God, it looks to us like God changes his mind. But from God's viewpoint, he never changes his mind. His purposes are always carried out. Now, for example, an example of this would be this. We we could look outside right now and we could say that the sun is what? It's setting. Alright? Or we get up in the morning and we see the sun coming up. We say the sun is rising. The sun is rising, the sun is setting. But the truth of the matter is the sun is not really doing anything different. The sun is remaining the same. It's not the sun that's moving. It's not the sun that is changing. It's the earth that is revolving, right? And that's the way it is with God. We speak from our viewpoint when we say things like that. We use the language of observation when we say things like that. The theologian Wayne Grudham explains the He said God is unchanging in his being, perfection, purposes, and promises, yet God does act and feel emotions. And he acts and feels differently in response to different situations. And I like the way that he does that. Yes, God is unchanging and yet God does act and feel emotions, and he acts and feels differently in response to different situations. But as you look in Exodus 32, and we're going to look at it a little more carefully tonight, we discover that God's will is as settled here as it is anywhere else in Scripture. It was never God's purpose to destroy the Israelites, but only to save them. Even as he threatened wrath, like we read here in these verses, there are still hints in the narrative that God really only wanted to save them. First, there was a simple fact that God commanded Moses to go down. Remember when he said, Moses, you go down. Is he really intending to destroy the Israelites? If he was, then why did he send Moses down? He would have said, Moses, stay up here. I'm going to destroy them. I don't want you to get destroyed with them. But no, he was saying, Moses, go down, you see. The answer is that he's planning to save them through the intercession of their mediator, Moses. But the biggest hint of all that God is really his desire is ultimately to be gracious to Israel is when we read in verse number ten Where God says this, look at verse ten again. Now therefore let me alone that my wrath may wax hot against them, that I may consume them, and I will make of thee a great nation. This verse doesn't mean that God can't control his temper. You know, when you read that, you know, it might seem to come across that way, but just remember that God's wrath is always pure and just And that uh his wrath is always according to his holiness. But again, this is an example of another Anthropomorphism, another way in which God is displaying Himself. God is revealing Himself in a way that finite man can understand. God is speaking about His anger in human terms not to lower himself to our level, but to help us understand how his justice and mercy interact in our salvation The important phrase in this verse is leave me alone. Now again, that might make it sound like that God is sulking here, but that's misleading. What God is actually doing is giving a condition. Or even he's giving Moses an invitation to intercede. The effect of what God is saying to Moses is this If you leave me alone, my wrath will wax hot against them, and I will consume them. The commentator Philip Riken wrote this, Moses stands between God and his people, and God will not proceed to punish Israel unless his prophet allows him to do it. Only if the mediator were to stop praying for his people would God destroy his people. You see, what God was actually saying to Moses is, look, I don't want you to be leave me alone. I want you to actually Pray for these people. This was an open door and an invitation for Moses to pray intercessory prayers for these people because again it was God's desire that they be spared. But again, but we have to ask this question, with all that in mind, we have to ask this question, what kind of intercession or what kind of prayer Does it take to get God, from our viewpoint, to repent or to change his mind? How can we move God? through our prayers. This is what we see here tonight as we examine the prayers of Moses. We see what I call four different kinds of prayers that move God. And from our vantage point, cause God to Could I say repent, as the Bible says, or to change his mind? Notice the four kinds of prayers. Here's number one, if you're taking notes, write down prayers that are consumed with the preeminence of God. Prayers that are consumed with the preeminence of God. Look again in verse number seven. And the Lord said unto Moses, Go, get thee down for thy people, which thou brought us out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves. Now what's the context of this story? This is all about the golden calf incident, right? God's mighty hand delivered Israel from the Egyptians. They later went to Mount Sinai and God said to Moses at Mount Sinai, I'm I want to enter into a covenant with these people If they will agree to obey all of my laws, then they'll be unto me a peculiar people. They'll be a nation of priests. They'll show forth my glory unto the world. And you remember the response of the people when Moses gave them that offer from God? The people said, All that the Lord says, we will do. They agreed to enter into a covenant relationship with God and obey the Lord. But here in Exodus chapter thirty-two, Moses had left the people alone, and he went up into the mountain to be with God and prayed. And when he didn't return quickly, the people persuaded Aaron to make a golden calf And they fell into pagan idolatry and all kinds of immorality. You know, God calls idolatry spiritual adultery. This would be like committing adultery on your honeymoon. They just entered into a covenant relationship with God, and now here they were committing idolatry. This was a monstrous sin against God. And while Moses was up on the mountain, God told Moses what was going on. That's what he in verse number ten, that's when he said, Leave me alone that my wrath may wax hot. Now, if Moses was concerned about making himself great, he could have taken God up on the offer in verse 10. What did he say, Moses, leave me alone, let me get angry, because you know I'll I'll destroy them and I'll make of you a great nation. If Moses was concerned about making himself great, he could have taken God up on this. Moses could have had a greater legacy than he already had. The nation would then be perhaps named after him But Moses was not concerned about his own glory. He was concerned about God's name. And in response, Moses praise on um on behalf of the people, basing his prayers on God's glory and reputation and name with the Egyptians Moses wasn't after a people called by his name. Moses was more concerned for God's name. He wanted God to be exalted. And that's what prayer should be. Remember, if we were going to the Lord's Prayer, remember what Jesus taught us to pray? Our Father was hard in heaven, hallowed be your name. That means holy be your name. To regard God as holy. Our aim in prayer should be that we exalt the name of God above all else. So I think that this whole offer here from God was really just a test to see where Moses' heart was. And Moses, you know what, he re he passed that test. Because the way he responded is, you know, instead of saying, you know, okay God, I'll do this. You can destroy them, make a nation of me. That's not what he said. He didn't say, go ahead and do that, God. He says, notice what he says in verse number seven. Back up to um to verse number seven. Or excuse me, this is what God says. God says in verse 7, the Lord said unto Moses, Go get thee down, for thy people, which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves. God didn't stand with the people in their sin. But again, I think it was a test for Moses. Moses could have said, Yeah, these are my people, yeah, I did do a good job bringing up out of Egypt, didn't I, God But Moses knew that these people were not his people, and he knew that he didn't deliver them from Egyptians, only God did So look down at verse number eleven and notice what Moses said. And Moses besought the Lord as God and said, Lord, why does thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand? Moses didn't take any credit, but reminded God, God, these are not my people, these are your people. And I didn't bring them out of Egypt. God, you're the one who brought them out of Egypt with your mighty power. And then he further shows how he's concerned about God's name. Look in verse number twelve. Wherefore should the Egyptians speak and say, For mischief did he bring them out to slay them in the mountains And to consume them from the face of the earth. And so Moses is saying, God, if you abandon your people now The Egyptians will have a good laugh, and God, your name will be dishonored. And so then Moses does something very bold. He asks God to repent. Look in verse 12, the latter part. Turn from thy fierce wrath and repent of this evil against thee thy people. The word evil here is the Hebrew word Ra. It doesn't mean moral evil, because again, God cannot sin. What it means is in this context it means judgment. It means disaster. It means catastrophe. If God in his wrath wipes out this people, this would be a disaster. That's the sense in which it's evil here. And so Moses boldly asked God to change his mind. But the lesson that we draw from this is very simple. Our focus should always be on the glory of God, on the name of God. What did the psalmist say? Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto your name give glory. So think about your prayers in the last week. How much did God's glory motivate your prayers? How much were you focused on God's name when you prayed The kind of prayers that move God, the kind of prayers that cause God, from our perspective, to change his mind, are prayers that are consumed with the preeminence of God. But here's number two. Another kind of prayer that causes God to move on our behalf are prayers that are centered on the promises of God. Look at verse number 13 and notice what he says. Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou sweareth by thine own self. And said unto them, I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven. And all this land that I have spoken of will I give unto your seed. And they shall inherit it forever. What does Moses do here now? He reminds God of his promise to Abraham and Isaac and Israel Now what's unique about that phrase? Normally when you hear those three names, you hear it like this, Abraham, Isaac, and what? Jacob. But here Moses doesn't use the name Jacob He uses the name, it's the same person, but he uses the name that God gave to Jacob when God changed his name. Why? Because that was a name of promise. In a very subtle way, Moses is reminding God of the promises that he had given, and specifically the promise to Jacob or Israel. that God gave him. And so Moses is again reminding God, God, you are a God who makes promises and you keep them, no matter how unfaithful the uh the receiver might be. Jacob was not a man worthy of the promises of God. Jacob was a liar and a deceiver, and yet God changed his name to Israel. And so Moses pleased with God to remember the promises that he made to his people. You see, God must be true to his word so we can lay hold of the things he has promised and we can expect God to answer based on his promises. Now, two things to consider when we consider that. First of all, you know, when we make when we claim a promise from the Bible, we need to make sure that we're claiming the promise correctly. I had a I had had Christians come to me and say, you know, I they would point out a promise in the Bible and say, I've claimed this promise and God hasn't answered. And when I looked at the promise that they were pointing to, They were completely taken out of context. That's not what God promised. You saw something in there that's not what God said The Bible is not like a Aladdin's lamp where you rub it and a genie pops out and you can just claim whatever thing that you think it says for yourself and expect God to move. You have to make sure that those promises are used in their proper context. For example, there are people who take certain verses and they argue that it's always God's will to heal us if we have faith. But what they're doing is they're misusing promises of God, since the scripture also shows that many faithful, godly Christians uh didn't get healed. It's not always God's will to heal. Sometimes God's answer is to give us grace to go through the trial or to go through the sickness. So we have to be careful to make sure we're not lifting promises out of the context. But another thing is we have to consider the proper timing. We need to remember that just because God promised something and just because we claim it doesn't mean that God has to answer that immediately. You know, Moses, he didn't get to see the fulfillment of this promise with regard to the Israelites inheriting the promised land because he was taken to heaven before that ever happened. He saw it from a distance, the promised land, but he himself never got to go there, and he never saw the Israelites claim that land. You see, some promises that God made and that we claim we might not ever see them fulfilled in this life. But it doesn't mean that God won't fulfill that promise that he made to us. We can bank on God's promises. But here's the third kind of prayer. First of all, prayers that are consumed with the preeminence of God, prayers that are centered on the promises of God. But here's the third kind of prayers that move God. Prayers that are concerned about the people of God. Look at verse number 15, or excuse me, verse 14 of chapter 32. And the Lord repented of the evil which he thought to do unto his people. Now, verse 14 is kind of a summary explaining the events that are described in more detail in the rest of chapter 32 and the rest of chapter 33. And we have to kind of have to look at that just a little bit. When Moses prayed, you know, he knew that God's people had sinned by making the golden calf because God told them. But Moses didn't really know the extent of their sin until he actually came down and he saw what was going on in the camp. And when Moses actually saw what was happening, And the camp he exploded with anger. Look at verse number nineteen of chapter thirty two. Notice what Moses says And it came to pass as soon as he came nigh unto the camp that he saw the calf and the dancing, and Moses' anger waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands and broke them beneath the mount And he took the calf which they had made, and he burnt it with in the fire, and he ground it to powder, and he strawled it upon the water, and made the children of Israel to drink it. Wow, he explodes with righteous anger He smashes the tablets containing the Ten Commandments. He takes the calf and he burns it and then he he grinds it to powder. He sprinkles it in water and he makes the people actually to drink of the water. And then he confronts Aaron. I love what Aaron's responses. Look at verse 21. And Moses said unto Aaron, What did this people unto thee that thou hast brought so great a sin upon them? And Aaron said, Let not the anger of my Lord wax hot. Thou knowest the people that they are set on mischief. For they said unto me, Make us gods. Which shall go before us. For as for this Moses, this man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we woke not what has become of him. And so and he said, and I said unto them, Whatsoever hath any gold, let them cast it off. So they gave it me. Then I cast it into the fire, and there came out this calf. I kind of laugh at that answer. Moses, don't be mad at me. You know how hard these people are to deal with. And besides that, I just asked the people to give me the gold, I put it in the fire, and this calf popped out. You know, that was his excuse. It's not my fault. Moses then turns to the people, and he said, If you're on the Lord's side, come to me. Look at verse number 26. And Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come unto me, and all the sons of the Levite gathered themselves together unto him. And he said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel put every man his sword by his side, and go in and out from gate to gate throughout the camp And slay every man his brother, and every man his companion, and every man his neighbor. And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses, and there fell of the people that day about three thousand men So Moses commands those that are with him with him to go out and execute those that had not come over to his side, even if they were even if it meant killing your friend or your brother or your neighbor And the Bible says 3,000 were executed that day. Maybe they were the leaders of this idolatrous rebellion. Who knows? But they died. And then notice verse thirty of chapter thirty-two. And it came to pass on the morrow that Moses said unto people, You have sinned a great sin. Now I will go up unto the Lord. Per adventure I shall make atonement of your sin. And so Moses then goes to God and he pleads for the people. He becomes the intercessor. He asks God to forgive them. Now there's two things I want you to observe about what we read in this narrative. First of all, what we can learn from this is that we must not treat sin lightly We see from Moses' reaction that he would not tolerate sin in the camp. He was so angry about what had happened. We see him uh respond the way that he does. He calls the people out. He tells them how great their evil was. And then he goes to God and he confesses their sin. He doesn't excuse the people. He doesn't, you know, um You know, basically forget about their sin or shrug off their sins because Moses knew how evil sin is. And he knew how God hated sin Now the reason Moses saw sin as being so evil was because he had just come from the holy presence of God. So compare Moses to Aaron. Here's Moses, he's in God's presence. God's holy presence. And then he comes down to the camp. And you know what he sees? How sinful that evil is in the camp. But here's Aaron. He's with the people. He sees no big deal. He's following what the people want. You see, the point is this. If we really want to hate sin the way we should hate it, it comes from being in the presence of God. Because when you're in God's holy presence, you know what? You learn to see sin the way God does. And you can hate it. Or you can be like Aaron. And allow yourself to be corrupted by the world. And when that happens, you won't see sin as being exceedingly sinful. And so we have to see sin for what it is. We must not treat sin lightly. True revival comes when God's people begin to see sin the way it is. And they begin to repent and confess to sin. But here's another lesson we learned from this. We must have compassion on sinners. You know, it would have been easy for Moses to say, you know what, when he comes down from the mountain, he sees everything going on. It would have been very easy for Moses to say, you know what, I'm out of here. I've had enough of you people If you guys want to you want to party, you can party in the wilderness until you're right. I'm out of here, I'm done. Well easy for Moses to do that. Be easy to get frustrated with these people, but he doesn't do that. What does he do? He prays an incredible prayer for them. Look at verse number 31 of chapter 32. And Moses returned on the Lord and said, Oh, this people have sinned a great sin. And have made them gods of gold. Yet now if thou wilt forgive their sin, and if not, blot me, I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written Isn't that an incredible prayer? God, please forgive these people. This is a horrible, wicked sin that they committed. But Lord, if you won't forgive them, then just please blot my name out of your book. What was Moses saying there? He was saying, you know, God, if if you would if you don't forgive them, I would just rather die. I would rather be eternally condemned if you will not forgive these people. Remember, Paul praised something similar in the New Testament in Romans 9. Paul said this: I could wish that myself were a curse from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. Paul was willing to be cut off from Christ if it meant that the Jewish people would get saved. So let me ask you a question. Have you ever had that kind of burden for someone? A burden that was so great that you would be willing to sacrifice your own life in order for them to be saved But even though we don't have that kind of burden, you know what? God is looking for people that will intercede on behalf of others. Now, what got what does God do? How does he respond? Look at verse 33. And the Lord said unto Moses, Whosoever has sinned against me him I will blot out of my book. Verse thirty four. Therefore now go lead the people unto the place of which I have spoken unto thee Behold, mine angel shall go before thee. So God saw the heart of Moses, even though Moses really prayed a prayer that was theologically incorrect. You know, God, blot me out of your book if you're not going to forgive them. But God saw the heart of Moses. And God said, Moses, you know what? Those that sin against me, those are the ones that I'm going to blot out of the book. But you know what? I'm going to restore these people, and you know what? I'm going to let them go into the land because I did promise them that. I'm going to send an angel to go before them to take care of all the Canaanites, and they will inherit the land But the fact that Moses was willing to sacrifice his life on behalf of the people in this way, he becomes a type of the Lord Jesus who bore our sins on his own body on the cross. But again, we might not ever have that kind of love for people, but God is looking for those who will stand in the gap and who will intercede on behalf of others who have sinned greatly against God. So these are the kind of prayers that move God. Prayers that are consumed with the preeminence of God, prayers that are centered on the promises of God. Prayers that are concerned about the people of God. But here's the last kind, number, final one. Prayers that are content with the presence of God. When we pray, we must desire to experience God's presence. Now remember what God said to Moses. Moses, I'm going to restore the people. I'm go you you go, you lead them into the land. I'm gonna send an angel before you, but God himself would not go. Why wouldn't God go? Well God explains why. Look in chapter thirty three, look in verse number two. I will send an angel before thee, and I will drive out the Canaanites. But notice what he says in verse number 5. For the Lord said unto Moses, say unto the children of Israel, ye are a stiff-necked people. Actually, back up to verse 3. Unto a land's loyal with milk and honey, for I will not go in the midst of thee, for thou art a stiff-necked people, lest I will consume thee in the way. Again in verse number five, God says the same thing. Ye are a stiff-necked people. I will come up into the midst of thee in a moment and consume thee. Therefore now put off thy ornaments from thee, that I may know what to do unto thee. In other words, God said to Moses, Look, if I go with this people, they're such a stiff-necked people, that I'll destroy them if that happens And when God says they're stiff-necked, this was really describing a beast of burden, you know, an animal that was too stiff-necked to wear the master's yoke and do what the master says. So God was actually saying about the Israelites, they're stubborn, they're arrogant, they're proud, they always are they think they're always right. They don't want to obey, they don't want to wear the yoke that I've given them, and because of that Um, I will destroy them. Now, but God said, Look, I'm not going to go, but I'm going to send an angel. He'll go, he'll take care of the Canaanites, and the children of Israel will inherit the land. Now you would think that Moses would say, okay, that's a good deal. I mean, think about it. Moses turned God away from destroying him. Okay, God, that sounds good to me. But Moses wasn't satisfied with that. He was not satisfied. You know why? Moses sought the presence of God. He wanted God to go with them. Look in chapter thirty-three, look at verse number twelve. And Moses said unto the Lord, See thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people, and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me, yet thou hast said, I know thee by name. And thou hast also found grace in my sight. So, and look at verse thirteen. Now therefore I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight, show me now thy way, that I may know thee. That I may find grace in thy sight and consider that this nation is thy people. You see, for Moses, the promised land in itself was not enough He wanted to know God more. One of the reasons our prayers often fall flat is because we're satisfied with the blessings, but not the blesser. We're okay with just having what God gives us without really knowing God more. And that's not what Moses is like. Moses is not satisfied with that. Moses wants more. Moses goes on to ask for more. God, I don't want just the promised land. I want you. I want your presence with us. Martin Lloyd Jones said this, Christian people, I'm not asking you whether you are living a good life. I'm not asking you whether you read your Bible or whether you pray. I'm not asking whether you're active in church work. or some other form of Christian activity. What I'm asking you is this, do you know God? Do you know God? And do you have a desire to know God? Do we say like Moses Lord did, that's not enough. Lord, it's not enough to have the promised land. I don't want the promised land without you. If you're not going to be there with me, then the promised land means nothing to me. And Moses goes on and says, Lord, show me your glory. Show me who you are and your innermost being. Show me that. That's what I want to see. Look at verse number 18 of chapter 33. Again, a beautiful prayer. And he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory. You know, we could say, Moses, what more do you want? I mean, you're the man who sold God in the burning bush, you saw God do miracles in Egypt, you saw God part the Red Sea. You went up on the Quaking Mountain into the thunder and lightning, into the presence of God on Mount Sinai. You were there with them forty days. There in God's presence, you were in his presence so much that your face shone with the glory of God. Isn't that enough, Moses? And Moses would have said, no, that's not enough. I want more of God's presence. I want more of God's glory. Are you satisfied with where you are in the Lord? Are you satisfied with his presence now? Now, of course, in one sense, we should be satisfied with the Lord and his salvation, but there also ought to be in all of us a holy dissatisfaction that spurs us on to know God more than we already do. And without that, you'll never know God's presence like Moses did. You know what? The church today is so caught up with methods and techniques. On a personal level, you know, people they run to the latest seminars, they you know read the latest self-help books. On a church level, you know, pastors, successful pastors put on, you know, seminars on how to increase the size of your church. But what we need, both individually and corporately, more than anything else, is a deeper experience of the presence of God in our life That's what we need. To be effective in prayer, we have to desire to know God. We have to be content only with the presence of God. And we have to desire that more than anything else. Those are the kind of prayers that cause God to change his mind from our perspective. That move the hand of God. Prayers that are consumed with the preeminence of God. Prayers that are centered on the promises of God. Prayers that are concerned about the people of God. Prayers that are content only with the presence of God. Now I'm out of time here. But in closing, I would just like to say, you know, I pray that God will do a great work here at Grace, something that can't really be explained humanly through a method or a program or anything like that. I pray that. I don't pray that enough. In fact, I don't pray enough. I don't seek God's presence enough. But I want to do that more. And I want you to join me in asking that God do something great here. That God will do something that can't be explained, other than God did it. You know why? Because when we know it's of the Lord, guess who gets all the glory? God gets all the glory for that. We can't take any glory because it's what God does. You see. I'm asking for that, and I ask you to join me in praying for that. And I hope that you will pray these kinds of prayers that move the hand of God. And you on your behalf. So Father, thank you for this example of Moses, the great intercessor of Israel. What an incredible verse and passage that this is. That Lord, you actually repented. Of course, Lord, we know that you're perfect in all that your ways and your attributes and your plans and your purposes. But Lord, from our perspective, it looks like there's times when you change your mind And that, Lord, you do things on behalf of your people in response to the intercessory prayer from people that seek you So Father, we we we take courage and hope from this narrative about Moses. And I pray, Lord, that it encourages all of us to pray more. Our prayers do make a difference. Our prayers really do change things. And God, in your sovereign wisdom, you have chosen to use the vehicle of prayer to accomplish your sovereign purposes. Lord, may we never forget that. And Lord, I pray that it will put us on our knees. I pray, Lord, that for people here tonight that are praying for others that perhaps are sinning in a monstrous way Perhaps they're out of fellowship with God. Maybe there are some people here tonight praying for lost souls to come to know Christ. And humanly speaking, Lord, there's no hope. But Lord, we know that with you there's always hope. Lord, I pray that you'll hear the prayers of people that come to you, Lord, and intercede on behalf of those that are in sin. That Lord you'll hear those prayers, and that Lord, you'll get the honor and the glory when you show mercy to those who deserve judgment. Father, help us to be like Moses. Help us, Lord, to seek you not just your blessings. But to seek you, Lord. What good is the blessing without you? So Lord, give us a hunger to know you more. And Father, we'll thank you and you'll praise you for that in Jesus' name