Thank you, praise team. Would you take God's word this morning? Open to the book of Ephesians, chapter six. We uh never really finished up the series, and I want to just finish up this series by looking at the last few verses of chapter six. So we want you to look at verse number eighteen this morning. I want to talk about being a prayer warrior. Verse 18, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, there was a quiet missionary who walked the dusty roads of northern in India. He wasn't known for his uh eloquent sermons, but There was something, however, that was very unique about this man. He was a man who knew how to pray. His name was John Hyde. And it was said of John Hyde that when he prayed, heaven moved and hell trembled. He became known by the name of praying Hyde. He came into India at a time when there was such a barrenness spiritually And he decided the thing that was needed more than anything else was to pray for souls to be saved. At one missionary conference, he said these words, God, give me souls or I die. And that wasn't just a rhetorical expression. That was really his heartbeat. That was exactly how he felt. And so that year he prayed specifically for one soul a day to be saved. At the end of the year, 400 people were converted to Jesus Christ. The next year he asked God for two a day. And then he asked God for four a day. And God answered those prayers. John Hyde, it was often said that uh he prayed at times all night long for people to come to know Jesus Christ. Doctors later discovered that because of his intense uh intercession praying that it really kind of altered his body. His his heart had shifted from its normal position in his chest. The strain of constant prayer had moved his very heart But more importantly, his prayers moved the heart of God because God heard him and God answered his prayer. And because of his prayer ministry, revival swept through the the Ponjab region and multitudes were brought to Jesus Christ. Now John Hyde, he waged war, not with any physical weapon. He waged war on his knees. He was a prayer warrior. And he had the armor of God and the Holy Spirit, and he entered into God's presence, and uh God used him in a great way through prayer. That's the whole idea here in Ephesians chapter 6. Now Paul is concluding this letter. He concludes this great epistle by giving us one final weapon, or one, we could say another piece of armor. uh if you will, and that is he he doesn't forget this armor of prayer, the the weapon of prayer. Having instructed believers to take the the the belt of truth and the breastplate of righteousness and the shield of faith and the sword of the spirit. Now he turns to the thing that empowers all of these these weapons. all of these pieces of armor. And verse 18, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. Really, prayer is not a part of the armor. Prayer basically is what activates the armor. It's what empowers the armor for a believer. No soldier goes into battle without communication from headquarters, and no Christian can stand against the wiles of the devil without continual spirit-filled prayer. Prayer is our mightiest weapon that God has given us. And so this morning I want us to consider this idea of being a prayer warrior, someone who is marked by prayer. A Christian who is moved by the Spirit, someone who's militant in the heavens when it comes to prayer. So what does it look like This verse is filled in Ephesians 6. 18. What we see are five essential truths about the Christian's call to prayer. And I want us to look at them together this morning. Number one, think about the priority of prayer. The priority of prayer. Again, look at verse 18. Paul writes, praying always. That's what I call the priority of prayer in the life of the believer Is it a priority with you? Are you praying always? Prayer is not a spiritual spare tire. It's the steering wheel of the Christian life. It's not reserved for emergencies. This is the essential line of communication that we need to keep open with heaven. Paul echoed this phrase in 1 Thessalonians 5. 17 when he said, pray without ceasing. Pray without ceasing. The early church, it says in Acts 2. 42, continued steadfastly in prayers. Prayer is not an optional extra For the Christian prayer is the air that we breathe. Just as uh in the in the Old Testament temple or tabernacle Right before one the priest would enter into the Holy of Holies, there was the altar of incense, and that altar was constantly burning, and there was constantly smoke ascending up to uh the top And this is a picture of prayer in the life of the believer. We are to be constantly giving prayers to God. When the Bible says pray without ceasing, it doesn't mean that we have to stay on our knees 24 hours a day. We can't no one can do that. But what it means is that we are we live in the continual atmosphere of prayer. We can constantly be giving prayers to God about everything all the time, no matter what we're doing. We are like that altar of incense. We are constantly bringing our prayers to God in heaven. Prayer, said Homer Hodge, should be the breath of our breathing. It should be the thought of our thinking, the soul of our feeling, the life of our living, the sound of our hearing, and the growth of our growing. Again, we've been considering the idea that we are soldiers in the fight, but a soldier in battle never cuts off radio communication with their command. In the same way, we must not allow the noise of this life to drown out the voice of our captain. And so, as a believer, we have to constantly keep the line of prayer open. Now again in this context, Paul has just described for us what it's like to be a soldier to put on the armor. But the armor without communication is useless. And so prayer has to be a priority. Ian Bounds wrote this: prayer is the greatest of all forces because it honors God and brings him into active aid. Spurgeon said this: prayer is the slender nerve that moveth the muscle of omnipotence. And Andrew Murray said, prayer is not a preparation for the greater work, it is the greater work. So there has to be the priority in our life. How big a priority is prayer to you? But then write down number two, the plurality of prayer. The plurality of prayer. Look again in verse 18. Praying always with all prayer. Notice the expression all prayer and supplication. All here indicates a wide range of expression. All prayer indicates a variety of ways in which we pray. Like a soldier with a full arsenal, the believer uses different forms of prayer depending upon the need or depending upon the intensity of the battle. A soldier doesn't rely on just one maneuver. He has many maneuvers. And so the Christians should also have more than one different types of prayer or different modes of prayer, we could say. And a mature believer learns all of those, and he uses all of those. For example, in verse 18, Paul uses two different words. to describe prayer when he says uh praying always with all prayer that word there is a word for general devotion and then he says and supplication the word for supplication is specific request So this shows the variety and the diversity of prayer. Prayer involves both devotion and detail. It involves both sincere reverence and specific requests. It involves both worship and warfare. It involves both intimacy and intensity. Write down this verse, 1 Timothy 2. 1. Paul's teaching Timothy about prayer in the church, and he writes this: I exhort therefore that first of all, notice this to be first of all. Not last of all. First of all, supplications, prayers, intercession, giving of thanks be made for all men Notice the varieties of prayers that are mentioned in that one verse. Here, Paul gives four different types of prayer in this one verse. Supplication, this carries the idea of just making your request. before known before the Lord. It's really the idea of an audience with a king. And then prayers, that's again the common word for prayer, which emphasizes devotion, reverence. And then he uses the word intercession. This is prayer on the behalf of others. When we pray for other people, we intercede for one another. Perhaps a person is not on spiritual praying ground themselves. Or there's someone that has gone astray, someone that is lost. When we pray for them, that is called intercession. And then another thing he mentioned was giving of thanks. That's definitely a part of prayer. We not only give thanks for answered prayers, but we give thanks to God for who he is and for what he's done. So different modes of prayer So based on that, let me just give you a few of these modes, four types of prayer. First of all, write down there's worshipful prayer. Worshipful prayer. That's adoring God for who he is. Worshipful prayer reminds us that prayer is not, first of all, about us, it's about God. And the Bible is filled with this type This is the kind where when the worshipper goes to God, we recite before God his wonderful attributes and we worship him. because of who he is. For example, Exodus 15, 11. Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like thee, glorious in holiness, faith fearful in praises, doing wonders? And here this prayer exalts the uniqueness of God, the holiness of God. David said this in 1 Chronicles 29, 11, Thine, O Lord, is the greatness. And the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty. Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all. You see what David's doing there? He is rehearsing the attributes of God. Prayer and he's worshiping God. He he rehearses the greatness of God, the glory of God, the victory of God, the majesty of God. That's worshipful prayer. And we see this kind of prayer all throughout the book of Psalms. For example, Psalm 47 and verse 2, for the Lord most high is terrible. He is a great king over all the earth. And then in Psalm 103, the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy towards them that fear him. And here the psalmist again is rehearsing the mercy and the grace and the patience and the steadfast love of God. When you go to God in prayer, don't just run into the presence of God and then throw out all the things that you need. Worship God for who He is. Rehearse before God those mighty attributes because that will do something for your own soul. It'll remind you how great our God is. But then there's also another kind of prayer. There's warfare prayer. This is pleading for strength in the battle This is the cry of a soldier under fire, pleading for divine reinforcements. Remember in the book of Acts, chapter 4, Peter and John were beaten by the authorities and told not to preach anymore uh and speak about the name of Jesus anymore. Now most people after that kind of treatment, they would have uh prayed for protection and safety. They would have prayed for relief. But not these disciples. So they returned to their fellow believers, and the Bible says they lifted up their voices, and they began to plead, not for deliverance, but listen to what they said. Lord, thou art God, which has made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in it And then they recited Psalm 2, acknowledging that kings and rulers always rage against God's anointed. And finally they said this. And now, Lord, behold their threatenings and grant unto thy servants that with all boldness they may speak the word. That's warfare praying. They're not asking for the battle to be moved, to be removed What are they praying for? Strength in the battle. God, don't take the battle away. Just make us stronger. Help us to be able to be strong and firm and bold. And the Bible says that when they prayed, that place was shaken. And God again filled them with the Holy Spirit. That early church shows us what warfare prayer is all about. It doesn't say, Lord, make life easier. It says, Lord, make me stronger. It doesn't plead for the absence of trials, but it plead for the presence of the Holy Spirit and the grace of God to go through the trials. That's how heaven shakes and hell trembles when Christians pray. Spurgeon said this, We shall never see much change for the better in our churches till the prayer meeting occupies a higher place in the esteem of Christians. And that is so true. It's sad today the way some people don't really come to prayer meeting. They don't really consider it a big priority. But with God, it is a priority. And the church will only move forward and be blessed as we are marching on our knees in prayer. And we need this in the battle. Remember, I remember reading about the story of Martin Luther before he had to stand before the deed of worms and give a account for what he wrote. And they asked him to recant what he wrote or or just to uh basically uh think about what he had said and maybe repent and he asked her one night to to to pray about it. And he went and he prayed and he prayed fervently, asking God to make him strong. And in the next day when he stood before the authority, he did not hesitate, he did not waver. He said, Here I stand, I can do no other That's the strength of warfare prayer. It makes us strong. But then there's another kind of prayer, it's weeping prayer, not only worshipable prayer. And warfare prayer, but weeping prayer. And this is the prayer where we pour out our heart for the lost. Or we pour out our heart for saints who are suffering through some kind of trial or sickness. Jeremiah illustrates this when he wrote when he's called the weeping prophet, but Jeremiah wrote this: Oh, that my head were waters, my eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people. Jeremiah constantly wept in prayer for that lost nation that was going astray. And that should be characteristic of us as believers. We should weep over those who don't know the Lord. We should be praying constantly for the lost to come to know the Lord. Paul prayed with tears to the Philippians. He said, I tell you, even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross. Paul was praying for those who were enemies, and sometimes in tears, because he knew that if they did not come to know Jesus Christ, they had an eternal destiny in a place called hell. And that in itself should cause us to weep. Are you weeping when you pray for those who are lost? Prayer is not only always dry words, it's often wet with tears. But then there's another kind of prayer, and that's watchful prayer. And this is prayer prayer to guard against the devil's schemes. Remember in the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus told his disciples, watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. They were weighed down with sorrow. They knew that Jesus was going to believing them. And Jesus told them on that very night, look, watch and pray. This is a time to pray right now because we're about to go through a difficult time. And what happened? Jesus three times returned and he found the disciples doing what? Sleeping. They were sleeping. They weren't watching. And as a result, what happened? Well, they didn't do so well in the trial. Peter denied the Lord. The disciples basically ran. Jesus, of course was strong and he went all the way to Calvary, taking our sins upon himself. He prayed fervently, and God strengthened him And the disciples did not pray, and they fell during a time of temptation. Watchful prayer is a spiritual alertness where we stay awake. It's like a sentinel on the wall looking for the enemy, praying for God to give you strength to overcome the enemy. It is prayer as protection. When temptation comes, the reason so many Christians succumb to temptation is because they don't exercise watchful prayer. They're not asking God to help them overcome any temptation that Satan might bring their way. It also acknowledges human weakness. It acknowledges that, Lord, I can't do this on my own. I can't stand against the enemy on my own. I need you, Lord, to help me. in this time. Matthew Henry said this prayer will not secure us from temptation, but it will arm us against it. And so that's the plurality of prayer. Worship. Warfare, weeping, watchful, prayer, all these things we use as we do prayer against the enemy. Now here's the third thing I want you to see. Not only the priority of prayer and the plurality of prayer, but I want you to think about the power of prayer. Look again in verse 18. Praying always with all prayer and supplication. Notice this next three words in the Spirit. In the Spirit. This points to divine enablement in prayer. When it comes to prayer, we need help. And we need to realize that we're weak when it comes to prayer. We need to confess that weakness. I don't know about you, but when it comes to prayer, I I'm weak. I can't do it on my own. Sometimes I my flesh doesn't want to pray. And when I get into the prayer closet, sometimes I don't know what to pray. And then sometimes when I'm there, my prayers are weak. So I need help. I need a partner. I need someone that can help me in this prayer. And the good news is God has not left us alone in this matter. He has given us a helper. And that helper is the Holy Spirit of God. He is our prayer partner. You try to pray without him, you're not going to do a whole lot of good. But with him, your prayers become powerful. Write down Romans 8. 26. Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, that is, our weaknesses. The Spirit helps our weaknesses, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Notice the word help. Likewise, the Spirit helps our infirmities. Greek scholars tell us this is a compound word, a very interesting word. Asu, which means with, anti, which means face to face, lembano, which means to take hold of. So putting it together, it means this, to take hold of, with, face to face. And that's how the Holy Spirit helps us in prayer. He takes hold of it with us face to face. Now Dr. Herschel Hobbes illustrated this word, and this is what he he pictured illustration he used. He said, Picture a man with a wagon door down. Now today that was back in the old days, a wagon door. a pickup truck with the with the door down, okay? And there's a bale of hay that falls off the tr the truck or the wagon. And you can't get that bale of hey, it's too big. You can't put it back up in the truck on your own. But here comes a partner, and he grabs one end, you grab the other, you're facing each other. Each of you lift up that bale of hay and you put it back into the truck. That is the word that is used here, help. That's what the Holy Spirit does for us. You see, prayer is such a big burden, and we can't lift the burden of prayer on our own. I need a partner, and so what the Holy Spirit does is he grabs the other end, and face to face, we lift that prayer burden to God That is our prayer partner, the Holy Spirit. It's kind of like moving a heavy piece of furniture. You ever try to do that by yourself? You just can't do it on your own. You need someone to help you. And with with regard to prayer, the Holy Spirit is our helper. He guides us. He inspires us. You ever get a desire to pray, an inspiration to pray? Where did that come from? That came from the Holy Spirit. It certainly wasn't your flesh. And it certainly wasn't the devil suggesting to you, hey, you know, you need to go pray. That comes from the Holy Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit of God is the one who inspires us. And He energizes us. And He sustains us while we're there praying. I can't do it without him. He won't do it without me. But together with my prayer partner, I become strong in prayer. And also Romans 8. 26 says this the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. The Holy Spirit guides our prayers, he fuels our passion, he empowers our intercession. And when it says groanings which cannot be uttered, it means these are inexpressible words or prayers, I should say, wordless prayers, things that you ever you ever have a uh a a feeling, a desire, a burden, and you just can't put it in words. There's no real words that you can use that really adequately describe what you're feeling. Well, the good news is the Holy Spirit can take that groan and interpret it and bring it to the throne of God. And he brings our groans. In fact, he inspires those groans in us. It's not the Holy Spirit groaning, He's groaning through us. He's giving us these desires, these overwhelming burdens. So that we bring this in a groan before God, and the Holy Spirit takes it and he brings it to the throne of God. And he takes these things that are too profound for speech, and he interprets these things before the throne He takes our broken prayers and he aligns them with the will of God. That's what he does as our prayer partner. John Murray says this: the children of God have two intercessors. Christ is their intercessory Is their intercessor in the court of heaven. The Holy Spirit is their intercessor in the theater of their own hearts. And this is what it means to pray in the Spirit. We pray utterly dependent upon the Holy Spirit to help us in this area where we are weak. So that we see the the priority of prayer, the plurality of prayer, the power of prayer. But here's number four, the persistence of prayer. Look again in verse 18. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. Notice these next few words, and watching thereunto with all perseverance. Prayer is not for the faint of heart. It demands steadfastness. The word perseverance, again a compound word. To continue to do something with intense effort. To continue to do it with intense effort. It means you don't give up praying when you see no results immediately, when no answers come immediately. You know, there are some Christians that you do you pray for something, and if God doesn't answer, you just leave off praying and you and you say, well, you know, prayer does no good. I already tried it. Well, the problem is you have no perseverance in prayer. And perseverance, you know what that means? That means you don't give up praying for that. You keep on praying. Jesus taught his disciples this very lesson. To keep praying, ask and it shall be given to you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. Those are all in the linear and the greed. Keep on asking, keep on seeking, keep on knocking. You have to keep on doing it. Don't give up. Jesus gave a parable or an illustration on this very thing in Luke chapter 18. Why don't you just take a moment and turn there? It's really important. Luke chapter 18, verse 1. And notice what Jesus says in this parable, and he spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought always to pray and not to faint. Don't quit, saying, There was a city There was in a city a judge which feared not God, nor regarded man, and there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary And he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God nor regard man yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest her by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cried day and night unto him, though he bear with them long? I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man coming, will he find faith on the earth? What a clearer parable there. Here's this woman, she's been mistreated, she's been oppressed She goes before a judge who is a crook, basically. He takes bribes. And back in that day, it was uh wasn't unusual for judges to be controlled by the more wealthy, the elite. And here's this one woman and she wants the judge to do justice to her in this one case, and he and he he doesn't want to do it But she keeps coming again and again and again and again over and over again. And finally this unjust, crooked judge says, You know what? Even though I don't fear God or man, he realized he was a crook, he admitted it. Even though I don't fear God and I I don't do right. You know what? This woman is wearing me out. I better give her what she wants. Because she'll she'll keep coming. I'm tired of work looking at her. And then so you s so basically she guess what She wants from this unjust judge. And what was it based on? Her persistence. And then Jesus applies it. He says, Did you hear what the unjust judge said to this woman? How much more If we bring our prayers, our petitions before a holy God and a merciful God, will he not hear us and give us what we want? The problem is we don't really continue in prayer. We're not persistent in prayer. And that's the problem. The Bible says the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. We all heard of George Mueller, a man who was great in prayer. He had an orphanage. They took care of 10,000 orphans. And he would just pray for the needs, and God would supply those needs. He kept the prayer journal and he would write down every time a prayer was answered. And in that journal, he had lists of thousands of answers of prayers in his journal. But he prayed, for example, for five friends to be converted. One was saved after five years of him praying, another after ten years, another one was saved after twenty-five years of praying. And two others were converted after Mueller's death. But he never stopped praying. What is it that thing that you're praying for? Don't stop. Who is that person that you're praying for? Don't stop. Keep praying. Spiritual warfare does not yield to lazy prayer. It requires grit and grace and grinding and perseverance. But let me give you the last thing. We see the priority of prayer and the plurality of prayer and the power of prayer. And the persistence of prayer. But notice finally the people of prayer. Look again at verse 18. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication. For all saints. Who are the people of prayer? All saints. All saints Prayer is not just personal. If all you pray about is things for yourself, you are doing a disservice to your brother We used to be praying for all saints. It's communal. The prayer warrior lifts up his fellow soldiers, especially those that are in the trenches in the battle. That's why we meet on Wednesday night. We meet to pray for one another. We meet to pray for missionaries that are in the trenches. We're not just praying for ourselves. We're praying for those who suffer. We're praying for those who are going through a difficult time. Some in temptation, some in sickness, but all in need of grace. Paul was constantly asking the church to pray for him. And by the way, let me just ask you, pray for me. I'm not going to email you and ask me specifically, just every day. Just assume that I need it. And I I pray for you. Paul said this in Colossians 4:3, with all praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ. for which I am also in bonds. Paul was in prison when he wrote this and he said, just pray for us that the word of the Lord will be able to have free course and be glorified Paul wasn't so much concerned about him being in the chains. He was more concerned about God's word having free course being used. In fact, look in Ephesians, we're in Ephesians 6, verse 18. Look at the very next verse. Paul gives himself as an illustration of someone who needs prayer. He's one of those saints. And for me, That utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. Paul said, look, please pray for me. Remember, Paul was going to appear before Caesar and give an account for the gospel and Paul's asking for them to pray for him, to have boldness, that I can make known the mystery of the gospel, that I can make clear this message of the gospel so that they'll hear and they'll know That the gospel will again run swiftly. And so we all need prayer. We all need to pray for one another. During World War II, it was common for entire towns to gather together and to pray for soldiers who went off to war. And that's the way it ought to be in the church. We march on our knees, praying for one another. Dietrich Bonhoeffer wrote this, a Christian fellowship. lives and exists by the intercession of its members for one another. And beloved, you mark it down, a healthy church is a praying church. And a church that does not pray is not healthy spiritually. So we need to come together. We need to lift up those who are wounded, those who are weak. Those who are in desperate need, we pray for all saints. And so that's the charge that Paul gives us here Prayer is not just another piece of the armor. It is the power that activates all the other pieces. You put all your armor on. You say, where's the battlefield? I got all my armor on. Where's the battlefield? Drop down to your knees. That's where the battlefield is. It's right there as you pray. The shield of faith is raised through prayer. The sword of the spirit is wielded through prayer. The helmet of salvation is secured through prayer. We fight on our knees, and when we do that, we are the strongest. And so your battlefield is a spiritual battlefield, believer. The church isn't built by programs or personalities, it is built through prayer. So take up your armor. And fall on your knees. John Hyde didn't start revivals with sermons. He sparked them with supplication. And his heart may have shifted because he prayed with such intensity, but more importantly, his prayers moved the heart of God. And I want to tell you what we need more than anything else is we need the blessing of God on our life. And on our church. So are we willing to enter into this battle? Are you willing to put on the whole armor of God and then go to the battlefield on your knees in prayer? Are you willing to become a prayer warrior? Because they're needed desperately. Prayer warriors are desperately needed in the church. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your word. How it instructs us and teaches us the things that you expect of us, the things that are pleasing in your sight. And Father, we know that you're pleased through continual prayer on behalf of your people. It shows our utter humility, our desperation of dependence upon you. And the lack of prayer, on the other hand, Lord, reveals our pride, reveals our sense of self-sufficiency, and it sets us up for failure. And to fall before temptations when they come, if we lack prayer. So Father, speak to our hearts. May we take to heart what the Apostle Paul wrote. About prayer, how important it is, as we put on all the pieces of armor that you've given us. We activate all of those things through continual prayer. So Lord, may we live in this spirit of prayer in all of our life, every day of our life, looking constantly to you. Lord, make us a praying church, a powerful church. With your hand of blessing on us, Lord, we we desperately desire that And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I want to give a brief invitation. If you're here today and you've never placed your faith in Jesus Christ, I want to invite you to do that. The greatest decision you'll ever make is to trust Jesus as your Savior and Lord, to turn from sin and turn to Christ. There's only one way to heaven, that's through Jesus, who on the cross took our sin debt. Jesus, Son of God, was crucified in your place. And he is mighty to save. He will save you when you put your faith in him. And if you haven't done that, you can do it right now, right where you are. God hears our prayers. And if you'll just reach out in prayer and say, Jesus, I'm a sinner. I know you died for me. Please I t forgive me for my sin. I turn to you this very moment. I repent of my sin. I put my faith in you. Save me, Lord Jesus. If you pray that, friend, he will save you. The Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will now wise So will you come to him? Are you willing to come? And if you've done that, friend, let us know. We want to continue to pray for you as you walk with the Lord. in your new life. Father, again, thank you for your word. Speak to hearts. Build your church. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Shall we all stand together?