I'm so glad that you're here tonight. And tonight I just want to give you something from the Word of God. I want to thank all of the preachers and teachers that have been here through the week, uh Dr. Erickson and Brother Tim Fink and Brother David Lewis and of course our speaker, Dr. Herb Samworth, who did an excellent series on the history of the Bible. It's been a profitable week just listening to these men, and I'm really grateful for each one of them. But I'm just going to give you just a final word tonight. And then we have some things that we want to do. We want to have our board and professor sign our doctrinal statement and then also give an award to who to someone that is due this honor. But take your Bibles, open the book of 2 Timothy chapter 4, please. I want to just take a few minutes and just look at this passage of Scripture with you tonight. 2 Timothy chapter 4 Starting down at verse number one, we're going to look at verses one down to verse five. Charles Spurgeon was the great Prince of Preacher who preached during the Victoria era in London. He preached at the Metropolitan Church there. And on July the 24th, 1881, he preached a sermon from the text of Genesis 39, verse 2. And he read the text which said, The Lord was with Joseph. And then the first sentence of the sermon he said this, he said, Scripture scripture frequently sums up a man's life in a single sentence. And that's think about that. That's very true. If there was a sentence in the Bible that summed up your life, what would it be? And that was the thought I had. What is your life sentence. I would have to say for me I discovered my life sentence when I was 16 years old. I grew up here at this church, in case somebody didn't know that. My first official position here was I was janitor of the church Pastor Johnson, the founding pastor, a faithful, wonderful man of God, hired me when I was uh just sixteen. My my dad had gotten saved. Our family started coming to church. I started coming here. I got under the sound of the gospel, I got saved And uh actually it was Pastor Johnson that gave me my first car. I say gave it because he he really only charged me fifty dollars for the car. It was a it was a Buick Skylark, a nineteen seventy-one Buick Skylark And uh it really wasn't didn't run very well. Um but he also gave me another car for parts, you know. So out of those two cars I was able to make one good one that ran. That was my first car And it was so I can get back and forth here to this church so I can be up here to do what needed to be done. But one Sunday night while Pastor Johnson was preaching, this was a few buildings ago, in the original building here at Grace, which is now the educational building. He was preaching on that Sunday night and he on a in November and he at the end at the invitation said, How many of you young men feel called to preach? And uh on that night there were actually nine other guys before me that that raised their hands. And then he said, If you really mean it, stand up. And so they stood up and I was the last one to stand up. He said, If you really mean it, I want you to come down this altar here So they all came down the altar. Again, I was the last one coming down, very shy, uh knelt at the altar, and Pastor had a deacon come and put his hands on each one of us that night. And uh that was the night when I felt uh uh the surrender. I felt like the Lord was calling me, and I initially surrendered to the call. Well, I wanted to make sure that so I went out the next day and I found a quiet place and I began to read and I prayed and I said, Lord, I really don't want to mess up in this. I don't want to do something I'm not supposed to do. So would you please make this very clear to me? And I remember I w began reading the scripture and I I read the verse that is right before you actually in verse 2. I just opened the Bible and I started reading 2 Timothy and I looked at verse 2, preach the word Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears And they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of the evangelists, make full proof of thy ministry. Well those are the words that I read, and I thought, Well Lord, that's pretty clear. What you're asking me to do. And you ever read the Bible and feel like there were verses in the Bible that kind of jumped off the page and kind of jumped into your heart? Well, that was kind of the way I felt with these words. And so this really to me I would say is has been, I hope, my life sentence. I all of my life have tried to prepare for that very thing, the what Paul said to Timothy. And later on, as I studied this letter, I found out some things that I want to teach you tonight. Paul is writing this letter, and remember, this is the last letter that he writes. before he dies. These are really we could say his last words to his young son in the faith, Timothy. Timothy, at the time receiving this, he was perhaps discouraged. A lot of things were happening. He was a very tender, sensitive, timid young man. Paul's writing to encourage him. He wants him to finish Strong, finish well, stay faithful in ministry. A lot of times you pastors know that's sometimes a challenge to do. And so as you read this letter, what you find out there's a lot of commands in it, there's a lot of imperatives For example, in chapter 1, verse 6, Paul said to Timothy, Timothy, stir up the gift of God that you have. God's given you a gift, stir it up. In verse 8 of chapter 1, he says, Don't be ashamed of the Testimony of the Lord or me as prisoner, and don't be ashamed to suffer. If you have to suffer for the gospel, don't be ashamed of that. Don't be afraid. Remember, God's not giving us a sphere to fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. He said in verse thirteen, hold on to the truth, hold to the form of sound words which you've heard in me. In verse chapter two, verse one, he said, Timothy, be strong. Uh in the grace, in chapter 2, verse 3, he said, you have to endure hardness as a good soldier. In chapter 2, verse 15, he said, study to show thyself approved unto God. And then in verse 22 of chapter 3 he said, Flee you fill us. But then you in verse uh then he says, and then follow after righteousness and faith and charity. And then in chapter 3, verse 14, he said, continue in the things which you've learned. And all these commands lead up to this one central command, which is the ultimate command. In fact, all of these things really lead up to this one thing. You have to do all these other things in order to do this thing. You have to stir up the gift of God. You have to be willing to suffer. You have to, you know, uh not be afraid and hold on to the truth and be strong and endure hardness and study to show yourself approved. Why? So that you can do what he says. in verse number two of chapter four, which is preach the word. That's our main calling. If you're a minister That is what God is calling you to do. That's the major priority that you and I have. The word for preach here is a word that's used of a herald back in Paul's day. A king would send out an official herald He was given a message to proclaim. His job was to proclaim it loud, and his job was to be clear. He didn't have the liberty to give his own message. The message was already given to him from the king. He had the responsibility to clearly proclaim the message that's already been delegated to him by the king And he had all of the th the authority of the king. And that is exactly why Paul, I think, chose this word Karuzon. Karut Santan Logan preached the word. He uses that word because it I think in the mind of Timothy he understood that we have a responsibility not to create a message or to invent anything, but to preach the message that God has already given. To preach the word. And that's what Paul said to Timothy. He is not an ambassador with the privilege of negotiating. He was a messenger with the responsibility to accurately proclaim what God has already said. And that is true of us all. So I want to give you real quickly tonight just four reasons why we must preach the word. This has to be our priority And here's number one, the presence of sovereignty. Look in chapter four. Back up to verse one. I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who should judge the quick and the dead at his appearing. Notice this charge is uh given by Paul to Timothy. It's a very serious, solemn charge, because these are the last words of Paul. That makes it very solemn. But also, he he does it in the presence of God. This is really a courtroom term. When someone swears into court, I'm charging you to, in the presence of God, to do this very thing. Literally in the presence of. And so Timothy was responsible in the presence of Jesus Christ to carry out this very command to preach the word. And what this reminds me about is that every time we as preachers preach the word, we have the audience that's in front of us, but we also have an audience above us that's listening. And we need to be more concerned about God and Christ than the audience in front of us because he's the one that we seek to please. We preach to glorify him. We preach for his pleasure. We don't preach to be popular or to gain a following or anything like that. We preach in the presence of God, accountable to him for what we say, to make sure that we are preaching the message right. When I was uh visiting in Cambridge a few years ago, I went to an old church, it's a thousand years old, Church of St. Edward the Mar and the Martyr, I think is the name of it, I remember it correctly there. But there in that church, that was the church that Hugh Latimer used to preach from. Hugh Latimer was one of the early English reformers. And Hugh Latimer was a was a bold preacher. And at one point he had preached against the sins of the king, King Henry, and Henry didn't really appreciate that very much. And on another occasion, when King Henry VIII was present, um Uh Latimer said these words loud enough right before when he was ready to preach, with the king right there in his presence. He said this, Hugh Latimer, dost thou not know that thou art this day to speak to the high, mighty monarch, the king, smoke's excellent, excellent majesty, who can take away thy life if thou offendest? Therefore you better be careful what you say. And then he immediately said this, and consider well Hugh, does that not not know, does thou not know that From whence thou comest, upon whose message thou art sent, even by the great and mighty God who is all present, who beholds all thy ways. Therefore take care that thou delivers thy message faithfully And then he went on to preach the same sermon that offended King Henry before, and preached against the sins of the king. You know why? Because he was more concerned about offending God than he was offending King Henry. And that's really the right spirit. When we preach, we are in the presence of the Lord. And we seek to please him. Paul said in Galatians 1:10, Am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Am I trying to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be the servant of Christ And so Paul says, you know, I'm giving you this charge before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge The quick and the dead and his appearing. Remember that we're going to be judged for this. Now the word judgment here obviously is not a judgment of condemnation, it's a judgment of evaluation. One day when we stand before Jesus, he's the one who will evaluate how well we have followed this command. I appreciate getting nice compliments from people who don't But the bottom line is human evaluation of a person's ministry really doesn't matter that much. The only evaluation that matters is God. Paul said this on one occasion. He was being criticized by the Corinthians, and he said this. But with me, it's a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I do not judge even myself. What did Paul mean by that? Paul was saying, look, human evaluation of a person's ministry is very, very small. It doesn't mean a lot. In fact, the word for small, when he said it's a small thing, what you think of me? It's a superlative of the Greek word mikros. It's a very, very, very small, small thing what you think of me. The only real judge, the only real evaluator is God. In fact, human evaluation of a ministry matters so little that Paul said, I don't even judge myself. What did he mean by that? He didn't mean that, you know, at times as Christians we need self-evaluation, self-judgment, right? Every time we come to the Lord's table, we're supposed to judge ourselves. We're supposed to judge and make sure that we're in the faith. That's not what he meant. What he meant was That a human evaluation of his own ministry matters so little, he doesn't even take time to evaluate how well he's doing. You know, sometimes as preachers we have a tendency to give ourselves a lot of credit. You know, you ever leave the pulpit and think, well, I I really just preached a really good sermon there. Well, your evaluation really doesn't matter that well. The only evaluation, and by the way, there's a lot of times I don't really come down that way. It's more or less the opposite, like man, that was a s I struck out on that one, you know And uh you heard about the preacher who was feeling really good about himself and he was trying to fish for a compliment from his wife, and he said, you know, uh, how many great preachers do you think there are in the world today, honey? And she said, one less than what you think. Human judgment is unreliable. Human judgment is insignificant. You can think you're the greatest thing since sliced bread, or you can think you're the next spurgeon, but that evaluation really doesn't matter. Paul said the only evaluation that really matters is Almighty God. That's the only one. He's the one who will judge us when he comes, who will evaluate whether we've been true to the word of God or not, whether we have been guided or controlled by the fear of men rather than the fear of God. God will evaluate that when He comes. And so we need to be careful. Remember, when we are judged, remember what Paul said in 1 Corinthians, that all of our works will be judged with fire. Whether it's wood, hay, or stubble or gold, silver and precious stones. You know, something about wood, hay, and stubble, that's something you can just pick up off the surface. Gold, silver, and precious stones you have to dig for. And when God evaluates my ministry or your ministry, I hope that when the fire of heaven falls upon the works that I have done, that what will be left will be gold, silver, and precious stones. I don't fear the fire of hell. I'm saved. I fear the fire of heaven. I want to make sure that my works were done before the Lord and were done right. So we preach the word in the presence of sovereignty. But here's the second thing. We preach the word because of the power of Scripture. Because of the power of Scripture. Look again in verse 1. I charge thee, therefore. The word therefore kind of points back, right? Based on everything he's already said, we kind of got to get the context. So back up to verse 15. of chapter three, that from a child thou was known in the holy scriptures, which were able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. And all scriptures given by inspiration of God. So you see the context there. Timothy, you have known the Holy Scripture since you were a child, Brephi, since you were an infant. Your mother and your grandmother raised you in that. You know yourself the power of Scripture. You know it has power to convert. It has power to save. The power is in that. And if that's not enough, what does he say in verse 16? All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, for instruction in righteousness. We preach the word because of the power of Scripture. The power is in the word itself. It's not in the messenger. It's in the message. It's in the scripture. This one verse right here should make a Bible expositor out of any minister. If you really believe the Bible is the inspired word of God, then it'll show in the way that you preach it. Because if you believe the Bible is the inspired word of God, let me just go on record by saying I believe that with every fiber of my being, that the Bible is inspired, it's inerrant, it's sufficient, it's relevant It has authority. It does the work. I believe that. Well, that's going to be reflected in the way you preach it because if you believe it's inspired, you're going to want to make these words clear. You're going to want to make the message clear. I hear guys all the time yelling about how they believe the Bible is inspired, but then I listen to them preach and I and I wonder your preaching betrays your conviction. Because if you believe it's the inspired word of God, why are you not preaching the word? Why are you preaching other ideas? Why are you preaching why are you giving a bunch of stories? And by the way, there's nothing wrong with a good story here and there. I love them But they should be backing up the point of scripture and not trying to entertain the crowd or care or try to stay interesting. It is we make the word of God clear. Scripture is God preaching, said J. I. Packer. And so inspiration in itself, I I I remember, now I've always was taught this, Pastor Johnson here as a pastor taught me. So I grew up believing that here, but I do remember on one certain occasion on my knees uh having a quiet time, I had the Bible open, I was reading, and there was, I don't know, God just did something to me. There was a sense in which he ripped away the veil from my eyes, and I not only just believed it in my mind, it it suddenly became so very real to me It was like God illuminated that one idea to my heart where I just embraced that this is the very Word of God, the inspired word of God. And I want to tell you that that thought captivated me. And I really it changed me. I believe that God's word has power. I believe that it it gets the work done And let's say this, if you're uh thinking that you're if you're uh if you become an expositor of the word, I know a lot of guys think this, well if I'm an expositor of the word, I'm gonna build a big church. Doesn't mean that. You might rip down a church with it. You say, what do you mean by that? You know, there's a lot going on out there in churches today under the name of Christianity, under the guise of Christianity. A lot of things being teach uh taught, a lot of things being said. And I want to tell you this, that if you go if you're committed to preaching the word and you go into any place and you preach the word, whatever is of God in front of you is going to flourish. And he will save souls as he sees fit. He will do the effective work. But I want to tell you, whatever it is in front of you that is not of God, it's going to get torn down. It's going to get uprooted. And and you know, I I've seen that effect in places where I preach. I've gone into places, preach the word. Certain certain things were torn down. And by the way, I don't like tearing down. It creates a mess. It makes everybody mad at you. Um people become critical. You know, I don't like the tearing down effect. I like the building up effect a whole lot better And I've seen both things happen at the same time. I've seen things being torn down, I've seen people's lives being challenged and convicted, and I've seen other people just grow and flourish. But here's the bottom line. I'm not responsible for all that. God does all that. God does whatever needs to be done. And that's the power of Scripture. And I believe in that power. And so therefore I am committed to preaching it because of the power. And notice what Paul says in verse number Uh two, where he says, preach the word be instant, or we could say be ready. It's like a soldier on duty, ready for combat at any moment. Rogers and Rogers says it means to stay at one's post and to be always ready to to be at your task. And that is our job. In season, out of season, that is when it's convenient. when it's not convenient, when it's popular, when it's not popular, when it's well received and liked, when it's not well received and not very much liked. We do it. We preach the word. We are ready. We are prepared to do that. But also reprove. In verse 2. Reprove just means to convict. And literally, I said some of my folks have heard me say this before. The Greek word there is very interesting. It's used in the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. It's used in the story of Numbers chapter five Uh where the story is of the trial of good or waters, you remember that story, if a man suspected his wife was guilty of adultery, he would take her to the high priest. The high priest would then take some water and a cup, he would take dust from all the tabernacle floor, put it in the water, stir it up and make her drink it. It was called the trial of bitter water And if she were guilty, she would get sick. And the Bible says she would she would get sick from the inside and corrupt from the inside. But if she were innocent She would have a child. And that was the way God took care of that. But the word for that in the Septuagint, when that woman would drink the water and get sick, is the exact same Greek word here used for reprove. Interesting, right? Preach the word, make sick. Because sometimes that's what spiritually speak we're speaking, right? Because sometimes God's word Will spiritually convict and make a person spiritually broken and sick before they can become spiritually well. But the Word of God does that. I don't get up ever trying to say, you know what, I'm gonna make so-and-so sick tonight. I never do that because uh first of all, I don't ever want to do that. It's not my job to do that. I never get up. I have never in my life gotten up saying, you know, brother so-and-so is going to get it tonight. I'm really going to preach a hymn. Now I felt like doing that at times. But I've never done that because that's not what we're called to do. You know what I found? The Word of God takes care of all that If you just preach the word, God is much able better able to do that than we ever could. God's word, when it's preached, will reprove. It will rebuke in verse number two, reprove, rebuke. That is confronting error. Exhort, this means to encourage, to bring comfort, to exhort with all long suffering. That's a lot of patience, all long suffering and doctrine. So I preach the word because of the power of Scripture. Let me give you the third thing. We preach the Word because of the presence of sovereignty, because of the power of But here's number three. We preach the word because of the problem of shallowness. Look at verse number three. For the time will come where they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. And they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned on to fables. And so Paul's telling Timothy, don't assume that if you preach the word, everyone's going to appreciate it. There will be some that will not. And he warns Timothy that there are going to come periods in the church. For the time will come. The word for time, Kairos, this doesn't refer to the chronological time, not to not to uh clock time. It refers to eras. There's going to be eras, periods of history. The same word is used in the previous chapter, talking about perilous times or difficult times Or we could even say dangerous seasons. There's going to be dangerous seasons in the church where the preaching of the word is not very well received. And there's going to come in all kinds of ideas that threaten the church. Fables, he says of verse number four, they shall be turned, turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto Sables, Greek word muthos, where we get the word miss. Fiction and invention Stories, philosophies invented by men. And people will accept these things. People will embrace these things. They will prefer these things rather than scripture. And if you look at church history, we certainly see that this is true, right? If we look at history, we see really this started really in the first century, not long after John's ministry, there came in This insidious teaching of Gnosticism. In fact, John addressed, I think, early forms of it in his epistles and perhaps the Apostle Paul in the book of Colossians. This idea we're all Physical matter is evil, spirit is good, this was a Greek idea, and they tried to synchronize it in with Christianity, and all of a sudden the the the doctrine, the fundamentals of of Christianity were at risk The whole incarnation of Christ, the whole idea of a bodily resurrection, we're all at risk because of that early form of Gnosticism. Salvation no longer was by what Jesus did. Salvation was esoteric. It was by what you knew. It was by secret knowledge. And experience, and that threatened the church. And then you get to the third and fourth century, you have the development of the Roman Catholic Church. The development of sacramentalism is Dr. Sandworth told us, salvation through the priesthood or sacraments, it's called sacerdotalism. All of that Threatened the church and the gospel of grace was lost. And that terrible doctrine was so insidious and it held people in bondage for hundreds of years. And it really wasn't broken until the Reformation came in the sixteenth century. But right after that came rationalism, where man got his own identity and he began to think for himself And he began to discover things and he began to invent things and to feel his own reason and he began to worship his own mind and human reason became God And Thomas Paine was noted during that period when he wrote the book, The Age of Reason, and in that book he debunked the Bible, basically. And he said that the human mind is God. And man became a slave to rationalism. And the rationalists began to assault the scriptures. And to deny the miracles, and to deny inspiration, and to deny the deity of Christ, and they denied the gospel of grace, all in the name of scholarship, all in the name of reason and rationalism. And by the way, our country is still reeling from some of that today. We have institutions that were started in the early part of our our nation's beginning, which were tr uh bastions of fundamental doctrinal preaching that were training. Preachers and teachers for the Word of God, and right now they don't even believe the Bible is the Word of God. They're teaching all kinds of different things. And so the church went through that. And then that was followed by Orthodoxism, even in Europe, cold dead orthodoxy, even though there was this explosion of printing Bibles, it really didn't seem to matter to some people because When the people got the Bible, it didn't really matter to them because their orthodoxy was dead. It was cold and it lacked zeal. And then there came politicism in the church, and the church became preoccupied then with political power And then became the development of the social gospel and reconstruction and liberation theology. And then you get into the 1950s and you have ecumenicalism. Truth was laid aside for sentiment and feel-good. And truth really didn't matter anymore, objective truth. What became really more important than objective truth was our subjective experience. Truth comes from feeling, truth comes from intuition, it comes from visions or prophecies or special revelation. And again, the the message of the gospel of grace was uh under assault and was lost in all that. Then you come to the nineties where mysticism took place and you could believe whatever you wanted. And then came pragmatism where truth becomes the servant of whatever works. Let's just do whatever works. Never mind what the truth is. Let's just do whatever works. And now we're living in an age we're way beyond the days of postmodernism. We're almost into a neo-paganism in America. Where the the reader now is sovereign over the text, whatever the whatever there's only meaning in the text if the reader finds it. There's really no meaning, objective meaning in and of itself. These are dangerous seasons. These are dangerous times. And now we have this idea of racial identity. You know, we don't need that in the church. Even though we've had people try to embrace some of this new cultural Marxism in the church, we know what the Bible says about race. The Bible's clear about that. We know we were all created in the image of God. And therefore, every person is valuable in the sight of God, no matter who you are, no matter where you're from. We know that when we are saved, we are one in Christ, and all the man-made berries are torn down in Christ, in the cross of Christ. We don't need the help of Karl Marx to tell us how to treat one another. And yet that seems to be received in the church. We don't need that because we're one in Christ. And the last thing we want to do is divide people into identity groups. Because that's not what the gospel does. And people want to do that today in order to satisfy revenge or or vengeance or hatred. To divest people of responsibility of their own lives, sinners will look anywhere else to push the blame. But I want to tell you, if that idea continues, you know what it's going to do? It's going to block the gospel. Because let me tell you something. People don't get saved until they realize that they themselves are a sinner. And when they come to terms with the fact that they are a sinner, then they'll turn to Jesus Christ. That whole philosophy is designed to push blame off onto someone else, which is basically Freudian thought reborn, repackaged in a new way. I'm not responsible. It's always somebody else's fault. So we're living in dangerous times. This is all the more important why we have to preach the Word of God. We have to stick to the objective truth of God's Word. We are living in an age of itching ears. Look what he said again in verse 3. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. It's not popular to say what the Bible says What God says about these things, they shall turn away their ears for the truth, though shall we turn on the fables, verse 4. And there and back up in the verse 3 they will uh But after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. We are living in that day where people want teaching according to their own lust. What satisfies them rather than what they really need. And God knows what we need. They will resist it. They will replace it. They will reject it. They will literally turn away their ears from the truth. But none of that really matters, beloved. We just got to keep preaching the word. We stay faithful to the truth. Because the Word of God is really the only thing that can take care of that. The Word of God is the only thing that God can use through the Holy Spirit that can bring true repentance to hard hearts like that. It's not the power of anyone's persuasion. It is the power of Scripture that is able to do that. Let me give you the first thing quickly. We preach the word because of the presence of sovereignty, because of the power of Scripture, because of the problem of shallowness. But here's number four. The plea for steadfastness. Look at the last verse, verse four. But watch thou on all things. Endure afflictions. Do the work of an evangelist. Make foolproof of thy ministry. This is Paul's plea for Timothy to remain steadfast. Remain steadfast, Timothy. Fulfill your ministry. Make full proof of it. And the word for uh when he says uh be sober in all things, that's really the idea of just being stable, level-headed, well balanced. William Barclay said he's not a victim of crazes. He's stable. We we don't run off into fads. We just we we stay focused. We endure afflictions, he said. You have to be willing to suffer again. And Paul even points to himself, Timothy, if you want an example, just look at my life. Look at the afflictions that I had and how I Remain faithful. Back up to chapter three, in verse uh eleven he said, uh you've known my doctrine in verse eleven, my persecutions, afflictions which came unto me at Antioch and Icom and Lystra. What persecutions I endure, and out of them all the Lord delivered me. And yea, all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. You okay with that? You understand that if you want to live for Christ and you want to stay faithful, somewhere along the line, you're going to suffer some. And you have to be okay with that. So he says, be willing to endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, and all of your preaching, make sure we point to the life-changing power of the cross. But then he said, uh fulfill your ministry. Make foolproof. Don't quit, just stay faithful. And then in the latter part of Chapter 4 and verse 6 he says, I'm now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I fought a good fight. I finished my course. I've kept the faith. I'm ready. I'm done. But now I want you to stay faithful. I want you to make full proof of your ministry. When I was in London waiting for my grandson to be born, I uh Decided to do a little Christian heritage tour while I was there in London. So I kind of looked up all these places and I bought one of those cards, you know, where you can just jump on any public transportation over there in London. Some of you have been there, you know what I mean. You know, and uh I just researched and I went to the church of St. Stephen's of Walbrook, the church Pastored by the famous Puritan Thomas Watson. I went to St. Giles Cripplegate Church, Church of the Famous Puritan, Jeremiah Burroughs, and saw his pulpit there. I went to the church pastored by John Newton, the one who wrote Amazing Grace. I went to uh St. Paul's Cathedral, you might have heard Dr. Sanworth refer to Paul St. Paul's Cross there It's right there by St. Paul's Cathedral, and it was there in that courtyard right by that church where some of the Bibles that were translated by Wycliffe were burned, and also later on some of the Bibles translated by Tyndale. And I went to that very spot. I went to Bun Hill Field, which is a cemetery where many Puritans are buried. John Bunyan, John Owens, Isaac Watts, and so on. I went to the grave of Spurgeon. I visited Cambridge and I went to the Hugh Latimer's church, as I told you before. You know how bad I am, how really weird I am. I I went to visit an oak tree while I was over there in England. So what's so special about this oak tree? It was a thousand years old. It's called the Wycliffe Oak. It was the actual oak tree where John Wycliffe would go and preach before thousands of people that would come and hear him. And don't tell anybody, but I took some bark off that oak tree. I asked God for forgiveness, all right. Actually it was it was laying on the ground, so I didn't really take it off the tree, but I still have it. That sounds pretty strange. Why do you do all that? Well, for inspiration. You know why? Because it reminds me of the legacy of faithful men who have gone on before me. Men who were different gifts, they had different gifts, they had different callings, different abilities. But you know what the common denominator was for all of them? They were faithful to the Word of God. And they they finished their ministry. Many of them suffered afflictions. And we've heard from Dr. Sandworth about the fact that we have a Bible today because many of them were willing to sacrifice their life. God bless you, sir. So when I look at those lives, you know what it says to me? God has not called me or you to reinvent ministry. He's called us to be faithful in the legacy of those who have gone on before us. To be faithful just like they were faithful. And that's what it's going to turn out uh boil down to. Are we really faithful to the Word of God? Faithful? to the legacy of those who have gone on before us. And that's what really Paul is saying to Timothy, Timothy, I just want you to be faithful to the word, faithful to preach the word. God doesn't give us quotas. He doesn't give us those. He just calls on us to be good stewards of the truth that has been passed down to us and to be faithful. And that's what I want to be. If I can just finish this race faithfully, if I can finish well for the glory of God, I'll be content with that And that's what God calls all of us to. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So Father, we thank you for this challenge that was given so many centuries ago to Timothy, and yet it's given to us. To be faithful to the Word of God, be faithful to the truth. That's a high calling. And Lord, be quite frank with you, we can't do this in and of ourselves. And really, it's the word, that's the very word of God that upholds us, that gives us the strength to even do that. So, Lord, we look to you. We ask you for your help. We ask you for your blessing. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.