All right, thank you so much. Would you take God's word tonight, please? And I want you to open to 2 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 11. We'll start out there. We'll go through another passage. But uh as you know, I've been doing this series called Echoes from Puritan Pulpits and I have about two more sermons after this to give and we'll move on to something else. I know some of you are wondering how long are we going to be on this How many Puritan books are there out there, Pastor? I'm just giving you really a few. I've actually got a lot more that I'm reading. and um kind of looking into but these are some of the classics that I'm trying to share with you and some of the depth of truth that comes from them and I hope it's spiritually edifying to you. So first second Corinthians, did I say first Corinthians? I did say second. Okay. I was right the first time. Second Corinthians chapter two and verse number eleven. is what we're going to be looking at tonight. And this is a passage that I'm sure the verse you know well. The Apostle Paul writes and he says, lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. Now, uh these words from the Apostle Paul are both a warning and it's also a call to great vigilance in the Christian life. The phrase get an advantage carries the idea of being outwitted being taken captive by the strategy of Satan. And Paul assumes that there are many Christians that forget that Satan is a very real foe and he's not careless. He's very calculated And we need to learn about him. We need to learn about his strategies against us. And this is why the work from uh Thomas Brooks uh a classic book that he wrote called Precious Remedies Against Satan's Devices. And basically what he does is he takes this one passage of scripture here, 2 Corinthians 2. 11 And he kind of meditates on that and he talks about some of the devices that Satan uses. And then he also gives a remedy for Each of those devices, going back to the scripture, here's the device that Satan uses to try to get to the believer. Here is the remedy for that. And so really it's a simple book, but it's also a glorious book. It's very easy to follow, and yet it has so much depth to it. Thomas Brooke said this. He said, uh, Christ, the Scripture, your own heart And Satan's devices are the four primary things that should be first studied, first and most studied So those four things. So ask yourself, are you studying those four things? Christ, the scripture, your own heart, and Satan's devices. You need to make a study of all of those things, says Thomas Brooks. And uh this is why this book is so very good because he gives such spiritual insight on the devices of Satan. Now what I want to do then is just just kind of divide this whole message tonight into just two parts. I'm going to talk about the devil uncovered. What does the Bible say about Satan in general? We need to know a little bit about that. And then I want to talk about the devices used. And here I want to really get into what Thomas Brooke gives us and I'll kind of give it in a summary way. There's no way, of course, to give everything he said, but just a summary of the devices of Satan and what is the remedies that we are to use as believers to go against him. So really we to understand Satan, I want you to go to the Old Testament, and I want you to go to the passage in Ezekiel chapter 28. Again, this is not a new passage. I know many of you know it But here we have Satan uncovered for us in scripture. Napoleon said, knowing your enemy is half the battle. And uh We have to know Satan and Scripture kind of uncovers him. And uh there's a lot of uh different attitudes, wrong attitudes out there about Satan. Some You know there's some people that don't believe that Satan is really out there, that that he exists. Reminds me of the boxer out there who was getting beat up and he went back to the corner and his manager said, You're doing fine, he hasn't laid a glove on you. And uh The bo the boxer said to his manager, he said, Well please watch the referee because someone's beating the devil out of me out there. And uh Satan is the one out there pummeling us and there yet there are some people that don't believe he exists And uh which is really ironic. There was a poll that was taken uh by the in the New York Times that said two two-thirds of Americans do not believe the devil is a living entity Another poll that said that 62% agree with the statement that Satan is a symbol of evil, but he's not a living a living being. How ironic, because Satan is at his best in the world even today. And then there are some who are overly concerned about him. There are others who don't believe he exists. There are others that are obsessed and they see Satan and they see a demon behind everything. Um they see the devil under every bush and they blame everything on the devil. The devil gets blamed for everything he that that happens. Again it reminds me of the little girl who uh she uh she got in a fight with her brother and she she uh she hit him and she pulled his hair and she kicked him and she spit on him and the mother was cracking her and she said how That's a shame on you for doing that. The devil made you kick him and the devil made you kick uh pull his hair and the devil made you spit on him and she said, Mama, the devil said to kick him and pull his hair, but spitting on him was my idea. Not everything is uh Satan's idea, some of it is us. But however, Satan is still very real. And another wrong attitude to have about Satan is to underestimate him Uh a lot of people laugh at the idea of a devil and uh this idea of a a person going around in a in a red suit with a pitchfork and so on, that's a caricature from the Middle Ages meant to uh to hit at the devil's pride and a lot of people still refer to that and they don't take Satan serious. But the Apostle Paul warns us in 2 Corinthians chapter 2 that we need to be serious about Satan because if we're not, Satan can take advantage of us. We need to understand he's very real and he has some really crafty devices that can get to the believer. The Bible says in Ephesians 4. 27, neither give place to the devil. Now again, God's word gives us a lot of insight about our enemy. And we look, we see part of this here in Ezekiel chapter 28. Let me give you a little context into this. Ezekiel is giving a prophecy against the city of Tyre. God pronounced a serious judgment against this city. And this is because of the proud and greedy and egomaniac that was on the throne, the ruler of the city. And really we can divide the prophecy in Ezekiel chapter 28 into two parts. There's the person on the throne And he's referred to in verse one as the as the Prince of of Tyrus, where it says, uh actually verse number two, the word of the Lord came unto me again unto me, saying, Son of man, say unto the prince of Tyrus. This I think is referring to the ruler whose name was F Baal the Third, who built this city And this king felt like he had wisdom, the wisdom of a god. He really was uh egomaniac. And and in Ezekiel's day, uh the people of the city of Tyre believed this king to be divine. And Ethale had been used to his using his wisdom and his skill to acquire all kinds of precious uh jewels and made the city rich. He had a lucrative trade that was really causing the city not only to dwell in riches, but also to exalt his own heart in great pride. And God would not allow his pride to go unpunished. And we see this in verses six down The verse number seven. Look at verse six. Thus saith the Lord God, because thou hast set thine heart as the heart of God. Behold, therefore I will bring strangers upon thee, and the terror of the nations, and they shall dwell Uh, excuse me, draw their swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall defile thy brightness. God would bring enemies against this proud King. And then we see in verses nine and ten, why you don't try to tell those who will kill you with a sword that you are God. Verse 9, Wilt thou yet say before Him that slayeth thee, I am God, but thou shalt be a man and know God in the hand of him that slays you. God said, You try to tell the person that comes that's gonna slay you with that that sword that you're God. That's not gonna work. And history verifies that God did bring enemies against Hire, and God did judge this anyway one of those enemies was Alexander the Great. And then when you go from verses 11 down to verse 19, Ezekiel goes from talking about the prince on the throne to the power behind the throne. And verses eleven down to verse number nineteen. And in the context, there's a s a subtle shift that takes place when you come to these verses. Again, Ezekiel is no longer talking about our earthly king He's taught he's no longer talking about the person who is on the throne. Now he's talking about the person behind the throne, the one who is making this man act so arrogantly and proudly. And so we switch from a prince to a king. Look at verse number 12. Son of man, take up a lamentation upon the king of Tyrus. Now again, he's not talking about this earthly prince now. He's talking about uh a spiritual king, an evil king. And verse 12, and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord God, thou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. Thou hast been in the garden of God, every precious stone was thy covering. So the word here king Malek, Ezekiel never uses this term with any of Israel's monarchs, with the exception of King Jehoiachin. Here he didn't use the word normally to refer to a man. Again, he's not referring to a man here anymore. He's referring to something more. And Ezekiel is really now talking about Satan, the one behind the King of Tyrus, the one who is uh the the the spiritual wickedness in high places as we learn about in Ephesians. And he says some things about this one Satan. First of all, he was created in perfection. He was created in perfection. Again in verse 12, thou stealest up the sum. We could say a perfect ten. He's perfect in beauty. Someone says, did God create the devil? No, God created a beautiful archangel named Lucifer. Sin created Satan. Satan was an angel created in perfection. He had surpassing wisdom. He had surpassing beauty And uh when it talks about here uh that uh the the that that that was in the garden, that was in Eden, the Garden of God. Uh that there's only we only know the three that were in the garden, right? Actually four if you include God. We know this is not referring to God. We know this is not referring to Adam or either someone might try to make this fit uh fit this in to think it's talking about Adam, but that just doesn't match. So we're talking here about the pre-existence. We see his perfection. He was created in perfection. We see his preexistence. He was in the garden of God. And uh we also see his position in verse 13. Thou hast been indeed in the garden of God. Every precious stone was thy covering, the Sardis, the topaz, the diamond, the burl. The onyx, the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbonko, and the gold. The workmanship of thy tablets and of thy place was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created. Now there are twelve stones mentioned here. Nine of them were worn by the high priest of Israel on his breastplate. And the stones signify the high position of priest. And I think that could be said here. And when it says the workmanship of thy tablets and thy pipes, that's referring to musical instruments. And so I think that Satan had a high, exalted position in heaven. And part of his role was to uh was to lead in the worship of heaven and the music of heaven. I think heaven was created, uh music was created in heaven by God And the angels sang to God in heaven. And you could say that Satan was uh the the priest that led the worship, the the choir director, perhaps. It says in verse 14 that thou art the anointed cherub. That is, he was in the inner circle of angels who had the closest access to Almighty God. They guarded his holiness and they associated with his holiness. And again in verse 14 it says That thou wast upon the holy mountain of God, and thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire. How high was his position? He was the prime minister of heaven When it talks about the stones of fire, there's a a lot of Old Testament scholars that interpret this different ways. Some of them refer think that this is referring to pillars in the temple of God. And I don't want to give you all the details about that. But let me just tell you what I think this is talking about. When it says stones of fire, stones is the idea of a wall, a guarding wall, and a wall is to prevent access And when it says stones of fire, the fire there speaks of glory. And I think there's a sense in which God who dwells in glory can only be approached so closely by even the angels in heaven. There is a wall of glory where even angels fear to tread. Where they can't pass by that those stones of fire to go into the inner presence of this glorious, our glorious God. But yet Lucifer was able to have access. He was able to go where even angels feared to tread. And so he had an exalted position. He had access where no one else did. He walked in the midst of the stones of fire. I think he was the highest-ranking angel in heaven. The Prime Minister, the choir director, but also not only was he created in perfection, but also he was corrupted by pride. He was corrupted by pride. And we see his pride in verse 15. Thou was perfect in thy ways from the day that thou was created, till iniquity was found in This is where sin originated, and it originated in the heart of Satan. Someone says, where did sin come from? We just read it in verse 15. It originated in the heart of Satan. Iniquity was found in thee. God created a perfect Angel, a beautiful angel full of wisdom, and he was corrupted himself by pride. Now how sin arose in him is not explained But where that sin originated is clear. It was found in the heart of Satan. And so this is where the corruption came in. And because of his sin, this pride, this rebellion, it it corrupted heaven. And now we have this this angel that is now corrupted and he's using all of the gifts that God had given him to corrupt other people. He no longer wants to worship God. He wants to be worshipped himself as God. He exalted himself up to be worshipped as God. That's why God hates pride so much. That's the original sin of Satan. And we have to be careful not to be proud. That's why Paul said in 1 uh Timothy 3, 6, not a novice less being lifted up with pride, he fall into the condemnation of The devil. I think Satan wanted to be higher. I think he was the chief angel in heaven, but he wasn't satisfied with that. He wanted to be higher than that He wanted to be exalted above that. And we see that in Isaiah chapter 14, the I wills of Lucifer. I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit on the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. This is Satan's boast. He wants to be exalted higher. But his punishment, God says in Isaiah 14, 12, How art thou fallen? Lucifer became Satan when God cast him out of heaven, and he was cut down to the earth. And so therefore his wisdom is now used to discredit. Lucifer, the perfect angel, is now Satan, the deceiver. The word Satan actually is a transliteration of the Hebrew word, which means adversary. He's the one who is the adversary. He's the accuser of the brethren. You want to know what Satan's doing right now? He's accusing you before God. He's accusing man, the God. We see in Genesis 3, he came to accuse God to man. He said to Adam and Eve, Has God really said God's not trustworthy. And Job 1 and 2, he came to accuse men to God. Job only worships you because of the toys you give him, God. You take those away, he'll curse you to your face. And then in Matthew 4, he accuses the God man. So he's constantly out accusing the people of God. He's also called the destroyer. That's why the Bible says, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking to whom he may devour. The word devil actually means one who slanders. That's used 37 times in the Bible. He's called the old serpent, the great red dragon, the roaring lion, the evil one, the destroyer, the tempter, the prince of this world, the god of this world, Beelzebub, and so on. And there's so much more. So his wisdom is used to discredit, his beauty is used to deceive. He now uses beauty to lure people into sin and to deceive. And there's more I could say about that, but also his musical ability is used to defile. Now you might think that I'm crazy, but I think that a lot of worldly music today originates from Satan himself. I think you need to be careful about some of the music that you listen to. And now hear me carefully. I'm not saying that all secular music is sinful and from the devil. Uh uh some of it has some beauty to it and uh some real um real real you know art to it. Um but I would say you better be careful because a lot of it is from it has a spiritual uh negative effect and it is some of it is from the devil. And the reason I say this, I I I've told you this before, but I remember when I was uh in in junior high school in a public school and we had a music class and the music teacher was trying to teach us a song. And uh it was a Barry Manilo song. Um now, you know, you think Barry Manilo, you think, well, you know, that's that's easy enough. I mean, come on, he's not really hard Well, you have to listen to some of the words. He he he wrote he wrote this song. We had to memorize I wish I could forget these words to be honest with you But I had to memorize them when I was in the seventh grade. And I remember after I became a believer and I started thinking about those words, and I read this passage here in Ezekiel chapter twenty-eight about uh the workmanship of thy tablets and thy plates, the musical ability that God gave Lucifer. And uh let me just quote to you the lyrics. I wish again I could forget them. It's called the the title of the song is I Write the Songs. I Write the Songs. That sounds arrogant from the very beginning. I write the songs. I've Been Alive Forever. Hmm, who was that? I wrote the very first song. I put the words and the melodies together. I am music. I write the songs. Who is that talking there? My whole world lies deep within you. I have my own place in your soul. And when I look out through your eyes, I'm young again, even though I'm very old. Who does that sound like to you? I tell you who that sounds like to me. That sounds like the devil to me And you say, well, you know, Barry Manilo, yeah, it's of the devil. You can quote me on that. And I thought about that song many times when I think about uh the devil and music is a powerful medium to communicate and I fear that The devil is using a lot of music to to teach a lot of a lot of false ideas and lies and defile young minds So he was created in perfection. He was corrupted by pride and all those gifts that God gives him he uses now for an evil end. But also he'll be cast down to perdition. The Bible makes it very clear, just write down Isaiah 14, verse 15, God responded to Satan's sin. He said, You will be thrust down to Sheol, to death, to hell, to the recesses of the pit. Satan's rebellion will ultimately end in his own destruction. And so there's coming a day when he will be no more. Like I like the old saying, when Satan reminds you of your past, you remind him of his future. Because we know that in the end he will be defeated. There's no devil in the last uh two chapters of the Bible. So, the Bible said it says in Ezekiel 28 verse 19 that, and they shall know thee among the people. And shall be astonished at thee. Thou shalt be a terror, and never shalt thou be any more. There will be a time when Satan and evil and sin will be gone forever. Now having said that Satan is a dangerous foe. He was cast out of heaven and one day he'll be cast into hell, and he knows that his fate is sealed, and he knows he has but a short time. The Bible tells us that. And so he is out there and he is on the prowl. And he is trying to bring people down, especially the people that God loves, and that's you. You see, if an evil man can't get to the people, uh can't get if an evil person can't get to you, he'll try to get to the people that you love. And since Satan can't really get to God, he'll get to the people that God loves. And so he is out to target you, he's out to attack you, he's out to bring you down. So this goes to the second part of the sermon. We saw the devil uncovered But then I want you to see, number two, the devices used. The devices used. And here is where we get into Thomas Brooks. And what Thomas Brooks does in his book is he divides the devices of Satan into four general categories. Four general categories. And here's the first one. Satan's device is to draw the soul into sin. His device is to draw the soul into sin. And and the way he has it outlined in the book is he'll just have device and he'll talk about the device for a while, and then he'll just have remedy and I'll talk about the remedies And again, it's it's it's laid out so very easy. So here is the one device, presenting the bait and hiding the hook. Brooks says, Satan never shows you the full picture of sin. He advertises pleasure but conceals pain He magnifies the moment but hides the misery. And that's so true. Brooks writes this quote: Satan draws the soul to sin by presenting the bait and hiding the hook. That's exactly what he did with Eve The tree was good for food, pleasant to the eyes, desired to make one wise. But what was hidden? What was hidden was shame. What was hidden was separation from God and death He specializes in hiding the hook. So what is the remedy for that that he says? Well the remedy is to consider the true nature of sin. Sin is rebellion against God Don't ever forget that. Look at sin through the cross. Every sin crucified Christ. We need to look at every sin through that lens. But here's another device that he mentions, the painting sin with virtuous colors. He says Satan is a master at rebranding sin. Remember Satan was He's a master of beauty and making things look beautiful. And Satan is a master of making sin look beautiful. That's what Brooks says. Pride becomes confidence. Covetousness becomes ambition. Lust becomes love. He's painting sin in these virtuous colors. And Brooks a warned, sin is never less dangerous than when it is most painted and gilded. So what's the remedy? He says the remedy is to judge all things by scripture, not by appearance. Don't judge things by just outward appearance. Judge it by the word of God. Does God call this righteousness? That's the question that you need to ask. Remember that again, Satan appears as an angel of light. But here's another device that he says he uses minimizing sin. We kind of can reason in our mind and say, well, it's just a little sin. And Brooks he totally dismantles this lie. He says there is no little sin because there is no little God to sin against. Since every sin is against God, there is no such thing as a little sin. Because our God is a big God. And the smallest sin is cosmic treason against the infinite holiness of Almighty God. And so the remedy he says is even small sins require the death of Christ. Even small sins put Jesus on the cross. And small sins grow into greater sins. But here's another device he says, look out for it. Here's another device from Satan. Comparing with worse sinners People like to do that, comparing with worse sinners. Well I'm uh you know I may not be perfect, but at least I'm not as bad as so and so. I'm not as bad as others. This is like the Pharisee in Luke 18, where he says, you know, God, I I thank God that I'm not like others. I thank God I'm not like this publican over here. You know, I don't work for the IRS like he does. And uh he was comparing himself to some to to Someone that he thought was worse. Brooks says this Satan makes men compare themselves with those that are worse, so that he may keep them from seeing how bad they really are. That's so true. What's the remedy? Well, God's standard is holiness, not comparing to someone else. You don't compare yourself to another person. You compare yourself to the standard of God because you're going to give an account for your own soul. You're not going to give an account for anyone else. And if you want to compare yourself to someone, compare yourself to Christ and see how you measure up. Compare yourself to him and see that how sinful that we really are. But then here's another device he says you need to be aware of that Satan uses. Delaying repentance. Delaying repentance. You just Satan will whisper to you later. When God comes to you and says you need to repent. He convicts you of a sin, and now is the time to deal with it. Satan will come and he'll say, just deal with it later. Brooks says one of Satan's most effective words is the word later. Just do it later. Quote, he says, Satan knows that if he can keep the soul from present closing with Christ, he wins the day. And what's the remedy? To remember the exhortation of Scripture, now is the accepted time. Delay will do what? Delay will harden your heart It'll harden your heart. Tomorrow is not promised. So you better deal with it now, not later. But here's another device, presuming on God's mercy. Now I know I'm going through these quick. In the book, he goes into long explanations on all of these. And you need to read the book for yourself. It's really a fantastic book But another device he says is presuming on God's mercy. Oh, God will forgive. He'll forgive. So if you're tempted, Satan will bring this to your mind. Say, well, you know, don't worry about it. God will forgive you. He will forgive you of this. And Brooks responds, that's true, but it's dangerously misused. He says, quote, There's not a greater evidence of man's wickedness than to sin because God's grace abounds. If you would use the grace of God as a as a Get out of jail free card, a license to go out and sin. Brooks says there's no greater proof of the depravity and wickedness of man than man acting upon that idea, that one thought And what's the remedy? God is just as well as merciful. Yeah, he is merciful, but he's also just And you don't want to fall into the hands of an angry God. He will correct. Grace is not a license to sin. The same God who forgives also judges. But then here's another device. Make repentance seem easy later. You know, you can repent later. It'll be easy later, he says. That's the idea that Satan will put into your mind. I can turn back to God anytime. I can turn back anytime. And Brooks counters like this. Repentance is a work that is not in man's power, but in God's. Grace. If God's giving you the desire to repent, if he's giving you the idea to repent, you better act on that because repentance is a work of God and you don't want to shun that work. You don't want to push that work away. Again, sin hardens the heart. Habits enslave the will. Many intend to repent later, and you know what? They never really repent later. They don't repent later. So that's in that area. But here's another category of Satan's devices. Satan's device is to keep souls from holy duties. This is the second category. Devices to keep souls from holy duties. When he says holy duties, what does he mean there? He's talking about spiritual disciplines. That's how I would call it. Prayer, reading God's Word, fasting and praying from time to time, being faithful to the house of the Lord. meditating on scripture. These are all holy duties, spiritual disciplines that God calls upon us to do. And so what does Satan do? What are the devices he uses with reference to these holy duties? Well here's one device. Making duties seem difficult. Making duty seem difficult. A prayer is hard. Scripture reading is tedious. Holiness is exhausting. And so what's the remedy is to remember that Christ's yoke is easy and God supplies strength for obedience. But then here's another device, filling the heart with distractions. This is another thing that Satan will do. He'll try to crowd out devotion to the Lord. And we know we live in this world where the distraction is so very easy. I mean, when you're determined to do something that you should do, a spiritual duty that you ought to do, Satan is a master at reminding you of something else that has to be done. That ever happened to you? Whenever I need my to-do list filled, I just start praying and Satan will remind me of all the things I need to do. I'll just write it down. Because he wants to distract you. He's a master of distraction. He will employ the world to keep the soul from God, says Brooks. And so, what's the remedy? Well, the world is passing away. And you need to remember that, and you need to discipline your time and your attention. But also another device that Brooks mentions is discouragement from weakness. The idea that I'm just not where I should be spiritually. I'm not where I need to be spiritually. I'm not really growing. I keep I seem to keep failing the Lord. What's the remedy for that? He says, God values sincerity. Growth is often slow, but real. And also just remember that Christ is the one in heaven who intercedes for you on your behalf He's the one that is praying for you, for your spiritual progress. And so don't be discouraged from your weakness in that. But here's another category. Satan's device is to keep souls in doubt and despair. He wants to keep you in despair. And one of the devices that um that Brooks talks about is causing doubt of salvation. And he says that Satan would have a child question his adoption. He wants you to question whether you're truly saved. And Brooks spends time, and we don't have to really linger here because we've talked about this before. But you trust in the word of God, not your feelings. You trust in the promises of God's word. And also assurance is something that you grow in as you grow spiritually and you are obedient to the Lord. And we've talked about that in 1 John chapter 2, verse 3. Hereby we do know that we know Him If we keep his commandments, if you're living a life of obedience, that's going to increase your assurance of salvation. But he wants you to doubt your salvation And then another device that that mentioned by Brooks is that magnifying sin beyond forgiveness by saying you've gone too far. You've gone too far. You've crossed the line. God can't forgive you now because you've gone way, way too far in your sin. And this is a thought that Satan wants you to dwell on. And he doesn't want you to understand that the blood of Christ cleanses you from all sin From all sin, that God delights in mercy. And there's no sin is greater than the cross. And then here's another device that he mentions, misinterpreting affliction. When you're going through a trial, what's the thought sometimes that you say to yourself when you're going through a trial? God is against me. I've done something to really offend the Lord He's really his hand is heavy on me. And and Brooks says that the remedy for that is really uh to remind yourself that affliction and hard providences that come into your life are really an expression of fatherly discipline and love. God is not destroying you. God is he's he's making you more like Christ. He's refining you more into the image of Jesus Christ. And trials are evidence that you indeed are a child of God. And then here's another the th the fourth category. Satan's device is to hinder growth and unity. He wants to hinder the growth of you your personal spiritual life, the growth of the church, the unity. And so what he does, his device is to stir division. And he does that through misunderstanding. He does that through ego and pride. And the way that we we the remedy for that, of course, is practicing humility and forgiving all those that have sinned against you. But Satan wants to promote pride. That's another device, promoting pride. You know, spiritual success becomes spiritual danger. And Brooks warns, pride is a sin that turns angels into devils. And we need to remind ourselves that we are absolutely, totally, completely dependent upon Almighty God for all things. And that all the victories we have in our life are because of Jesus Christ. There is nothing that we have to be proud about. And then let me just give you one more, another device that Satan uses is weariness and well-doing. You ever hear someone say, I'm tired of serving? And I've I've I've served, I've done this for so long. And Satan will put that in your mind. Yeah, you you've you you've put your time in, you've done enough. You don't have to do any more. What's the remedy for that? Galatians 6. 9. Be not weary in well-doing. God sees your labor. And you're doing your work unto the Lord, you're going to have a reward one day in eternity. And so Brooks shows us, again, these are just some of the devices. Of course, he mentions many, many more. But the important idea is that every device that Satan brings to us or has to use against us has a remedy. God has not left us as his people defenseless against the wiles of Satan. We have God's word that reveals Satan to us. We have the power of the Holy Spirit to help us live. In a way that is pleasing to God and to overcome Satan's wiles, we have the victory of Jesus Christ. So let me just close with this one quote from Brooks. He says, quote A soul not acquainted with Satan's devices will be easily taken in his snares. But the opposite is also true. A believer grounded in Scripture, watchful in his spirit, In the Word of God is not easily overcome by Satan's devices. So what do we need to do? Study God's Word, stay in God's Word, watch your heart. Resist Satan and cling to Christ. Let's bow together for prayer tonight. With heads bowed and eyes closed, just ask God to give you the strength and the wisdom to see the devices of Satan. Don't let him overcome you. Jesus taught us to pray in the Lord's Prayer. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Really, that's literally deliver us from the evil one. Our prayer is, Lord, don't let the evil one have victory over me in my life with his devices. The Bible says in Romans 16, 20, the God of peace shall brew Satan under your feet shortly. Until then we have to be sober and stand firm in the victory of Christ. Father, thank you for this word. Thank you for great men like Thomas Brooks that have such spiritual insight. That just teaches us the value of knowing your word, seeing the remedies against all of Satan's many devices, designed to destroy us, designed to pull us down. But Father, we thank you that we have the victory in Christ. So Lord, help us to apply this. Help us, Lord, to truly meditate on Christ, on the Word of God, on our own heart, and on the devices of Satan. So that we will not be overcome, and we pray in Jesus wonderful name, Amen