Take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of James. On Wednesday night we've been looking at James. And tonight we come to chapter 2, verse 1, and I want to deal with the first. 13 verses here of James chapter 2. Let me just read a few verses of this. Verse 1. My brethren. Have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. For if there cometh unto your assembly a man with a gold ring or in got goodly apparel, And there are come in also a poor man in vile raiment, and ye have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and saith unto him, Sit thou here in a good place, and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit under my footstool. Are ye then not then be partial in your thoughts and are become judges, or partial, excuse me, in your cells, and are become judges of evil thoughts Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath not God chosen to pour this world rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which He has promised to them that love Him? So tonight I want to speak about prejudice, racism, and the church. When uh he was a student, the famous Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi considered becoming a Christian. He read the Gospels and was very moved by the Gospels, especially the life of Christ. And uh he thought that perhaps Christianity offered a solution to the caste system that divided people up uh in India. And one Sunday he went to a local church. He decided to s to see the pastor and asked for instruction about the way of salvation. And when he entered the church, which consisted of white people, the ushers refused to give him a seat. They told him to go and worship with his own people. He left and they never went back. And he later said this: if Christians have caste differences also, I might as well remain a Hindu. And that's a tragic story. A tragic story that illustrates the terrible sin that James writes about in our text. The focus of what he's going to talk about here in these verses is the sin of showing favoritism to the rich and uh despising the poor. But really the words that he gives us here apply to all types of prejudice, whether it's prejudice, towards someone based on their economic status or race or anything else. To favor some people and disregard others based on outward factors is a terrible sin. And it's a sin that plagued the early church, as James is going to tell us. And by the way, it's a sin that's plagued the church in every j generation, and it's still a sin that plagues the church today, unfortunately. And it all stems from pride. Pride, which is from a sinful fallen heart. Mark Twain wrote that prejudice is the ink with which all history is written, and and unfortunately that is true. I mean you just look around and you'll see it all over. You'll see it all throughout history. Racism and prejudice and discrimination. We see it between Jews and Gentiles, between Palestinians and Israel Israelites, between Japanese and Chinese, English, Scottish, Irish, Germans, Jews, Black, White, on we could go. And again, it remains rampant in our world. And again, it has plagued even the church. And again, it all comes from human pride It comes from sin that is so much a part of the depraved human nature, from a narcissistic inordinate self-love and sense of superiority that is part of the sin nature. And this is something that God hates. The Bible says this in Proverbs 6. 16, these six things does the Lord hate. Seven are an abomination. Number one on the list, a proud look. God hates it when someone looks in pride down on someone else. God hates that. He hates prejudice. He hates racism. And actually the Bible never really uses that word racism. It's kind of a a modern day word. The biblical word is partiality or it's respect of persons. Just write down a few verses. 2 Chronicles 19, 7. Now then let the fear of the Lord be upon you. Be careful what you do, for there is no injustice with the Lord our God or partiality. Know what's something about God? He's not partial. He's always just. In Job 32, verse 21, Job says, I will not show partiality to any man or use flattery towards any person. In Deuteronomy 16, 19, it says, You shall not pervert justice, you shall not show partiality. People came to Jesus and they said to him, Teacher, we know that you speak truth, you speak what is right, and you show no partiality. But you teach the way of God. Jesus never showed partiality in his life. And the disciples, which later came up became apostles, had to learn that lesson. You remember uh God sent Peter to the house of Cornelius, but before that he had a vision on the rooftop and a house in Japha, where God had to show Peter, that all the barriers in Christ and in Christianity, all the barriers that man sets up are are torn down. And in Acts 10, verse 34, Peter said this: Truly, I understand that God shows no partiality. So, where does the concept of race come from? Dividing humanity into races? Where does that come from? That is not a biblical concept. You know where it comes from? It comes from evolutionary thinking. It's all evolutionary. Racism is a consequence of sin in a fallen world infused with evolutionary thinking. Ken Ham wrote this: Darwinian evolution was and still is inherently a racist philosophy, teaching that different groups of races of people evolved at different times and at different rates. And that's where it all comes from. It comes from an atheistic, godless philosophy to begin with. As Christians, we have to recognize where racism originated. As Christians, we must call it what it is. We must call it evil. The Bible does not divide mankind into races plural, but into one race singular, we are the human race. We all descended from Adam. All people were created in the image of God. And so therefore, racism isn't just an attack against our fellow man. It's an attack against God Himself. Since all people are created in the image of God. So if you discriminate against someone because of their race or their face or their place, you sin against God's grace. Now this is what James is going to tell us. And he's going to use an illustration to hammer it home. Look at verse 2. For if there come into your assembly a man with a gold ring in goodly apparel. And there come in also a poor man in vile raiment. Now Jewish people in that day coveted recognition and honor. They vied for the chief places and chief seats. Jesus dealt with this problem in Luke and the in the parable. They they wanted the the the best seats And here James is kind of giving a hypothetical situation that illustrated something that happened in that church and that era all the time, and the spirit of it still lives on today. Here are two men that come into the worship service. The first man that comes, notice the description of him. He's a rich man in verse number two. For if there come into your assembly a man with a gold ring Literally, the Greek reads a gold-fingered man. It's a very long Greek word. Gold on all his fingers. I like what one preacher said. He's got a nugget at every knuckle. He's got a jewel at every joint. His fingers are filled with jewels. And uh It says uh according to one uh statesman and philosopher Seneca, they love to adorn their fingers with rings and distribute gems over their joint. It was common practice of well-to-do people to wear a lot of rings on their fingers, kind of, you know, to show off, just like people do today. It was part of the church. So here he comes in. He's got all these rings on his fingers. He's obviously a rich man, but also his beautiful clothes in verse number two. And in goodly apparel, the word goodly here, lamprash, literally means bright, brilliant, used to speak of a gorgeous robe, white and dazzling. People this day love to wear their white robes, and the whiter the better, because it showed the it showed them off. Romans love their white togas. And uh they wore them very white. They would actually rub chalk in to make it as white as they could. That was custom in that day. So here's obviously a rich man, beautiful clothing. Rings on his fingers, he comes in, but then there's another man in verse number two, and there came in also a poor man and vial raiment. In classic Greek, the word for vile means dirty. He's his uh he wasn't wearing a real white toga. In fact, uh the word here is sorted uh actually actually that's a Roman word, where we get our word sorted. Uh he was just had dirty clothes. Incidentally, did you know the Romans were the first one to use dry cleaning? They invented it. Just a little trivia there for you, in case anyone ever asked you. In case you ever get on jeopardy or something like that. This man had to w wear the same clothes to church that he worked in. He couldn't afford anything better. Probably had only one robe to wear. But I want you to see what happens here. Look at verse 3. And ye have respect unto him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a good place. And say to the poor, stand thou there or sit here under my footstool. The usher says to the rich man, hey, sit here. And basically he says to the poor man, get out of the way. You know, in the synagogues in that day, they they only had really just a few benches for people to sit on. Sometimes there were stools that were added in. Other than that, you had to sit on the floor. And so the idea here is this poor man, he's already seated, but he's asked to get up and move. Get out of the way for this rich person who's more important. And he says to him, go and stand thou there. Go, go stand against the wall. Or sit under my footstool. Not sit on my footstool. Sit under it. In other words, sit on the floor. Go stand, lean against the wall, or sit on the floor, just get out of the way. And and by doing that He shows that this poor man is not much in his sight, this usher. I read a story one time when the Governor Ronald Reagan and his wife went to church, the usher seated them in the front of the sanctuary and asked two college students that were already there to please move and sat them there. And when the pastor saw this to his credit, he went over to those college students and said, that will never ever happen again as long as I'm the pastor here. But it happens. So this usher looks at this poor man, and he said, you know, he's not worth much. And he makes a judgment. He makes a judgment based on the man's outward appearance. Look at the word in verse 1, respect of persons, at the end of verse 1. It's translated partiality. in other places show no partiality. But it's from a Greek word that is a very long Greek word. It's a compound word. Prosopon, which means face. And then lambana, which means to lay hold of, to lay hold of someone's face, to look at their face. And make a judgment based on their face, based on their outward appearance. They make a judgment based on their skin color, or make a judgment based on what they see them wearing. And what does James say about this? He calls it evil. He calls it what it is. It's evil. And verse number Four he says, Are you not then partial in yourselves and are become judges of evil thoughts? You are making wrong judgments based on evil thoughts. And that happened back then And it's happened through history, and it still happens today. We still see it all around us. Racism, prejudice, whether it's white supremacy, whether it's a caste system, whether it's critical race theory, all of that is racism. This usher told this poor man, you go stand over there, you're not worth much. What kind of message does that communicate when it comes, when it happens in the church? I can understand it happening in the world. But I don't understand this kind of thing happening in the church where people claim to know the Lord Jesus Christ. James says, you have become judges. with evil motives. What if a judge in the court of law made his judgment or and made his verdict based on solely the outward appearance of that person that was standing before him? What would we say about that judge? We would say that he was an unjust judge, that he was a bad judge, that he was an evil judge. We would say that he has robbed that person of justice just because they didn't look right to him. But I propose to you, this is even more evil when it happens in the church. In the place where people claim to know the Lord Jesus Christ. So what James is going to do here in this passage is just show us three reasons why this kind of thinking is just totally wrong. It's just totally wrong. Why? Well, when you think like this, number one, you sin against God's son. You sin against God's son. Look again in verse 1, my brethren. Now whenever James says that he's about to He's about to scold them. He's gonna he's trying to be gentle, but he's gonna tell them there's something that needs to change. Almost like saying you ever pull your kid aside, say, now look here James is saying, my brethren, this is a problem. And again, he's not writing to unbelievers. He's not writing to the world. He's writing to the church. He's talking to Christian people. And he says this should never ever be a part of anyone who names The name of Christ. Look again in verse 1. My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ. Or we could say, don't do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ and think this way. He's not saying don't have the faith of Christ. He's saying don't claim to be a Christian and a follower of Christ and think like this. That's what he's talking about. It's a present tense. We don't think this way. This is not the way believers conduct their life. It's not the way they think. We don't think with respect to persons. We don't think with partiality. We don't think with prejudice. It has no place in the Christian life. If you name the name of Christ, it has no place with you Now the reason again, notice what he calls Jesus here. My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus the Lord of what? Of glory, right? You guys with me? The Lord of Glory. Why does James use this title? There's been a lot of opinion about that among New Testament scholars as to how do how do we translate this? I don't want to give you all the technicalities, but I believe the best way to translate this is hold not the faith of our Lord Jesus who is glory, capital G. He is glory. In other words, this is another name for our Lord. In the New Testament, he's called the way, he's called the truth, he's called the life, but another title for him is glory. In other words, don't you dare say that you're a follower of the Lord of glory if you show prejudice in your heart. Don't you dare do that. It's incompatible with who he was. And James is using this title to stress the fact that you shouldn't judge by outward appearances. Because it If you did that with Jesus, guess what? You would never know that he was the Lord of glory just by his outward appearance, right? Many times when the Lord revealed his glory, he did it in the Old Testament, He did it in the garden, he did it on the face of Moses, he did it in the temple in the Old Testament over the tabernacle. It left the Old Testament at one time, but then it returned. And how did it return? John 1, 14, John chapter 1, verse 14. The word was made flesh, and we beheld his what? His glory. The glory of God returns in Jesus Christ. The Bible says He is the brightness of His glory. Jesus is the glory of God. He is the radiance of His glory. But that glory was veiled in Christ. People couldn't see that when they saw Jesus. What did they see when they saw Jesus? They saw a plain ordinary person. They saw an average man. They saw a person who was poor. Who grew up in a poor home, a lower class home? He said at one point, the foxes have holes, the birds of the air have their nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head. So what was Jesus? Jesus was a homeless person. Ordinary person. Nothing attractive about him. Write down Isaiah 53, too. He had no form or majesty. That is, outwardly, there was nothing unique about him. He had no form or majesty that we would look upon him. He had no beauty that we should desire of him The religious expert in Christ's day, they judged him by human standards, and then they rejected him. He came from the wrong city. Remember, he came from Nazareth. Remember what they said at one point, can any good thing come from Nazareth? He was not a graduate of their accepted schools. He did not have the official approval of the people in power. He did not have any wealth. His followers were a nondescript mob of fishermen and IRS tax collectors. Yet he was the very glory of God. You would never know that by looking on his outward appearance. And by the way, that's what you are as well. But you know why? Because when you get saved, you have Jesus in you. That means you have a sense in which the glory of God is in you. The Bible says we have this treasure what? In earthen vessels. When the world looks at us as Christians, they don't really see who we are, because in Christ we carry a part of that glory with us. But this is why James uses this title: who is the Lord of glory? If you look at Jesus on his outward appearance, you wouldn't think that much. But you wouldn't see what he really was. So that's why we shouldn't judge outwardly. But also this is incompatible with what he demonstrated in the whole life and ministry of Jesus. He never ever demonstrated partiality. He showed no favoritism. The Bible says in Romans 2. 11, God is no respecter of persons. He looks upon the heart. So that's number one. When you think that way in your mind, you sin against God's Son. But here's the second thing, you side with God's enemies. Look down at verse number five. Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him? But ye have oppro depro despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you and draw you before the judgment seats? Do they do not they blaspheme that worthy name by the which ye are Called and to make his point here, James, he James says, look, you're siding with those that are against God. You're siding with the enemies of God when you take up this attitude. When you become partial in your thinking, when you become prejudice in your mind, you're siding with the enemies of God And to make his point here, James will ask three rhetorical questions based on their current circumstances to show that by aligning themselves with the rich against the poor, they are siding with God's enemies. Which are also the enemies of the church and the Christian. Now, James is not teaching that the church should ignore or despise the rich because of their riches. That would be reverse discrimination. The church should show God's love and grace to everyone, whether rich or poor. What he is saying is this: that the rich shouldn't be given preferential treatment to the detriment of the poor So notice three points that he makes. First of all, hasn't God chosen the poor to be rich in faith, verse number five? That's the first question. I mean, you look throughout scripture, you'll see God's gentle compassion to the poor. God loves the poor. We see this in Leviticus. God commands others to be gracious to the poor, to leave the gleanings of the harvest in the field for the poor. In Deuteronomy 15, 7 He said, If there be among you a poor man of the one of the thy brethren within of thy gates of thy land, which the Lord thy God giveth thee, thou shalt not harden thy heart, nor shut thy hand from the poor God said you treat them well. In 1 Samuel 2. 8 he says God raises up the poor. Job 36, 15 says he delivers the poor. Psalm 41, 1 says, Blessed is he that considers the poor, for the Lord will deliver him in the time of trouble. And James says, look, they're chosen of God. In God's economy, did you ever notice how that most of the people that make up the kingdom of God are not rich people? In First Corinthians 126, for you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty Not many noble are called, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. He's chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world, and the things which are despised as God chosen. You know, the things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are. Why? Why God? That no flesh should glory in his presence. God uses ordinary people. He calls into his kingdom poor, average, ordinary people to be a part of his kingdom for the most part. He takes the weak, he makes them witnesses He takes the base, he makes them believers. He takes the nobodies and he makes them nobilities. This is all part of God's plan. And then notice he says they're rich in faith. It's easier to lead a person who doesn't have a lot of this world's goods or sources. It's easier to lead them to Christ. But riches sometimes can get in the way, can harden the heart of someone. And so they're rich in faith. They're heirs, the Bible says, to the kingdom of God. And then he says in verse 6 Isn't it the rich that oppress you in verse 6? Now in this day that many wealthy, wicked people were oppressing the poor. And James is saying, look, it's the rich who oppress you. They're the ones that drag you into court. Because of the greed and selfishness that they have. And again, we see this in almost every culture and age. The wealthy tend to take advantage of those that are helplessly poor. James or excuse me, William Barclay explains this. He says, quote, if a creditor met a debtor on the street, he could seize him by the neck of his robe, nearly throttling him and literally dragging him into the law courts. That's what James is talking about here. Now again, it's not the wealth that James is condemning, but it's the lack of compassion. It's the sinful heart Of one person against another. James is not against rich people. There are many people in the Bible that were rich. Some of the best Christians I know are wealthy Christians. And thank God they give a lot to the work of the Lord, and we thank the Lord for their generosity. The same industry and diligence it took to make them rich makes them good Christians. But Most of the rich in this world are not believers, and many persecute Christians and despise Christianity. This is what James is saying. If you have that attitude, you side with that spirit of the world. Why would you want to do that? Why would you want to side with the spirit of the world against the church and against God's people. And then he says in verse 7, don't they blaspheme that worthy name by the which you are called? They blaspheme the name of Christ. They don't have any concern about Christ. They don't even concern about his word or his kingdom or anything like that. And when you adopt their spirit, you adopt their philosophy, you are siding with the enemies of God. And by the way, this is why I am so shocked to see pastors and churches adopting critical race theory into their church as some kind of analytical tool that they think is going to help them interpret the Bible better. That is utterly ridiculous. That is a worldly, godless philosophy. The basic root of it comes from the same place that racism comes from. It comes from evolution. It is the thought of godless men who hate God. It's the sphere of the world. It's the wisdom of the world. And yet we have some Christians and pastors and even a whole denomination right down in Nashville that's trying to figure out whether or not they should use it Trying to bring it into the church, let me tell you something. I believe the scripture is sufficient to deal with this issue. We don't need to go to the world and ask for their help to deal with this issue. All we need to do is we need to obey what the Bible says. We just need to obey what Scripture says. If we do that, you'll just you'll be just fine. We don't need to glorify and exalt the wisdom of the world above the Word of God, because what kind of message does that send? That the Bible's not enough. The cross that rips down all the barriers of man is not enough. We need help from Karl Marx It's ridiculous. When you take up that spirit, you are siding with the enemies of God. And then here's the third thing. When you take up the spirit, you sin against God's Son, you side with God's enemies, and then number three, you stand against God's law. Look down in verse number eight. If ye fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Ye do well. But if ye have respect to persons, ye commit sin and are convinced of the law as transgressors. For whosoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in one point he is guilty of all. For he that said do not commit adultery also said also do not kill Now thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law. So speak ye and so do as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. So what's James saying here? When you do this, when you have prejudice or partiality or racism in your heart, you're transgressing the law of God And that he calls the royal law. Why does he call it the royal law? Well, because it was given by a king, Jesus. And also because it's the it's the supreme law. If you love God and you love your neighbor as yourself, you fulfilled all the law because that's what the law is all about. You go back in the Old Testament and look at the laws there, you'll find out every one of them are traced to one of those two things. It's either loving God with all your heart or loving your neighbor as yourself. If you just do that, you know what? You'll fulfill all of God's law. That's the greatest, Jesus said, of the laws, the first and great commandment to love God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And so if you do that, you obey the law. But on the other hand, you can obey all of the laws, quote unquote. But if you have this spirit, James says, if you have respect of persons, again, that's laying a hold of a person's face. Judging a person by their skin color or their outward appearance, if you do that, you commit sin And you are a transgressor of the law. You might not commit adultery. You might not steal. You might not do any of the other things. But if you do that, you've broken all the law. Because the law is like ten links on a chain. You break one, you break them all. It's over with you're guilty as a transgressor. That's what James says. So what should we do? This is very easy. Look down at verse number thirteen. For he shall have judgment without mercy. That has showed no mercy, and mercy rejoices against judgment. You know what? When I come before God, you know what I want a lot of? I want a lot of mercy. I need mercy. So you know what? I'm going to show a lot of mercy to others. It's very simple. He says, you know, for ye shall have judgment without mercy that shows no mercy. You want to constantly be judging, you want to constantly be looking down, you want to constantly being harsh and hypersensitive and hyper-judgmental against all the people around you? Fine, that's the way you're going to be judged. I wouldn't want to stand in your shoes. I wouldn't want to be you at the judgment. I want mercy, so you know what? I'm going to show mercy, and mercy rejoices against judgment. So be merciful. Be loving when it comes to other people. Show kindness. Very simple. And that's that's following our Lord. Being loving, merciful, kind. In the book, there's a of called Seven Habits of a Successful Man, there's a story that I want to share with you. This is what the author wrote. He said, I remember one Sunday morning on a subway in New York, people were sitting quietly, some reading newspapers, some lost in thought, some resting with their eyes closed. It was a calm and peaceful scene. Then suddenly a man and his children entered the subway car. The children were so loud and rambunctious that instantly the whole climate changed. The man sat down next to me and closed his eyes, apparently oblivious to the situation. The children were yelling back and forth, throwing things, even grabbing people's papers. It was very disturbing. And yet the man sitting next to me did nothing. It was difficult not to feel irritated. I could not believe that he could be so insensitive as to let his children run run wild like that and do nothing about it and take no responsibility at all. It was easy to see that everyone else in the subway was very irritated. So finally, with what I thought was an unusual patience and restraint, I turned to him and I said, Sir, your children are really disturbing a lot of people. I wonder if you could not control them a little more. And the man lifted his gaze as if to come to a consciousness of the situation for the very first time. And so and softly he said, Oh, you're right. I guess I should do something about it. We just came from the hospital where their mother died about an hour ago. I don't know what to think. I guess they don't know how to handle it either See, what's the moral of that story? You and I have no idea what bitter experiences people have passed through. When people come into this church, we have no idea what they've been through. We have no idea their background, their setting. And so I want you to make a commitment to be loving, to be merciful, to be kind. When they come in, they should feel immediately the love of Christ. They should feel loved and accepted. Don't let this divided world affect the church. Don't let it in the church. Let's be different. That's what the church is supposed to be. We're supposed to be different. Let grace always be a church where everybody is somebody because Jesus Christ is Lord. That's what I want. That's what God wants. That's what glorifies him. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for this letter of James. It's so very practical for us. It really gets down to brass tacks. It really brings us down to where we are. We can see that the problems that we see today are nothing new. This was part of the early church as well. And just as you had a word for them through Your inspired writer and Pastor James, that word applies to us as well. So help us, Lord, to just embrace this. Help us, Lord, to never sin against God's Son by claiming to be followers of the Lord of glory with prejudice or racism in our heart. God forbid. We sin against you when we do that. And we side with the enemies of God. And we stand against your law, the law of law, the royal law that we should fulfill through the power of your spirit. Lord, I pray that people, when they come into our church, will see a place where the love of Christ abounds, where saints are loving one another. Where people are only divided by either being saved or lost. And with a desire that everyone come to know Jesus Christ. As Savior and Lord. And with heads bowed, eyes closed, and even those that may be listening, if you're not a believer, if you've never trusted Christ, let me just say that the Lord of glory, Jesus, died for you on the cross. He died for sinners like me and you, took our sins upon himself, paid your sin debt, my sin debt with his own death, and now salvation is a gift that you receive by faith in what he has done for you. Religion is not what you can do, it's receiving Jesus because of what he's already done. Putting your faith in him. And if you've never done that, I would just encourage you, right where you are, wherever you are Reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me. You died for me. Come into my heart. Save me. Make me your child. Father, bless these words to the hearts of your people and every hearing heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.