It's good to see you here tonight. Take your Bibles, open to the book of Nehemiah. And we are studying Nehemiah here on Wednesday. And we're in chapter 2, actually. We just started last week. And I hope that this will be a blessing to us as we go through this wonderful book of Nehemiah. There's so much we can learn from him. And tonight I want to talk about preparing for the impossible or facing the impossible because really that's what Nehemiah is doing here in chapter two. Now there's a song that we sing Uh sometimes in church and the lines go like this God any rivers you think are uncrossable. You heard that song, God any mountains you can't tunnel through. God specializes in things thought impossible. He does the things uh others cannot do. And interesting, the person who wrote that song was actually facing an impossibility in his life and uh he was facing death and there was From a human standpoint, no way of deliverance. And he prayed and the Lord did the impossible. And he wrote down that song. And I love that line. It says, God specializes in things thought impossible. Now it may be that you're here tonight and you might be facing some kind of an impossible situation. Humanly speaking, it just looks like uh there's nothing you can do. It's really out of your hands and the situation looks impossible. There's some obstacle that is in your way that will not move. Perhaps it is some godly goal that you set in your life that you want to achieve, and it just seems like that will never happen. Because there's some impossibility in front of you. Perhaps it's a person that you want to see changed. You've been praying for that person, and it just looks like from where you are that nothing is going to happen Uh one thing I've learned that I don't have the power to change anybody. Uh I I don't have that power. Only God can really change hearts. He has the power to change anyone. Sometimes I'll talk to a parent and a parent will be witnessing to a child and they want to see God work mightily. And uh sometimes a parent will feel guilty, but if you're doing all that you can do by loving that child and sharing the truth, you give the rest of it to the Lord because God can change hearts. It might look like it's impossible from your standpoint But God can do it. Perhaps there's some ministry that you want to do for the glory of God, and it just looks like there's some obstacle. that's in your way. It was William Carey that wrote the fr the phrase that we know of, uh ask great things of God, expect great things of God. do great things for God. And so this is what Nehemiah is going to do here in chapter two. He's certainly going to ask God He's certainly going to attempt great things, but really from his standpoint, it looks like it's impossible. Now, if you were with us last week, you know in chapter one, Nehemiah got a burden for what was going on in Jerusalem Certain men of Judah came down and they told him of the situation in Jerusalem. The walls were broken down, uh the place was in ruin. There was a remnant that was there. It wasn't a full group of people that were really carrying forth God's mission and the glory of God. And so Nehemiah got burdened about that and he prayed and he saw God's face. And now he has a desire to go to Jerusalem and he wants to rebuild those walls And see God do great things. But where is Nehemiah? As we open up in chapter number two, Nehemiah is in Shushan, the palace. That's a long way away from Jerusalem. Uh he was the king cup uh king's cupbearer. How is he going to be able to just you know leave and go to Jerusalem? He just can't go in and quit and say, I'm done, I'm gonna go to Jerusalem And if he does do that, how is he going to get the materials? If you want to rebuild the walls of the city, you're going to need materials And that means you're going to need money to do that. But not only that, you're going to need manpower. Where is all of that going to come from? I mean, from where N Nehemiah sat, this just looked like an impossible project that he wanted to do. And then to add to that, there were enemies there around Ju uh Judah that didn't want this to happen. I think I told you that 14 years earlier someone tried to rebuild the wall And the enemies prevented it from happening. They interfered. So what makes Nehemiah think that he would succeed when others failed? So he was facing an impossible situation. Let me ask you a question. What do you do when you are facing a seeming impossible situation? Well, we're going to learn some things from Nehemiah. We're going to see what he did. And what I want you to see tonight are three principles we can learn from Nehemiah about attempting the impossible for God. Now here's the first principle. If you're taking notes, just write down, number one, I want to call this the principle of opening, and that is wait for a providential opening. Now again, Nehemiah had a great desire to go to Jerusalem and rebuild the walls, but how is he even going to go about it? Well the first thing he does is he begins to pray. And this is what we need to do. When you're facing an impossible situation, the first thing you should do is just go to the Lord and prayer. Now we already saw last week that Nehemiah was a man of prayer. Many times we see him praying throughout the book. No less than eleven times in thirteen chapters do we see Nehemiah going to the Lord to pray. And many of these prayers, they were not very long, but they were very intense. And so he's an example of someone who prays without ceasing. The Bible tells us to do that in 1 Thessalonians 5. 11. Now the Greek word, which means without ceasing, doesn't mean that you pray without any breaks. It just simply means you keep returning back to prayer. The word was used to speak about a hacking cough or of a repeated military assault. And it just means that we pray and then we come back and we pray again. And then we wait and then we come back and we pray again, but we don't stop. We just keep on praying. We return to it again and again. without ceasing. Now, Nehemiah is doing this. Go back to chapter 1, verse 11. And notice what he says here. We saw this last week, but look at it again. Oh Lord, I beseech thee. Let now thine ear be attentive to the prayer of thy servant, and to the prayer of thy servants. He got others to join him in prayer, who desire to fear thy name and prosper. And I pray thee, thy servant, this day, grant him mercy in the sight of this man. Now who's he praying for there? He's praying for King Artaxerxes, right? Because that's one of the obstacles. If Nehemiah is going to go to Jerusalem and rebuild the wall, the first thing he's got to do is get the king's permission. This is a very unpredictable ruler, Art Exerces. And so he says, Lord, have mercy. With this man. Hudson Taylor once said, it is possible to move men through God by prayer alone. And this is what happens here. What does the Bible say in Proverbs 21. 1? The heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord, as the rivers of water, he can turn it whatever way he wants to. If you've got a stubborn authority over you that seems to be blocking you from doing what God wants you to do, you know what? You commit that person to prayer and God is able to turn that heart. And this is what we see Nehemiah doing. So here's the first thing Wait prayerfully. And waiting for God to open up a door, you wait, but you wait prayerfully. And this is what he's doing. This is a great way to start. Now, we see this in the New Testament. The Apostle Paul, he prayed for an open door. Write down Colossians 4:3, with all praying also for us. that God would open unto us the door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in bonds. Paul said pray for God to open up a door. And later on in Acts chapter fourteen, they will rehearse what God has done and how God opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles. And so Paul prayed for open doors, and guess what God did? God began to open doors. Because that's what God does. Remember when Simon Peter was in prison and the church was praying for him, and God opened that prison door, and then he opened the gate. And the only time Peter didn't get an open door is when he knocked on the church door and they said, We're busy praying for you to get out of jail. They didn't open the door. That's a story in Acts chapter 12. How ironic But God opened the door. Remember in Acts 16, Paul was praying and he wanted to go to Asia and God didn't open that door. And he wanted to go to Misia and God didn't open that door. But God opened the door to Macedonia. Revelation 3:8. Behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it. So, friend, mark it down. When God opens a door, no man shuts that door. And so wait prayerfully for God to open the door. But here's the next thing. Wait patiently. Wait patiently. We see this here in the very beginning of chapter 2. But there's really a chronological note. If you look in chapter 2, verse 1, it says it came to pass in the month Nisan. If you look in chapter 1, verse 1, it was in the month Cheslu. Cheslu is in December. Nisan is in April. Nehemiah began praying in December, and he's still praying. Here it is, April, and he's still praying. You know what that means? He's waiting while he's praying. What happened for four months? He was praying. And what happened? Nothing. So what did he do? He just continued to pray and patiently waited You know, you know what I I don't like? I'm kind of an impatient person by nature. When I call someone or some business and they put you on hold, don't you hate that? Could you wait, could you could I put you on hold, Mr. Harmon? And then, you know, t two hours later, oh, we we forgot that you were there. You know, I'm just kidding. I'm exaggerating. But I hate to get put on hold. But friend, let me tell you something. When God puts you on hold, don't hang up the phone. Because what does the Bible say? Therefore does the Lord wait that he might be gracious unto you. And I know that sometimes in the Christian life, I think waiting is the hardest thing to do. But God teaches us patience by causing us to wait. If you go through the Bible and look at some of the men that God used the most, you'll find out they waited. For a long time sometimes. Abraham waited twenty-five years for God to give him Isaac. Joseph waited years in prison before God Exalted him to be the prime minister of Egypt. Israel was enslaved for 400 years. Moses waited forty years in the the desert before God used him. David spent Ten years running from Saul. He spent his twenties basically running from King Saul. Those that God uses, he teaches to wait. And so here's Nehemiah, and he's waiting. And so, but you know what? God will work, and God begins to open the door. But here's the first principle, though, the principle of opening. Wait for God Wait for God to open the door. Wait for a providential opening. I'm going to tell you something, friend. If you don't wait on God, all of your work will be in vain if you get ahead of God. Learn to wait. But here's the second principle I want you to see. The principle of opportunity. And this principle says, be prepared when the opportunity comes. You've been praying, you've been praying, you've been waiting. And then you know what? You need to be discerning to see if God begins to move. And this is what we find here. Look down in verse number one again, came to pass in the month Nisan in the 20th year of Artaxerxes. That the king, that the w uh the Artaxerxes the king, excuse me, that wine was before him, and I took up the wine and gave it unto the king. I had not been before time sat in his presence. And wherefore the king said unto me, Why is thy countenance sad, seeing thou art not sick? This is nothing else but sorrow of heart. Then I was very sore afraid. Nehemiah is doing his normal daily task. He takes wine to the king. The king notices that he's very sad and he's not sick. And the king asked about it, why are you so depressed? Why are you so sad? You're not sick. And Nehemiah got afraid. Now, why was he afraid? Because this was a major violation of court etiquette. in the Near Eastern court of a king. According to one scholar, Persian monarchs believe that just being in their presence should make you happy. Talk about an ego trip. Just being in my presence Should make you happy, so why are you sad? So when someone was sad in the king's presence, they took it very personally And so, and by the way, another reason, perhaps, that added to this is this was probably a feast time. Nisan was the beginning of the Persian New Year. And the king was perhaps throwing a feast to all of his friends, which showed his generosity, so a person should be happy to be there in that circumstance. Grateful for the king's generosity and to seem like you were sad was somewhat perhaps an insult. But notice what Nehemiah says. Now this might not look good for Nehemiah, but you know what's happening here? God's beginning to open a door. You know what? When God begins to open a door, it might not happen just the way you think it should happen. It may happen in a very strange way. It might on the surface look like something bad for you, but actually it's God working. And this is the way it is for Nehemiah. Look in verse 3 and said unto the king, sore afraid, and said unto the king, Let the king live forever. Why should not my countenance be sad when the city, the place of my father's sepulchres, lies waste? And the gates thereof are consumed with fire. And so Nehemiah realizes, I think, this is the moment to really ask Artaxerxes to reverse his official policy towards Jerusalem. And so he mentions the ancestral tombs because that was something that was Very important to the Near Eastern kings and nobility. Respect for ancestral tombs. The ancestral tombs of my forefathers is in ruin And then he quay he prays a quick prayer. Look at verse 4. Then the king said unto me, For what dost thou make request? So I pray to the God of heaven. Again, he realizes this is it. Here's the opportunity. It's right in front of him. And so he prays to the Lord. God, I can just imagine what he's praying. Lord, give me wisdom. Help me to answer just right. You know, God is opening a door. Listen, when God opens a door, don't be reluctant. Go through it. This is what he does. He's going to tell the king what he needs. You know, sometimes when God does open a door, the problem is we might be a little reluctant to go through it. Nehemiah's nine. Write down Psalm 32. 9, be not as the horse or as the mule. Which have no understanding, whose mouth must be held with a bid and bridle, lest they come near unto thee. In other words, the horse he has no understanding. The horse's tendency is to run out ahead. And the mule's tendency is to lag behind. And neither one has understanding. And the psalm says the psalmist says, Don't be like that. Don't lag behind. Don't run ahead. But when God is moving, don't be afraid to go through that door. Recognize when the door opens, seize the opportunity. Nehemiah prays. And then notice that when he answers the king, it's a very intelligent answer. Here's how we know he was ready, that he seized the opportunity. And we can learn from him three things. First of all, organize a plan. Look in verse 5. And I said unto the king, if it please the king, and if thy servants have found favor in thy sight, that thou wouldst send me unto Judah unto the city of my father's sepulchres, that I may build it. And the king said unto me, for the queens also sit by him, For how long will thy journey be? And when wilt thou return? So it pleased the king to send me. And I set him a time. Moreover I said unto the king, If it please the king, let letters be given me to the governors beyond the river, that they may convey me over till I come to Judah And a letter unto Asath, the keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the palace, which appertaineth to the house, and for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall enter into And the king granted me according to the good hand of my God upon me. And then I came to the governors beyond the river and gave them the king's letters Now the king had sent captains of the army and horsemen with me. Now from verses five to nine, you know what we see in those verses Just how organized Nehemiah was. You know what this tells me? That all that time while he was praying, he wasn't just praying and doing nothing. You know what he was doing? He was putting together a plan. He was organizing it all together. And when the king finally. Ask them, what do you need? Nehemiah, I can just picture him. I think he kind of, you know, threw down the scroll and said, I'm glad you asked. I have a list right here. And he just went through it. Here's what I'm going to need. He was organizing all of that, all that time. Uh And notice when he says, I gave the king a set time in verse number six. How can you give him a set time unless you're absolutely organized? And you know how long it's gonna take, what I'm gonna need. So again, uh he he he's organized, he organizes the plan. Uh you know, again, notice he asked for letters uh of permission to allow him to pass through this province, this trans-Euphrates, a large area. He asked the king for a letter to Asaph, the man in charge of the king's forests, because he needed wood and timber for rebuilding. You know what amazes me? He knew the guy's name How did Nehemiah a cupbearer in the king's palace know the name of the guy in charge of the forest in the timber? This tells me that he did his homework. He did his research. He was ready. One person wrote this: I'm weary of people who can call it faith when they can't tell you their plans. Have you ever heard of an individual saying, no, we're not going to think this through. We're just going to go by faith. And God will lead us. Let me tell you something. The presence of faith doesn't mean the absence of organization All right? God honors a plan. Going out in faith doesn't mean you go out disorderly or haphazardly. You know, we have to have a plan. And I think Nehemiah, while he's praying and he has this vision and his burden, he's putting together the plan of what he needs to do The old Revolutionary War soldiers used to say it like this, trust in God, but keep your powder dry. Pray to God, but make your plans uh and organize. And so, can you imagine if Nehemiah, he he he gets uh you know he gets permission, he gets all the men together. They say, oh, we're going to go rebuild Jerusalem. He goes to the first official as he's passing through the Trans-Euphrates area. And this official says, where are you going? Oh, we're going by faith to Jerusalem. Well, where's your letters? We don't have letters. We just have faith in God. Well that faith is great, but you need to go back and get your letters. So they got to go back and start over. He was organized. And you know what? He even had a military escort in verse number nine. And so when he got to Jerusalem, he had material, he had manpower, he had military aid And you know what he attributed to? The good hand of God. God did it all in verse 8. He said, The good hand of God was upon me. You see, when prayer and providence and preparation meet, Nothing can stop you. So there's organize a plan, but here's another thing, visualize the project Look at verse number eleven. We'll go back to verse ten in a minute. So I came to Jerusalem and there were was there three days, and I arose in the night, I and some few men with me. Neither told I any man what my God had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem. Neither was there any beast with me, save the beast that I rode upon. And I went out by night by the gate of the valley, even before the dragon well, and to the dung port and viewed the walls of Jerusalem, which were broken down, and the gates thereof were consumed with fire. Then I went on to the gate of the fountain, and to the king's pool. But there was no place for the beast that I was under me to pass. Then I went up in the night by the brook and viewed the wall and turned back and entered into the gate of the valley, and so I returned. In verse 16, and the rulers knew not whither I went or what I did, neither had I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor the nobles, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest. Now once Nehemiah reached Jerusalem, he does another thing that I think is very meaningful. He makes a careful analysis of the situation before he even begins. He doesn't just get to Jerusalem and then just start working. No, what does he do? He takes three days. And then one night, late at night, by himself, he rides through the ruins of the city. He does this all by himself in total solitude You know, a good leader doesn't rush into the work, but first he gets together all of the facts. He surveys the situation. He forms a strategy. Someone said leaders are awake when others are asleep. And here's Nehemiah. He's awake at night, he's while others are sleeping. He's working while others are resting. He's surveying the whole thing. And then He does this, uh the thing I want you to see is he does this by himself. He doesn't delegate it. You know, there are some things that a leader just can't delegate He's just got to do it himself. And I think that in that moment, in that solitude, when he's going around and he's seeing this the ruins of the city, God is working in his heart, and God is placing a vision in his heart How do we know that? Because in verse 12 it says, Neither told I any man what God had put in my heart. God was beginning to work in his heart. And I think that while he's riding around, there are two things that he sees. First of all, he sees the problem. He looks closely at the ruins. Two times we see the word viewed. We see it in verse thirteen, where he viewed the walls of Jerusalem. In verse 15, where he said he viewed the wall two times. That word is used. And this word in the Hebrew is actually a medical term that describes someone who probes into a wound to fully examine it. You know what before any problem is solved you have to really take a good look at the problem and you gotta know what it is. I think the reason some people continue to wrestle with the same problems again and again is because they're unwilling to truly look at the real problem and to really see it for what it is. Nehemiah, he wants to see it for what it is. He saw the problem and then number two, he saw the potential. He saw what good what could be, what God placed in his heart, what those walls could look like. Around that city. And I think that he got a visual image of those walls before he ever laid the first brick. He saw it in his mind. He saw it in his heart. When I was in Jerusalem last year, I was in the city of David, which is the older part of Jerusalem. And you know what? You can still see part of Nehemiah's wall there. It's still there. You can look at it, you can see it, you can put your hand on it. It is still there. And people come by and they look at that and they see that but before anyone else. Ever saw Nehemiah's wall, he saw it in his mind, he saw it in his heart, he visualized what could be. Most great leaders are those who have a vision of what can be. And what God wants to happen. What vision has God placed in your heart for his glory? Organize the plan, visualize the project, but here's the third thing he does. Mobilize the people. Mobilize the people. Look in verse number 17. Then said I unto them, ye see the distress that we are in. How Jerusalem lieth waste, and the gates thereof are burned with fire. Come and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more a reproach. So what should he do now after Nehemiah got his God-given vision of what could be? Now it was time to approach the people and relay that vision. Now he stands in front of the city council. He stands in front of the people that were assembled there. Now keep in mind again the others have tried to rebuild the walls, but they failed. And you can imagine that a lot of people there in that city perhaps a little discouraged, probably apathetic, and Nehemiah has the difficult task now of motivating people who were already stuck, we could say, in a rut. He's got to motivate them. So what does he do here? There are three things that I see here that he does. First of all, number one, he identifies with them Notice where he uses the word we and us. Look again in verse number 17. Then I said unto them, Ye see the distress that we are in. How Jerusalem lieth waste, and the gates are over burn with fire. Come, let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more reproach. We, us I like that. He doesn't come into Jerusalem and say, you know what? You all have really made a mess of things. You all have really failed. How come you're not doing anything? He doesn't go in and just start rebuking people. No, what does he do? He goes in and he identifies, he said, this isn't just your problem, this is our problem. This is something that we have to do. This is something that is going to require teamwork. I'm here to work together with you. I want to help you. So he identified with them, but secondly, he uses internal motivation. Notice he appeals to their sense of self-worth. Look at the end of verse 17 where he says, Let us build up the wall of Jerusalem that we be no more a reproach. Now someone has written that there are two types of motivation. There's external and there's internal. And most managers use external motivation, thinking that rewards and money is what really motivates people. You know, if you do this, then uh we'll give you this. Or you can win this prize. Studies have shown that external motivation is the least effective. Nehemiah didn't offer rewards to the most uh to the people who lay the most bricks. You know, what how does he motivate them? He basically says, look, do you see the walls? Do you see how they're in ruin? And you hear how people are laughing at us? We are a reproach. Let us build up these walls together. Let us remove this reproach. Who is with me? In other words, he appeals to their sense of nationalism. He says, look, we are God's people. And we represent the Lord. We're supposed to be a glory to the nations around. But no, we're a laughing stock. And so he uses internal motivation. I think that's the one great denomin uh common denominator I should say among great leaders is that they learn to motivate people using internal motivation. Uh you all know that not too long ago I was in London and I've been there several times visiting my daughter. One time we were over there, I went to visit uh the Churchill War Room. Uh Winston Churchill is one of my favorite characters in history. And did you know you can go over there and you can visit his war room. That's the place where kind of an underground bunker where He met with all of his generals in the cabinet room. There was a place where he stayed there. It was like a little city, really underground. And you can just walk all through there. They have kept it just as it was in World War II uh during World War II. However, they have added a little part to it, a little museum. And as you walk through that place, what you see on the wall are the great quotes from Winston Churchill. And these were words that moved the people, that motivated the people. Listen to some of them. This is what he said. I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears, and sweat. Another place he said, victory at all costs, victory in spite of all terror, victory however long and hard the road may be, for without victory there is no survival And here's another quote. We shall go on to the end. We shall fight on the seas and oceans. We shall fight with growing confidence. We shall fight with growing strength in the air. We shall defend our island, whatever the cost may be. And then it goes on. Those are motivating words. You know what? That's not external motivation. That's internal motivation. He's saying, we're going to do this, we're going to do this together. At one point he said to our president on February 9th, 1941, during a radio broadcast, this is what he said to him. He said, give us the tools and we will finish the job. I like that. In a sense, that's what Nehemiah is saying to these people here. He's saying, look, we have got a job to do. And we have the tools. Our God has given us this opportunity. And we need to rise up and finish this job. You see, as God's people, you know what should motivate all of us? The glory of God. That's what should motivate us. You know what, I'm not I don't consider myself a really great leader. Uh and maybe I'm not the best motivator. You know, sometimes I really get frustrated with people that should be doing what they ought to do for the glory of God You know, God's people shouldn't have to be told a thousand times to do what you ought to be doing automatically. And you ought to be doing it just because you love God and you want to glorify God I don't understand that train of thinking for anyone who calls himself a Christian and doesn't want to glorify God in what they do. And that should be the thing that motivates us, his kingdom. And his glory is our internal motivation to do what we should be doing. And so he uses internal motivation. And then he described to them what God was doing. Look at verse 18. And then I told them of the hand of my God, which was good upon me, as also the king's word that he had spoken unto me. And they said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands. He just described, he just said, look, this is what God is doing. Notice what the Lord has done. And he just relays to them. The providential works of God. You know, if good people are convinced of a godly cause, I believe they'll be motivated. And if they know, for any leader, godly leader, if the people know that God is with you, you know what? They will follow. That's what the people said to Joshua. They said in Joshua 1. 17, according as we hearken unto Moses in all things, so we will hearken unto thee. Only the Lord thy God be with thee, as he was with Moses. If we know God is with you, we will follow you. And that's what these people here were saying. When Nehemiah told them all about what God had done, they responded by saying, Let us rise up and build. So there's the principle of opening. Wait for a providential opening. There is the principle of opportunity. Be prepared when the opportunity comes. Let me give you the final principle. I call this the principle of opposition. Be ready for opposition when it comes. And notice I didn't say if it comes, I said when it comes. Because anytime you attempt to do anything for God, you are going to get opposition. Whenever you open, when God opens up the windows of heaven to bless us, Satan opens up the gates of hell to blast us. It happens every time. And so uh but opposition is really evidence that God is working and that God is blessing. And so be ready for that. Notice how they opposed him. Look at verse 19. But when Sambalat the Hornite and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, and Gishem the Arabian heard it, they laughed us to scorn. And despised us and said, What is this thing that ye do? Will ye rebel against the king? Now in verse 10, when they heard that what was going on, they were grieved. And now here they are using ridicule. That's one of Satan's greatest weapons, ridicule. Thomas Carlisle called ridicule the language of the devil. And they begin to ridicule. And many people through the years, God's people have had to endure, the Bible says, a trial of cruel mocking, according to Hebrews 11, 36. Now, how does Nehemiah respond? Look at verse 20. Then answered I them, and said unto them, The God of heaven, he will prosper us. Here's the first thing. Just keep your faith in God. When when opposition comes and the world's ridicule comes, don't let the world cause you to doubt God. Nehemiah says, Our God will prosper us. He kept his eyes on the Lord, and he kept his faith. And here's the second thing he did. He refused to get distracted. Don't get distracted. Look again in verse 20. Then answered I them and said unto them, The God of heaven, he will prosper us. Therefore We his servants will arise and build. But ye have no portion, nor right, nor memorial in Jerusalem. He basically said to those three, it's none of your business. We're going to stay focused. We're going to rise up and build. They did not allow themselves to get distracted. You know that's how Satan works. He works through distraction. He's going to try to get you to think about something else, to get you off base, to get you out of focus, to distract you. Don't fall for that. You just keep doing what you're doing. You stay focused. That's what Nehemiah did I was reading this, Yogi Bear was a catcher for the New York Yankees that played you know many years ago. He played many years ago during the 50s and 60s. Some have called him the philosopher of baseball because he had all of these witty one-liners. I mean it was Yogi Beira that basically said it's not over until it's over. And the other uh line he used is deja vu over again Uh one time when he was asked he ordered a pizza and they they said you want us to cut it into twelve slices? He said, No, you better cut it into eight because I can't eat twelve slices. But he was no he was noted for when he was a catcher behind the plate, he was noted for trying to distract the batter. You know, talking to him so that he's not paying attention, he's not focusing, so he thought it was easier to get him out. So he was talking endlessly And one time during the World Series against the Milwaukee Brace, Hank Aaron was at the plate And Yogi Bear looked up and he said, Hank, he said, you're not holding the bat right. He said the trademark needs to be facing you so you can read the trademark. And Hank Aaron didn't say anything. And the next pitch, Hank Aaron hit a home run over the left field wall. Then he trotted around the bases and he crossed home plate. And when he crossed home plate, he looked at Yogi Barrett and he said, I didn't come up here to read. You know what? He refused to get distracted. That's good that's a good illustration. It should teach us something, friend. Listen, don't let Satan distract you. Don't get distracted. Just stay focused. Nehemiah said that we are going to rise and we are going to build. So there's the principle of opening, wait for a providential opening. The principle of opportunity, be prepared when opportunity comes. There is the principle of opposition, be ready. For opposition when it comes. And I'll close with this. Jay Hudson Taylor, the pioneer missionary to China, he said these words. He said there are three stages in any great work Attempted for God, impossible, difficult, and done. Nehemiah went from impossible to done. Because he stayed focused. Because he waited for God to open up the door. He was ready when the door opened. And he didn't succumb to any opposition. He just continued on. And friend, you know what I think about? I think about our Lord Jesus. You know what? When he came to this world, he came at just the right time. He overcame many obstacles. He did what many were probably thought was impossible. He made salvation available to us all. And you know what? He faced every opposition and he overcame it victoriously. And he is the one that will help us. Whenever we face an impossible situation in our life, we have our Lord Jesus. And we also have the example of Nehemiah, who teaches us what to do. So again, you might be, I don't know what your situation is here tonight. Maybe you're facing some circumstance. Seems like it's impossible. Follow in the example of Nehemiah. And you know what? You'll be able to realize that God is a God who specializes in impossibilities and He makes them possible for us. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So, Father, I pray that you'll help us to apply these things. And Lord, these are your people, these are your servants. And I know many of them perhaps are wrestling with issues, things in their life, challenges, difficulties that's preventing them from Doing what their heart desires to do. And I pray, Lord, that you will encourage them through your word tonight. I pray, Father, that you would help us to recognize your hand at work. Give us patience to wait. Give us perseverance, Lord, to pray. And Lord, give us courage to never give up. Just to continue on. And Father, may we be able to see your you work and give great victory, Lord, to your people. And how many have said that's my prayer tonight? I just want to follow these principles in my own life. I'm facing impossibility. God bless you, dear friend. Father, bless your servants. And Lord, help them to apply these simple yet profound truths. And help them, Lord, to overcome the impossibilities in their life for your glory. We pray in Jesus' precious name, Amen.