Would you take God's word this morning and I invite you to open to the book of Philippians, chapter three, the book of Philippians, chapter three, and we're going to Look at verses twelve down to verse fifteen today. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Philippians chapter three, verse twelve down to verse sixteen. Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect, but I follow after if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. And brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded. And if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this to you. Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing. May God bless his word to our hearts today. Thank you. You may be seated. And pray with me. Father, thank you for your word, and I pray that you will help me as I preach this, Lord, to uh make it very clear, but more importantly, Lord, to apply this in my own life and to live it. And Lord, give us the strength, Lord, to live what the word teaches us. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, there are some denominations and churches today that teach the doctrine of perfectionism. What is that? Well perfectionism is the teaching that believers can reach a state of spiritual and moral perfection in this life. They call it the a second work of grace. You might hear the term a second blessing. Sometimes people who believe this will come and say to another believer, have you received a second blessing? And uh this is what they believe. They believe that if you pray long enough and hard enough, you'll get this second blessing. Uh the sin nature that we all have will be eradicated and you will become perfect. This view is also called entire sanctification, meaning you're completely, totally sanctified when this happens. And and this view of sanctific uh this view of sanctification also became a movement called the holiness movement in church history. It was rooted in uh Wesleyan theology. It can be found in some uh Methodist churches. Uh the Salvation Army was a big teacher of this under William Booth. And then the Church of the Nazarene teaches this, and there are many charismatic denominations that also teach uh the second blessing idea. H. A. Ironside was pastor of the Moody Memorial Church. Um when he was younger, he was a part of the Salvation Army, and he believed that you could reach a place of perfection. And he wanted this second blessing. He was a young man, he was a godly man, and uh he decided that he was going to pursue this, and so he went out one night, he found a sycamore tree, he prayed all night for God to give him this second blessing. Early in the morning hours, he was filled with such joy and peace in his heart that he felt like God had answered his prayer, that he had received a second blessing in his life. He went happily back to uh hi the his room at a retreat center that he was staying that week, and even before he got back to the room, uh he sensed in him welling up in his heart sinful thoughts and desires. And by the time he got back to his room, he was discouraged because he realized that he had not, after all, received the second blessing. And so while he was at that retreat center, he saw a lady there who just seemed to be just angelic and a godly woman, and he thought, if anyone here has received a second blessing. It's her. So I know what I'll do. I'll go to her. I'll ask her how she got it. He got off his bed, went to the door to go find this lady, but before he got to the door there was a knock And when he opened the door, there was that lady, that very woman, standing there, and she said to him, Sir, I have been seeking so much for the second blessing in my life. I thought if anyone had it, you have, I thought I'd come and ask you how you got it in your life. And H. A. Ironside began to study God's word a little more, and he began to understand that We will never be perfect in this life. This doctrine of perfectionism is a false doctrine. It's just simply not true. I wish it were true. I wish I could say that I'm going to come to a point in my life that I'm absolutely, totally perfect I know that I'm close, you know. I'm so glad that you laughed when I said that. Uh I wish it were true, but it's it's just simply not true. Perfection in this life will always be a goal. But it will never be an achievement. John said in 1 John, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. So some people then ask this question, so why bother seeking spiritual growth if we'll never reach perfection in this life? Why should we then bother seeking spiritual growth. Why should we even pursue this thing of Christ-likeness and spiritual growth? Well, first because This desire to grow spiritually is a natural byproduct of being a Christian. I should say a supernatural byproduct because If you have the Holy Spirit living inside of you, that Holy Spirit is going to give you these desires to be more like Christ True believers have this built-in desire for growth. Pursuing spiritual growth glorifies God. It provides evidence of true salvation. Wherever there is justification, there will be the desire for sanctification. And I would just say this, not in a judgmental way or a condemning way. I would say it in a very pastoral way, compassionate way. If you have no desire to pursue holiness and Christ's likeness in your life, I would examine whether you truly are a believer. I say that with a compassionate heart. Make sure, beloved, give all diligence to make sure that you're truly a child of God. But pursuing this Christ-likeness is evidence of true salvation. It produces joy. It equips us to minister to other people, and it enhances our witness to a lost world. But also very simply because the Bible commands us to pursue it. This is the mark that Paul is talking about here in this passage. I think that this passage here Philippians 3 kind of gives a devastating blow to this doctrine of perfectionism. But at the same time, it teaches us that we are to pursue with all of our heart this high calling that God has given us. And so really Philippians 3 is Paul giving us his personal account of his own spiritual journey and spiritual growth. And really what we see here are three basic experiences of Paul. In chapter 3, verses 1 to 11, we see Paul the accountant. Remember, I preached on this a while back. that Paul said, all those things that were gained to me when I met Jesus, I then I counted them lost. He's kind of like an accountant. He had all these religious works that he put in the gain column of his spiritual ledger. But when he met Christ he realized that all those spiritual works didn't get him close to God. It didn't earn him salvation. Those things were actually a loss. Rather than really helping him to God, they were actually hindering him from God And when he met Jesus, he counted all those things as as loss, but then in the gain column, what did he get? He got Jesus Christ In verse 7, he says this in verse chapter 3, well what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. When he met Jesus, he refigured his ledger book. Three times he uses the word count, and he said, I counted those things lost. Those religious works gained mean nothing. In fact, they were not helping me, they were hindering me from true Salvation, they were keeping me from the source of real salvation, which was Christ. They were not merely useless, they were detrimental And so Paul puts all that in the lost column, that he might gain true salvation, that he might gain Christ. So we see Paul the accountant, and then we see Paul the alien. Look in verse 20 of chapter 3, for our conversation is in heaven, for whence also we looked for the Savior. the Lord Jesus Christ. So we'll change our vow body that it might be fashioned like on his glorious body. That's when you become perfect right there. The moment we go to see the Lord And our salvation is complete. The third stage of our salvation, which is glorification, will take place. That's the moment that we are absolutely like Christ and we are sinless. We are in a glorified state. But in between that, we see Paul the athlete, I say, because what he's using here is he's using athletic terms to describe this pursuit that all of us should have. You know, Paul used a lot of illustrations from the world in which he lived. He used illustrations from the army. You know, he said we have to put on the whole armor of God, right? He used illustrations from architecture. He said, your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. He used illustrations from agriculture. He said, whatever a man sows, that will he what? That's what he's going to read. He used illustrations from astronomy. He said there are bodies celestial, bodies terrestrial. But one day we're going to get a celestial body will shine like the stars. Here he's using illustrations from the world of athletics. Paul must have been a sports fan I mean as much as he refers to athletic illustrations in his letters reminds me of the man who said to his wife, honey, is there anything you want to say to me before football season starts? It's not a good thing to say, by the way. In the ancient world, um they loved sports. They were a major part of the entertainment culture. When Alexander the Great conquered the the world, the Greeks introduced these games. They had the Olympic Games, the Pythian Games, the Ithmian Games. These games were all staggered so all the wealthy and the elite could be a part of these games Uh the Olympic Games were the most celebrated in that day. I remember um in 2020 I was in London with my uh daughter Abby and and Annie and my son Josiah. We were handing out tracks at Buckingham Palace Uh and when the Olympic torch runner ran by right there. I thought that was pretty special there. That tradition goes all the way back to the ancient games that were held at Mount Olympus, they were in honor of the god Zeus. That was all part of the culture that Paul lived and wrote. And so he uses these metaphors from the world in which he lived, these sports metaphors. And in the Olympic Games, they had running, they had long distance runs, they had short distance runs, they had Spear throwing, wrestling, boxing, chariot racing, and so on. And so Paul uses these. He says, from the world of wrestling, he said, we wrestle not against what? Flesh and blood. He said that we, he said, when I fight not as one who beats the air, Paul said, I'm not shadow boxing. I'm I'm throwing real blows out there He said, let us run with patience the race that is set before us. And on we could go. Here he's using another term from the athletic world. The key verse is verse 14. Look at it. He says, I press towards the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Question, what sport is he referring to here? You know, Bible scholars are not agreed as to the particular sport. Some think he's referring to chariot racing. You know, back then when they were racing chariots, they really The chariot was really just a little platform on four wheels. They didn't have much to hold on to. They had to be able to balance themselves very well. And a lot of times in a race the chariot racer would lean forward as he was approaching the finish line That could be, but I think that what Paul is referring to here is a foot race. I think this fits with the metaphor of the Christian life. And Paul refers to it a lot. As Christians, you know what, you're in a race. You understand that? It's not a hundred yard dash. It is a long marathon Paul referred to this. He said in Acts 20, 24, he goes, I want to finish my course with joy. He was running this long race. To the Corinthians, he said this in 1 Corinthians 9 24, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but only one receives a prize. You're running in a race. So he says, run that you may obtain. In Galatians 2. 2, he said, I was afraid lest by means I should run in vain or labored in vain. Paul said, I don't want to run this race in vain I want to make sure that I'm making good progress. Uh to the gl to the Galatians, he lamented to them, he said You did run well. Who hindered you? Who hindered you? And then in 2 Timothy 4 7, he wrote, I have finished my course. So all these are about a race. And I think this is what Paul's referring to here. But the question is, what is the high calling of God in Christ Jesus that Paul is referring to here? Well let me tell you what it's not talking about. It's not talking about salvation. Because if Paul was talking about salvation, uh this would be a picture of salvation by works or self-effort. That's not what he's referring to here. In order to compete in the Greek games, you already had to be a citizen of a country. Paul said, our citizenship, verse 20, is where? It's in heaven. We're citizens of heaven. That's where our citizenship is. We're in this race. We're in these games. We're citizens of heaven. We're st Thriving here on earth we're running in this race And so the so this is not talking about initial salvation. What is it? What is the high calling? Well, Paul already referred to it in verse 10 and verse 11 And what he's referring to there is Christ-likeness. In verse 11, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. That is, he wanted to be like Christ. That is our high calling. This is Paul continuing to say, I'm working out my salvation. Remember, he said that in chapter 2? Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. This is something that you have to work on. This is your sanctification. And so here he compares it to a race. You're in a race. We're on a track. You have your lane. The goals in front of you. The prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. It is knowing Jesus more. It is pursuing Christ-likeness. Now, I think this should be the resolution that you need to have, if you don't mind me saying. Don't raise your hand, but how many of you made a list of resolutions? for the year. You know, someone said resolutions go in one year and out the other. You know, we keep them for a little while. Maybe we fail at them. But let me just say this of all the resolutions you have, this should be your main resolution. As a believer, you're pressing towards the prize of the high calling. You're pursuing Christ-likeness. And so Paul in this passage gives us five essentials of pressing towards this mark. I want you to see them real quickly. Number one, if you're taking notes right down, a sanctified dissatisfaction. Look at verse 12. He said again, not as though I already attained, either were already perfect. Paul was aware that he had not arrived. He he knew he still had a long way to go. He wanted that prize. He longed for it. The word attain means to receive lumbano At the end of a race, a runner would receive his reward, his victor's crown. Paul said, I haven't received anything yet. I'm still striving. He said, it's not as though I was already perfect, to Leo, absolutely perfect. I'm striving, I'm running, but I know I haven't attained, I haven't got to the goal. I haven't arrived. I'm not where I should be. Again, where did Paul want to be? He wanted to be like Christ, like his master. And Paul said, I'm not there yet. Let me tell you something. If Paul wasn't there, you're probably not there. Is it okay to say that? I'm not there. If Paul was still striving, all of us are. He was still wrestling with sin in his life. He was still cleansing himself from inward defilement. He was still perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. He was locked in mortal combat with his flesh If you read Romans 7, you know, Paul longed to get rid of this body of death, he called it. He was worrying in his own life against his own sin nature But what he did have was he had this holy dissatisfaction. You know the problem with a lot of believers are they're satisfied with where they are spiritually. And I want to tell you that's a death blow to sanctification. If you haven't attained and you're not where you need to be, why are you satisfied with where you are? There has to be this holy dissatisfaction. And that's the beginning of it. You know, don't be like the believers in Laodicea who basically said, I have need of nothing. Remember Jesus said to them, I want to spit you out of my mouth b why? Because thou sayest I am rich and increase with goods and have need of nothing, and you know not that you're wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked Jesus said you don't really understand your spiritual position or where you are spiritually, and that's why you're so satisfied you don't realize how bad off you really are. The Laodicean Christians were satisfied with where they are, and they become useless to Jesus, and therefore Jesus said, you know, I can't use you. Friend, if you have a kind of a satisfaction about where you are spiritually, you're not going to grow much. There has to be this sanctified dissatisfaction. But then break down number two, there needs to be a special dedication. Again in verse 12, he says, But I follow after if I may apprehend that for which I may I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. What's Paul mean by that? Paul said, you know, I haven't yet received a prize. Salvation is not the finish line, it's the starting line. And uh when you got saved, you didn't finish the race, you're starting the race. But here Paul and Paul says, I follow after it's uh Dokio, I press on, I'm pursuing. And literally it means to overextend oneself. Paul is in a race and he is giving it everything he has. He's holding back nothing. You ever have a coach tell you, no, I want 110% out of you Here's Paul. He's giving 110%. He said, I'm giving it everything I have. And by the way, let me just say, that's what it takes to live the Christian life. It takes everything you have, it takes all. And if you're just passively existing, then you're not really living the kind of Christian life that's making a difference. God demands more And so Paul says, I'm pursuing, I follow after, if I may apprehend, the word apprehend here, catalumbano. I want to lay hold of literally that means to overtake, to seize. I tell you what I think of. I think of a football player in a football field, you know, here's a runner, he's got the ball. The defensive comes up behind him and overtakes a guy and then captures him and brings him down. Now obviously Paul wasn't talking about football here, all right? He was probably talking about a runner in a race where there's a runner ahead and there's a runner behind and he he gives it all his effort and he overtakes the runner in front of him But it also has the idea here of catching hold of and pulling down. What does Paul want to grab hold of? Seize and pull down. Again, it's the goal, it's Christ-likeness. But notice how he says it, that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Now it's the same word apprehend, same Greek word. I want to catch hold of and make my own, the very reason Jesus caught hold of me and made me his own. In other words, we say it like this. Jesus overtook me and he brought me down. He tackled me. What was Paul talking about there? The Damascus Road, right? Remember on the Damascus Road, Paul was headed. He wasn't going to a revival, right? He was going to persecute Christians. And what happened? On the Damascus Road, Jesus Caught hold of him, apprehended him, took him down. Why did Jesus save Paul? Well Jesus wanted to use Paul, but the whole goal of salvation is that we be conformed to the image of Christ. And Paul is saying, listen, one day I was apprehended By the Lord Jesus, he took hold of me. I was running. He caught me. By the way, you can't outrun God, alright? And if you're praying for someone to be saved, you just keep praying because you know what? They might be running from God, but God runs faster than them And God can grab hold of them. God can take them down. God can apprehend them. That's what happened to the Apostle Paul. Jesus took hold of me. He apprehended me for the purpose of making me like Christ. I want to apprehend Christ's likeness. That was the reason why Jesus apprehended me in the first place That's what I want to grab hold of. And it takes all of me. And so it's going to require dedication. You don't just passively say, well, I'm just going to let here I am God. Make me like Jesus. That passive kind of resignation that some people have in their Christian life. You don't drift into Christ's likeness. You pursue it You run after it. You seize hold of it. You apprehend it. That's what Paul is saying right here. You have to be dedicated to pursue it. It takes the maximum effort to do it. And then here's number three. Not only a sanctified dissatisfaction, a special dedication, but a singular direction. Look at verse thirteen. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, I'm reaching forth unto those things which are before. Paul said, I'm pursuing this. I'm running after it. I haven't apprehended it yet, but I'm on its trail. I'm running hard And in doing that, I'm totally focused on this one thing. And I forget those things behind. I've got this one pursuit in my life. This needs to be the one pursuit for every believer here in 2022. The one thing you're following hard after, this pursuit of Christ-likeness. And what this takes is just focus. This one thing I'm focused on. Every other thing in your life ought to be subservient to this one major thing, which is apprehending Christ-likeness. That's what Paul is saying. Everything comes under that. This one thing I do. You know, we got Christians that are involved in too many different things. That they're forgetting the one thing, the one major thing that God calls us to. And so Paul says, I forget those things which are behind. And I'm reaching forth to those things which are before. Now, Paul here, he's not saying we don't, I never look back. He's just saying I don't let the past distract me from the future. You know, there are many Christians today that are being told that to experience healing from their past difficulties They have they have to kind of delve into their past and they have to rehearse it all in their mind and they have to relive all of the hurt and the pain and the sorrow. And they say you have to do that. You have to come to grips with that before you can move on Well, friend, I would respectfully say I disagree with that. You just need to move forward, keeping your eyes on the goal. You don't have to rehearse all the hurts. Paul said, I forget those things. Now let me just say, let me qualify that And be quick to say there's a case for biblical self-examination. I mean the Bible calls upon us to examine ourselves, and that is requiring us to kind of look at some things in our life There's a cause for that, but to be so obsessed with the past that we're unable to move forward in the future, that is wrong for a believer. So Paul says, look, I don't dwell on the past. I don't get pulled down. It's not an anchor that holds me back. The pass should be kind of like a a rudder that helps us to move forward. You know, it's like driving a car. You know, we have a rear view mirror, we have side mirrors. It's okay to glance in the pat in the back every once in a while, right? We have to do that to to navigate, to negotiate. But if you try driving a car by s always looking in the rearview mirror, you're going to have problems. And so it is in life. Paul says, you know, I I I don't live in the past. I forget those things. Some Christians are hindered by past guilt. You say I failed God in 2021. Well, welcome to the club. Who hasn't? We've all failed God in some way. Don't dwell on that. Don't let it pull you down. Some are some are weighed down by past glory. They all they do is talk about all their past achievements They glory in everything they've done in the past, and you know what? They're not doing anything in the present. They're not serving God now. They're not looking forward to the future. They're hindered by their past glories. And some people are hindered by their past grief. You may have been here today and you may have had something really bad happen in 2021 that broke your heart. That was just a terrible experience for you. You know what? Put it behind you and move forward. God is using that in your life. It was a learning lesson for you. He's using that to sanctify you, to make you more like Christ. Don't dwell on that past grief And nurse it, just move on, move forward. That's what Paul's saying here. I press towards the mark. I'm not living in the past. Winston Churchill once said something very profound when he was visiting the United States during World War II. He was heard to say, if the present quarrels with the past, there can be no future. And that's very profound. It's very true. Paul said, I'm reaching forth unto those things which are before me. This word here for reaching forth, it's only found here in the scripture. And it describes a runner who is stretching out his neck. You know, this is almost like a runner when he gets to the finish line, he's stretching towards The finish line. This is the idea here. Paul says, I'm totally focused on moving forward. I have one thing in mind, and I'm pressing for that one thing. A sanctified dissatisfaction, a spiritual, a special dedication, a singular direction. Here's number four. A spiritual determination. Again, I press, which is the idea. to pursue, to move ahead without swerving off course, not being deterred in any way. He's describing here just a bulldog determination. uh to move forward. I'm pressing towards the mark. I'm moving forward. And then let me give you the fifth thing, number five, strict discipline. Look at verse 15. Let us therefore, as be many as be perfect, be thus minded. And if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Now what does Paul mean when he says, Let us therefore as many as be perfect? You say, Now wait a minute, he's calling us perfect here I thought we couldn't reach perfection. Someone who believes this doctrine will say, uh-huh, there it is. There were some there that were perfect. No, let me just uh give you a little context here. Paul is a little bit sarcastic here when he's saying this. And he's referring to these false teachers that have come into the city of Philippi. These Judaizers that actually taught that you could be perfect. You could obey the law and you can obey the law perfectly. And they were teaching these believers that. And so Paul is kind of in a way, he's sarcastically referring to these false teachers, these Judaizers. And what he's basically saying is, you know, they say they can they are perfect. But as a Christian, positionally, you are perfect in God's eyes and your position. What he's talking about is your position before God, not your practice In other words, when you got saved, did you know in the mind of God you were declared righteous? So there's a sense where in the mind of God you are perfect positionally. But that's not what I am practically. You know, when I got saved, and you got saved, God downloaded us with all the righteousness of Christ. And so when he looks at you and he looks at me, who does he see? He sees Jesus, right? Was Jesus perfect? Yeah. So there's a sense when you were declared righteous, you in the eyes of God are in your position legally perfect, but that's not what you are practically. And I've said this before, spiritual growth is bringing your practice up to your position. It's living what God has declared about you. And that's what Paul's saying here. Again, verse 15, let us therefore as many as be perfect, or I could say positionally perfect, be thus minded, be minded to practically be perfect, we could say And if in anything you'd be otherwise minded, God shall reveal reveal even this to you. What he's talking about here is your attitude. Listen, you have to have that mindset, that attitude, that is that pursues this Christ-likeness. That's what he's talking about here. Two times in verse 15 he mentions the mind. To grow as a Christian, you have to have that proper mindset, that proper attitude. Paul said you need to be thus-minded. You need to think the way I think in this. You need to press towards the mark. That's the mindset you have to have. And if there's any other kind of mind that you have, God will reveal even this to you. What's he saying there? If that's not your mindset, if that's not your attitude, then God will reveal that to you. God will convict you. God will speak to you about that. If you're here today and there's not a holy dissatisfaction with where you are If there's no desire to pursue this high calling, you know what? God will speak to you and He'll set you straight on this matter. He wants you to be pursuing this holiness, this practical righteousness in your life. If you're not, God will speak to you about this if you're a child of God. And so it's an attitude, but also in your action. Look in verse 16. Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing. Walk according to the same rules. And here he's talking about the spiritual rules laid down in the Word of God. If you want to win this race, if you want to apprehend this prize. Then you have to walk according to the rules. And what are the rules? The rules are found in the Word of God. And let me just say this. There's no way for you as a Christian to be Christ-like without the Word of God. You have to look at the rules. You have to mind these principles, these rules. And make sure that you're not disqualified in the race. That's the idea here. When I was a young man, I read the story of Jim Thorpe, one of the greatest athletes America has ever had. Uh in 1912, he competed in the Olympics. He won the decathlon and the penthalon and uh He was just the hero of the games. But you know what they found out that earlier in that year he had played a little semi-pro baseball and that was against the Olympic rules. And so what happened? He was disqualified And they took away all of his medals because he didn't compete according to the rules. He had no idea about that rule. And he was disqualified. And Paul's basically saying here, look You have to compete according to the rules. And where are the rules found? It's in the Word of God. In order for you to be Christ-like, you have to get into the Scripture. And you have to mind the principles of God's Word. And that takes work. Let me just say this, beloved, there's no quick fix in the Christian life. You ever notice people want a quick fix to their problems? You know, sometimes when people come to me for counsel, they'd bring me all their problems and say, Okay, preacher, you know, we got ten minutes, can you help us here They want to unravel all the problems and take care of it. Or you go to some other person or you go to a psychologist or you want to take a pill or you want to do something really quick that just solves all your problems and they're all of a sudden gone And people treat their spiritual life that way. They they think that, you know, they want to be zapped by God and all of a sudden be absolutely holy. It doesn't happen that way. God will take us to heaven one day and we will be glorified then. But here, you know what? It's a steady progress in sanctification. It's work. It's giving all that you have. It's being consistent in the same direction. And when you fail and you will, you confess that sin, you get back up, and you just keep moving forward for the glory of God. You don't give up, you consistently walk There will be trials, there'll be heartaches, there'll be difficulties you will fail, but you just keep getting back up and you keep Getting into the Word of God and you learn what God says, and you know what? It's a process of God just conforming us, using all the things around us as tools to make us more like Christ. It is a long distance run. And you know what that means? It means you have to put in your life spiritual disciplines. You have to bring those in your life. The word of God, prayer, following godly examples, persevering through trials and suffering, mortifying sin in your life. All of those things are part of it. But we're we're pressing on. That's what the Christian life is about. Pushing forward. trying to apprehend that high calling that God has placed in all of our lives. Um let me just close with this. Years ago a group of Englishmen tried to conquer Mount Everest. And they were they had a lot of difficulty. They were dealing with cold and wind and blizzards and avalanches. And when they came within 2,000 feet of the peak, they set up camp. And two men, one by the name of Mallory, the other by the name of Irving, they were eager to press on. And so they just decided they were gonna they were gonna move forward. They never came back. They never saw him after that. The official record simply says this. When last seen, they were pressing towards the summit. When last seen they were pressing toward the summit. Something about that that really moves my heart. Let people say of us, you know, they're pressing towards the summit. We're moving towards the high calling of God. Let that be true of us in 2022. Let's bow for prayer together today. Father, as we come before you today, we thank you for these words from Scripture, the challenge that is laid before us From the Apostle Paul, who is an example to us of trying to apprehend that for which he was apprehended by you many years ago on that Damascus Road. And the thing for which, Lord, you apprehended all of us. Father, we thank you for your grace that seized hold of us when we were running from you, not towards you, but running from you. And Lord, you overtook us and you saved us. And now, Lord, it's our calling to apprehend that thing. For which we were apprehended, the high calling of God in Christ to be like Christ. Lord, give us a sanctified dissatisfaction. Help us, Lord, to realize we haven't attained, we have a long way to go. Give us that devotion that is necessary, that determination, the discipline. To focus on that one thing. May we pursue it with all of our heart. May we not be afraid. In 2022, Lord, it just seems like the world is constantly trying to scare the church and scare Christians away from this one pursuit. Give us that determination, Lord, to follow you with all our heart, to not be deterred. Sanctify us, Lord, in your truth And with heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just ask you to just would you examine your heart right now and just ask yourself, where am I in this? Is there a holy dissatisfaction in me? Is there a determination to be like Christ? And if you're here today and you've never made Jesus your Savior, if you've never been apprehended in the first place by Christ. That's the starting point. You need to stop running from him. Turn to him Reach out in faith and say, Jesus, save me, make me your child, forgive me for my sin. And when you do that, friend, you enter into an eternal race. God forgives you for your sin. He makes you his own You have a heavenly home, and now we pursue the high calling that God has given us. If you've never trusted Christ, I would encourage you right where you are. Would you reach out in prayer and say, Jesus, save me, make me your child? And friend, he will. And if you've done that, let me know. Come see one of us after the service. We want to encourage you. If you're here as a Christian, would you make a resolution For 2022, that you will, with all your heart, have the mind of the Apostle Paul and apprehend this high calling that God has placed before us. Father, speak to our hearts today. Bless your word to every hearing heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.