Would you take God's word this morning and open to the book of First Peter, please? The book of First Peter, chapter number three. is where we're going to be today. First Peter chapter 3, we're going to look at verses 1 down to verse 7. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word today? 1 Peter chapter 3, verse 1. I won't make you stand anymore after this. And likewise ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, but if any obey not the word, They also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives, while they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear. Whose adorning, let it not be that outward adorning or the plaiding of the hair, or the wearing of gold, or the putting on of apparel, but let it be the hidden man of the heart. and that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. For after this manner, in the old time the holy women also who trusted in God adorned themselves being in subjection to their own husbands. Even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, whose daughters ye are, as long as ye do well and are not afraid with any amazement. And likewise ye husbands dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel, as being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered What you just heard is the word of God, the inspired, authoritative word of God. You may be seated Let's pray together. Father, I thank you for your word and for how it instructs us. Lord, help us as we look at this passage. Help us to Be receptive and to ready to apply the truth in it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, this uh we've been going through Peter. I've been doing selective passages out of the first epistle of Peter, and before we move on, this will be the last sermon in this book for a while. I thought I would deal here with chapter 3, verses 1 to 7. It seems appropriate for several reasons. First of all, we had a beautiful wedding yesterday. Some of you were here for that, for Rachel and Josh. And uh it was just such a beautiful service, so very well done. Our Pastor Aaron Fenley, who just sang the song, This Man of Many Talents. With gave the charge and did such a beautiful job on the charge. And and all the songs that were in it were were good, God honoring songs. It was just a wonderful time to see uh Rachel and Josh take these vows together and just pray for them. And also today is uh Carol and I's 35th wedding anniversary. So we've been, yeah. Um Thank you. I I wasn't saying that to fish for applause or anything. I was actually submitting that as a prayer request from my wife. She's uh been with me for thirty-five years and uh she's stuck with me as well. Uh if she ever leaves, I'm going with her. Sherry says, I'm out of here. I'm saying that's a good idea. I'm gonna go with you. I'm leaving too. I want to talk about uh principles for a lasting marriage. Peter gives us some good advice here, and really it's more than advice, it's it's God's word, it's principles that we need to apply. Someone has called this the his and hers passage of the Bible. Because what we see is in the first six verses, Peter is going to talk to wives. He's going to give some principles that wives can apply in their marriage relationship. And then in verse 7, he's going to talk to husbands and give some principles for husbands in verse 7. So six verses for wives, one verse for men. Someone says, why are there six verses for women and only one for men? Well, probably because the attention span of man is shorter. So God had to condense it all into one verse for us to get it. But I want to tell you that one verse is very, very powerful. When we get to it. If we get to it, no, we will get to it. It'll be balanced, hopefully. But You know, we hear a lot about marriage today and society as not being valued. And there seems to be so much problem with some people with with reference to marriage. The problem is not in the institution This marriage is something that was instituted by Almighty God. And God, by the way, is the one who says what a marriage is. He defines marriage in Scripture, not man. The problem is not in the institution, the problem is in the personnel. And making sure that we uh uh start out our marriage on a good solid foundation. Years ago a housing development firm built many houses on the site of an old garbage dump that had been filled and covered up. And when the houses were finished, they were beautiful homes. But not long after they were finished, the evidence of the bad foundation began to be revealed. The curves along the street began to crack, rooftops began to bow, the walls began to crack. And two old timers that were nearby knew exactly what happened. This whole housing development was built on junk. It didn't have a solid foundation. If our marriage is to be lasting, it has to have the right foundation. And that foundation has to be Christ in the Word of God. And the principles from the Word of God. And by the way, let me just say this this term is not designed to make anybody feel guilty. All of us need help in this area, right? All of us We are what we are by the grace of God, and we have all made mistakes in our life. We've all made mistakes in our home. We need God's mercy and grace, but we need to follow simply the principles of Scripture. Put the past in the past. Wherever you are right now, just determine to live obediently to the Word of God. Just do what the Scripture says. So Peter's going to deal with this issue of marriage and what you're going to see in this passage is basically he's going to talk about the story of Abraham and Sarah. He's going to reference them. anyway in this. If ever there was a couple that had an excuse for getting a divorce, it was Sarah and Abraham. Theirs was not a perfect marriage by any means. If you don't believe me, just read the book of Genesis and you'll see for yourself They had problems all along in their marriage. There was an affair between Abraham and Sarah's handmaid, Hagar He had a child through Hagar, which brought great problems in the home. Their family was pretty dysfunctional. The children couldn't get along. They lived a disruptive life. They were constantly on the move. They lived in tents, always moving about, never really settling down. Abraham was careless with the truth, especially in reference to Sarah. Which was very hurtful and it almost cost him his marriage several times. However, they survived They had problems, yes. But did they survive? Yes. And why is that? Well they learned some principles basic to marriage, and number one of those principles is just commitment. Marriage is a commitment of two people living together and being committed to one another. And as we look at this passage, Peter is going to speak about how we can do this. uh in a in a way that honors the Lord. So I want you to see first of all the role of the wife. He's going to speak to wives first. And I want you to see what he says first. Look in verse one. Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, that if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be one by the conversation of the wife. And so Peter says, for the wife, your role is submission. The word subjection here simply means submission. Some would argue that it's well that's okay if the husband is a godly man, but if he's not a godly man, if he's not saved, is a woman supposed to obey But if you look closely at verse number one, it says, if any obey not the word, Peter is giving instructions to a wife that's married to an unsaved husband. And the word conversation means lifestyle or behavior. Peter's saying you can win your husband to Christ through your godly lifestyle and behavior. And that brings up a question. Are we to submit to ungodly people? I mean we're living in a uh a tough time right now. And uh we're living in an era where there's seems to be a lot of abuse going on, a lot of abuse of authority, uh there's uh there's there's spousal abuse. Sad to say, even among Christians. And furthermore, we live in a society where values, people value individual rights. Especially those who are uh oppressed and pushed down by the system. So we're constantly engaged in standing up for our rights to fight back when we are wrong. You know, self-fulfillment seems to be a supreme virtue in America. And so submission isn't always something that's looked upon favorably. In fact I would say for some people submission is a dirty word. They don't want to hear about being submissive at all. So how can a wife be expected to be submitted to an unsaved husband? Well, you have to remember the context of this verse refers back to what's already been written. And in chapter 2, Peter's been speaking about submission, and in that context, it's submission even to a government that is ungodly. And to ungodly governmental leaders. And who does Peter point to as an example of being submitted? That is the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus is the example for all of us. If you go back to chapter 2, verse 21 to verse 25, we see Christ being given as the example, verse 21, for Eden Hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow in his steps. Peter says, you follow the example of Christ You're to submit the way Christ submitted. Now some would say, well, what if a woman is married to a husband who is telling this woman to do something that goes against the scripture, that goes against God? That is ungodly, some ungodly thing that he once done. Well, again, Christ is the example. Jesus was submitted, but he would never disobey his father. He would never go against the word of God. And so that is our example there. In general, we live As Christians, as submissive people. That's a general rule about us. We are submitted as citizens Uh we are to be model citizens in that respect. As employees, we submit to our employer. We're to be model workers on our on the job. uh having the right attitude in marriage relationships there's to be that submission. Are there times when exceptions, there are exceptions to that of course. Whenever we're Whenever we're told to cross Scripture or transgress the Word of God or do something that doesn't please God or is out of harmony with the Word of God, at that point we don't submit to man, we submit to God In fact, when we live submissive lives, we are recognizing God's authority in our life. We're recognizing God's order that God told us to be submitted as unto the word. So when I submit to government leaders, I'm submitting to them as under the Lord Himself. But if they come and tell me to do something that crosses the Word of God. That dishonors the Lord. I have to respectfully say I'm going to obey God rather than man. I think that's the principle that Peter is talking about. He already talked about that principle, and I think it applies here as well. But nevertheless, what he's saying in general is this. That if you are in a relationship where one is lost, uh where your husband is lost and the wife is saved, then if you live a generally submitted, peaceful, godly life God will use that to get that man's attention and bring him to salvation. That's what he said. Look at the end of verse 1. They also may without the word be one by the conversation of the wives. But let me again talk about this principle of submission. Submission is necessary for order and for life. Submission doesn't mean inferiority. When you submit to someone, you're not being inferior. In fact, the most submissive person to ever live was Jesus Christ. Was he inferior to anyone? Of course not. And you're not inferior when you submit to God ordained authority in your life. And 1 Corinthians 11, actually down in verse number 3, I want you to see this. It's important, and mark this in your in your margin of your Bible. But I would have you know that the head of every man is Christ. And the head of the woman is the man. And the head of Christ is God. You see the order there? Paul makes it very clear. There's God the Father. And subordinate to God the Father is Christ. And then underneath Christ, then there's man, and then underneath man, then there's woman. Now, this is God's ordained order of authority. And by the way, let me ask you a question: Is Christ inferior to God the Father? Absolutely not. He's equal to the Father. He's equal in person. He's equal in substance. He is fully God, just like the Father is fully God. He's equal in substance, but he is submissive. He's subordinate in his role, you see. And I want you to remember that because it says here that Underneath Christ, there's man. Underneath man, there's woman. Is woman then inferior to man because she is in God's order under man? And the answer, of course, is no Of course not. It doesn't mean inferiority. A woman is not inferior to a man any more than Christ is not inferior to God the Father. And so this is just God's order. Submission is necessary in the world today. Without submission, To someone or some law, just think about it, our world today would be in chaos, would it not? In fact, I would say everyone in this room here, we're submitted to someone or something, right? No one is absolutely free of submission. We submit to the laws, we submit to the government, we submit to our bosses, we submit to, you know, and on we could go. Everyone has something in which you must submit to. This is God's design. God has to have leaders, He has to have rules, He has to have roles, He has authority, and we have to obey that because God has called us to do that as believers. But let me just say this. In Christ, we're all equal in God's eyes. There's no one inferior. Listen to Galatians 3:28. For there is neither Jew nor Greek There is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female, for ye are all one in Christ. As far as in the kingdom of God, we're all equal. And no one is inferior to anyone else. When you come to the cross, you know what happens? All the barriers that man has put up are ripped away. That's why we don't need the kingdom of darkness to tell the kingdom of light how to act. Or what our role is, or what we are, or who we are. We don't need directions from the kingdom of darkness about that. God has already prescribed that. He's already been very clear of that in the word. You know what you are? You are what God says you are. Not what others say you are, you are what God says you are in Scripture. And here God is no respecter of persons. He's not a respecter of race, space, or place. We are all equal in the kingdom of God, equal in the grace of God. But equality does not do away with submission We all have to submit. And here we go back to 1 Peter 3. Peter is saying, look, the role of the wife in the relationship, marriage relationship, is to be submitted to her husband. Because look at verse 2, while they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear. The word behold means to get the attention of. Peter's saying, if you have a husband that's lost and you are living a life that is submitted and godly and chaste, that gets his attention. You're never more like Jesus than when you are living in submission. You're never more like the devil than when you are in rebellion. And so here Peter is saying, submission is a weapon. It is something that is very powerful when used if you get the attention of a a husband that doesn't know the Lord, it can bring him to salvation. Notice what it says. Again, we I can call this her silence, or better yet her silent witness in verse one where it says that if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wise. In other words, um Peter here is not saying that you don't share the gospel verbally He's not saying that it's not important to share the gospel verbally. What he's saying is that the life that you live has a huge impact. So that when you do share the gospel verbally, it's going to have a uh more of a punch to it, so to speak. It's going to have more power behind it. And so you have to live that kind of life. You can actually win a person over just by the way that you live your Notice where it says when they behold your chaste conversation conversation. Chaste is pure, the word conversation here is simply lifestyle. When they look at your pure, godly life, it has an impact. But notice not only her submission, her silence, but her serenity. Look at verse three. Whose adorning, let it not be that outward adorning of the plaiding of the hair, or the wearing of gold, or the putting on of apparel But let it be the hidden man of the heart, and that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of the meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. And in these verses, God tells a woman how to be beautiful And God said, part of a woman's beauty is this meek and quiet spirit. Now there are some that look at these verses. And they say and they teach that women shouldn't wear jewelry or makeup or do all those things to beautify themselves. And and and when they say that, when they interpret these verses that way, they're getting it wrong. That's absolutely wrong. It's not what these verses are saying. Because look at what he lists in verse 3. The plaiting of the hair, the wearing of gold, putting on of apparel. We're not saying those things are wrong. God wants you to put on apparel. Alright? If you say these other things wrong, it's wrong wrong to wear clothes. Of course that's not what God is saying here. He's not saying these things are wrong. There's nothing wrong with with getting your hair done. Nothing wrong with wearing gold and jewelry. Nothing wrong with beautifying yourself in every way that you want to outwardly What he's saying is that while you are adorning yourself outwardly, don't forget about the most important part of your adornment, and that's not the outward adorning, but it's the inward adorning. It's the person you are on the inside. Peter's saying, don't just focus on the outward beauty. Measure on the inward beauty. Look at verse 4, but let it be the hidden man of the heart. And that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. You see, the ornament of a beautiful spirit in the sight of God is incredibly valuable. And let's just face it, you know, as time goes on, we we age, we get older, we don't maintain that outward beauty, but there's a part of you that cannot be touched by time. There's a part of you that cannot age. And that is that inward spirit, which again, God puts such a high value on, that beautiful spirit. That can only get better as you adorn it spiritually. And so that's what you are to remember: that beautiful, meek, quiet spirit Is what you should focus on. You know, we can read Proverbs. There's a lot of Proverbs that speak about uh a woman who is uh Not meek and quiet, but very argumentative, very hostile. In fact, uh the Bible says in Proverbs 219, it is better to dwell in the corner of a housetop And then with with a brawling woman in a wide house, I didn't write that, that was uh Solomon that said that, just to be clear. And uh the Bible doesn't put a premium on that at all. That makes for a difficult home, the Bible says, but it puts a premium on a beautiful meek and quiet spirit. And now look at verse number five. And for after this manner, in the old time, the holy women also who trusted in God adorned themselves, being in subjection unto their own husbands. Peter points to Sarah in the Old Testament as an example of this in verse 6, even as Sarah obeyed Abraham. If you look at Sarah in the Old Testament, she was a very beautiful woman outwardly. I mean even at eighty years old the Bible was saying how beautiful that she was, but even more beautiful about Sarah was this meek and quiet spirit, so much so that Peter says that even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. Now let me just say, ladies, you don't have to go around the house calling your husband Lord. All right. It's not what it's saying. Uh you know, but what what it means is just a term of respect. Return of respect. It reminds me uh you know In September, we're going to go over and see uh my daughter Abby and uh my son-in-law Will and my two grandsons. And uh we They got us tickets to go to this place where they filmed Downton Abbey. You ever watch that on TV? The beautiful castle there. And you can go over And you can uh they say if you dress up as one of the characters in the in the in the in the drama that you can actually win a prize. And she's saying, Dad, you should dress up like a character. When you come and I said, I am gonna come dressed up like a character. I'm gonna come dressed up as Lord Harmon. And you can call me Lord Harmon when I go. So Carolyn, that's what you can call me from now on. No, I'm just kidding. That's not what this means. It just means that you just are respectful. That you have a a a respect. And uh again in verse six, whose daughters ye are as long as ye do well, talking about these women, is if you follow the example of Sarah, and there's a sense in which you are a daughter of her as long as you do well, and you're not afraid with any amazement. That is You're not afraid of being submissive to an unsaved husband that shouldn't strike terror into your heart. If you're submitted, God will use that is what he's saying there And so this is what Peter's advice is to uh wives. Now let's go to husbands. It's your turn, guys. Notice number two, the responsibility of the husband. Look in verse 7. Likewise, ye husbands. Now, by the way, the word likewise there is referring back to all that he had just said in reference to submission. Because look in chapter 3, look at verse 1, it starts off with likewise, and that refers back to what he had said about being submissive to uh government. Now he's saying, Wise, likewise, you're submissive to your husband. And now here he says the husbands, likewise What does that mean? Well, you ready for this, guys? You're to be submissive to your wife. Got really silent in here. Simply means that, you know, this is a two-way street here. Um there's a sense in which in this relationship we're submitted one to another, does it not? Doesn't the Bible say that in Ephesians where you have to submit one to another. Some of the greatest decisions I ever made came from advice that I got from my wife. And submitting to what she told me I should be doing. And so there's nothing wrong with that. But notice what he says here. There's certain principles. First of all, I call this togetherness. Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them. Well that seems pretty simplistic. We live together, but the idea here, the Greek word means to house together. It means to live literally letting someone else into your life. It's not just living under the same roof. There's a lot of married couples that live under the same roof, but they're not living together. You're living in the same house, but you're not together. There's not that total together. And that's what he's talking about here. There needs to be this oneness. You know, when the preacher on the day you were married says, uh, I now declare you husband and wife, he legally is declaring you one. You're one now. Yesterday when I did the wedding vows with Josh and Rachel, I had the privilege of presenting them. I said, I now present to you Mr. and Mrs. Josh Jones And there's a sense in which that is a forensic declaration before God in the sight of God. I'm declaring them one. They're one now legally. But you know what? The rest of their life they're gonna have to live out that oneness. They're gonna have to figure that oneness out. And you know what? The moment that we're declared one, that's That's a position, but now for the rest of our life, practically we grow together as one. And we become one in every way. We become one emotionally. We become one mentally. We become one spiritually. There's a oneness there that grows. And this is what he's talking about here. There's a lot of marriages where there's no oneness There's no togetherness. And this is what has to happen. And this means that, and key to that is communication uh letting people into your life. God wants this to be part of marriage. In fact the word intimacy comes from the Latin intimus. Which means uh the innermost. You're allowing this person into the innermost part of your life. Adrian Rogers has described five levels of communications in marriage. He says, first of all, there's the frivolous level. This is the level that we meet uh where we we where we meet people and we talk. We talk about the sports and the weather and you know things like that. Then there's the factual level, a little bit deeper where we are talking about Facts with one another. No real personal involvement. We're just sharing facts. And then there's the fellowship level, which is a little deeper than that. And here we talk about our ideas, our judgments, our philosophies And we risk a little bit here on this level because someone might reject our ideas. And then there's the feeling level. And this is a deeper level. Not only do we talk about our ideas and philosophies, we begin to open up and say how we really feel about those things. And then there's the The deepest level, which is the freedom level, where we're absolutely free to allow a person completely into our life. And this is the area where we need to reach in marriage, where we're down at that feeling level and freedom level. And by the way, let me just say this. In a marriage relationship, you should only let one person into that intimate innermost level in your life You know how a fair start a fair start when you allow someone of the opposite sex into that innermost level, someone other than your spouse. No one gets inside that freedom level, that deep feeling level, except my wife. Others don't get there. And this is what he's Peter's talking about, dwelling together. Living together with oneness. There's togetherness and there's thoughtfulness. In verse 7, again he says, dwell with them according to knowledge. Uh with good sense literally, you know, sometimes men are so stupid. It's okay to say that 'cause I am one. We don't really have a lot of knowledge and we need to learn, you know, w part of the problem is when we get married, our wife doesn't come with a manual. Doesn't come with it, you know, when we buy a car, we get a manual. We can read through the manual, figure the car out. When you marry your wife, you don't get a manual. You're gonna have to figure her out on your own. But you learn her and you learn and you dwell with knowledge. And this takes effort on our part. This takes time to learn your wife, learn her personality, learn the things that make her happy, and so on. And then not only thoughtfulness, but thankfulness. Look at verse number seven. Likewise ye husbands dwell with them according to knowledge. Giving honor unto the wife. That means we value them. We value who they are. And we express that value, we express that appreciation for who they are, and we do this with meaningful touches and words. Did you know according to a study from UCLA, uh your wife needs eight touches a day for emotional stability Um and this really is a general principle for all your family, your wife and your children. They need to ha they have this uh they have this tank, this emotional tank, and it needs to be filled every day, and you're the one who fills that tank with your words. And your meaningful touches, men as leader of your home, as husband and father, you fill that tank. But here specifically to the wife, you give honor, you just appreciate them, you value them for all that they do. And then there's tenderness again in verse 7, giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel. And again, the weaker here doesn't mean inferior, it just means delicate, it means uh gentle, it means fragile. And regardless of what society is telling you today, women and men are not the same physically in their makeup. God has made man to be stronger. Women are more fragile, gentle, delicate. Again, it doesn't mean inferior. What's weaker, that steel pot or that antique vase? Which one is more valuable? That antique vase is much more valuable even though it's not as strong. It's the difference between blue dam and lace, you know. We have to understand the differences. And we need to value one of the, I often say the greatest gifts ever given to mankind is womanhood. And men, we need to value that. We need to understand that great gift that God has given to us and value it. And treat women with great respect and value. Now I know nowadays it's almost misinterpreted. You know, growing up, if you open a door for a woman, they would appreciate that. Nowadays you open a door for a woman and they look at you like, why are you doing that? I can open the door just as well as you can. It's just because of what's going on in society today. We're not being patronizing when we try to sh show good manners. We're showing the value that we give to womanhood as a gift from Almighty God to man. And by the way, let me just say this. I've dealt with this in counseling. There's no excuse ever for a man to ever put his hands on a woman in a hurtful way. Ever. I can't comprehend that. I can't understand why that would ever w happen. Man, you are to be the protector of her. And never put your hands on a woman in a harmful, hurtful way. And by the way, ladies, if you're living with someone who is abusive, let me just give you some pastoral advice. Just call the police. And and and have him put in jail because that's where he belongs. There's no excuse for that. As men we are to value our wives, giving honor as unto the weaker vessel. And watch this verse 7 as being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hindered. This is trustfulness. You value her, you value her opinion, and you're heirs together of the grace of life. You know, I have never ever made a major decision in our home without going to Carolyn and saying, what do you think? And we've never made any decision unless we are in agreement a hundred percent. I'm talking about major decisions. You know Uh I value her. And you know what what Peter's emphasizing here is partnership, companionship. Marriage is just exactly that. It's a partnership. We're heirs together of the grace of life. And by the way, if you're not together in this, if you don't show this mutual respect and love and submission, notice what it says in verse 7, that your prayers be not hindered. Men, if you're not listening to your wife and valuing your wife, you know what? God's not listening to you. He doesn't want to hear your prayers if you're not valuing one of the greatest gifts he's ever given you. And likewise, I think this this goes to wives as well. Wives, if you're not living a submissive life, a godly life, have that wonderful spirit with your husband, that respect Your prayers are hindered. Here God is saying we're heirs together of the grace of life, and we need to show that so that our prayers are not hindered. Let's bow for prayer together today as we're out of time. Pray that God will help us to apply these principles in our life so that we can have a lasting marriage. One that honors and glorifies God. Father, again, we thank you for the practical truth of Scripture. Lord, we just need grace to help obey what you say. So many times the problems that we have In our marriage relationship. It's just simply one of where we're not obeying you. We're not doing what you tell us to do. And many times, Lord, it's it's our own weakness, our own sins, and we need your help in this. And so, Father, I pray that as we look at this passage of Scripture, that you'll help us. As husbands, to love our wives the way Christ loved the church, to value them, to cherish them. Pray for wives that they'll understand their role as well, to submit to their husband as unto the Lord. And doing it for the glory of God. So that, Lord, in this world in which we live, as Christians, we can be a testimony to the world of what marriage ought to be and how Christ can change a home. May you do great things in marriage relationships to all these that are here under the sound of my voice. Lord, I pray that you'll do great things in each relationship, in every home. That Lord, we will please you and honor you in all that we do. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just give this one invitation. You know, everything that I've given here We can't do this by ourselves. We need the help of Christ. And this is really the starting point. All this assumes that you know Jesus as your Savior. If you don't know Christ, you're not going to have the ability, the power to really live this way. Because it's Christ in us that gives us the strength to do it. That gives us the desire to do it. If you're here today and you've never made Jesus Christ your Savior and Lord, I want to invite you right now, put your faith in Christ. Reach out to Him right now. The Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Would you do that right now? Would you pray and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, save me. Come into my heart. Forgive me for my sins. Make me your child. Pray that prayer, friend. Ask Jesus to come into your heart. If you've done that, we're going to be here in the front afterwards. Come up and let us know. We want to help you. We want to Encourage you along in your Christian life. Father, again, thank you for your word. Bless it to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.