I want you to go to chapter seven. It's been our privilege to study through First Corinthians on Sunday night. And tonight we come to chapter seven where Paul begins really a new topic, a new subject. that he's going to deal with here. And chapter seven, just to let you know, is uh kind of a difficult chapter, so we're going to take our time and go through this and I want to make sure that I'm clear in what I teach here. I'm teaching clearly the Word of God that's here. And the title of the sermon is Tough Questions on Singleness and Marriage. Tough Questions on Singleness and Marriage. A story is told of a woman who was approaching thirty-five without a husband, and late one afternoon she went into the woods to pray for a husband. She uh it started to get dark and Al woke up and she heard a voice say, Who? And um she was kind of startled by the voice, but she just looked up and said, Just anybody, Lord, it'd be fine Maybe uh some of you can identify with that. But if God wants you to be married, he doesn't want you to be married to just anybody. And how do we know that God wants you to be married? Uh we know that if you want to be married as a Christian, you have to marry in the Lord. The Bible makes that very clear to marry another Christian. But beyond that Who do you marry? These are questions that sometimes people deal with. And how do you know that God wants you to be married at all? Perhaps the Lord has for your life to be single. There's certainly nothing wrong with that. But again, the question is, how do you know the Lord's will on these important issues and on these decisions? Well, we're dealing with a section here in 1 Corinthians chapter 7 where Paul is answering some of these very questions. Evidently there were some in the church at Corinth that wrote him a letter asking him about some of these issues. Look in verse number one of chapter seven. Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me So they wrote to Paul regarding this. Evidently, again, they asked him several questions. And by the way, we see this expression And uh w uh concerning the things and other places where Paul takes on a new topic. Look in chapter 8, verse 1. Now Touching things offered on the idols, there's a new subject there. You go to chapter 12, verse 1, uh now concerning spiritual grit gifts. And so we see now concerning, now concerning, so Paul's going to different topics and here Again, I think that these are questions that the people at Cal Ranth were asking. These were issues that they wanted clarity on. And in chapter 7, he's going to answer some of these questions. And this chapter deals with issues of singleness. of marriage, of the home, all those things. Now, let's remember that the city of Koran had this reputation for being extremely immoral. We already know that Much of the cultural thinking about sex and marriage had affected the way that Christians thought about these things. In the previous chapter, Paul dealt with the problem of immorality. Uh he dealt with that in no uncertain terms. He was very clear on that. There were some Christians in the church that felt that they had the liberty to go to a temple prostitute there, that it was somehow spiritually beneficial for them one of those false uh temples where they had all around in Corinth, and they were doing these things and they were clo quoting the slogan, All things are lawful for me. And Paul shows them how that is it's uh it's a sin for them to engage in any kind of immorality. And uh he basically in chapter six showed how it could damage the body It was dangerous and that that type of sin can dominate you, and also you were defiling the temple of the Lord. The body is God's temple But when you come to Chapter 7, the pendulum has swung all the way to the opposite extreme. Just think about that. In Chapter 6, there's this idea of looseness, of immorality, but chapter 7 goes to the opposite side And there are evidently there were some people that were in the church that felt like celibacy was the way to go. Be celibate. And that was even inside the bounds of marriage. And so that was one of the ideas that was going on out there. It's better to be celibate. Sex is wrong, all sex is wrong. Even if you're married, you should or abstain, you should be celibate And so they were looking upon intimacy and marriage as degrading, unspiritual, unnecessary, and the best way to go was to be single and be celibate, and you were considered part of the spiritually elite If that was the way in which you lived. You had supposedly denied the flesh. You laid aside all of that in order to devote yourself fully to the Lord Jesus Christ And so there was this prevailing view in the church at Corinth that to be single and celebrated was the highest form of devotion to the Christian life. And these people were even condemning those who were married. And living in the bonds of matrimony. Those who were married were therefore leaving their partners to become celibate because they felt like it was more spiritual to live that way. And then there were people who were married to unbelievers and felt like that unbeliever had somehow, in some way, defiled them, and so therefore they wanted out of that relationship if they were married to an unbeliever. So they were promoting this whole idea. So you have on one side this sp spiritually elite group that was saying singleness and celibacy is the way to go. But then on the other hand, you had another group us primarily Jewish people that were in the church that were saying, get married, and everybody ought to be married. In fact, if you're not married, it was a sin. It's a sin not to be married. And so you can see how this is a very difficult situation here at the Church of Corinth, even for the most mature. And Paul has to straighten out all of these things. And so there are all these questions. That are floating around that Paul has to deal with. Now that you're saved, if you're married to an unbeliever, should you stay in that relationship? That was one of the questions. Is it better to be celibate? Uh inside the bounds of marriage. Is it better just to remain single? Is single a better way to serve the Lord? And so the Apostle Paul is going to give us some guidelines and answer some questions on all of these things. Alright? So with that in mind, what I want you to see, first of all, is the first heading. I want to talk about, number one, the devotion of celibacy The devotional celibacy. Because look at verse number one. Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. In other words, the whole idea that Paul's communicating in verse one is that it is commendable and good if you can remain single to serve the Lord Look at the expression to touch a woman. That was a common Jewish euphemism, and that was talking about sexual intimacy, of course, in marriage. In other translations, it might even say that. And so this phrase is uh doesn't mean that you can't physically touch a woman. If you do that, that's wrong. That's not what he's talking about. It's just simply talking about um intimacy, sexual intimacy. For example, Genesis twenty six. You remember that story when uh Ahimelech or excuse me Abimelech the king took Sarah into his harem, Abraham lied and said, Well, she's my sister. And so he took her into his harem. And then God came to Abimelech in a dream. And this is what God said. And God said unto him, in a dream, yea, I know that thou didst this in the integrity of thine heart. For I also withheld thee from sinning against me, therefore allowed I thee not to touch her. That's the idea there. Uh Abimelech said, Lord, I didn't know that this was this man's wife, and God said, Yeah, I know that. That's why I didn't allow you to touch her. And the idea there is to commit adultery. And so the word touch has this idea then of that act uh of intimacy there. And we see this in other places like Ruth 2. 9 and in Proverbs 6. 29, the same idea. And so it's basically what Paul is saying when he said it's good for a man not to touch a woman, is he's saying, you know, singleness is and can be a good thing. That's what he means by that. It's good to be single. Okay? That's the whole idea. It's good. Now, some people again think that there's something wrong with a person if they remain single. You know, in fact there are some people in the church that feel like it's their ministry to play uh matchmaker, you know, for single people. And uh and that's really not a good thing to do I know that there are well-meaning people that want to do that, but Paul here is just affirming that, you know, singleness is not a bad thing, it's a good thing. Nothing wrong with it at all. And so, in fact, the word for good is beneficial. It is the word chaos. It is profitable. It is beneficial. If a person can be single and devote their life to the Lord, that is a good thing. Now again, Paul is responding to this idea in the church. Basically, this Jewish insistence that you had to be married. And Jews would say if you're not married, you're sinning against the Lord. That was what their idea was. They would say that a man who doesn't have a wife and a child has slain his posterity and has lessened the image of God in the world. In fact, according to the Jewish leaders, there were several kinds of people that couldn't get to heaven. And number one was a Jew who had no wife. It's pretty strong. But that's what they were teaching. Second was a wife who had no children. And they thought like this, they theorized like this, since God said, be fruitful and multiply, you would be disobedient if you remain single. God said it was not good that a man should be alone. And so while it is true that people do need companionship, even single people, there are many people Who can live single and find that companionship with friends, Christian friends, and fellowship in the church In fact, the Bible says in Psalm 68, verse 6, God set it for solitary in families. God will give you friends. He'll give you Christian friends. He'll give you Christian companions And so Paul is basically in the beginning acknowledging that for a person who is able to live a single life and give that to the Lord, that is a good thing. That's a wonderful thing. In fact, he'll go on to say that singles have more freedom in times of difficulty. Look down in chapter 7, look in verse 26. Notice what he says there. He says, I suppose therefore that this is good for the present distress. I say that it is good for a man to be so. In other words, again, he's talking about being unmarried, and Paul is saying, you know, for the difficult times that we're in And this present distress, this is a good thing if a person can be single. Now he's quick in verse 28 to say, if you're married, there's nothing wrong with that either. Verse twenty eight, but if thou marry, thou hast not sinned. And again he's talking to single people and married people. He's saying, Look, if you can remain single and serve the Lord, it's a good thing, especially in the times in which we live. However, if you marry, you haven't sinned. Now listen carefully to what Paul's not saying. Paul's not saying that you're more spiritual if you're single. He's not saying you're less spiritual if you're single He's saying you can serve the Lord and be married. It's God's will for most to be married, but it's God's will for some to be single. And you can do this unto the Lord. And Paul says, especially in this present distress. And the word here means pressure. Look at verse 28. But if thou marry, thou hast not sinned, and if a virgin marry, she has not sinned, nevertheless such shall have trouble in the flesh. But I Spare you. In other words, the married person will have more trouble, and the Greek word here means pressure. And Paul said, I'm trying to spare you. Now, what is Paul talking about here? And scholars differ here, so I can't be too dogmatic, but I think that Paul senses an impending time of persecution that is going to come to the church. And uh in a time of severe persecution, it is certainly to a person's advantage if you're living for the Lord, if you're single. I mean it's one thing to be martyred for your faith as a single person. It's another thing to be martyred if you're a married person. If you're married, it makes it much harder on the family. It's one thing to suffer for Christ if you're single. It's another thing to suffer for Christ if you're married because it just makes it much more difficult if you're married. That's the whole idea that Paul is talking about. Now I don't want to be martyred either way, right? But the whole bottom line is there seems to be more of a freedom, however, because there's responsibilities that come with marriage, and we have to fulfill those responsibilities. We have that's a God-given duty, and if we don't have those, then we may be freer, Paul says, to be able to serve the Lord in some capacity. In some sense, God's called to be a missionary in certain parts of the world may be, it might be better for a person who may be called to go to certain parts of the world, to go there as a single person, because of the danger that you might face. as a as a person serving the Lord. That's something that a person has to consider. Some countries are not very conducive to raising a family because of the political climate, because of the economic climate, because of the educational situations. That's why you have some missionaries out there that send their children to boarding school And that's certainly their choice. I believe that as a family you ought to serve the Lord together as a family. I I strongly believe in that. But for some it may not be possible. And so these are some things to consider. And so Paul's whole point then is that singles have more freedom to devote themselves fully to the Lord. In fact, look in chapter 7, look down at verse 32. But I would have you without carefulness, Paul said, that is unmarried. Uh as he that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord, but he that is married careth for the things that are of the world, how he may please his wife. And again, Paul's pointing out that Mary A married person out of necessity cannot be as devoted to the Lord as the single person can. Now, this is implying that the single person is going to devote their time to the Lord Because there are some single people that have a lot of time and they don't they give very little to God. They're living for Himself. They're living to fulfill their own thing. They're very selfish in the way they live. This is assuming that this single person is fully devoted to the Lord and they want to give their time to the Lord. And if that's the case, Paul says, then you can do that. You can devote yourself to the Lord. You can give yourself to God in a greater way because you have a little bit more freedom. Now again, let me qualify. Paul's not saying it's wrong to be married or you're less spiritual if you're married. Not saying that. What he's doing is he's saying there's nothing wrong with singleness. That's the point he's making. We already know there's nothing wrong with marriage. And we already know that married people can be fully devoted to the Lord. And what he's saying is that singleness isn't, if you're single, you're not a second class citizen in the kingdom of God That's the point that he's making. And again, he is he is against this whole idea, this Jewish idea, that if you're single, there's something wrong with you, or that you're sinning against the Lord. That's not true at all In fact, Paul said it is a good thing. If that's the way you can live, it's a good thing. In fact, he goes on to another level. He said it's a God thing. Go back to chapter 7 and look down in verse number 6. Notice what he says here. But I speak this by permission and not commandment. And the word permission here is a word that can mean concession or allowance. That's what Paul is saying. Paul's saying, I'm saying what I'm saying because I'm aware of your human needs, not by way of command. This is a concession, not a commandment. And and that again he's he's saying that singleness is uh he's not saying that singleness is better than marriage only but that you can certainly live uh single and be useful to the Lord. Look what he says in verse 7. But for I would that all men were even as I myself. What do you mean by that? Single? And he's using hyperbole here obviously, right? It's not God's will for everybody to be single. When he says, I would that all men are like me What do you mean, Paul? He's saying singleness is so good you could it's I would be that everyone's like me. I wish I had a bunch of singles like me. That could devote themselves to the Lord. And again, he's using hyperbole here to say there's nothing wrong with it. But again, he's making a concession here I speak this by permission and not command. Paul is not commanding that everybody be single. That's what he's saying. If everybody was single Or if it was God's will for everybody to be single, the obvious would happen and the uh population would die out, right? That's obviously not God's will. But he's saying it's it's it's a good thing. I wish everybody like me, Paul said. I'm single, I'm serving the Lord. It's a good thing. It's a wonderful thing. But I'm not commanding it. I'm just making a concession to let you know it's okay. It's good. But look in verse 7 again. For I was it all men were even as myself, but watch. But every man had his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and another after that. Notice where he says, every man has his proper gift of God. And here he's teaching that singleness and celibacy is a gift from God. Not everybody can do this. Not everyone can live this way. You may be gifted this way. You may be made this way It's very possible that you are. In fact, Jesus thought the same thing. Hold your place here. Go to Matthew chapter 19. Let me just show you something here real quick. Look at Matthew 19. I want you to look starting in verse number three. Now the Pharisees are coming to Jesus and they're going to question him about the issue of divorce. Look at Matthew 19, 3. The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him, they're testing him, saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? Again, this was a question testing Jesus. And let me give you a little background. Just know this that as bad as divorce is in our day today, it was worse in Jesus' day. It was worse. It was an epidemic in Jesus' day. In fact, William Barclay, one scholar, said this there is no time in history when the marriage bond stood in clear pearl of destruction than in the days when Christianity first came into the world. At that time the world was in danger of witnessing the almost total breakup of marriage and the collapse of the home. What he's saying is it was in greater danger in that first century time than at any time in the world. It was it was just looked upon as something that could you could do at any time you want. You can get a divorce, it was so easy And this was partly due because of the Greeks and the Romans and the Jews, they had a low view of women, and they could get a divorce for any reason they wanted to. It was rampant. You might think, well, you know, Jewish surely Jewish people knowing the Old Testament would hold the institution of marriage in high regard, but that's simply not true. In fact, it was it was even worse among Jewish people. You could get a divorce just for any reason you wanted to. This whole culture had this low view of women. and seeking satisfaction outside the bounds of marriage and no fault divorce and men could just do whatever they wanted to do. And part of the reason why the Jews were so uh could get a divorce so easily for anything was because they misinterpreted the scripture. They misinterpreted the Bible. In the time of Jesus, there was a very influential and famous rabbi And his name was Rabbi Hillel, and he taught that a Jewish man could get a divorce for any reason he wanted to. Any reason he wanted to. This was a very popular view of divorce in Jesus' day. And this was the view that the Pharisees taught. In fact, this is why they're tempting Jesus in verse 3. They said, is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? And so they're asking Jesus this question. This is what Rabbi Hillel taught: that a man could get a divorce for any reason he wanted. And they said, Jesus, is that true? And they were trying to catch Jesus. Now what was the problem here? Look down in verse number Now, by the way, let me give you Jesus' answer, verse 4, and the answer to be said unto them, have you not read that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female? And he said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain but one flesh and what Therefore God is joined together, let not man put asunder. So Jesus was very clear in his answer. He quotes from Genesis, this is what the Word of God says. When God joins two together they are one, and what God has joined together let no man therefore put asunder. Now that whole idea was right in the face of this prevailing idea that you could get a divorce whenever you wanted. And with this one verse of scripture, Jesus counteracts that whole thing. He just deals with it very clearly. Now notice how they come back. Look at verse 7. And they said unto him, Why did Moses then command to give a writing of divorce? And to put away her wife. So how do they answer Jesus? Oh, Jesus, Moses commanded it. A bill of divorce. What about that? Don't you remember that Moses commanded a bill of divorce and to put away her wife, a writing of divorce, and to put away her wife Now, what was the problem here? The key word in verse 7 is the word command. And here's the question. Did Moses command a man to divorce? Did he really do that? Let me just say this that the Pharisees were famous for twisting Scripture, not getting it right. So did did Moses command? And by the way, the passage that they're referring to is Deuteronomy 24 1 through 4. They're referring to that Old Testament passage. You guys still with me? Alright. Go back to Deuteronomy 24 real quick. Let me just show you what they're referring to. Go to Deuteronomy 24 and look at verse number one. Now, what we're going to see in verses 1 through 3 are just a list of clauses. They're not commands. These are what Hebrew scholars called conditional clauses, or we could call them if clauses. And they're followed by the main clause or the command in verse 4. The real command that Moses gave is not in verses 1 through 3. The real command that Moses gave is in verse 4. So look in verse one. When a man hath taken a wife and married her, and it come to pass that she find no favor in his eyes, because he has found some uncleanness in her. Then let him write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of this house, and when she has departed out of this house, she may go and be another man's wife. And if the latter husband hate her and write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and sendeth her out of his house, or if the latter husband die, which took her to be his wife Verse 4. Her former husband would send her away. Here's the command, may not take her again to be his wife. There's the only command in this whole section. All the rest are if clauses. Then the command. You get it? So we could say it like this if a man has taken a wife and she finds no favor, and if he writes her a bill of divorcement, and if she leaves his house, and if if if finally if she does all this Then in verse 4, here's the main clause, her former husband may not take her again to wife. So what's this a command about? Is this a command about divorce? No. What's the command about? The only command that's given here in this passage is about remarriage. That's the only command given. What's Moses saying? If you divorce your wife, you can't remarry her. That's the command. You see, the problem with the Pharisees and the Jews of Jesus' day is they didn't see verse 1 as an if clause. They interpreted it as a command. And really the Hebrew reads, and he writes her. It's not commanding that he write or bill the worse. It's a matter of fact that if he does this, If he does this, it's not a command. And so this passage simply recognizes divorce and it seeks to regulate it. That's all Moses is doing here. He's not commanding it. But again, the Pharisees, they didn't get that. And really what Moses is actually trying to do is he's trying to eliminate the practice of easy divorce and remarriage. This was something that was going on all around them in the pagan culture. It was seeping into the Jewish mindset. And so Moses is trying to regulate this. And someone may ask the question, how and when did divorce begin? Nobody knows that. Nobody knows when divorce began. It was around during Moses' day. It was there a long time before Moses. In fact, Jay Adams in his great book about this says this, quote, its origins, talking about divorce, its origins lie somewhere back in the dusty park. of human history. In other words, we don't know when divorce started. We don't know who originated. We know it wasn't God Divorce is not an institution of God. Marriage is an institution of God. Divorce is an innovation of man. We don't know when it began. We don't know who originated it. It was just there in human history. You find no scripture in the Bible where God institutes divorce. Moses just simply recognizes that it's present and he's trying to regulate it. And one of the ways he tries to regulate it and and stop easy divorce is by saying You can't marry your wife again. If you divorce her, that's fine, but you can't marry her again. That's it. He's trying to regulate that. And so, again, this was a divine concession. to the sinfulness of man. And that's exactly what Jesus said. Jesus said, Moses allowed this because of the hardness of your heart. This was a a concession to sinful people whose hearts were so given over to their own lusts. This was not something that was commanded by God. And again, this is the whole point of Deuteronomy. Moses is trying to prohibit divorce. Because men were rationalizing that they could just do it easily. And he was trying to stop it. And so and by the way, uh when when Jesus said this is for the hardness of your heart, what did he mean by that? Well Moses was basically allowing for divorce because of some of the sinful immorality that was going on inside marriage vows back then. Now let me ask you a question. In the Old Testament, if a marital spouse committed adultery, if you followed the letter of the law in the Old Testament, what would happen to the guilty partner? What would they happen? They would be stoned, right? That's the law If someone was guilty of adultery, they would be stoned. And that means that the innocent spouse would be free to what? Marry again, because death ended that marital covenant. So the innocent party would be free to marry again. So if the letter of the law was that was was followed in the Old Testament, every person who was unfaithful to their marriage vows, they would be stoned. The innocent party would be full to marry again. However, in the Old Testament when there was adultery in a marriage, not everyone was stoned Why why was that? Because God is gracious, that's why. Because sometimes God in his grace would allow the guilty person to live. God doesn't always follow the letter of the law. God sometimes does not give us what we deserve. Aren't you grateful for that? I'm grateful that God hasn't always given me what I deserve. I'm grateful for times when God was gracious and merciful. And so many people in the Old Testament who committed adultery were stoned, or excuse me, were not stoned, and they were not put to death. And so, but the qu uh for example, there's one illustration that comes to my mind, and that's the story of David. Remember David committed a sin with Bathsheba? But what did God say through the prophet Nathan? You will not what die? Because he deserved to die. And if God followed the letter of the law, David would have died But again, God doesn't always do that. Solomon committed adultery, but God was gracious to him. And so Jesus, when he comments on this then, he says, because of your hardness of heart, Moses allowed you to divorce But from the beginning it was not so. In other words, when a person continued in prolonged sin, an unrepentant pattern of sin and immorality where there was no reconciliation, instead of stoning the guilty par partner. Moses would allow for a divorce. That way the innocent partner was free to go on with their life. Even though that person did not die, they were allowed to divorce the guilty person. And that's the very point that Jesus is making here. So go back to Matthew 19 with all that in mind and go back to verse number 7. When they said, they said unto him, Why did Moses then command to give a writing of divorcement to put her away? Again, it's not a command. And notice what Jesus said in verse 8. He saith unto them, Moses, because of the hardness of your heart, suffered you Now watch verse 9. And I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication And shall marry another committeth adultery. So what's Jesus saying? There's only one concession that was taught in the Old Testament. that I'm giving to you here where there is an allowance for divorce, and that is in the case when a marital partner is continually unfaithful and unrepentant in this area of sexual sin. There's one confession here. In other words, again, Jesus was flying into the face of the teaching of Rabbi Hillel that said, you can get a divorce for any reason. Jesus said, No, no. Moses suffered this. He allowed a concession because of the hardness of man's heart. There's only one concession that is allowable here, and this is in the case of continual sin. Now I say all of that. Because I want you to see the disciples' response to this. How did the disciples respond when Jesus said, No, there's only one concession, you can't get a divorce anytime you want. Look what they said. Look in verse 10. And the disciples said unto him, If the case of the man be so with his wife, it is not good to marry. In other words, Lord, if that's the case, then it's better not to be married. You can just see how this whole idea of easy divorce was so much a part of their thinking. That when Jesus gave this one concession, I said, Oh man, then we it's better not to even get married And how did Jesus respond to that? Look what he says in verse eleven. We're talking about singleness now. And he said unto them, All men cannot receive this saying, say they to whom it is what? Given Watch verse 12, for there are some eunuchs which were born so from their mother's womb, and there are some eunuchs which were made eunuchs of men, and there be eunuchs which have been made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake He that is able to receive it, let him receive it. So what's Jesus' response? When they say, Lord, it's better not even to get married if that's the case. Jesus said, Well, okay. If you can receive it, receive it. In other words, if you can live single, if you're gifted in that way, then go ahead and be single. And notice where he says that some are born from their mother's womb. There are some are eunuchs that are born that way from their mother's womb. What did he mean by that? that there are some people that they're so wired and so gifted by God that they can be single and celibate and that's just the way they are. That's just the way they want to live. Nothing wrong with that That's the way God made them. He made them with the ability to live a single life. And so that's what Jesus meant. Some have this gift from God And then he says onward, there are some eunuchs which are made eunuchs of men. There are some people that are celibate and single because they serve perhaps in a kingdom where the king made them a eunuch. In order to serve him and his purposes and to keep him away from the king's wives. Kings had a lot of wives, and they wanted to make sure the servants in their palace were celibate So they made them eunuchs. So there are some that are born that way, some are made that way by other men in their kingdoms. And then there are some people that have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. Some are so devoted in their life to the Lord that they made themselves single and celibate, and that's the way they decided to live for the kingdom of heaven's sake. But Jesus said, you know, if you're able to receive this, then receive it If you're able to live this way, then live this way. All that to say that there are some who have this gift of singleness and able to serve the Lord. Fully devoted and being single. Now the question then comes, do I have this gift Maybe here that you're single tonight and say, well, do I how do I know that I have the gift of singleness? Well, Paul's very practical. Go back to First Corinthians now. Look in in verse chapter seven. And I want you to look in verse number 9, because Paul's going to be very practical at this point. How do I know that if I have the gift of singleness, that I can use it to serve the Lord? In verse Again, it's starting verse 7. For I would that all men were even as I myself, but every man has his proper gift, one after this manner, and another after that, and that's exactly what Jesus was saying. And I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, it is good for them that they abide even as I. Paul said, if you're able, if you're unmarried, and if you're a widow, and you can stay that way, and you can give yourself to the service of the Lord Then that's a good thing. You can be just like me. And I think Paul here, he puts himself in the category of the widow. So I think that Paul at one time was married. He was Perhaps a member of the Sanhedrin where you had to be married, and perhaps now his wife had died, and he's a widower, and he says, you know, if you can remain single and be that way and serve the Lord, that's good. But look what he says in verse 9. But if they cannot contain, let them marry. For it is better to marry than to what? Than to burn. And so what's Paul's point there? This is how you know whether or not you have this gift of singleness. If you're if you're single and you find that you're constantly fighting sexual temptation, it's a care daily, constant battle, then you need to understand that you probably don't have that gift of singleness. And that you need to pursue marriage. Now Paul is not saying that it's impossible for a single person to resist temptation. That's not what he's saying because God gives every Christian the ability to resist temptation and to live above it. What he's saying is that if you find all your energy directed towards battling this every day and trying to stay pure and all this, especially in this world in which we live, then it's better for you to understand that you don't have that gift of singleness and you need to get married. Because that's not the way that you're wired. Because Paul said it is better to marry than to burn. And when he says burn there, he's talking about burning in your heart, burning in lust. It's better that you understand that you can't live this way continually because you can't control this continually, and so you should Be uh prepare for marriage, pursue marriage, pray for God to send the right person in your life and get married. Here's another question you could ask yourself. Are you constantly lonely in spite of close relationships with the Lord and other believers? If you still find yourself lonely, even though you're walking with the Lord and you have other friends and companions, and yet there's still that gnawing loneliness inside of you, that's probably a sign that you don't have this gift of singleness. And that you should pray and wait on the Lord to bring that right person in your life. Sometimes people say, oh, that's a spiritual matter. You just need to find all your fulfillment and fellowship in God, and you'll be okay. And I've heard some people counsel singles in that way. And while that is true, we do find our fellowship with the Lord. There's also a sense in which God told Adam, look, it's not good for you to be alone. You know, I think Adam had good fellowship with God, don't you? I think he walked with God every day, he fellowship with God every day, he had great communion with God every day, and yet God said, Adam, it's not good for you to be alone. So Adam didn't have the gift of singleness, even though he had good fellowship with God. So it's not a matter of your spiritual level, your spiritual walk It's just a matter of the way God made you. And here's another question to consider when you consider this matter, and that is to what ministry has God called you? To what ministry has he called you? If God again is calling you to a place to serve him where it might be unsafe, it would be unwise for you to take a family into a situation where it's very, very, very dangerous. If God's calling you to that place. You know, I I read of missionaries in the past and I I I respect them greatly, but missionaries like C. T. Studd and other missionary greats who left their families to go and serve the Lord And in faraway places, I think C. T. Studd and his wife only got to see each other for only a couple of weeks during the last eleven years of his ministry. Because he was over in a very difficult place in Africa serving. She was too sick to go and so out of eleven years of their life, they only saw each other for a few weeks of that. Now beloved call me crazy, but I don't think that's healthy. I just don't. Now I honor these Christians for what they did, but I don't think that's a good example to follow. I think of David Livingston. I love David Livingston. I honor him. What a great man that he was. However, he left his wife and children for years in order to do pioneer work in Africa. His pioneer work in Africa was tremendous. But his family suffered. His family suffered. And so I think that if when you consider this thing of marriage, consider what calling has God put on your life? Certainly there are many callings, most of them where you need a marriage partner that's a godly person that will help you in the ministry endeavor that you have. But there may be some ministries that God might call a person to where It would be better for that person to be alone, to be single, if that's the case. So consider what ministry God has called you into. And so this is point one. The devotion of celibacy. Now I got two points left. And we're we're done. I mean it's eight o'clock. So I'm not going to push it. What I'll do is I'll just finish this later and we'll talk more about what the Apostle Paul has to say regarding singleness and marriage. So come back next time for that. Let's bow for prayer together Lord, we thank you for how practical your word is. Lord, help us to follow the instructions that you give us. Lord, as we look at our own life, the callings, the giftedness, all that that you've placed upon us Lord, I pray that you'll help us to consider what your will is. And I pray for many out here under the sound of my voice, Lord, that are praying for these matters in their own life. About singleness and marriage and what they should do. And Lord, they want to do your will. And I pray, Lord, that you'll give them great discernment and wisdom and peace Well Lord help us to walk away with the idea that, Lord, no one's more spiritual if they're married, no one's more spiritual if they're single. It's just different ways that you've providentially led people in their life. And that whatever case that we might find ourselves, married or single, we can devote ourselves to you fully. We can serve you freely. And Lord, that should be the desire of our heart, that we seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And Lord, all these other things will be added unto us. So Lord, I pray for wisdom and patience in these things with all these Lord who are seeking your will, Lord. May you bless them, may you guide them. And we pray all this in the wonderful, matchless name of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, Amen