I want you to look in chapter 33. We've been doing a biographical study, studying the life of Jacob on Sunday nights and Wednesday nights, and I want us to again Look at a portion of scripture here. We're going to look at chapter 33, verse 17. And just while as I begin reading here And Jacob journeyed to Sukkot and built a house and made booze for his cattle, therefore the name of the place is called Sukkot. And Jacob came to Shalom, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padan Aram, and pitched his tent before the city, and he bought a parcel of a field. where he had spread his tent at the hand of the children of Hamar, Sheikh of Shechem's father, for a hundred pieces of silver And he erected there an altar and called it El Eloh Israel. Look at chapter 34 and verse 1. And Dinah, the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land. Some years ago, Donald Gray Barnhouse told an illustration, Donald Gray Barnhouse, a great expositor from up in Philadelphia who's with the Lord But he talked uh at a time in London when there was a certain part of London when all of the errand boys, when they would go on their errands, they would whistle out of tune as they went about their work. The musicians of London evidently noticed that all the errand boys were whistling But they were whistling out of tune. And it was talked about why this was so, and they came up with a reason because the bells of Westminster were slightly out of tune And because the bells of Westminster were out of tune, that when the boys whistled, they were also out of tune, because they heard those bells. And then Barnhouse went on to say that God has given us his word, which is an absolute pitch of life. And if we stay in God's Word and study God's Word, we're going to learn to sing by it, we're going to learn to stay in tune, and we'll be able to detect the falsity of all the music of the world, he said. Well, in this narrative here, in Genesis 34, this is really a story of how Jacob got out of tune with God. He begins to whistle according to the tune of the world. Now every once in a while we come upon chapters of the Bible that report disgraceful deeds. And to be honest with you, sometimes it's difficult to know how exactly to preach on things like this. And Genesis chapter 34 is definitely a chapter like this. If you read the chapter, it records the rape of Jacob's daughter Dinah and the bloody revenge that Jacob's sons plotted against those who did such a thing. And so the question is, what are we to do with a chapter like this here in the Bible? And more importantly, why does God give us this account of the life of Jacob? Now I've noticed in studying this that there are many commentaries that simply pass over this chapter. Don't you love it when comment commentaries do that? I mean you buy commentaries because you want them to deal with the difficult passages of the Bible, and when you get to those passages, guess what? They skip over it Anyway, but I've noticed that that's what happens here. In fact, A. W. Pink is one of them. He says this in his book. He says he was leaving this chapter to his readers to figure out for himself for themselves. Well at least he's honest about it Alexander McLaren just totally skips over Genesis 34 in his Expositions of Holy Scripture. Another great commentator from Genesis, Luphol, who's a Hebrew scholar, This is what he says. He says, quote, we may wonder if any man who had a proper discernment ever drew a text from this chapter. You know what he's saying there? Anyone who has real discernment will not try to preach from Genesis 34. It's basically what he's saying. But then he goes on on the other hand and says this, as a whole, it is an invaluable insight into the lives of the patriarchs. So on one hand he says, you know I you know, it may not be a good idea to try to preach from Genesis thirty-four, but on the other hand, this is invaluable stuff here. But then he goes on to say that we cannot venture to offer homiletical suggestions for his treatment. In other words, he's saying if you're going to preach from it, good luck, bud. I don't have any suggestions for you. But I think that this chapter does a whole lot more than give valuable uh a valuable sidelight, as he says. I think that this is here for a reason. I think that there's no uh scripture in the Bible that is incidental Or something that we should treat as if we shouldn't go onto that territory. If it's in the Bible, you know why it's there, beloved? Because God wants you to know this. It's there because God wants you to see it And I think that this chapter here actually gives us warnings and lessons on how we are to live our lives. This gives an incident in the life of Jacob that is really not a good reflection on him. But it warns us to avoid the mistakes that he made. And this is one way I know that the Bible is God's Word because it it deals honestly with the characters in it. It deals honestly with the heroes in this story. Jacob made some mistakes. And these are mistakes that we must avoid as God's people. Now, part of the way to understand this is we always have to ask ourselves this question when we come to chapters like this in the Bible, we have to ask ourselves this question, what did it mean then? What did it mean to the original audience? Because if we can find that meaning, what it meant to them to them at that time, then we can really draw from it what it means to us today. And again, we have to go back and ask ourselves, who's writing this? Moses is the writer of Genesis. Who is he writing it to? He's writing it to the Israelites. to help them understand their identity and also to to help them as they are ready to cross over into the promised land and to do what God called them to do, to take possession of the land and to be the people that God wants them to be. Now let me ask you a question. What's one of the biggest dangers that the Israelites face as they cross into the land of Canaan? The biggest danger they face is assimilation into the culture. It's becoming like the Canaanites, is being absorbed into that culture, and they begin to practice what the Canaanites practice, to absorb that false religion, or false religion's plural, we could say That was one of the biggest dangers. Or to become ungodly, to be influenced by the ungodliness of the Canaanites in that land. This was a very real, this was a very subtle danger. God was very specific to his people. You're not to be like them. You're not to marry Canaanites. You're not to be a part of that ungodly culture. And so, uh why was Israel to go in there? Well they were really to be the the instruments of God's punishment, right? They were to declare war against the Canaanites Uh they were to be the ones that were going to purge the land of the Canaanites because of their ungodliness. The Bible says that their ungodliness had reached unto heaven, and so God had finally dis determined to judge the Canaanites and they were really an instrument of judgment. God had declared holy war. The Hebrew word is Kareem, he declares holy war against all the people of the land of Canaan But again, the temptation for God's people was to be like them. And that's why God wanted them out of the land, and God did not want them making friends with Canaanites. And so this was something that Moses feared For the children of Israel. Go back to look at Deuteronomy real quick. Just hold your place here, just to kind of give you the setting to help us understand. Look at Deuteronomy chapter 6 real quick Now let me just show this to you. Deuteronomy chapter 6. And look at verse 1. Now these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments which the Lord your God commanded to teach you. That you might do them in the land whither you go to possess, that thou mightest fear the Lord thy God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee thou and thy son, and thy son's son all the days of thy life So here, Moses is giving kind of a farewell address, a final sermon to the Israelites, and it's all about when they go to possess the land. And then there's in verse number five, he tells them, or actually verse four, Here, O Israel, the Lord our Lord, our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, with all thy might And this, of course, we know is the famous Shema which Orthodox Jews would quote all the time, to love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might And then look down in verse number ten. And it shall be when the Lord thy God shall give have have brought thee into the land which ye swear unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac. And to Jacob to give thee great and got goodly cities which thou buildest not, and houses full of all good things which thou fillest not And wells dig which thou diggest not, vineyards and olive trees which thou plantest not. When thou shalt have eaten and be full, watch this in verse twelve. Then beware lest thou what Forget the Lord which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage. Verse 13, and thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and serve him. And swear by him. And verse 14, and ye shall not go after other gods of the gods of the people which are around about you. That was the concern. That was the concern that once they get into the land and they uh begin to take possession of all these things that they would become lax. That they would become passive, that they would forget the Lord, and that they would begin to assimilate into the culture and be just like all of the people around them. That was the big fear. In fact, sad to say, this happened years later. In fact, when you get to the book of Judges, you'll find out this is exactly the period in the life of Israel when they did succumb. They did become Canaanized. you could say. And the proof of it, there's one story that kind of summarizes it. In the book of Judges in chapter 17, there's a Levite priest. And there's a man by the name of Micah, and Micah has all these false idols in his house, and along comes this young Levite priest. We don't know his name because they don't give his name And he comes along and the man Micah says, Hey, I'd like to hire you to be our family priest. Look at all these idols that I have here. And if you'll come, I'll give you ten shekels of silver, and I'll give you a new suit of clothes, and I'll pay you that every year And the young priest says, sold. He kind of prostitutes his calling, said, this sounds like a good setup. I'll be the family priest. And so he begins to worship false idols, he begins to bring all that in, he begins to synchronize that with the worship of Yahweh God And then along come the Danites, the tribe, some men from the tribe of Dan. And you know what they do? They steal all the idols out of this man Micah's house. And they come to the priest and they say, hey, would you like to be our priest? You can be a priest not just for one family, you can be a priest for a whole tribe. And we'll pay you more. He said, sold. I'll do it. And so they take him away, and now he becomes the the priest over the whole tribe of Dan that brings into the worship of Yahweh all these false idols that he found in the house of Micah, and he's leading in this false worship, and that's what's going on in Israel. And then at the end of the story, they save the the name of this young Levite priest to the end of the story because they they do that really. The writer does that for shock value. And who is the name? What is the name of this young priest that would do such a thing as this? His name was Jonathan, the son of Geershem, the son of Moses. Grandson of Moses. And that was supposed to shock the reader, and of course it does. Just one generation removed, they're assimilating They're compromising. They're not standing on the truth of God's word, that is people in Israel. And of course, you know the common refrain in the book of Judges, and that is that every man does what is right in his own eyes. They're doing whatever they think is right. You talk about pluralism and relativism, this culture didn't invent that. That's all the way back in the book of Judges. Everyone's doing whatever is right in their own eyes And so this is what Moses is afraid of. This is what he's concerned about. And so therefore he writes this story that comes, go back to Genesis 34 now. He gives us this narrative, this account in the life of Jacob to serve as a warning to the people of God about compromising with the culture around you. The Canaanites that are around them. So he gives this very honest account of the life of Jacob here in this story. By the way, what does this mean for us today? You know what this means for us today as believers? We are not to be like the world. We're not to assimilate into the world. God wants his people to be different, beloved. He wants us to be holy. In fact, the call to salvation is what? It is a call to holiness. It is a call to walk with the Lord. God wants his people to show forth his glory, his greatness, his holiness to this world, and he calls upon the church to do it. Now remember in the Old Testament, God called upon Israel to do it. They were to be the light. They were to be the glory. But ultimately Israel failed. And so now, in this age, who does God call upon to pick up the mantle and do that? He calls upon the church to do that. The church is to be the glory. The church is to be the light. And the greatest danger we face is the same danger that the Israelites face, and that is to be absorbed into the world and to be like the world to where there's no distinction, there's no difference. And I'm afraid, beloved, that's happening in a lot of places. Vance Habner said this. He said, the devil is not fighting churches, he is joining them. He is not persecuting Christianity, he is professing it. When many people think the world is becoming more Christian, and Christians are becoming more worldlier, the friend of the world is the enemy of God, and if we love the world, the love of the Father is not. in us. And that is so true. So you say, what's this story about? This whole story about here in Genesis is written by Moses to Israel to warn them to not compromise. the truth, to not be like the world. And so he uses Jacob as an example. Now let me give you just with all that in mind. It was kind of a long introduction, but I want to get the setting here. Because I'm crazy to preach on this according to some commentators. So I have to give you kind of a long setting here to show you I'm not as crazy, maybe. I don't know, we'll see Look, let me give you three mistakes that Jacob makes. First of all, here's the first mistake. He was a carnal follower. He was a carnal follower. Look in uh Chapter 33, look at verse 17. And Jacob sojourned to Sukkot. Now this is right after the episode Sunday night where he had that spiritual experience that he wrestled with the Lord. And we're surprised kind of to see Jacob after that experience where he's not wholeheartedly following the Lord like we would expect. In fact, God tells him to go to Bethel. He goes go back to the land, go back to Canaan, and go back to Bethel, and he enters into the promised land, but he doesn't go all the way to Bethel. The way God said. He's still kind of battling the flesh. You remember he had that encounter in the last chapter with the the living God, wrestling with him, and God breaks some of his uh of his self-uh sufficiency and his self-dependence and he kind of walks away with a length and will have that length for the rest of his life. But now here we see that Jacob still struggles with the flesh And that tells us that we can have wonderful spiritual experiences with the Lord, but it's not going to take one spiritual experience to eradicate your flesh. You're still going to have the flesh with you. And you still have to determine to be obedient. And so the life of Jacob, I think, here is really a life of a mixture. From here on out, we're going to see a mixture of both. You're going to see a mixture of Jacob trying to follow the Lord. He's trying to do what the Lord says and be submitted, and yet there's times when his weakness overcomes him, and we see glimpses of the old Jacob. There's a mixture of the good and the bad. I'm not surprised that commentators And preachers have different views views on Jacob's life from here on out. Some say that he's a godly man who models faith and we ought to follow him, and then others say, well no, he is a sorry example of the life of faith You say, what's your view? I I think it's a mixture of both. I think there are times when he is following the Lord and he is doing the right, and there's times when his weakness overtakes him and he walks not the way he should And so I kind of take the middle ground. And by the way, you know, all of us are really like that. We still struggle. We still battle the flesh. And so he this is Jacob here. He's not perfect, but he's doing the best that he can. And there are times when he he's not doing the best that he can. He lets up, but we need to learn from him. A. W. Pink writes this. He said it's one thing to be privileged with a special visitation from the Lord, but it's quite another to live in the power of it. And that's true. If you're going to get live a godly life, it takes more than just one spiritual experience. You have to, after that, determine to walk in the power of that. And that means every day you have to do it on purpose. Every day you have to practice those disciplines. You can't allow yourself to drift. Anything that cools your love for Christ, you've got to get it out of your life. And you have to make these decisions. It's like driving a car. The minute you take your hands off the steering wheel, the minute you start to drift I read about a story of an elderly man and his wife who bought a RV and they hadn't bought a vehicle in about 25 years and the sales rep told them about cruise control. And the guy didn't really understand cruise control. He thought it was like automatic pilot. And so he crashed it when he put it on cruise control and went back to make a sandwich. He thought it was automatic pilot and they crashed. Many Christians are like that. They put their life on cruise control, and they're not working, they're not striving, they're not being diligent, and this is what happens to Jacob. So what we see here at the end of chapter 33 is that after he meets with Esau, look at verse number 14, we'll back up just a little bit. And I will lead on softly according as the cattle that goeth before me, and the children be able to endure until I come unto my Lord unto Seer. After Jacob and Esau makes peace, he says to Esau, You go ahead, I'll come and visit you at Seir. And Jacob never does that. What he does, in fact, is he goes to this place called Shechem and he lingers there with Shechem, and we don't know why, because the Lord told him to go to Bethel back in chapter 31. And uh, but Jacob's for some reason he stops here in this place of Shechem, and it's not a good place It wasn't Bethel, the house of the Lord. It wasn't a place where God originally met with him, where God wanted to meet with him again. Instead, he stops here and he lingers here. Now someone says, no, wait a minute, he built an altar. Look again in verse number 20, and he erected there an altar and he called it L-L-O-H-Israel. There he builds this altar which says God, the God of Israel. But friend, when we're not obeying the Lord, it doesn't matter how many altars we build. If we're not doing what the Lord says, it's good to have an altar, but that does not replace obedience. Donald Gray Barnhouse said this, the Canaanites cared nothing for his altar so long as he behaved as they did. And that's so very true. Worldliness is something that you don't overcome just by coming to church on Sunday. You can't come to church on Sunday, worship at an altar, and then go live any way you want, disobediently. That's not the Christian life. And so, but he builds an altar here. And so he becomes really kind of a carnal follower. He's not following the Lord wholeheartedly. But here's the second mistake he makes Not only was he a carnal follower, number two, he was a careless father. Because look what happens in chapter 34. And Dinah, the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land. Now what we see here is a a glimpse of Jacob, and here he's kind of a passive father. Well we see first of all there's no restraints. In verse 1, Dinah is in her early teens. She's Jacob's only daughter. And in verse 1, when it says went out, the Hebrew there has a sense of impropriety. In other words, the idea is she has no business going out to this place, this city. With its reputation going out there on her own. Sarna, a Hebrew scholar notes this That girls of a mer marriageable age would not normally be permitted to leave to go into a town on chaperones And Josephus wrote this, the Jewish historian, he contends that Dinah was headed to one of the pagan festivals of Shechem. So it seems like Dinah is left to do whatever she wants to do. She's about 15 years old, and she goes out The Bible says to see the daughters of the land. And my question is, why would Jacob allow Dinah to go into a pagan city to be with just pagan friends? Why will he allow her to do that? No warnings, no rules. And this tells me as a parent it's my responsibility as a parent to set restrictions for my children, to set standards. To watch over them. We have to do this because the Lord holds us accountable. That phrase there, daughters of the land. These were Canaanite women. The lifestyles of these Canaanite women repulsed Abraham and Isaac and Rebekah. And they were wicked women. And so again the question is why would Jacob allow his daughter to go out and associate with such And I would just say this to your parents, and I say this uh lovingly, and that is just be careful who you allow your kids to associate with. Watch over them, watch their friends, because they do have an influence on your children The Bible says, He that walketh with wise men shall be wise, but a companion of fools shall be what? Shall be destroyed. And so be careful. There's that principle of association. There's no restraints here. But then there's another thing I see, and that's no relationship. And what I mean by that is we don't sense that Jacob has any real relationship with his daughter. He doesn't really know what's going on. Look at verse 2. And when Shechem The son of Hamor, the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her, and he lay with her, and he defiled her. Here's Dionys going into this city, and the prince of the country, verse 2, Caesar. Evidently this is the big man on campus. He's the prince of the country. Evidently the town was named after him. His name was Shechem, and that's the name of the town. And so this is a big thing for a young girl to be uh noticed by someone who's so powerful, this prince. And this was a little bit too much for her to handle And so he begins to seduce her, and then a terrible thing happens, and that is he takes advantage of this girl. And we see the the verbs there in verse number two. He saw her, he took her, he lay with her, which is the idea, he violates her, and he defiles her. The inevitable happened here. And again, the question I ask is, how is it that Jacob didn't know about all this that was going on and this relationship with his daughter? And if he did know, why didn't he step in? It seems like Jacob didn't really pay much attention to Dinah here. And could it be because she was the daughter of Leah? Leah wasn't really his favored wife. There's a sense in which Jacob really showered a lot of affection on Joseph and Benjamin, but he didn't shower a whole lot of affection on uh Leah or some of the other children that were from some of his other wives that he didn't really favor. And so what's going on here is that there's really not a real close relationship going on, I think, with Jacob and his daughter. And so I think that's something that we need to be careful too, of as parents, as well. And that is we need to build relationships with our children and know them and know what they're doing. Someone said rules without relationship equals rebellion. If we just put rules in our children's lives and we don't have that relationship with them, then they're going to rebel against that. The Bible says in Proverbs, My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways. We have to Grab their heart and our relationship with them to let them give us their heart as we are close to them. But then here's another thing about Jacob that surprises me and that is there's no response from him to what happens. Look in verse number five. And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah, his daughter. Now his sons were with the his cattle in the field, and Jacob held his peace until they were come. So when Jacob finds out about the news of his daughter And the defilement, he has no response. He holds his peace. Now, I think this lack of response to me is inappropriate Now I've read some commentaries where they say, well, he was acting wise. He didn't want to really uh look at this negatively at this time. Uh he was trying to search for an answer. I totally disagree You can tell a lot about a person by what makes them angry. And there are times, beloved, when it's appropriate to be angry. And this is one of those times. He hears about this and he really doesn't say much. He kind of holds his peace. Now you call me crazy, but if someone does something like that to one of my children, I'm going to tell you, you're going to hear from me You're going to hear some anger from me. And I still have a whole lot of flesh left in me. You might get more than that. But here, Jacob, he doesn't say anything. He's just quiet. Now we see other places where Jacob gets angry in the book of Genesis, if you'll read it. You'll see him getting angry over other matters, but he doesn't seem to get angry about this here. His heart should be broken. He should be grieved. And yet it's not. And later when he hears about Joseph, he'll grieve. But he doesn't grieve here at this point. And so and by the way later on he'll gr he'll also get angry in verse thirty, when his sons go out and they and they enact revenge Then he gets angry at his sons, but he doesn't get angry at this point here. My point is he kind of is somewhat of a careless father. He doesn't really love uh his daughter the way he should. And I want to tell you something, beloved, that's a problem. He's a careless father. But then here's the third thing I want you to see about Jacob. Not the first mistake was he was a carnal follower. He wasn't following hard after the Lord the way he should. He was a careless father. He wasn't loving his children the way he should. He wasn't watching over them and being involved in their lives and their relationships the way he should But here's the third thing. He was a compromising friend. He was a compromising friend. Because look what happens in verse 6. And Hamor, the father of Shechem, went out unto Jacob to commune with him. And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it, and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth because they had hurt wrought because he had wrought folly. In Israel and lying with Jacob's daughter, which thing ought not to be done. And so the father of Shechem comes to Jacob, and what does he do? He wants to arrange a marriage. Look down in verse number eight. And Hamar commune with them, saying, The soul of my son Shecheb longeth for your daughter. I pray you give her him to wife. And ye and make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you, that ye shall dwell with us, and the land shall be before you. Dwell and trade ye therein, and get ye possessions therein. And Shechem said unto her father, and unto her brethren, Let me find grace in your eyes. And what shall ye say unto me? I will give. And ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me. But give me the damsel to wife So what happens here? Hamor comes and he begins to speak to Jacob, and Jacob begins to listen. And when you listen to Hamor speak, what do you read here? There's a very peaceful words. Very peaceful words. Hey, let's let's make an an agreement. Let's come together. Let's be friends. You know, why I read this, this This to me is a picture of the world speaking to the believer. The world always wants to come to the believer and speak words of peace Yet at the same time bring sin and defilement into the into your life. And yet speak words of peace. So he comes, Hamer comes and he wants to negotiate a price. This all seems very inappropriate. First of all, you know what's missing here? There's no apology from the father, Hamer, or the son for what had happened. Secondly, They seem to be holding Zina captive. If you read in verse number 26, finally the brothers had to take her out of their tent and bring her home, which means they're holding her This is this is like they're holding her captive, and then they come and they want to negotiate a price. This is totally inappropriate And friend, again, this reminds me of the world. That's exactly what the world wants to do. The world wants to defile our children. The world wants to hold our children captive, and then come and speak words of peace to us. As if nothing is wrong. Nothing is going on. And he says, look, we want to be one with you. We want to be one people. That's the emphasis. We see it again in verse number 9. And make ye marriages with us, and give us your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you. Let's all be one. Let's forget about this sinful thing that happened here. And if they even thought it was a sin to begin with. Let's just be friends. And he's trying to lure Jacob and his family in to be one with them. This is the very thing that God did not want. He did not want his people being absorbed into the Canaanite culture. And yet here it seems to be happening. Jacob thought he was in trouble with Esau, but he wasn't. Here's the real danger. Jacob thinks he's safe now among all these friends, but this is the real danger here. He's making a friendship with the world. He is in greater danger than ever right now. If he accepts the offer of Hamor, then God's people will be absorbed into the culture. And you know what that means? Look at it from the broad angle. That means if Israel is absorbed into the Canaanite culture, there is no nation of Israel, which means there is no Messiah, no salvation. This is totally against the plan of God. This is the greatest danger that he's ever faced. And let me again let's apply this to us today. If we the church, who are supposed to be the light for this world, are absorbed into the world, then the light is extinguished. Then there is no witness. This is the greatest danger. The world wants to be one with the church And if that happens, our testimony is gone. What does the Bible say? Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That you might prove what is that good and that acceptable and that perfect will of God. Now, you know what the world's trying to do? It's trying to conform us? But God says the way we resist that is to be transformed inwardly. And what's the force that does that? It's the Word of God It's God's word. You see, the world is constantly trying to push us into its mold, to make us one with it. And the only way we can match that is to be in the Word of God. And the best analogy I can give you is when that uh is when you see on TV one of those diving bells, those little subs that they launch from the side of a ship and it goes way down in the depths of the water. And that little diving bell there has a line that's connected to the ship. And you wonder why it's not crushed by the water pressure. You know why? Because air pressure is being pumped down into that thing so much so that the air pressure from the inside m matches the water pressure from the outside. If that were not true, that little thing would be crushed and conformed to that water pressure, become one with the ocean But it's the pressure that's being pumped into it, that fresh air pressure, that keeps it from being caved in or crushed And friend, that's what it is to be in the world as a Christian. Listen, if you don't have a fresh supply of the Word of God being constantly brought into your heart and into your life and into your soul, you know what's going to happen? You're going to be conformed to this world. You're going to be crushed by the world. And so this is what God doesn't want. Now let me give you the rest of the story here, quickly. All this would have happened except for one thing. The brothers' response. Look down in verse number 7 again. And the sons of Jacob came out of the field. Now they get involved in this. And that they're listening to the offer. Look down at verse 15. And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamer his father deceitfully and said, Because he has to file Dana their sister, or because he had defiled Dana their sister. And they said unto him, We cannot do this thing to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised, for that w for for that which were of reproach unto us But in this will we consent unto you. If you will be as we be, that every male of you be circumcised, then will we give our daughter unto you, and we will take your daughters unto us And we will dwell with you, and we will become one people. So here are the brothers, and they're listening to Hamor and Shechem. And they said, we can't do this only on one condition. And that is if all the men of Shechem agree to the ritual of circumcision, because we can't we can't cohabitate or we can't live with people that are uncircumcised like this. Now why did they do that? It was because they were so concerned about the right of circumcision, the covenant that God gave and the sign of that covenant? No. They weren't concerned about that. The Bible says they were being deceitful They were planning their revenge. And it worked because what happens is in verse, on these following verses, Hamor and Shechem and all the men of the city, they all agreed to go through this ritual. And what happens is after they go through this ritual, they're left very vulnerable. Look at look in verse number twenty-five. Let's skip on down there. And it came to pass on the third day when they were sore that two of the sons of Jacob Simeon and Le and Levi, Dana's brothers Dinah's brothers took each man his sword and came upon the city boldly and slew all the males And they slew Hamar and Shechem with his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out. And the sons of Jacob came upon the slain and the spoiler of the city because they had defiled their sister. And they took their sheep and their oxen and then so on. It sh it describes how that the other brothers go around and they just Rob the city. So what happens? Two sons, we read, Levi and Simeon, basically When the men were vulnerable, they go house to house and they slaughter all the men of that place. This was an incredible thing that they did. It was basically murder. They were so angry. They were angry over the defilement. They were angry over what it did to the family. And then after that the other brothers come in and they loot and they steal and they take all these possessions and they take them all unto themselves. And what what does Jacob say? Look at verse number 30. And Jacob said To Simeon and Levi, ye have troubled me to make uh to make me stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites. And I being few in number, they shall gather themselves together against me and slay me, and I shall be destroyed. I and my house. And they said, Should He deal with our sister as with an harlot. And that's how the story goes. Jacob gets mad finally, but he's mad now. over the revenge, over the vengeance, and how it's going to make him look to all the rest of the land. And how there may be a retaliation and he may die because of it. And so this is really just a sad story. But what does this story go to illustrate? The very point that Moses wants to make is how foolish it is and how dangerous it is. for God's people to uh associate in this way, in this manner, to be part of the culture of the world God wants us to be different. And when we compromise who we are, there's always devastating consequences. That will take place because of that. Now, with all that in mind, let me just in close and give you just a few basic thoughts. First of all, you know what we need to practice as Christians? Proper separation. God calls us to be different. Again, Paul said this: do not be deceived. Bad company corrupts good morals. We have to be wise and we have to be different. We have to practice spiritual disciplines as God's people and be different. Now I I know some Christian parents I've heard them say, well my kids are going to find out about the world sooner or later. I'm not going to shelter them. Let me tell you something, friend, there's a difference between isolation and insulate an insulation. We can't isolate our children from the world, but we can certainly insulate them for when they do go and meet the world. And we how do you do that? By again the word of God You know, what mother would let a child go out in the cold without a coat on? No carry mother will do that. You're going to insulate that child. You're going to put coats on To help them fight against the weather. And in the spiritual realm, what parent is going to let their child go out and face the world without first insulating them with spiritual things? With the Word of God. We know we can't isolate, but friend, we can certainly insulate. And then we also have to keep in mind what our calling is. Our calling is to be a light. Well Israel was there to be a God God blessed the family of Abraham that they might be a blessing. And here, because of their compromise, they're becoming a curse. And I want to tell you, the word the church, as long as we're Separate, as long as we're different, as long as we uphold the Word of God and the principles of godliness in the Word of God, we will be a blessing to the world. But friend, when we compromise We will no longer be a blessing. We will be a curse. And God will not be able to use us. So Jacob was a carnal follower. He was a careless father, and he was a compromising friend. Now let me close with this one story here. I read this week an amazing story about a Christian man and his sons. This man and his two sons were big Atlanta Braves fans. And this man promised his sons, he said, when the Atlanta Braves go to the World Series, I'm going to take you to that game, to one of those games, no matter what it costs me. And this was back in the early nineties, and sure enough the Atlanta Braves went to the World Series for the very first time. And so the father got his sons And he got plane tickets. They didn't live in Atlanta Atlanta. So he got plane tickets and they decided they were going to go to Atlanta. Now he didn't have any tickets to the game, but he thought, once I get there, I can probably buy some tickets Even if I have to buy them from some of those people that sell them outside the stadium. Those guys are called scalpers. They buy tickets and then they sell them for a much larger price. The guy thought I can buy some tickets when I get there. But this Christian man got there to Atlanta and once they landed there, they went to the ballpark. They found out that it was illegal. They read an article on the way to the ballpark that it was illegal to to buy tickets from a scalper. And so this Christian man then was faced with a moral dilemma. He thought, well, what are we going to do? And then he began to talk to his sons, and they began to reason. And then he came to this conclusion. It only says it's it's wrong to sell tickets if you're a scalper, not to buy them. And so we can buy them and still not violate the law. It's the one who's selling that's actually violating the law. And then the Holy Spirit convicted this man. And he said to his sons, you know what, we're only playing with words. If it's wrong to sell tickets like that, it'll be wrong for us to buy them. And so they said, well, what are we going to do, Daddy? He said, you know what, we can't compromise what's right. But I tell you what, let's just stand here in the parking lot. Let's stand in the parking lot. And let's just see if anyone wants to come and sell us tickets at a normal price. Now that was a crazy plan. Who's going to do that at a World Series game? But what happened was they were standing there and a man happened to walk up to them and say to them, why are you here? What are you doing? And the man began to explain his dilemma. And the man said, Why don't you buy tickets from a scalper? He said, because we are Christians. And we heard that's not legal. And we can't do that. And the man said, is that right? He said, yes. He said, well, I can help you. This man ended up being an executive for the Atlanta Braves. He said, you can be my guests. So the man takes this man and his sons into the Atlanta Braves executive suite. And then showers them with all these souvenirs, and they get to watch the World Series game in an executive suite with all the VIPs up there And the father and his sons, they couldn't believe it. They were on their way back to the hotel and they were just they just couldn't get over what had happened there. And when they got back to the hotel, the hotel manager said to them, You know what? You're going to get a free stay in our hotel because we forgot to clean your room. One thing after another. Now the father went on to say he had to make sure to tell his children that you're not going to get a free ride every time you stand for what's right. But one thing is for sure, that when you always refuse to compromise the truth and do what's right, God will always honor you for that. He will always bless you for that. And that's what we need to remember as well. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we uh again thank you for the Word of God. Thank you for the clarity of Scripture. And Lord, we know that there's nothing in the Bible that's insignificant. Every story that you put in there is for us so that we can learn from. And as we look at the life of Jacob, Lord, there's many things we look at and we admire. And we see your grace in his life. And yet, Lord, there's also many things that we see that, some mistakes that we don't want to do. So Lord help us because we're all just as sinful. We all have the lure of the flesh just like He. We're all as weak as Jacob. In a sense, we're all Jacob. And we need to avoid these things So Lord help us not to follow you in a cold way, but to follow you with all our heart, to obey all your word, to not be careless in our relationships. And Lord, to never compromise your truth, to be the light that you've called us to be. Bless us now, Lord, as we pursue these things in our life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.