That song. Would you uh take God's word now tonight and open to the book of Philippians? We are studying through this epistle on Sunday night, and I want you to go to Philippians chapter three. tonight and we're going to look at verses 12 down to verse 16. Philippians chapter 3 verses 12 to 16. And let me just read a few of them. Not as though I already attained, neither were already perfect, but I follow after if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus And brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, I reach forth unto those things which are before. I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. So if we're going to be all that God calls us to be as Christians, we have to keep our eyes on the prize. We have to keep our eyes on the goal that God has set before us. The question that we have to ask as we study this text of Scripture at Philippians is this, what is the prize? that Paul is referring to in verse number 14 when he said, I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. This is what we want to consider tonight as we look at this passage of Scripture. Now, Paul has been giving us a personal account of his own spiritual journey in chapter 3. If you were with us last week, we met Paul the Accountant. And chapter three, verses one through eleven, Paul kind of gives an account of what happened to him when he met Jesus on the road to Damascus. And everything that's recorded in those first eleven verses of chapter three are really Talking about the inward work of the Spirit of God in his life when he met Jesus on that road, when he met him as a repentant sinner, a believing sinner. And this is what's going on in Paul's mind and in Paul's heart as he's transformed. As a result of meeting Jesus on the road, all of the confidence that Paul once had in his religious works, all of that was completely shattered. All of his self-confidence and his own religion and his own righteousness, that all vanished. And in this passage, Paul counts everything that was pr previously considered as a gain. He counted it as a what? As a loss, right? As a loss, as a result of meeting Jesus Christ. And so Paul, as it were, becomes an accountant in the first part of this chapter. He uses accounting terms, bookkeeping terms. And we said at the heart of chapter three and that part of it was verses seven and eight. Where if you go back and look at that verse 7 and verse 8, where he said, But what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I might win Christ. And so he's describing his salvation experience as a business transaction. At salvation, there's an exchange. There's a transaction. And and Paul said, Whatever w was gained to me before, now I count it as a loss for Christ. All of those spiritual, uh, religious works that I did, I realize now that all of that is a loss for me, and it's a glorious loss. He's kind of looking at the ledger book and he says, you know, I when he says I count, we see that word three times, I count it, a mathematical term. Um in the accountant book of Paul's life, his entries on the gain side were transferred to the lost side and all things uh and and all his righteousness, all the things that he thought he did that would gain him favor with God, that was all counted a loss. But On the positive side, he knew Christ. He got to know Jesus Christ. He counted all that loss as a gain in order that he might know true salvation in Jesus Christ. And so we see Paul the accountant, and we looked at that last week. Now in chapter 3, verses 17 to verse 21, we're going to see Paul the uh alien. Because if you look in verse number 20, notice what Paul says in verse 20 of chapter 3. For our conversation is in heaven. Really, we could say citizenship, that's the word there in the Greek. For our citizenship is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul knows that his citizenship is now in heaven now that he's a believer. He is now in this life a alien and a pilgrim on a journey to his heavenly home. And so he presents himself as an alien in those verses. But the verses that we're going to look at tonight from verses 12 down to verse 16, here we meet Paul the athlete. And Paul's going to use athletic terms to describe his sanctification process in his life. Now, if you've read any of Paul's epistles, you'll know that he uses a lot of illustrations from his world to teach spiritual truth. For example, he uses illustrations from the army. He said you have to put on the whole armor of God. If you were with us when we studied Philip Ephesians. We we know that passage well. He uses illustrations from the world of architecture. He said, You you are the temple of the Holy Spirit of God. He uses illustrations from agriculture. He says, Whatever a man sows, that will he also what? Reap. He uses the principle of sowing and reaping. He also uses illustrations from the world of astronomy. He said there are bodies celestial, bodies terrestrial. If you want to understand what it's going to be like in the resurrection, just look at the stars and see how they differ in glory. But here Paul is going to use an illustration from the world of athletics. Now Paul must have been a great sports fan. I know that many of you are. Some of you are mourning right now. Please turn off the Ravens game if you have it on The the game is over. It's over. All right. Paul must have been a sports fan in his day. Um he used so many illustrations in his letters of athletics. Now in the ancient world, um the games were really, really a big part of the entertainment culture. society in that in that day. We think they're an important part of our life today. It was even more so back in the ancient world. When Alexander the Great conquered the world He Hellenized the world and part of that culture was the gymnastics and sports. He that that all spread to the conquered lands And so every city had its athletic stadium and had its Coliseum where the games would take place. And there were some major games. There were some minor games in some small places, but there were some major events that took place uh and places like Corinth, uh some of you were with us and went to Greece and we looked at Corinth. There were the what was called the Isthnian Games there around Corinth, there was also the the Pythian Games, there was uh and and Delphi which is not far away there in Greece, but also there were the uh by far the most popular were the Olympic Games. And this was again a big one of the most celebrated games of that time were the Olympic Games that people would want to go to I remember in 2012 I was uh over in London with uh my children, Abby and Annie and Josiah, and we were um we were doing some evangelism work. There the Olympics were going on there and we were kind of helping a church ask us to help do some evangelism. um there during the Olympic Games. So we were passing out literature tracts, gospel tracts, right there in front of Buckingham Palace. And right while we were there in front of Buckingham Palace passing out gospel tracts and sharing the gospel, the Olympic runner came running down the street. that would begin the Olympic Games. That tradition goes all the way back to the ancient Games that were held at Mount Olympia. in honor of the god Zeus, they would light the torch that would begin the games. And all and and and the events in those games there were a lot of like we have today, uh there was leaping and throwing spears and wrestling and running long distance run as well as short distance runs and boxing and chariot racing. And again, Paul uses a lot of this when he writes his his letters. He he wrote the Ephesians and said, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, talking about wrestling. He said, striving together with me in your prayers. He's using an athletic expression there. of kind of a team sport. In first Corinthians nine he says, uh so fight I not as when it beats the air. That's the idea of shadow boxing. Paul said, I'm not shadow boxing. I'm I'm delivering real blows like I'm in competition. And then in Philippians 1. 27, we saw the passage, striving together for the faith of the gospel. Again, see that as an athletic expression, a uh teamwork. Sun athleto is the Greek word there And then he said, the Bible also says, if you believe Paul wrote Hebrews, let us run with patience the race that is set before us But of all the passages in the New Testament that really tie into the athletic world, I think none more than verse fourteen. The whole passage is really centered around verse 14. Look at it again. I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Now, which sport is he referring to here? Well, Bible scholars disagree on this. Some think he's describing a foot race, some think he's describing a chariot race. And verse the verb in verse 13, stretching forth, literally, reaching forth, you know, literally means to stretch out as a in a race. like a runner perhaps would stretch horse when he's crossing the finish line. And sometimes uh even chariot racers they basically were standing on a platform that had some uh some railings on the side, but even in a chariot race the the racer would would be standing up and sometimes in a race he would have to be stretching forth, keeping his balance as he was racing his horses to the finish. And so some think that this is referring to maybe the chariot race, some think it might be referring to um runners. But either way I think Paul's referring, uh you know, either way, it still has the same idea. Paul is referring to an athletic competition where it's going to require all of your effort. That's the whole idea here. Now, me personally, I think he's referring to a foot race, and the reason for that is I think it because it fits the metaphor better in this passage. And and the Christian life is not a short dash, it is a long marathon. It's a race. And it takes a lot of effort. And I think a foot race is perhaps Paul's favorite metaphor that he uses when it comes to the athletic world. For example, in Acts 20, verse 24 Paul said this, but none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy. And there is using that same idea. In Romans nine sixteen he said, So then uh it is not of him that willeth nor of him that runneth, but of God that shows mercy And uh in 1 Corinthians 9 24, know ye not that many which run, there are many which run in a race, but one receives the prize? So run that you may obtain. When Paul was writing to the Galatians, he was expressing fear that he had run in vain. He said this, and I went up by revelation and communication unto them that gospel which I preached among the Gentiles, but privately to them which are of reputation, lest by any means I should run or had run Paul was concerned that those who had heard the gospel not forsake it, because if they did, he would have run in vain. So, and then of course at the end of his life, Paul said to Timothy, I fought a good fight, I have finished my course, a running course, I've kept the faith So, but the question is, what is the prize that Paul is referring to here in verse number 14 when he said, I press towards the prize. for the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. What does that represent? What does that mean as a Christian? And what does it mean for us? Well, first of all, it's not salvation. The prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus is not talking about salvation, as I've heard some people try to use to say that this is talking about salvation. That's not what he's referring to. Paul's not telling us how to be saved here. All right. If he were doing this, if this was a picture of salvation, this would be a picture of self-effort, of works in salvation. And that would defeat everything that Paul had previously written in the first eleven verses of this chapter, where Paul was talking about everything that he counted as gain, that he thought was gained, now he counts it as loss. That would contradict all of that. So in order to compete in the Greek games in that time, an athlete already had to be a citizen. So a person didn't run to gain citizenship. A person ran the race because they were a citizen That's the idea here. Paul reminds us again in chapter 3, verse 20, of our citizenship. Our citizenship is in heaven. We're already citizens of heaven. We're already saved. We're already children of God through faith in Jesus Christ. So this is not referring to salvation. This is referring to sanctification. Now that we are citizens of heaven, we are to compete in the race of life. We're to pursue the goal that God has set before us. What is the goal? Well, again, we have to go back to verses 10 and 11 to kind of get the context of it. Look at verse number 10 that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable unto his death, verse eleven, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. The great goal in the Christian life is to grow in the knowledge of Jesus Christ and to be like him. This is talking about Christ-likeness. That's the whole idea in these verses here. In verse 11, where Paul says that if I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead, what is that? That's that's glorification, right? That's when our salvation is complete. And so this is what we are to do. We are to run towards the prize of Christ-likeness. That's the prize. And so this is really, we could say that this is another graphic illustration of what Paul mentioned earlier in the letter when he said, Work out your own salvation with what? Fear and trembling. You're working out your salvation. And in another way, you are pressing towards the mark. You're running towards Christ's likeness in your life. Each believer is on the track. Each believer has their own special lane that God has designed for you to run. Each believer has a goal to achieve A prize to pursue. It is the prize of Christ-likeness. It is the prize of knowing Christ more. It is the prize of spiritual growth. It is the prize of sanctification in your life. And Paul is teaching us that in order for us to get that prize, in order for us to win the race, we it requires proper effort and it requires a proper attitude on our part in order to do that. So let me just give you from this passage five essentials for pursuing the price in the Christian life that Paul mentions here in this passage of Scripture. First of all, there has to be a sanctified dissatisfaction. Again in verse 12, not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect. Paul was aware that he had not arrived. He knew that he still had a long way to go before he reached the prize. The word attained there in verse twelve is to receive lumbano, to receive. A runner at the end of the race would receive the crown, they would receive the prize. Sometimes it was silver coins or some kind of money. Sometimes it was a crown, a laurel crown. That was called the victor's crown. And Paul saying, Look, I have received nothing yet. I haven't attained. The race is not over for me. I'm not where I should be spiritually speaking in regards to spiritual maturity. He says, I have not attained either, we're already perfect. The word perfect, teleo, to attain perfection, to reach a goal, to accomplish what is necessary. Paul says, look, I haven't arrived. I haven't gotten there. I'm not what I w I'm not what I want to be. I'm not what I used to be. I'm not where I want to be. I'm I'm I'm pressing towards the mark. But I surely I haven't attained yet. And again, what did Paul want to be? He wanted where did he want to be? He wanted to be closer to Christ. He wanted to know Jesus Christ more. He wanted to grow more into the image of Jesus Christ. Christ's likeness was, again, his goal. And Paul says, look, I'm not there yet. He was still wrestling against sin in his life. He was still cleansing himself from inward defilement. He was still seeking to perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord. This was something that was constantly going on. in his life. He was still locked in mortal combat with the flesh in his life. He longed to be rid of the body of death. as he wrote about in Romans chapter 7. He understood that his body was the temple of the Holy Spirit, but he also understood that he was carrying around a body of death in the flesh. And so he had to deal with all that. And in Romans 7 he talks about that. He called all that the flesh, wrestling against the flesh, wrestling against sin. Can you relate to what Paul's going through? Is that your experience in the Christian life? Are you fighting against sin? Are you trying to perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord? Paul had to deal with all of that in his sinful body And he was very aware of the need for more spiritual growth and maturity. He was very sensitive to that. You know the good news is we will be able to become more and more Christ-like. The bad news is that we be as we become more Christ-like, we become even more aware of our sin and we become more depressed over our sins. So it's kind of a two-fold thing. We we we head towards Christlikeness. We we're better uh this year than last year, hopefully. We're getting victory by measures and by degrees, and yet we are also overwhelmed with our own sinfulness. And we see sin more and we're more sensitive to sin. And sometimes we can be discouraged by that sin. If you ever get to the think that you've arrived, You're no longer in the process of sanctification. You're moving backwards. Whenever you think that you've arrived and you've gotten there. And by the way, I think when Paul mentions this, not as though I'd already attained. I think he's taking a shot here at the Judaizers, the false teachers that have come in behind them, because they like to uh present themselves as as if they had already arrived spiritually. I'm alre we're already there. Paul said, really, well I have I'm not there. I haven't attained. Who can think such a thing? Believers who think that they can re reach a state of sinless perfection. And believe it or not, there are some out there that teach that, that after a while you can pray long enough and hard enough, and you can reach a point of spiritual perfection in your life. Anyone here like that? All right. Uh we'll pray for those of you that think you are. None of us are It it's it's hard to believe that there are some people that feel like that they can pray long enough or they can get what is called the second blessing on their Christian life. and reach that state where they can say, I ha I've attained. Paul could say I haven't attained, but they could say, Well I've attained. Maybe not Paul. I'll never forget reading R. C. Sprowe, he wrote has a book called Pleasing God, and in that book he describes an encounter that he had with a young man who'd been a Christian for about a year. And this young man boldly said that he had received the second blessing in his life and that he was enjoying a life of victory and that he was completely sinless, that he was now above sin and he had reached the state of perfection. And uh R. C. Sprose said he immediately turned to ride Paul's experience to this young man in Romans chapter 7. And he began to explain that it is exegetically impossible to dismiss Romans 7 as an as a description of Paul's former life because Paul is using present-tense verbs in that chapter Paul wasn't describing what he was before salvation. He was describing the battle that he was presently engaged in as a believer against sin. And the young man encountered, well, maybe Paul had not yet received the second blessing. That's how he explained that. And R. C. Spool says in the book it was difficult to conceal his astonishment to this young man. And he basically said to him, You mean to tell me that at age 19, after you've been saved for one year? You have attained spiritual perfection while the Apostle Paul was still struggling. And the young man said, yes, if you can imagine that. But uh this passage delivers a devastating blow to that false doctrine of perfectionism. that still prevails in some denomination, in some churches where they say that it's possible to reach this state. I would just venture to say that if the Apostle Paul the most committed, the most dedicated, the most spiritually mature believer who ever lived besides the Lord Jesus Christ, if he had not yet reached that state, you probably haven't reached it either. And I know that I haven't. So if you think you've arrived spiritually, then you're no longer striving. And part of that process is having what I call a sanctified dissatisfaction. Knowing that I'm not where I want to be. I'm not where I should be. I know people come to me all the time and say, well, Pastor, I'm not what I should be. Well, I'm glad you think that That means that you're still striving. That means you're not happy with where you are. And that's part of the sanctifying process that takes place in your life. You're not happy with this stage of where you are. You want to be better. You want to have more Christ-likeness. You want to pursue it even more. The moment you become satisfied, that's when you're in danger. Spiritually speaking, there has to be this sanctified dissatisfaction. You remember the church at Laodicea? They were satisfied with their Christian life. Remember what they said? Jesus said of them, Because thou sayest, I am rich and increase with goods, and have need of nothing, and you do not know that you're wretched, you're miserable, you're poor, you're blind, you're naked. And Jesus said he wanted to spew them out of his mouth because they had reached this point of, hey, we're we're good, we're satisfied, we don't need anything That's a dangerous place to be. There has to be a sanctified dissatisfaction. But here's number two. There should be a special dedication again in verse number twelve. But I follow after if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. And Paul said, I have not yet received the prize. Salvation is not the finish line, it's the starting line. And when you got saved, you didn't finish the race. You started the race. But this is an interesting verse. I follow after dioko, which means I press on, I pursue, I press hard after. It's the idea of pursuing something passionately, vigorously. To overextend yourself. Paul fancies himself in the race and he's passionately pursuing. He's not holding anything back. You ever hear a coach say, I want 110%? That's what Paul's saying here. I'm giving it 110%. That's what it takes to live the Christian life. If you're just passively existing in your Christian wealth, you're probably not uh gaining a lot of ground as far as your sanctification. You have to pursue it. It takes work. Yeah, it takes going after that goal. Now he says this, if I may apprehend, Katalambana means to lay hold of, pull down, or to overtake, or to seize hold of. This is another athletic term. To take hold of someone on a field, or maybe to take hold of someone on a race. Paul wants to grab hold of, take hold of something, and pull it down. We could use the analogy of a football player, a defender tackling another player, taking hold of him, bringing him down. What is it that Paul wants to tackle? What is it that he wants to grab hold of? Notice what he says, that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Now the word apprehend is the same exact same Greek word. In other words, we say it like this, I want to catch hold of and make my own, the very reason Jesus caught hold of me and made me his own. Jesus tackled me. He grabbed hold of me. And now I want to grab hold of the very thing for which Jesus grabbed hold of me. What was the reason why Paul grabbed hold of Jesus? And I think again he's referring to the Damascus Road experience when Jesus caught Paul from behind. Jesus tackled Paul and made him his own. Why? For what purpose? To be Perfect, to be fully mature, to be spiritually sanctified. It was Christ's likeness. Paul understands that at the heart of all of our salvation experience. The pr the goal, the reason for that is that we might be like Christ. That's the reason the Lord tackles us So that he can make us like Christ. And Paul says, I want to tackle that very thing, the purpose for which I was laid hold of by Jesus himself. And so Christ-likeness is going to require dedication on our part. We can't just passively sit back and say, let go and let God. You have to pursue it. You have to chase it down. You have to tackle it. No miss tackles in the Christian life. You gotta tackle it. You hear that, Ravens? No miss tackles. You don't passively drift into Christ's likeness. You chase it down. You chase it down. But here's number three. A singular direction, a sanctified dissatisfaction, a special dedication, a singular direction. Look at verse 13. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended. But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before Again, this one thing I do, he he's focusing on this one goal. Athletes know that in order to win you have to focus. You have to concentrate. This is also true in the Christian life. The one thing that should be our passion that should drive us as believers is this one prize that is spiritual maturity and Christ-likeness. That's the one thing. That Paul's focused on right here. All of his energy, all of his focus is on knowing Christ better and becoming more like the Lord Jesus Christ. There are too many Christians that are involved with too many different other things. That's distracting them from the main thing, the major thing, the one thing, which is Christ's likeness in their life And so Paul says, this one thing I do. I haven't apprehended yet. That is to say, I haven't been able to tackle it yet. I'm still chasing it. I haven't apprehended it. I want to, but this is one thing that I'm focused on. I'm focused on that. Grabbing hold of it. And then forgetting A part of this, the concentration of focusing on this one thing, a lot of it has to do with forgetting those things which are in the past. Paul is saying, he's not telling us to never look back. He's just saying don't let the past distract you from the one thing that you need to look forward to. All right. There are many Christians today that are being uh Told that to experience uh healing from their difficult past, they need to delve into their past. They they need to relive the hurtful things that happen to them. And this approach comes into the church from the world, but it's not biblical. The Bible says you just need to forget those things. Forget those things. Don't let that distract you. You just keep pushing forward to the things which are before. Now again, let me clarify here. He's not saying that we're never never to look back because The Bible encourages us to self-examination, and sometimes when we examine ourselves spiritually, a part of that might be having to look back at certain things. So it's it's okay to look back, but what he's saying is don't Don't look back to the past to where it distracts you from going forward or keeps you from that one thing. I guess the best illustration I could use is uh how many of you have a rear view mirror on your car? car or side mirrors. Okay, we all have to have that, right? Can you imagine trying to drive a car without that? You would kind of be at a disadvantage, wouldn't you? So that those mirrors are put there for you to glance at. Why? To see what's behind you. Why? Because that gives you orientation about going what? Forward. But now if anyone drives their car by staring into the rearview mirror, you're in trouble. You're going to crash because all you're doing is you're focused on what's behind you. You can't focus on what's behind you. You may like glance at what's behind you, but only for orientation as you go forward. And that's the whole point here. Paul says, I forget those things which are behind, but I'm reaching forth unto those things which are before. Don't be hindered by past guilt. You say I failed in the past. Welcome to the club. We've all failed. God will use you again. Repent of that. Get up and move forward. Don't be haunted by past guilt. Don't be Don't be lingering with past glory. You know, some Christians can't move forward because they're too too much too busy admiring all their successes of the past. Get over yourself. And look forward. Whatever victory you have in the life in your life, it goes to God as the one who gave you that victory. He gets all the glory for it. So don't live on past victories. Some Christians are hindered by past grief. They can't go forward because something grievous took place in their life and it hurt them so deeply. And they're s and they're so consumed with nursing those wounds, they can't seem to get past that. To move forward to Christ's likeness. Don't be hindered by your past grief. Or past grudges. Some people have been hurt and they can't seem to move forward or let go of those offenses committed against them in the past. But here Paul says, look, I'm forgetting all those things which are behind. And I'm focused on going before those things which are in front of me. When Winston Churchill visited the United States during World War II, he was heard to say this if the present quarrels With the past, there can be no future. And the point he was making that we have to accept that the past, there's things about the past we cannot change. We have to just move forward. We have to go forward, reaching forth, Paul said, unto those things which are before me. And again, this is the word of stretching forth. Reaching forth with all your might describes a runner straining every muscle, moving forward towards that finish sign So there must be a sanctified dissatisfaction. There must be a special dedication. There must be a singular direction. But then here's number four, a spiritual determination. Again, we see this in verse 14. I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. And again, another athletic term to pursue, to move ahead without swerving off. The course. This is a word use of a hunter. Going after the prey will not be deterred, will not be thrown off the trail. It's describing a determination, a spiritual determination. to finish the race, to run well. And so this is the the whole idea here. We we have to understand that one day we're going to have to give an account to our Lord and Savior. And we want to please him in everything that we do. Back in this day in the ancient games, when an athlete won a prize uh that was given to them, um a herald would be proclaimed all throughout the city and and they would their name would be cried out all throughout the city. And then he would be presented with a palm branch and he was called up to the judge's seat where he was rewarded For the race that he had won. And this is the imagery that Paul gives us here in this whole metaphor. All of us one day will stand before our Lord Jesus Christ, and we will be judged Or rewarded according to how we ran this race. And we need to run that race with determination. But then here's the last thing I would give you. There needs to be a sanctified dissatisfaction. There needs to be a special dedication, a singular direction, a spiritual determination. But then here's the last thing: a strict discipline. Look at what he says in verse 15. Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus-minded. And if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this to you. Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing. Now, Paul here is referring to really an attitude. We have to be disciplined in our attitude. Notice twice Paul mentions the mind in verse number 15. Just notice that. To grow as a Christian, you need to have the proper attitude. Any athlete will tell you that your attitude is often the difference between victory and defeat. A team that might lack raw talent and yet work together as a team with the right attitude can overcome those who may be more talented. The Greek word translated to think or be minded is used ten times in Philippians. Ten times Paul says, be thus minded. He basically is saying have the right attitude. What is the attitude that a believer should have? The same as the Apostle Paul. Verse 15: Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded. What does he mean when he says, as many as be perfect? Is he saying that we can reach perfection? Well, no. We already talked about that. Again, that would contradict what he had just said. He's not speaking of a practical perfection, but of a positional Perfection when he says, as many as be perfect. In other words, the moment that you were saved, God positionally declared you holy. So in the mind of God, your position is already perfect. That's what your standing is before God. That's all part of justification. You're given the righteousness of Christ, you're given the holiness of Christ. And so therefore, positionally, when you get saved, you are in the mind of God, you are perfect. Now that might be your position, but that's not what you are practically. So if that's your position, you need to bring your practice up with your position. That's what Paul's saying. You need to have that mindset. Look, you have to be What you are, what God declared you. God declared you righteous in Christ. Now the attitude of the mind needs to be, I need to live according to what God has declared of me. My coach used to tell me playing football when I was running all over the field, he would say, Harmon. Play your position. Play your position. This is your position. This is your duties. Just play your position. And in a sense, the Apostle Paul is saying that same thing. You have been declared perfect. By God, you need to play your position. You need to live up to that. You need to have that mindset. Those who are positionally perfect want to live up to it. in practical terms. And the word mind for Neo literally to have this attitude, think this way. Remember who you are in Christ. It starts there, but then also in actions, verse 16, when he says that nevertheless whereunto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing. And here Paul emphasizes the spiritual rules laid down in God's Word. We have to run according to the rules, according to what rules have been given to us in the Word of God. In other words, w whereunto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rules. Stick to the same principles that got you to where you are now. And I think here Paul is referring to Again, the false teaching that was coming in the church of Philippi that was teaching them a distorted view of sanctification and faith and walking with Christ. and all that. And Paul said, look, what you have already learned, the spiritual rules and principles you have already been given that got you to this point, you need to stick with that. You need to just continue in that way. Stick with the principles that got you where you are. And it's it's continual uh uh walking according to the same principles over a long period of time. Let me tell you something about the Christian life and sanctification. Alright? There is no quick fix. Alright? If you think by going to that conference it's going to cure everything, save your money. There is no quick fix. Now I'm not saying don't go to a conference and get instructed and learn and grow and be refreshed. That's all good and great and do that. But don't think that there's going to be some big thing where God zaps you And all your problems are over, and all of a sudden you are sanctified. That's not the way it works in the Christian life There's no quick fix for Christ-likeness. The principles for today were the same as yesterday. The same rules. For today, or the same rules that for yesterday. It is the Word of God, meditating, studying, saturating your mind with Scripture, it is praying. Seeking the Lord, it is following godly examples. It is perseverance through suffering and trials. It is mortifying your sin nature, the sinful desires that well up in your heart Or the sinful thoughts that you have to constantly put to death. It is the constant daily doing of all these things, enacting the spiritual disciplines in your life, being consistent in that That gets you to the place of Christ-likeness. It is a everyday race that you're in where you have to put out effort. You have to put out effort and you don't drift. Because again, the moment you begin to do that, you're in trouble. You're in trouble. Years ago, a group of uh Englishmen tried to conquer Mount Everest. And they pressed on against the cold wind, against the blizzards, against the avalanches. They came close to the peak. They came within two thousand feet of the peak. They set up camp. And there were two men who decided to press on to try to get to the peak. They were expected to return in about 16 hours. They never came back. And they were never really found. And the official record simply says this. When we last seen them, they were headed towards the summit. They were headed towards the summit. You know what, when I read that I thought about, you know, that should be true of us. The record, the testimony of our life is this. He was headed towards the summit. He was pushing towards Christ-likeness. Uh the last I heard of him He was pressing forward, moving toward the summit, and may that be said of all of us, that we are pursuing the prize of Christ's likeness in our life. Let's bow for prayer tonight So, Father, thank you again for these principles. Lord, help us by your grace to indeed pursue the prize, to press towards the mark. And Lord, may all these factors that Paul talked about be a part of our life, this sanctified dissatisfaction where we want to, we're not Satisfied with where we are, we want to press forward that determination, that dedication, that singular direction. May that discipline that it takes in our life, Lord, as we pursue the prize of Christ-likeness. Lord, give us the grace and the strength to pursue that prize for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.