Much. Would you take God's word this morning, please open to the book of Ephesians as we continue our study in the epistle of Paul to the Ephesians. In chapter four, we're going to look at verses seventeen on down through verse Let me read one verse with you. This I say therefore, in verse 17, and testify in the Lord that you walk henceforth, that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk. in the vanity of their minds. When I was a kid, I used to love to play football with all the other neighborhood kids. We used to play in a field across the street from our house. We get a bunch of kids together and we pick up sides and we would begin to play. Now the best days were when it rained and it was muddy. Playing football in the mud. That's the way football was intended to be played. We would play all day long. There were times when I would come home after a long day of football covered in mud. And my mother would meet me at the door on the porch and she would say, You're not walking into the house that way And so I would have to t take off my muddy clothes there on the porch, and of course she would give me other clothes to put on And so I would uh then was allowed to come into the house. And uh so uh basically I had to put off the muddy clothes, put on some clean clothes, and put away my cleats and my football. Well, that whole action is what Paul's talking about here in our pi in our passage in the book of Ephesians. Paul's basically saying to the Christians here, you can't really walk the way God wants you to walk until first you put off the muddy clothes of your past, you put on the new clothes of your salvation, your new life in Christ, and you put away certain behaviors. That's the imagery that we see here. The actions of putting off and putting on. Now, this is not new. This is not a new motif. We see this a lot of times in the Old Testament. clothing and putting off and putting on clothing would teach certain lessons in the Old Testament. For example, when a high priest would uh put on his clothes, his priestly garments, that was a sign of his dedication He would put off his normal linens of his n normal clothes, put on his his priestly robes, and there was great significance in that action. When a king was defeated in battle, he they would strip off his his royal clothes, which was a symbol of his defeat and their victory. Remember the story of David, when David was gonna go out and fight Goliath, they they gave him Saul's armor and David uh put it on. He talked two steps and the armor didn't move. It was just too big for him. So he just took off Saul's armor. And that was a by the way, when the writers of scripture focus on those kind of details, there's there's symbolism in it. Basically, David was saying, I'm not Saul. And Saul's armor represented Saul's responsibility. It was Saul's responsibility to go out there and meet the Goliath, not David. But David took off Saul's armor. And there's a significant gesture in that. Remember in the Bible when God rejected Saul as being king over Israel, the Bible says the Spirit of the Lord came upon Saul, and Saul stripped off his clothes. But that would be that's a weird response to having the Holy Spirit come upon you. But his clothing was his royal robe, his royal garments. And that was God saying, You're no longer king of Israel. God had rejected him as king. Now Paul knew the Old Testament well, and Paul again is using this imagery here with the Ephesians. And the message that Paul is trying to teach is this. You can no longer live the way you used to live. If you are a believer, you don't live the former life. You put off that life. And you put on the garments of salvation. God is saying, I have some new clothes for you to wear now that you are a Christian, and I want you to put them on. Look in Ephesians 4, look at verse number 22. That you put off concerning the former conversation, the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts. Look at verse number 24. And that ye put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. Now look at verse 25. And wherefore putting away lying. Speaking every man truth with his neighbor. So we put off, we put on, and we put away. That's the message that Paul's giving. We have to be intentional in these acts as believers. So I want us to examine this passage under those three headings These are three intentional acts that we must do in order to wear the garments of our salvation that God has given us. We have to do this. So first of all, notice what we put off Paul's going to tell us, first of all, what we take off. Look at verse 17. He explains it. First our past identification. Look at verse 17. This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their mind. Paul says, look, you can't walk the way other Gentiles have walked. And he uses the word Gentiles here, of course, to refer to unbelievers. And he's telling you, you have to walk differently now. Now remember the book of Ephesians, we can divide it up into two parts. Chapters 1 through 3 deal with our wealth in Christ. Chapters 4 through 6 deal with our walk. in Christ. Chapters 1 through 3 talk about all the blessings that God has given us because we're saved. Chapters 4 through 6. Talk about our our behavior. This is how we are to behave because God has given us so many wonderful blessings. And the word walking, when it's used in the Bible, it's used to indicate a pattern of life. This is the way we live every day. This is the way we conduct our lives. And as believers, we don't walk like Uh Paul says, other Gentiles, referring again to the Ephesians in that time. You know, there are numerous polls over the years that have been taken and it shows that at least one third to one half of all Americans profess to be Christians, born-again Christians. But those same polls also indicate that there's no discernible difference between the way professing Christians live and the way those who are not believers live. In other words, there's no real difference. There's no real distinction. And Paul is saying to all of us, look, if you profess to be a Christian, you should be different. You should live different. You should walk different. Again, when Paul's using the word Gentiles, he's referring to the Ephesian Gentiles. Ephesus was a leading city of culture and commerce in the Roman Empire, but it was also home to a pagan temple, the Temple of Diana, which was filled with all kinds of uh just in uh r m lascivious and immoral rituals that were associated with that type of idolatry. The worst immorality imaginable took place there Temple prostitution, there was crime, there was immorality, there was every conceivable form of sin abounded there in association with that temple and that type of corruption. And many of the Christians in Ephesus came out of that background. And Paul's saying to them, Look, that's not you anymore You can't be associated, you can't be identified with that type of living anymore. You're not to walk like those Gentiles. Notice he says in the vanity of their mind. That's a reference to trying to find fulfillment and satisfaction in things rather than in God. It leads to emptiness. Paul says that's not your identity anymore. Take that off. Put that off. But also past ignorance. Look at verse 18. Having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them. Because of the blindness of their hearts. Now the Greeks prided themselves on their wisdom and education. To be called ignorant would have been an offense to the Greeks. But Paul here is referring to not their IQ and All of that. He's referring to their spiritual ignorance. They may have boasted in their philosophy. They may have boasted in their advancement and their culture. But they were spiritually ignorant of the truth. You know, you can you can be pretty uh pretty intelligent. You can have a lot of knowledge. You can uh be pretty tech-savvy and be spiritually ignorant and blind when it comes to knowing the things of God. The Apostle Paul said, we're always learning, never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. And that describes our society today. We have all kinds of information, we have all kinds of knowledge, and yet man is no closer to God The heart of man is not informed when it comes to spiritual truth and the things of God. Someone said we're a generation of guided missiles and misguided men. Because we don't know God through the scripture. And Paul's-that's what he means when he calls them blind. You're spiritually you're spiritually ignorant and blind. That's the way you were. You're to put off that past ignorance. That's not what you are as a believer now. But also our past insensitivity. Look at verse 19. Who being past feeling have given themselves over unto lasciviousness to work all uncleanness with greedy it with greediness. And Paul's describing someone who is so hardened in their conscience that it no longer feels shame. The conscience doesn't function the way it was intended to function. Being past feeling is one word in the Greek. Again, to lose the ability to be embarrassed, to lose the ability to feel shame. The first time a person commits a sin he thinks, oh, I'll do it just this once. And after he does it, his conscience bothers him and he feels some guilt. But then he begins to rationalize. Well, you know, I'm not the only one doing this. There are other people to live this way And then he he can he he yields to it again. You see, after you yield to a sin the first time, it's always easier to do it the second time. And then it becomes easy. And as he continues in this sin, his conscience gets hardened. He rationalizes in his mind why it's okay. And his conscience grows harder and harder and pretty sh and pretty soon he no longer feels any shame over what's happening. In fact, he goes onto a talk show and he begins to brag about it. Such is our society today. When people continue to sin, they turn themselves away from the truth of God, they become apathetic, they become insensitive to truth. And Paul says, look, that's what you were. That's not the way you are now. In fact, if anything, now that you're a believer, you are more sensitive to sin in your life than ever. We are constantly confessing our sins to God because we feel deeply the shame of that sin and the wound of that sin. And our conscience is active and healthy and alive because now we're under the control of the Holy Spirit and under the Word of God, and so we're confessing our sins. In fact, John gives a contrast. Someone who professes to be a believer and never feels any sin in their life, if we say that we have no sin, we what? We deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. Truth is synonymous with salvation. But what's a believer like? Well, a believer is constantly confessing our sins, knowing that God is faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Paul says we put off past insensitivity. Past identification, past ignorance, past insensitivity, but also our past instruction. Look at verse 20. But ye have not so learned Christ. If so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Christ. And what does Paul mean when he says, but ye have not so learned Christ? How did you learn about Christ? Again, talking to these Ephesians, the way you learned about Christ, it wasn't through worldly wisdom. You certainly didn't learn about Christ through Greek philosophy. Some people are so enamored with worldly wisdom, they think it's superior to the wisdom of God, which it starts at the cross. And it's the word it's in the Word of God. And that was, as I was telling our earlier service, that was the problem of the Corinthians. They were so enamored with philosophy, because in the Greco-Roman world, Greek philosophy was considered superior to all types of wisdom. And Paul comes along and says, Look, the wisdom of man is not superior to the wisdom of God. God's wisdom is superior to man's wisdom. The world by wisdom knew not God. How do you get to know God? You don't get to know God through a philosopher. You get to know God through the preaching of the Word of God. Through the truth of Scripture. That's what Paul preached. Paul said, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. And so Paul says, look, you didn't learn Christ in those pastways of worldly wisdom and philosophy, that's not the way you learn Christ. But in verse number 19 he says this, or rather, verse 21, excuse me. And you have been taught by him as the truth is in Christ. How were we taught? Well, Christ taught us. Notice you have you've heard him and have been taught by him. The by him there is referring to Jesus. You say, now wait a minute. None of the Ephesians were in Palestine to hear Jesus ever speak. That's true. So how could they learn from him? How could they learn have been taught by him? What Paul is saying here is that anytime A preacher stands up and preaches the gospel correctly. God, Jesus, is speaking to people He speaks to his church through the Word of God. That's why every time I stand up here, I don't give you my opinion because I'm nobody. I give you what the Word of God says because Jesus wants to speak to you. He wants to speak to his church. And he does it through his word. He's the Lord of his church. And he speaks through his word. Paul said, you've been taught by him. So we put off past instruction, and then we put off our past image. Look at verse 22, that ye put off concerning the former conversation, the old man. which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts. And the word conversation there just means way of life or conduct. Again, you no longer live according to the image of the old man. And the old man here is a symbol of your old life, your former self, your old self before you were a believer. We still have some of that old man in us. And we have to take care of that. That old man, that old self, is corrupt, is dominated by deceitful lusts, but that's we don't let that old man dominate us anymore. We don't live according to that old man now that we are believers. We put off that image, that past image. The great church theologian Augustine, before his conversion, was a very immoral man. He was a womanizer. And after he got saved, God just changed his whole heart. God gave him a sovereign joy in in God that far surpassed any old worldly entertainments. And one day he was walking down the street in Milan, and one of the old women, women of his old life saw him, and she called out his name, Augustine, Augustine, and when he heard her, he began to walk the other way. And she called out louder, Augustine! And he began to run. She said, Augustine, it is I! But he said without stopping, Yes, but it is no longer I. That's what Paul's talking about here. We put off that old image, that past image, our past identification, we take it off. We take off our past ignorance, our past insensitivity, our past instruction, our past image. We put all of that off. But then what do we put on? Look at verse 23. And be renewed in the spirit of your mind. We take off those muddy clothes and we put on the pure garments of the new man. How do we do this? What does Paul teach us here? It starts in our mind. It starts in the way that we think. It starts with the renewed mind, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Now, Paul talks about the mind several times in this passage. He talked about the vanity of The mind in verse 17. And here he talks about, or in verse 18 actually he talks about a darkened understanding and ignorance. But here he talks about a renewed mind. And the way we put on new garments for our salvation is by how we think the mind is such a powerful thing. And it controls our behavior. And as the mind begins to understand truth from the Word of God, it's gradually transformed by the Spirit of God into the image of Jesus Christ, that new man. So it starts in our thinking. You see, physically you are what you eat. Spiritually, you are what you think. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. That's why it's important for us as Christians to spend time daily in the Word of God, meditating in Scripture, studying God's Word, praying. Spending time in the presence of our Lord Jesus worshiping, fellowshipping with him, because we're being renewed. And that be renewed there is a passive present verb. You say, what does that mean? It's just an ongoing process. We're constantly being renewed in our mind. That's a process that God does, and by doing that, we're putting on the new man. You see, God will will put will give us these new garments, but we have to put them on, we have to cooperate. God wants to dress us in the clothes, the new clothes of salvation, but we have to cooperate. You ever you ever try to dress a toddler who doesn't want to get dressed? That's not an easy thing. It doesn't cooperate. Some believers are like that. God has some new clothes for you, but you're not cooperating. He wants to put these new garments on you, but you have to do your part. You're transformed by the renewing of your mind when you saturate your mind with the truth about who you are in Christ. Remember what God has given you. Remember all the blessings you have in Christ. Remember what you are in Christ. And let that dominate your thinking. That's the whole point. I was reading about the Civil War, and during the Civil War, the President, Abraham Lincoln, signed the Emancipation Proclamation, which abolished the evil of slavery in the United States. And those who were slaves were officially freed from their slavery. But a strange thing happened. Some of those people, although legally freed now from slavery, continued to live as if they were slaves. They continue to live that way. The President's proclamation gave them legal status. But they never thought of themselves as being free. They never thought of themselves as of have being able to pursue a new life. And out of a habit and a way of thinking, many of these poor people simply stayed a slave. They needed to live according to the new man, the new person that they were. To understand that in their mind, it starts with the way that you think. I'm now free, and it's the same in salvation. You are no longer dominated by sin. You're no longer under the the uh the the control of the old sin nature, that old master. Now you are free to live for Christ. You need to put on that new man. Sin deceives us into thinking it'll give us freedom and fulfillment, but it's a lie. Sin only defiles Sin enslaves, it ul ultimately destroys the person who is deceived by it. When a person is saved, we are now liberated from that old life. We're liberated from sin. We die to that sin. And that's how we put on the new man. It starts in the mind. The renewed mind and then the new man. Look at verse 24. And that you put on the new man. Which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. And the verb put on in duo, literally to put on a garment, to dress in a new garment. Again, that's the imagery Paul's using here. You put on the new clothes. We have to clothe ourselves. So it's purposeful, it's intentional. Now Paul uses the same imagery. Write down Romans 3. 12 in the book of Romans. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. Let us put on the armor of light Paul's using the imagery of a Roman soldier. They would hear a trumpet sound at the breaking of day, and that sound meant it's time to get up, it's time to get ready for battle. They would have to take off their nighttime clothing, they would have to put on their armor. You cast off the works of darkness, you put on the armor of light. We do it one piece at a time. And by the way, later on the Apostle Paul will tell us in Ephesians chapter 6, verse number 10 That finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord in the power of his might. And then it says in verse 11, put on the whole armor of God. He's going to tell us later how to do that. You're in a war, whether you realize it or not, you're a soldier and you need to put your armor on. You need to cast off the works of darkness, take off the old clothes. Put on the new garments, put on the armor of God, and we do this every day. So by renewing your mind according to the truth of who you are in Christ, According to God's word, we count it as true that we are new in Christ. We throw off the shackles of the old life, and we embrace and apply the truth that God has given us of who we are. We're putting on the new man the Bible says. Or how do I apply this? Well this is the third part. What we put off, what we put on And then there's number three, what we put away. Look at verse 25. Wherefore putting away lying Speaking every man truth with his neighbor, for remembers one of another. Be ye angry and sin not. And so basically what Paul's doing here is Paul is saying, look, there are some behavioral changes that you need to make on purpose. And what you're going to notice in these next verses is what I call the principle of replacement. Talk about behavioral changes. Here's what you replace old patterns of behavior, Paul says, with new ones. This is what he says. You know. What's the first thing we replace? Well, lying. Verse 25, wherefore put away lying? What do we replace it with, Paul? Speak every man truth with his neighbor. Stop lying and start speaking the truth to all your neighbors. Why? Well, because we're all the body of Christ, that's why. You know, an autoimmune disease is when the body begins to attack itself. And lying to the body or lying to other members of the body is attacking the body. Paul says, this is why we always tell the truth. Lying was a way that a pattern of our old life. That's not the way we live as believers now. As believers, we tell the truth. We speak truth. Then we replace anger with control. Look at verse 26. And be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. When he says, be ye angry, you say, wait a minute, he's telling us to be angry here. Yeah, he's telling us he's saying that there's nothing wrong with anger in itself There is a sanctified anger. There's a reason to be angry when it's just and right, a righteous anger. Even our Lord Jesus got angry. Read about when he went into the temple and he overturned the tables. He had a righteous indignation. And sometimes when we see sin and injustice in the world, we have a righteous anger about that. But there's also a sinful anger. It's an anger born of selfishness and pride. And for some people, anger is their default mode They're just angry every day. I mean they just they live in anger and they they're always looking for something to be angry about and if they can't find something to be angry about they're angry about that When we allow anger to dominate us, it becomes a sinful anger. And Paul says that's our past life. We put that aside and we replace anger with control. And then we replace stealing with labor. Look in verse number 20 uh 28. Let him that stole steal no more But rather let him labor working with his hands the thing which is good that he may have to give to him that needeth. Some people try to gain by stealing, living off the labor of others. Stealing is rampant in our country. Every eighty-two seconds a robbery occurs. Every thirty seconds an automobile is stolen. Don't worry, we have security watch in the parking lot, all right I mean you go to the store nowadays, you I you can't get anything off the shelf because everything's locked up. Because people are just stealing all the time. They're just taking things. And they feel zero guilt for it. Paul's saying, look, that's part of the old man. You replace stealing with what? Labor. Work with your own hands that you might have, and not only just enough for you that you might give to someone else who has a need. That's the way we live now. We put off Stealing, we replace it with labor. Then notice we replace corrupt language with edifying words. Look at verse twenty nine. He says this let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace. unto the hearers. Corrupt is the word rotten, filthy, unwholesome. There's a filthy vow talk that should never be a part of the believer's vocabulary. Never part of the way that we speak. There are some professing believers that have an R-rated mouth and they need to repent. God says it grieves the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 30. It grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you're sealed unto the day of redemption. And what do we replace corrupt talk with? With edifying words in verse 29, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may administer grace to the hearer. Replace your corrupt words with clean words, with edifying words. You can always tell where a person's from by the way they talk. What kingdom they live in. When I was over in London a few weeks ago, all I had to do was say one word in public and they knew I wasn't from there. And no, I wasn't part of the United Kingdom. I was part of the United States. Your talk reveals whether you're part of the kingdom of darkness or the kingdom of light. And if we're we're if we're we're we're part of the kingdom of light, why do we use the words of the kingdom of darkness? That should not be true of any believer. Replace that. And then we replace bitterness with forgiveness. Look in verse 31. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice And then look at verse thirty two, and be ye kind one to another, tender hearted forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you Now, in verse 31 alone, there are six behaviors that the old man must put off. All of these terms really describe the same selfish, sinful behavior from different angles. You're living a selfish, self-centered life, filled with pride, so much so that you can't forgive a a hurt that someone might put towards you. Some people they just they just want to retaliate. I mean it's the nature of a sinful human nature that says I need to get even or get back Heard about three mean looking guys pulled up on motorcycles to a truck stop and they went to the there and there was a little guy sitting there at the count counter just quietly eating his lunch and they went over and they began to rough him up a little bit and they began to, you know, try to provoke him to a fight and and, you know, uh made it really so that the guy could do nothing but just leave. He left. And when he left, the three motorcycle guys said to the waitress, Well he wasn't much of a man, was he? She said, no, probably not. She said he's not much of a truck driver either because he just rode ran over three motorcycles out there We we we don't get mad, we get even a But Paul says, look, that's part of the old way. You put away bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor. And we replace that with what? Kindness, tenderheartedness, forgiving one another. And here's the key, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. You know why I can forgive others? Because God, because of Christ, has forgiven me for so much. So many things that I've done wrong. Who am I to withhold forgiveness from someone else? So the whole point here is. Put on your new clothes. Put on your new clothes. Put off that old life. Put on the new man. Put away those behaviors. And really all this is is sanctification. The new man is just living like Christ. In 1975, there was a book that came out, pretty pretty popular book. The title of the book was Dress for Success. And this became kind of a fashion guidebook for people who wanted to climb the corporate ladder, mattered how you dress. And the author of the book gave one overarching principle for all people to follow who wanted to dress for success and climb the ladder. You know what the principle was that he gave in the book? Basic principle? If you want to be a success, dress like your boss That's what he said. Dress like your boss. Well, for the believer, our boss is the Lord Jesus Christ. And if you want to be all that God wants you to be Put on the new garments of salvation. Dress like Jesus. Live like Jesus. He's the new man. Really, the key to all this is in chapter 5, verse 1. Look at it real quick. Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children. Look at verse 2. And walk in love as Christ also has loved us. That's the key right there. The new man is the image of Jesus Christ. We don't dress for success, we dress for sanctification. We are to be like him. And it starts with repenting of your sin, putting your faith in Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, and then putting on the new garments of salvation. Because now you belong to Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, turn, I just want you to examine your heart for a minute. If you're here today and you have never put your faith in Jesus Christ as Savior, there's never come a time in your life where you felt the conviction of the Holy Spirit over your sin. Whether you've repented and asked Jesus to save you. I'm inviting you now to do that very thing, to put your faith in Christ. In fact, God's word is commanding you to do that. The Bible says that God commands all men everywhere to repent. And if you've never repented and put your faith in Christ. There's no time like the present. You say, I'll do it later. You might not have later. The Bible says, boast not thyself for tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth You don't know what tomorrow holds. You don't know what the rest of the day holds. There's only two ways to spend eternity, either heaven or hell. God wants you in heaven God sent his son Jesus to die for your sins on the cross. And he wants you to put your faith in Christ that you may have your sins forgiven, that you might have eternal life. Would you reach out right now and faith say yes, Jesus, save me? That's my prayer. If that's your prayer, would you lift your hand? Anyone here say yes, that's me. I'm putting my faith in Christ today. Anyone here? Anyone here? Alright. If you're a believer, my question to you is, are you wearing your new clothing? You're wearing your new garments All the rest of our life is putting off the garments of the old life, putting off the grave clothes of the old dead life, and putting on the garments of salvation. Are you doing that? It's intentional, it's purposeful, that God would renew us in the image of Christ And it starts with the way you think in your mind. Are you renewing your mind daily in the Word of God? And by acknowledging as true who you are in Christ. Father, help us to indeed put on the new man that we might glorify you in the way that we live our lives. Use this word for every believer here today to help them to be sanctified into the image of Christ. We pray in Jesus' name.