Well, this is called putting yourself on the hot seat here tonight. We had a lot of leftover questions from the last uh session that we had last week at um the legacy conference and we had l lot of people say, hey, you know, why don't you just finish those questions and answers and yada yada? And um I've also had you know people ask from time to time to do a QA and my wife is always hammering me saying, you need to do a QA So I'm going to fulfill all of those tonight in this one QA. And what we're going to do is we're going to field some of the questions from that were asked or weren't asked that were written down and then we could also take some questions from the floor tonight. If I if I don't know the answer to your question, I'll pretend that I do and look it up on my iPad up here. No, I I'm just kidding. I'll just say I don't know and I'll get back to you about that. Um and uh you know In the Bible, the Apostle Paul, when he went into certain cities, the Bible says he he reasoned with them out of the scripture. The Greek word for reason is uh dialogimos, where we get the word dialogue from. So, you know, he obviously had questions and answers from people that he was talking to when he went to the side uh to the synagogue, presenting to people uh things about the Lord Jesus Christ. And so it's not, you know, unheard of to have a QA and a lot of pastors do it with their congregation. I don't think I've ever done it here with grace with just me. I wish I had those other guys that were here the other night, but it is it is just me tonight. And uh sorry you're gonna have to just live with that. But anyway, um David is gonna be our guy asking the question and also rove around with the microphone if you have a a question you'd like to raise your hand, he can find you. All right, David. All right, we're going to start off with the leftover questions from the legacy conference. So the first one here is, is there a ratio between the good life and suffering? It seems like the greater the suffering, the better the good life would be Examples like Isaiah, Job, Jeremiah. So I would just say that you know the good life to me is just knowing Jesus Christ. That would be the good life. Uh knowing that you and you have that assurance of salvation, knowing that you're on your way to heaven and having that knowledge, that's where it starts right there. Um but Uh I guess the question would be, you know, do we live a an abundant life? Is there a ratio between suffering and that good life? And I would just say that there is a ratio in the Bible to me between suffering and Glory. Peter talks about that in First Peter. In fact, those are the two themes that kind of run right through First Peter. The greater the suffering and the greater you're faithful are you are faithful in suffering, the greater the faithfulness. um uh the greater the glory that you're going to have. And that's not only just In the future, there will be a future glory. And remember Paul said that the sufferings of this present time are not to be compared with the what? The glory that will be But I think also Peter was talking about a spirit of grace and glory that rest upon the believer. In fact, Peter said, you know, Um don't think it's strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you as though some strange thing happened to you, but rejoice. Um and then he went on to say that, you know, the spirit of glory and of God rests on you. When you go through suffering and you suffer well, there's a sense in which God gives you a greater measure of grace and a greater measure of glory. That you have in you a strength that is not of you. And I think that proportionate to the suffering that you go through is the grace that God gives you to endure that and the blessing and fruitfulness that you bear when you are trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I think that, you know, to say, you know, w will the good life get better? Well if if the good life is is being conformed to the image of Christ and I think that's what it is. It's being sanctified into the image of Christ. I think that there is a proportionate sense of sanctification that does take place in the life of the believer who suffers and learns through that suffering to depend more on the Lord Jesus Christ. And again, that's part of the reason for the trials that God gives us. He wants us to learn to depend upon him, to trust in him in the midst of all of that suffering. And there's a greater glory, a greater grace, a greater strength that He gives us as we go through those things. So um In in that same vein, um where does wisdom come in with that? And so Well, um I think of the verse of the psalmist who said, It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. I think there is some spiritual truth that you're not going to really comprehend until you suffer. In fact, Martin Luther said there are three ways to learn Scripture. One is prayer, the other is meditation, and the third way is suffering. You know, you have to suffer before that there are some truths you're not really that never going to really get and understand unless um you suffer and you're afflicted. That's what the psalmist meant. And also I think that applies to what I said this morning in the sermon in Ephesians, if you guys were here and um paying attention. Um I think part of the reason why God allows us to go through trials is so that we can learn to tap into the resources that we have in Christ. And part of that, that's wisdom right there. Wisdom is learning to tap into the spiritual resources that God has given us. in Christ like I talked about this morning, you know, the um the book of Ephesians is our treasure chest. It shows us all the treasures we have, the riches we have in Christ. And when we go through trials and God allows us to go through suffering, it's because He wants us to learn to tap into those resources. And that is where, and by the way, at the end of chapter one in Ephesians, and we'll get to it, Paul is gonna is going to pray, and you know what he's praying for? That God will open up the your understanding and your mind and your wisdom so that you can comprehend all these riches that God has given you. And the way that God has to do that sometimes is through are our suffering. So you could say that a person who is going through suffering and they have learned to um they're learning to depend on the Lord and trust in the Lord. in that and learn to draw on those divine resources that God has given us in Christ, their wisdom is definitely growing. They're they're they're growing in in spiritual wisdom because they're learning what spiritual resources and treasures that they can apply to the particular problem that they're going through in life. But you know, you know what our tendency is all of us is well first of all we're very self reliant. We like to rely on ourselves. And then when trouble comes, what's the first thing we want? We well we want the easy way out. We want it to be removed from us quickly or we want an easy way out of that trouble. And, you know, that's what we ask God, Lord, just take this from me. And and God sometimes says, no, I'm not going to take it from you. What I will do is I'll give you grace to bear it. And also, I'll give you the wisdom so that you can know what spiritual resources you can draw on to help you through this trial. And when God's done shaping us and using that trial to give us the thing that He wants us to have, then He may remove it. But I'll have another one later. The Christian life is not a life where, you know, we are just, you know, all all roses and no thorns. No, we experience the same suffering that everyone else does. In fact You could say that because you are a Christian, you're you're going to suffer a little more because you're out of harmony with this world and and you've turned all the way around and you're now facing the world head on. So, you know, you'll have the normal common suffering that's a part of a fallen world, but also you'll suffer as a Christian. And um and because of that, we need to learn to to draw on these divine resources as believers rather than taking the easy way out or using a solution of of man's wisdom which normally treats the the superficial um surface issue, but it never deals with the root issue. It never goes to the root of the problem. You know, I I I mentioned this morning about taking psychotropic drugs to deal with with problems. And again, I'm not against that completely I I do believe that people will go through some trauma in their life, some difficulty that is such a a a wound to their psyche and a shock to their system that it affects them physically and it affects them emotionally in every way. And they need to r they need help. Their physical body just needs to learn to rest. So there's nothing wrong with with getting some help, some medication that would help you in in a time like that and a crisis like that. In fact, I think there's biblical justification for that in Proverbs 31 When the uh the the mother of Proverbs thirty-one is directing her son who's going to be a leader, she talks about strong drink. She says, Give strong drink to those who are of a heavy heart and those who are ready to perish. In other words, she was talking there about alcohol and used in a medicational purpose. It's merciful. It's merciful to someone who's going through such a trauma in their life that they're not able to handle it. And it's okay for a little time for that person to get some help. But what you don't want to do is you don't want to be dependent on that sort of thing all the rest of your life. Because it never really takes away the problem, does it? And it doesn't teach us to learn to draw on the spiritual resources God has given us. And to deal with the issue, what is the issue that is causing the fear? What is the issue that's causing the anxiety? What is the issue that is causing the depression? And to go to the root of that issue. Is it is it, you know, you have to diagnose exactly what that problem is. Is it a spiritual problem? Is it circumstantial? Is it is it medical or physical? In that case, if it is a objective physical problem that a person might have, you know, there may be a something that your body needs. It might be a physical issue in that place, that's where medicine can help us. But if it's If it's circumstantial or it's emotional or it's temperamental or it's spiritual, you don't want to turn to drugs to deal with those issues. You want to learn to draw on your resources that you have in Christ. ultimately so that you're not on that on a long-term basis. Uh because you're learning and again, God sends these things into our life so that we can learn to draw on the resources and all that increases our spiritual wisdom. All right. It's kind of a long answer there, but anyway, next question. All right. I'm going to turn to the audience, see if anybody has a question yet. Oh, we got one. Run back here to you. Um it talks about um uh uh the the child that was born to us, a son will be given to us, the government will be rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace And I'm wondering um why he's called Eternal Father. Obviously he's not God the Father in the Trinity, but um I know that some people in their prayers they say um thank you Father for what you did for us on the cross. But the father didn't die on the cross. It was the son that was on the cross. But anyway, so that's my question. Yeah, so I knew he was going to come up with a difficult question. So David, don't let him ask any more questions No more. No, I'm just teasing. So that's a beautiful promise there, and it is referring to uh the the child that is born. But I think the the simple answer to that it is referring to that absolute total unity and oneness that exists in the Godhead. You know, that he's one with God the Father. That he is in every way God the same way the Father is God. That there's no distinction in the uh essence or nature or person with regard to deity there. And so when he uses these expressions that this baby will be the mighty God, the everlasting father, the Prince of Peace. I think it's just referring to that absolute deity and Godhead, eternal Godhead, that will be in this child. Okay, that would be the short answer that I would give you for that, that it's referring there to the unity between the unity in the Trinity, between Father and Son. You know, so this child would be. Well, and the and another thing you can do that also in the New Testament, Jesus is called the exact image of the Father in Colossians. He is the expressed image of the Father. You know, we we use the expression chip off the old block. Well, that's not even accurate in this case. Because if Jesus said, he that has seen me has seen the You've seen the Father. You're like, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. You want to know what the Father would do in this situation? If you've seen me, you've seen the Father. And so that's referring to that absolute total oneness that exists there in the Godhead. Okay? So good question. Somebody else? David, we have a gentleman up here that has a question. Good evening. Uh my question has to do with your first uh the previous answer you gave to uh uh suffering about suffering. When a man is man or woman is sick, uh whether physical or mental whatever it is. Does the church believe that can the church pray for service for healing? Physical. Let's say physical Because uh in the book of John, chapter five, versus uh It says Jesus Christ said unto him, that's the wolf, the man, the guy at the pool of Solomon, rise, take thy bed and walk. And immediately the man was made whole and took off his bed and walked. And on the same day was uh the Sabbath day. So what I'm asking is uh So can the church still do this today or we skip this for something else for the hospital? That's a good question. So the the answer is or excuse me the question is re- in reference to divine healing Should the church pray for healing for a person? And the answer to that is yes, of course. We should pray for healing and we should ask God for that. Um, the issue is, you know, well let me let me back up. All healing ultimately comes from God. All healing. In fact, the Bible, that's one of the names for God in the Old Testament. I am the God who heals you. In the book of Exodus, he's called Jehovah Rapha, the God of healing. So all healing ultimately comes from God Doctors today, we're grateful for doctors that are able to help our physical ailments. We're grateful for the invention of medicine where uh brilliant people have been able to uh take things out of the earth, substances from the earth, and give us um um medicine and supplements that will help our body and all of that. All those things are God's gift to a fallen world. That's the common grace of God. So God is the one who is uh through his common grace that is given to our fallen world hospitals and doctors and nurses and medicines and and and in that way, but also, and doctors tell you this, there is in the body this incredible ability to repair itself. That that is there in the body. Um, you know, if you give the body what it needs as far as the tools to prepare itself In a lot of cases the body will do that. It will repair itself. But we also know that there there comes diseases because of this fallen world. There comes sicknesses. that are more than just what the body can handle. And that's where doctors come in to help. But then there are even times when doctors fail and fall short and and they have no answers. And in times like that, should a believer look to God and ask God for his healing? Absolutely he should. And and the church should pray for that person's healing. And and we have prayed for that person's healing. In fact, you know, the Bible says in the book of James about anointing a person with oil in the name of the Holy Spirit, in the name of God And the prayer of faith will, you know, save the sick. So there are times when it's right to come together and here's a person that's bedridden, they have um they have an illness that uh i i you know is is terminal perhaps and um or it's a very overburdening illness and and really the doctors don't have a whole lot of solutions. Should the church come together if the person asks and anoint them with oil and pray with them? Yeah, absolutely. And I and I have done that with people before, and there have been cases where God has raised them up and God's healed them uh from the from the illness that they have. I remember we did that one time with Carolyn's mom when she had cancer. This was many years ago and and uh we went over and we we prayed over her and um anointed her with oil and you know God took the cancer away. And she lived, you know, many, many more years after that. And And uh just went home to be with the Lord here recently. Um So the Lord still heals, but it's under his divine sovereign choice about that healing. And I think we need to be careful to say that if a person doesn't get healed, it's because their faith wasn't enough. Because a lot of times it takes more faith to suffer with that illness and trust in God than it is to be healed. The harder road is to trust God in that illness and say, Lord, if you choose not to take this away from me, I have to trust you in this and trust that you're gonna you have another purpose in mind. You have another plan in mind. And in the Bible, um you were you you made reference to the book of Acts. In the Bible there were um periods where God did miraculous works and they're really clustered together at three different times in redemptive history. There was uh miracles under Moses and Joshua There's a cluster of miracles that took place there. And then there's a cluster of miracles that took place under Elijah and Elisha. in their ministry. And then there was a cluster of miracles that took place under the ministry of Jesus who healed all of the sick, basically he came in contact with if you read the gospels. And then later on the apostles who were the Lord's authoritative messengers that he sent out, they were given the ability also to do a lot of this miraculous healing in the New Testament. But what you find out is that uh after that, the miraculous healing kind of dies out some. And these were sign miracles to affirm a message, to affirm that the men were genuinely men who were sent from God. So you have a period of miracles during the time of the law. With Moses, you have a period of miracles during the time of the prophets with Elijah and Elisha. You have a period of miracles during the time of the gospel the law, the prophets, and the gospel. That is all of the period of the revelation of Scripture. And these men who would be writers of the Scripture, who would be be the witnesses of God. They testified that they really were of God because they had this miraculous ability to do some of these miracles, some of which included healing. And when you get towards some of the epistles in the New Testament, toward the end of the first century, what you see is the miraculous healing part begins to die out. For example, the Apostle Paul in the book of Acts A guy could listen to Paul preach, fall asleep, and fall from a window and break his neck and die. And Paul had the ability to resurrect him and give him life. By the way, I don't have that ability, so if you fall asleep and die in here, you're on your own. Alright, please don't fall asleep, by the way. And um set and if you're gonna go to sleep, don't sit in a window. Alright. But Paul could do that, and um but but by the time you get to the some of his later epistles You get someone like Epaphroditus, who the Bible Paul refers to him in the book of Philippians and said he was sick, even nigh and a death. And you need to pray for him. Timothy had a stomach issue. There was no nothing in those letters there that say Paul healed Epaphroditis. He he was left to deal with that sickness and illness on his own. There was no nothing that said that Timothy was healed from the stomach issues that he had. Um and so what you see is the ability of miraculous healing dying out. in in that New Testament time until you by the time you get to the right of the book of Hebrews, he uses past tense, Eris, in the Greek. to talk about the signs and the wonders that took place that affirmed the message of the gospel. Okay? So we could say that by that time some of those Miracles of healing had pretty much come to an end because they were sign miracles and they served a purpose for a time in redemptive history. Now, hear what I'm not saying. I'm not saying that God doesn't heal anymore. I'm not saying that. I don't believe I I believe that God heals. All right? And if you pray and ask God, and I think you should pray and ask God, and I think we don't do it enough. I think we don't exercise that privilege enough and ask God to heal people and pray in faith. I think we should do that. And I believe that God still does that. All right. My question is not does God heal? My question is, do you have the ability? Do you have the gift of healing where you could lay hands on me and heal me? Because that was what was happening in the New Testament times with these messengers. And if I had to gift the healing like some of these faith healers out here claim to have, I would be down at the children's hospital. Taking care of business. If I really had the ability to heal the way a lot of people claim that they have that ability to heal today. Well, you know, w I wouldn't be doing stuff on TV. I would be down at the children's hospital. Heal heal healing. I would be down at St. Jude's in Memphis. That's where I would be if I had the genuine gift of healing. Okay? And so God does Divinely heal at times according to his own purpose, and we should pray for that. We should ask for that. But there are also times when God, in his sovereign wisdom, chooses to give us grace. rather than to heal us physically. Or maybe it'll take time before that healing comes because God is trying to teach us something in that. that what we're going through and that process of what we're going through. Or it may be that God is trying to wean us from the dependence on the things of this world and to prepare us for something more, which is to set our affections on heaven. Because you all understand we're not gonna we're all gonna die. You understand that, right? You're not gonna be here forever That we're all going to take that that trip one day across the river to Jordan. And uh so a lot of times when God's preparing people to do that Physical illness will be one of the things that he uses to divorce our heart from the earthly things of this world and to set our affection on heavenly things. I know some people don't want to hear that. But but God sometimes will do that. So, again, a long answer. So the sum of what I just said is yes, God does divinely heal. If you get healed, it was God who does it, whatever means he chooses, whether it be at medicine doctors hospital or divinely touching your body. But God doesn't always choose to bring healing. And when he doesn't He'll give the grace to deal with it and he will use that for his own purpose, for your good and for his glory ultimately. All right. You have a follow-up? Yeah, okay. Uh it uh just like you said, you said you prayed for somebody in the past and they they received healing from cancer. So it appears that it's the church that drops the ball That out of probably fear that maybe if I pray, maybe that person will not be healed, and the church dropped the ball, and uh like we say now that uh uh the healing process, the healing power is beginning to diminish or fade away. Because you did it and you are still alive and you are still in this generation And so I believe that you can still do it if you are not afraid, if you still believe, if your faith is still strong, it could it may happen, may not uh a person who pray for will receive healing. He may not receive healing if the time to die has come. But the church I of my own my own own o my own my own idea is that the church dropped the ball. Not that the healing power is no longer available. Yeah. I th I think I think that yeah well the church drops the ball on a lot of different things to be quite honest with you. But um again, when a person is going through a an illness, um, I believe it honors God when we go to him. Yeah, I just I just I just gave a litany about learning to depend upon God. Well, why wouldn't we take our our that burden to God and ask God to heal and say, Lord, please take this from me? In fact, Paul did that. Remember when he had a thorn in the flesh? A lot of people debate what that thorn in the flesh was, but three times he went to the Lord about it. And and but God finally said, No, I'm not going to do it. My grace is sufficient for you. And yet Paul took it to him. And there were times when Paul took issues to God and God did bring healing. So I think that You know, we need to have the faith to trust God to do that healing if it's his will. But again, sometimes it takes more faith. to s to wait, to say God might God might say, not yet, or God might say, I'm going to give you the ultimate healing. I'm going to call you on home. Um, you know, whatever the Lord's will is in that, we have to be submitted to it. Uh you know, I was just with uh um before I went to Tennessee, we just did the funeral for Brother Alvin Manger, man I love dearly. And I would been to the hospital with him several times to pr to pray for him, to pray over him. And he this last surgery that he had, we knew it was necessary. He was very weak. But we prayed in faith for the Lord to make that successful and for the Lord to raise him up. And it looked like at first he came through it, it looked like he was gonna he was gonna make it. And then, you know, something happened and you know when you have that kind of surgery, you know, one thing leads to another and then f you know he w physically was not strong enough to overcome that and and the and the Lord called him home to heaven. Well I gotta tell you I was disappointed in that. I was disappointed in the end of that because I really felt like God was going to heal him. And we prayed over it and we trusted the Lord for that And um but this is where faith comes in. Faith comes in where it says, okay, God, I have to submit to your ultimate will here. This is not what I wanted. This is not what I asked for. But you know best. You know better than I. And the greatest day in the life of a believer is when they go to be with the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the greatest day in a believer's life. I think the one thing we have to be careful of in asking for divine healing, and again there's nothing wrong with that, is To be so focused on the here and the now that we forget the by what God has laid up for us. That's so much better. When a person dies to go be with the Lord Jesus, it's so much better. And so, you know, God's answer to that was, look, I'm calling him home. I'm calling him home. He has no more pain, no more suffering, no more burdens. Heaven is a very real thing. And, you know, we we have to remember that, how real heaven is. And, you know, the things that God has laid up for his people there in heaven. And so, um, you know, I think in church sometimes we we pray more for God to keep saints out of heaven than than for God to keep sinners out of hell. And I think we should pray more for people to be saved. And we should have more of a passion to pray for people to be evangelized and saved than for saints to be healed. Because I know where that they're going. I know they're going to heaven. And I'm praying for their healing, but what concerns me more are the people that don't know Jesus. Because they're in a much more dangerous position than saints that are that are going through f physical ill illness. Okay. Alright. Next, anybody else? So um sometimes the good life doesn't seem so good And uh I had someone asked so don't be so negative, Chris. Come on. Let's be real, let's be honest here. Um it's attractive. The world seems to even as strong Christians as we are here at Grace, it still glitters in our eyes. How would you answer that? Well, if if they don't really have a desire to serve in God The question I would ask is, do you realize what you've been delivered from? Do you get that? Because somewhere along the line you forgot. How much you owe them. Somewhere along the line. And I think of that passage in 2 Peter, where Peter is warning the believers to give all diligence to make your calling and election sure. And uh he he says, uh part of the reason for that, um if these things be in you and abound, they make that you shall neither be barren. nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior, but he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off, and has forgotten that he was pursed from his old sins. Wherefore the rather brethren give all diligence to make your calling and election sure, if if you do these things you shall never fall. So without being judgmental or Or you know, condemning. I would say that if there's no desire in your heart to serve Christ, do you uh you know, do you are you a believer? If there's no desire to worship, if there's no just exuberant joy that comes at times because the realization that in his grace he has delivered you from eternal wrath. And he just piles upon you grace upon grace and blessings. And there are times when you think about that, you should just burst forth with praise just spontaneously wherever you are. Your heart should be just overwhelmed with that, knowing, you know, his incredible grace. But if you never have that welling up in your heart And then along with that, the desire to say, Jesus, I'm yours and I want to serve you out of gratitude for what you've done for me, then I would question whether you'd know the Lord. to be quite honest. Now, I know that sounds harsh and I don't mean for it to, but uh that's different from someone who is serving the Lord constantly and gets weary. And says, you know, I've had enough for today. In fact, I'll feel that way right after this service. Enough for today. You know, but I'm I'm not talking about someone who is constantly serving and and and striving and trying to be faithful. And the Bible says, you know, we are gonna get weary in well doing. And where at times that desire to serve Christ might wane. That's part of the sin nature that we all battle. And there are times when our affections for Christ are not going to be what they should be. And there are times when, you know, apathy will get gr grab hold of us and we'll have this, you know, I don't care attitude. And that's all part of the fallenness of the flesh. That the that's not going to be the normal pattern of your life, however. The normal pattern of your life is you're going to want to serve Jesus. You're going to want to um submit to His Lordship and to do His will and to praise His name and to give thanks. for the salvation that he's given you. And if that's not part of your ex experience as a Christian, then I would do what Peter says here, give all diligence to make your calling an election You need to make sure of that because you know you've forgotten what you have been delivered from. You've forgotten that you were purged from your old sins, Peter says. That's why, by the way, why Peter says, I need to remind you about this. I need to remind you. You know, sometimes you'll hear me say something you've heard me say before, and I'm okay with that because you need to be reminded. In fact, that's what pastors do. They remind you of things that you already know. That you forgot, you just didn't realize you forgot it. And so that's why Peter says, I'm not going to be negligent to put you in remembrance of these things, even though you already know it. I'm going to constantly remind you again and again and again and again because we need to have that constant encouragement. That's what the church is about too. We are provoking one another under good works and love and and that's why the body of Christ needs each other. I want to tell you something, I could not live my Christian life if I were not a part of Grace Bible Baptist Church. Or if I were not a part of any church. I don't see how people who claim to be Christians are not in in church Hooked up to a fellowship of other believers where we encourage one another, keep each other accountable. I know there's that brand of Christianity out there that feels like, oh, I don't need to be a go to church to be a Christian. Um that kind of mentality To me, you I don't think they get it. I don't think you get it what it means to be in the body of Christ and be in the family of God. Because I could not live the Christian life without the grace family. I mean you guys have encouraged me. You've helped me through trials. You say how? Just by being here, just by fellowshipping with you, just by encouraging. one another by seeing your love. All of that is encouraging me. So I couldn't do it on my own. You know, saints is always plural in the Bible. It's never singular. There's no lone range of Christianity. You know, you we need each other. And and you don't get that through live stream either. Sorry, you don't get it through live stream. Let me get on my soapbox here for a minute. Go to YouTube and just pull up a fireplace on your screen. And see if you're warm by that. See if that warms you. Will that do it for you? Oh I didn't have I didn't have a fireplace, but I pulled it up on YouTube and I felt cozy all night. Not gonna work. That same warmth spiritually you get by being in the body of Christ. And the fellowship and the encouragement and the help, provoking one another on the good works, you get that in the body of Christ. That's what serving the Lord is all about, by the way. It is serving others. It is encouraging others. And if you have no desire to do that, I think you need to get alone and do business with God. All right, I know that's harsh. Let's let's try to be n I'll try to be nicer on the next answer. Here. Oh um Pastor, I don't want to get you stirred up. But um uh my question is about prayer. Uh you just finished talking a a lot about prayer And I always think of um in 1 John chapter 5, where it says, and and this is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And we know that if he hears us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him. And uh that always just kind of kind of safeguards me when I pray, if you understand what I mean, because I know what the will of God is concerning lots of things just by what the scripture says. I know that he wants, you know, he desires men to be saved. He desires men to live for him. He desires us to live a holy life. I know all of that from the scriptures. So I know when I'm praying those things, I'm praying in his will, according to his will And I can pray those things with confidence. Right. But when we were talking about the the the uh sickness part I don't know the will of God for what he's going to do. Just like you're saying, I don't know the will of God for whether that person is going to live or die. Right. But I still pray. I've had people here personally that have asked me not so much in a time of you know a life to death situation. But just in the situation they're in with health issues, they they said, pray for me. I w I want to walk again. You know, people have been, you know, uh bedridden or uh um in wheelchairs for long periods of time. And they say, No, no, brother, pray for me. Uh you know, I w I wanna be healed. I want to walk again. I want to get up out of this chair. I want to get up out of this bed. Yeah. And uh And so I pray for him. Yeah. Because I know God can do anything and I and I believe that He will. There's nothing impossible with Him. But what uh what gave me a little bit of um Comfort in praying like that for them is because both individuals that ask me to pray like that for them, they say, well, if he don't do it, I'm okay with it And it kinda reminded me of the three Hebrew boys. Yeah. Yeah. You know said, you know, I know what God can do, but if he doesn't do it I'm still okay with it. And so I I guess what I'm trying to say is that um I I I concur that the grace kind of covers it. Like 'cause in his grace I think that's that he can heal you in that. So a lot of times I struggle sometimes with saying, Lord, you know, heal this person But I say Lord just show 'em your grace. Show 'em your grace. And and and just like Jesus in the garden, if it be, you know, not my will or your you know what what I want you to do for these people but according to your will. So I don't know if that's a question. But anyway. The question is, do I agree with you? Yes. I I sometimes just struggle with that a little bit. Now that I and I do pray for 'em, but I just I don't know what God's will is, according to what it says in First John Right. Yeah, and again, I I think that it's it's okay to ask for God to do those things. For um but the harder part where the faith really comes in is to be content with how God answers that. And again, you know, if we look at Hebrews chapter eleven, we we talk uh if we talk about Hebrews eleven like it's the hall of fame of faith. Those are believers that are held up as examples to us of people who are people of faith. But if you read Hebrews chapter 11, you read about the great things that God did for a lot of them, and then you also read about the suffering that some of them went through. You know, and some of them were martyred and and went through all types of trials and difficulties, and yet they're there in the Hall of Fame of faith. Was it because they didn't have faith? No. They had great faith. They had faith enough to endure the suffering, yet maintain their trust in God, knowing that God has a purpose for it and and and to still believe and trust him in it. So it's all about trusting God's sovereign will and what he wants to do and asking God to give you the grace to deal with whatever affliction that he and his wisdom is allow is allowing you to go through. And um that's that's just a part of of life All right. Okay. Go ahead, David. Um it is eight o'clock. I don't want your wife to get mad at me. And I know we have choir practice. Did we even answer any more of those questions? Okay, well whatever. All yours faster. I guess. All right. We'll do this some other time if you want to. Um let's all stand together and we're going to be dismissed in song and prayer and then we're going to have choir right after that. Go ahead, John.