Would you take God's word tonight and open please to the book of 2 Timothy as we continue our study into 2 Timothy? And go to chapter number 2. We're going to look tonight at verses 2 and 3 of 2 Timothy chapter 2. And tonight I want to talk about qualities of a good soldier of Jesus Christ. I read this story and I thought it was appropriate as we're talking about being a soldier on a J June twelfth, nineteen forty-four, this was just six days after D-Day, a young lieutenant named Richard Winter led his men to the outskirts of a French town. Now his task was to clear that l uh that French town of its German defenders. Now this would be a small battle, but it proved to be a decisive battle and um ridding the world of Hitler and the Nazis. As Winters led his company of men up the road toward the town, they took fire from German machine guns as men had to take cover in the ditches alongside the road. But uh they stayed there and and yet they were uh very vulnerable to snipers and d German guns. And so this whole uh scene jeopardized the success of the mission. And what happened next was really the turning point of the battle. Lieutenant Winners went into the middle of the road, with bullets hissing around him, started yelling at his troops to get out of the ditches and engage the enemy. Now when his soldiers saw the bravery and the heroic actions of their commander, they all got up and they fought hard and it the result was a decisive victory over the Germans. The actions of uh Lieutenant Winners not only saved the lives of his men, but also earned their love and their respect, so much so that they followed him through the Battle of the Bulge and then ultimately all the way to triumph at Hitler's Eagle's Nest You see, soldiers are willing to follow men like that, men who demonstrate acts of selfless sacrifice and difficult circumstances. And when you read a story like that, my thought is, how much more should we as Christians be willing to follow our Lord Jesus Christ, who made the greatest sacrifice for us? He rescued us from the most terrifying fate of all, and that is an eternal hell. So because of what Jesus did for us, it should motivate us to be good soldiers for him. Now this is the whole thought that Paul is giving here in this passage of Scripture. This was what Paul was trying to encourage Timothy to do. Paul, you remember, at this time in his life, is at the end of his own ministry He's imprisoned by the Emperor Nero, and now he's writing in that prison to encourage his young son in the faith, Timothy. Timothy was facing a lot of opposition at the church at Ephesus. Uh there were heretics there, there were apostates there. He was uh taking a lot of criticism, and all of this seemed to have an impact on Timothy. And just like any Christian who experiences difficulty because of following Christ, he needed to be reminded of his task, and that is to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And part of being a good soldier is learning to endure hardness for the Lord Jesus. So Paul, in this second letter that he writes to Timothy, his whole goal is to encourage him and to motivate him to be indeed a good soldier. Chapter 1 is a pastoral appeal. Chapter 2 is a practical appeal. Chapter 3 is a prophetic appeal. And chapter 4 will be a personal appeal. Now what we find here in chapter 2 is that Paul will draw upon several metaphors That seek to seek to encourage Timothy. The dominant metaphor in this chapter, and I think even in the whole letter, is that of a soldier Paul uses this image of a soldier in many of his letters to encourage believers. His letters were filled with military imagery. Paul must have loved uh soldiers and military because we see so much of that imagery in all of his writings. For example, 1 Corinthians chapter 14 verse 40. You you know this verse, let all things be what? Done decently and in order, right? Did you know that that was a military term? That phrase occurs nowhere else in Biblical Greek. However, that one phrase is used by Herodotus to describe the Greek army lines as opposed to the disorderly ranks of the Persians. You see, the Romans use this expression in their battle tactics That was popular back in Paul's day. Normally when they engaged in battle, they had three lines of soldiers. The first line was called the Hastate. I'm not sure I'm pronouncing that right in Latin the Hestati, but then they had they were actually called frontliners. Frontliners Behind them was called the Principles and then behind them was called the Trieri. And so the first two ranks made up the fighting force. Each line had about 150 to 200 soldiers in the line. And the frontliners would then engage the enemy. If they failed, the second line would then engage, and the third line of men knelt behind them with their spears ready to engage if the second line or the second rank failed. And so the impact of successive waves of fresh soldiers could really turn the battle. The soldiers knew how to keep in step, they knew how to to s to stay together, side by side, they knew how to march orderly into battle. That was the whole idea. They were well trained, they were disciplined, and that made the Roman army the unequaled army of the world back in that day. They were a formidable army. Now the term that Paul used, speaking of doing all things decently and in order, is that term that describes the battle-ready conditions of Roman soldiers that are in line and ready to go forward. Paul again will use this expression in Colossians chapter 2 verse 5. Paul said this, for though I'm absent in body, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and Your the steadfastness of your faith or the firmness of your faith. In first Corinthians sixteen, fifteen, Paul said the members of the household of Stephanus are Said to have put themselves in line for service. In Galatians 5. 25, Paul says the Christian soldiers, as Christian soldiers, we are to keep in step with the Spirit. Same idea there. And uh 1 Thessalonians 2. 18, Paul warned that Satan was always ready to throw a roadblock to hinder progress. The idea is an obstacle in the road that would slow the the army marching in decent order. Towards the battle. That was a military tactic. And on we could go. There are so many military images that Paul uses. We know the the probably the most well-known one is in Ephesians 6. Put on the what? Whole armor of God, right? Again, that's a military metaphor. Now the books of 1 and 2 Timothy are filled with this kind of terminology. This is a book you could say written from one of God's greatest soldiers to a young soldier exhorting him to fight the good fight. Five times Paul uses the Greek word Para andaleo, which means to hand down a military order, an order handed down from the commander. Paul uses this term over and over again. I use it in 1 Timothy 1. 3. Where Paul said charge some in 1 Timothy 1. 18. Paul said, discharge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, in 1 Timothy 4. 11, command or order. This is an order handed down, order them and teach them. In other words, these are God's marching orders, Timothy, hand them down. And 1 Timothy 5. 7, and these things give in charge. And then 1 Timothy 6. 12, fight the good fight of faith, lay hold unto eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. And that leads us to the text tonight that we're going to look at. 2 Timothy 2, verse 3. Look at verse 3. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. We are not to be soldiers simply in terms of function and duty. We are to be excellent, noble, and heroic soldiers. All of those that are saved that know the Lord Jesus Christ, you are in the army of God. Whether you realize it or not, you're a soldier. You're either a good one or you're a bad one. And the call is to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Now, Paul knew the characteristics of soldiers. He was around them all the time. Think about it. Paul was constantly being arrested and guarded, so he got to look at these guys up close and personal. In fact Paul was chained to a Roman guard. You remember when he was in the prison in Rome, guards would take shifts, and every six hours, uh a new guard would be chained to the Apostle Paul. How would you like to be chained to Paul for six hours? And these guys would take their shift to be chained to Paul, and Paul got to know Roman soldiers very well. When Claudius ordered Paul to go to Caesarea for a government trial, listen to this, two hundred soldiers. Two hundred spearmen and seventy horsemen from the Roman army formed his personal escort. That's a pretty big escort. A whole army took him to Caesarea. And so Paul was constantly around Roman soldiers. He was constantly around the army. And again, he must have loved the military in a way. I think that Paul had a heart for military men. I think he led a lot of those Roman soldiers to Christ. I think we have indication of that in the book of Philippians Where Paul said the gospel was reaching up into the Caesar's household or the or the Praetorian Guard, that was Caesar's elite soldiers, his own security guard, many of those soldiers had repented and obeyed the message of the gospel. So when Paul writes this, Uh it may be too as well that he was chained to a Roman soldier. But Paul is calling upon Timothy and really all his recruits. in Christ to endeavor to be good soldiers of Jesus Christ. And Paul is trying to get Timothy to understand the fact that he is a soldier. And I think that's the big thing that we have to do as leaders and pastors in the church is ingrain that into your mind that you're in the army. You're in God's army. This is not a cruise ship. This is a battleship. All right? And you are all part of that battle. And you need to have a military mindset. You're a soldier, you're in battle a battle. Sooner or later you're going to understand this. But the sooner you understand it, the better off you're going to be. When you become a child of God. You have been brought into the army of the Lord. And again, this is what Paul is trying to get Timothy to understand. And so this is an appropriate analogy that Paul uses. Now again, look in verse three. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Look at verse four. No man that worth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be. A good soldier is not one who d does the minimum duty for his Lord, but rather one who serves the Lord with everything he has and everything he is Now, from these verses, what I want you to see tonight are three marks, three qualities of a good soldier of Jesus Christ. I don't know about you, but I want to be a good soldier. I I know that I can be better. I'm not sure that I am, but I want to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And so we need to take these things to heart. Here's the first one. Number one If you're going to be a good soldier of Christ, there has to be a willingness to suffer hardship. You have to be willing to suffer hardship. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. This is the first mark. Endure hardship. This is a compound Greek word from the word soon, which means with. Kaikos, evil, pathos, Suffer, to suffer evil with. And by using this particular word, Paul assures Timothy that he hasn't asked Timothy to do anything that he wasn't willing to do or that he hasn't already done. Paul himself was suffering because he was a soldier of Christ. And now Paul is saying, Timothy, you have to be willing to join me in this. You have to be willing to suffer with me. Suffer evil at the hands of the enemies of God and the cross. And so Paul again was writing this from a prison cell. Paul suffered. In fact, Paul suffered for the gospel, perhaps like no other one, suffered except the Lord Jesus Himself. On the road to Damascus, when God called Paul to ministry and salvation, The words that God gave were these, for he's a chosen vessel unto me to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel, for I will show him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. And so, right up front, God told Paul, You are mine, I've chosen you, you're going to be in my army, and you're going to suffer a lot for my name's sake. How would you like to have that as your call? I put you in my army and now you're going to suffer for my name's sake. And in Paul catalogues his suffering Uh you know, a while back we went through 2 Corinthians on a Sunday morning and there that was a that whole letter is very autobiographical about Paul. He had to defend himself against the criticisms against his enemies That said that he was not really an apostle. He wasn't really truly of God. And Paul, what did he use to constantly prove that he was That he was authentic, that he was really sent by God. What was the one thing that that basically proved that he was of the Lord? The fact that he suffered. And he did not quit. Paul said, I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul said, Of the Jews, five times I received forty stripes, save one Thrice I was beat with rods, once I was stoned, thrice I was suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep, and journeys often, in perils of waters, and perils of robbers, and perils of my own countrymen And perils of the heathen, and perils of the city, and perils of the wilderness and the sea, and perils among false brethren, and weariness, painfulness, and watchings often, hunger and thirst. And fasting is often cold and nakedness, and besides all these things, there is that which cometh upon me the daily care of all the churches. And that's just a little bit of it. And now, Paul St. Timothy, you have to be willing to endure hardness. Timothy was having a difficult time at Ephesus. He was getting hammered. He was being severely criticized. And I want to tell you something. If you're going to live for Christ, if you're going to be a godly Christian You have to be ready to be criticized. The devil's going to make sure that you get your share of criticism. Yea, all they that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. All you have to do is just have the desire to live. for God and you will be the target of satanic attack, and he'll use all kinds of things and people to do it. And so Paul Stimothy, you must be willing to endure hardship. You know, Paul was criticized heavily during his whole ministry. And I don't have time to just go through all the things that he was criticized about. But he was under attack constantly. And the thing that concerned the Apostle Paul was not for his own sake. He didn't really care about what people said about him. Up until the point to where people were no longer listening to them. That's what really Paul was concerned about. He wasn't concerned about his own ego being bruised. What he was concerned about is that criticism would cause people to no longer listen to what he was saying. That was his big concern. Because he was giving the truth. You remember in the book of Philippians when Paul was in prison, Paul said that there are some who preach Christ not of goodwill But out of strife, out of envy. In other words, while Paul was in prison, there was a generation of younger preachers that were out there preaching. They were kind of jealous of Paul because You know, he had such a fruitful ministry. And while Paul is in prison, they were taking pot shots at Paul and they were preaching Christ at the same time. They say, Oh, Paul, he deserves to be in that prison. He's there because of his own mistakes. God's putting him on the bench You know, it's our time to be in the spotlight. So they were preaching Christ on one hand and they were criticizing Paul on the other. What was Paul's response to that? Paul wrote a series of harsh letters about those guys, did he? No, we don't read about that. You know what Paul said? Paul said, so what What then? Notwithstanding, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ has preached and therein I will rejoice. Joyce. Paul said, Look, if they want to take shots at me and preach Christ, I'm okay with that as long as they're preaching Christ. That's the only thing that really matters. It didn't really matter to him. But when it got to the point to where he was being criticized to where people were no longer listening to him. That's what concerned Paul. I think that was what was going on in Second Corinthians when Paul said, um, you know, there was there was a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan. to buffet me and God a and Paul asked God to take it away. I think that that was a person there in the church, a false apostle, that was criticizing Paul to the extent that some of the people in Carver were being swayed and they were no longer listening to Paul And God said and Paul said, God, please take away this thorn in the flesh. And God said, No, I'm not going to do that. Because even that'll humble you. You ready for this? The most sanctifying times in your life are when you're being hammered by others. Because what it does is it humbles us, it causes us to seek the face of the Lord, and we depend upon God You know, that is the sanctifying moment. When you're suffering, when you're going through difficulty, when you're being misunderstood, when you're enduring hardness, that is the most sanctifying moment in your Christian life. And that's why God allows it. And so the Lord said to Paul, my grace is sufficient for you. I'm not going to remove this thorn in the flesh, but my grace is sufficient for you. And Paul said, Okay, I'm good with that, Lord. Therefore, I will glory in blasphemies. I'll glory in all these things that are being said about me, because when I'm weak, then I'm strong. But so Paul learned to endure hardness. And now Paul is inviting Timothy to do the same thing. And Paul did all this because he was doing it for others. He wasn't doing it for himself. He was enduring hardness because he knew that that was part of what God was using To help him help other people in the church, to help other people grow in the church and go forward Look at 2 Timothy 2, look at verse 10. Therefore, I endure all things for the elect's sake, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. Paul suffered for the Lord's sake, but he also suffered for the sake of God's people, the church. And so you have to be willing. To do that. So Paul's saying, Timothy, you have to be willing to share in the suffering. And Paul is making it clear to Timothy. Look, go back to chapter one and verse number eight. Second Timothy one eight. Notice what he says here. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. But be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. Again, the word partaker there, same word that we see in um uh in in verse three. where it talks about enduring hardship. It's the same word, soon que kas petho, to suffer evil with You have to be willing to endure hardness or to be a partaker of the gospel. Now, Paul is being very honest and upfront to Timothy about the ministry and about the calling. to be a Christian. I think sometimes when we preach the gospel, we do a disservice to people when we preach the gospel because we give the idea that, listen, if you trust Jesus as your Savior, everything's going to be great in your life and all your problems are going to go away. And God's going to bless you. Something good is going to happen to you today. And that's not that's false advertising, we could say Because the call of salvation is to turn from your sin, turn to Christ, pick up your cross, and follow Him. And picking up the cross means you may have to endure some hardship. In fact, the cross is really a symbol of what? It's a symbol of death. You have to die to yourself. Yes, okay, Lord, I'm yours now. I'm going to follow you. And that might entail some suffering, but I'm willing to do that. Why are we willing to do that? Because Jesus suffered and died for us. and gave us the grace of salvation so that we know that we have eternal life. My life now is yours, Lord. And wherever that may lead, I'm willing to go. And we have to be up front and say, look, you know, pick up your cross and follow Christ. That might include suffering. Are you willing to do that? Early in the 20th century, a ad in the London newspaper read this: Men wanted for hazardous journey, small wages, bitter cold, long months of complete darkness, and constant danger. Safe return, doubtful, honor and recognition in case of success. And then it was signed by the famous Arctic explorer, Sir Ernest Shackleton. And some of you might remember the story if you don't know about that. Ernest Shackleton took a group of men to try to explore the Arctic and uh it didn't go so well. But at that ad a thousand men responded. You can't accuse him of false advertising. He was straightforward up front. This is what all this entails. This is what all this includes. One person, one pr uh writer on the heels of that commented and said this if Jesus Christ had advertised for workers The announcement might have read something like this, men and women wanted for a difficult task of helping to build a church, you will often be misunderstood, even by those working with you You will face constant attack from an invisible enemy. You may not see the results of your labor, and your full reward will not come till after all your work is completed. It may cost you your home, your ambitions, and even your life. That's an honest call. And that's what the Christian life may entail. And Paul was an honest recruiter He told Timothy, look, you know, if you're going to be a soldier for Christ, you have to be willing to endure hardness. Paul knew that if you decide to follow Christ under false pretenses If you promise someone a life of ease, you know what will happen is you're gonna get a lot of people that are gonna go AWOL real real quick. Say, this is not what I signed up for. I signed up for the Lord to give me all the things that I want You know, for the Lord to give me all of the answers to the prayers that I have. You know. Um for all to be roses and no thorns. And that's not the gospel call, and that's not the Christian life. If you want to be a soldier of Christ, you have to be willing to embrace hardness as a good soldier. And Paul wanted Timothy to develop this mentality of being a good soldier. You may not understand all the orders that God gives you You might not understand all of the things that you have to go through. You might at times question the some of the trials and suffering That you have to endure, and yet as the sovereign of the universe, God has the right to do whatever he wants in our life. And we have to submit to that. We have to surrender to that. Pastor John Piper has pointed out that many believers use prayer as an intercom to have the maid bring more refreshments to the living room. When in fact prayer is our walkie-talkie to call in more support for the to the front lines in the battle. In other words, prayer isn't to make our lives more comfortable. It is to bring the forces of heaven against the forces of evil in the cosmic battle of which all of us are a part as soldiers of Jesus Christ. So as a believer, you have to develop this mentality. So don't be surprised when bullets start flying around you. Now again, this is hard to preach here in America where we have it relatively easy. But And I'm not saying that all of you here have it easy. I'm just saying that compared to other Christians and other places that I've been to, uh, you know, we're we're not really facing some of the challenges that others are. However, and that might even be our challenge right there, that we do not grow apathetic during this time when we are really the exception to the rule in church history. We are we are the the the the Christians in this era, American Christians that really haven't had to suffer a lot of persecution because of our faith in Jesus Christ. But I want you to know that's the exception. If you look in church history and even look at Christians and other parts of the world right now, for them to attend a church service, they are risking their life. When I was over in Egypt with uh about two years ago, I think, not our last trip uh touring Egypt, but on the missionary trip that I took to be with our missionary Samuel Thomas and went to visit some of those churches that were meeting secretly in a country where it's over ninety-five percent Muslim And to be a Christian is a person confessing that is literally risking so much, even their life. Uh on our last Egypt when we took this uh uh group to tour, our our guide was a young man by the name of Fayed, and he was a converted Muslim. He had converted to Jesus Christ. And he loved the Lord and he knew the Word of God. I was so refreshed by this man because of the grasp of scripture that he had and the fact that he saw the Old Testament the same way I did. Um and yet he was saved out of a Muslim background. And I asked him what church you go to. He said, Oh, I don't go to any church. In fact, people around me don't know that I'm a Christian. And the reason for that is because it would cost him dearly there in that circumstance in that country. And so, however, we need to be prepared and ready, if called upon to suffer hardship as soldiers of Christ. But here's the second thing. Let me go to number two. A separation from normal life. Not only a willingness to suffer hardship But to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ, there has to be separation from normal life. Again, look at verse number four. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. The word entangle, an interesting word, from the Greek word n, en which means in And then a placa, which means to twist or to braid. This was the word that was used of the Roman soldiers that wove together a crown of thorns when they were making it for Jesus to mock him. And literally it means to weave in, or to intertwine, or finally to be caught in. This word is used to describe a runner whose garments had been had entangled his legs. hindering his ability to run in such a way as to win. This word is used to speak of sheep whose wool was caught into thorns. And so this word figuratively means to become involved in an activity to the point of interference, of distraction. From your objective, from your goals, to be entangled. A good soldier's objective is to be a good soldier, so that means That he has to separate himself from the normal activities that might be good for others, but for a soldier he can't do those things. He can't be involved in those things. He can't be entangled in those things. Why? Because if he were He wouldn't be a good soldier of Christ. So therefore, or you know, for the sake of this word here, if you're a Roman soldier, there's just certain things that you could not do in order to be a good soldier of Rome. And again, this applies to us as Christians. There are certain things we can't do, we shouldn't do, we shouldn't get entangled in if we're going to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ. For example, the Roman code, according to Theodosius is he said, quote, we forbid men engaged on military on military service to engage in civilian occupations, end quote. That was the Roman code. If you're going to be a soldier, you can't get engaged in civilian occupations. One historian wrote this Roman soldiers were not allowed to marry or to engage in any husbandry or trade, they were forbidden to act as tutors to any person, or curators to any man's estate, or proctor in the cause of other men. And the principle was that they were excluded from those relationships. They were excluded from other agencies and entanglements which was thought to divert their minds from being the good soldier Their sole object was to train and to work so as to be a complete dedicated soldier of Rome. So they couldn't get entangled in other things. A soldier in Rome didn't serve from nine to five. They were soldiers twenty-four-seven. Their whole life was devoted to it. It wasn't a job where they punched a a time clock. You were a soldier completely, totally, all of your life, all the affairs of your life had to be devoted to being that one thing a soldier. And surely this is what Paul is referring to here when he says, Timothy, no man that wareth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. This translates to the Christian life. You want to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ? There are certain things in this world and in this life you can't get entangled in. You have to separate yourself from those things if you're going to be a good soldier of the Lord Jesus Christ. You should never allow earthly matters To interfere with your duty in serving your Lord or obeying your Lord. You shouldn't allow these worldly pursuits or other Entertainments to keep you from being completely devoted to your master, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I'm not going to get up here and give you a list of do's and don'ts because Paul didn't do that. That's up for you to figure out as a Christian. But there are certain things that that might be an entanglement for you, it might not be an entanglement for someone else, because it takes all of your affection, all of your attention, all of your energy so much so that you don't have anything left to give to the Lord. And if that's the case, you need to separate yourself from that. Now, what Paul's not saying is he's not saying we can't enjoy the normal blessings that God gives us every day in our life. What he's saying is that we can't be so immoderate or we can't be so obsessed with these things that God gives us that it hinders us from fully serving the Lord and keeping him first in our life. All these things are to be enjoyed, but none of these things are to be put in front of the Lord. Christ is to come first in our life. And that's the whole point. We can't be entangled in anything that diverts our attention, our affection from serving our Commander-in-Chief, the Lord Jesus I read that the army of Alexander the Great was advancing on Persia, and at one critical point it appears that his troops might be defeated. And the problem was is that the soldiers had taken on so much plunder from their previous campaigns that they were way down and they were losing. They were not effective because of all the plunder they had. And so Alexander immediately commanded that all the spoils be thrown into a heath and burned, much to the dismay of his soldiers. And yet, in a short time, they they saw the wisdom of that order, because one historian wrote, It was as if wings had been given to them and they walked lightly again, and victory was assured. And just as a dutiful soldier places his life willingly on the line in the service of his commander, so you must, as a faithful Christian, willingly deny yourself. Take up your cross. Follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Not allow yourself to be entangled with earthly things to where it takes away your devotion to Christ. I read an interesting uh illustration while preparing for this. 2 Timothy 2. 4. was Jim Elliott's life verse. Remember Jim Elliott, he was one of the martyrs from uh the Alka Indians, there were five men who were martyred, he was one of them. And his uh widow, Elizabeth Elliot, before she became his wife She was Elizabeth Howard. She was a student at Wheaton College and she was scrutinizing all the boys on campus to see which ones she wanted to date. And decided there was only one that she was really interested in, Jim Elliott. He displayed a maturity and a a godliness that she found very attractive. Elizabeth asked Jim if she would if he would sign hers, hoping that if there was any interest in her, he might indicate it when he signed the book. Nice strategy there. Well, she gave him the book, he signed it, returned it to her, she rushed to her room, looked at the signature, and read beneath his signature, 2 Timothy 2, 4. That had to be depressing. No man that wareth entangles himself with the affairs of this life that he might please him with called him to or chosen him to be a soldier. And then he wrote these words. Underneath that, he wrote these words: that he is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose He was willing to suffer hardship as a good soldier. And even if that meant dying for his commander, he was willing to do it. And of course, we know the story of how indeed he did die, but his actions backed up the words that he lived by in 2 Timothy 2 4. So there has to be, first of all, a willingness to suffer hardship. Number two, there has to be a separation from normal life. But here's the third and final thing. There has to be an obsession to please the commander Look again at verse 4. No man that worth entangles himself with the affairs of this life. Notice the second part. That he may please him who has chosen him to be a soldier. This is the final mark of a good soldier. It's a genuine desire to please the one who enlisted him as a soldier. And of course, that is the captain of our salvation, the Lord Jesus Christ. Our desire should be to want to please him. And this was certainly the obsession of the Apostle Paul. We know this from other verses. Galatians 1:10, for do I now persuade men or God? Do I seek to please men? For if I yet please men, I should not be the servant of Christ. Paul wasn't out to please people. He was out to please the Lord Jesus. That was his greatest desire. That's what he was obsessed with. In 2 Corinthians 5. 9, he says, Wherefore we labor that whether present or absent We may be accepted of him. We want our labor to be pleasing to our commander. There's two reasons for this. First of all, I'll call this my enlistment. Who has chosen him to be a soldier? This is actually one word in the Greek, that one sent sentence there. Who had chosen him to be a soldier, that one phrase is one word in the Greek. Strato Logueo, Strado, where we get the word strategy, really here it has the idea of a um of warfare. Legal, um and the the idea of choosing out. God is the one who chose us to be a soldier. If you're here tonight and you're a Christian, it's because God has enlisted you. He drafted you into his army. He chose you to be one of his soldiers. And so the Lord chooses his own warriors. That right there should make us want to please our commander. The fact that God He chose David, a little shepherd boy to a little shepherd boy, to shut the mouth of Goliath. He chose Gideon, who was hiding in fear, to defeat the Midianites He chose Moses to deliver his people. Look in Hebrews 11. Look at that list of soldiers in Hebrews 11. They were all drafted. They were all chosen by the Lord. For time would fail of me to talk of Gideon, of Barak, of Samson, of Jephthah, of David, of Samuel, and the prophets, who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises Stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, wax valiant and fight Turned to flight the armies of the aliens. All of these who were drafted, they fought really well and they pleased their commander. I didn't volunteer, friend, I was drafted. I think about this, I think about Pastor Johnson. I can't help but think about Pastor Johnson and his testimony. If you never read the little book he wrote, A Chosen Vessel, it's a beautiful book. How that as a soldier God saved him And I've often told uh when a I've told Pastor on a few occasions when I was working for him here, I said, Pastor, you know what? You never really did stop being a soldier. You just switched armies. Because working for Pastor was like working in an army. He had that military mindset. And it's wonderful. And uh but God chose him to be a soldier, and God chose you as well, chose me as well to be a soldier. So therefore We should want to please our commander in chief. The second thing I see here is my example. Jesus Christ is the greatest example of being a good soldier. He set the standard. If you want to know how to be a good soldier, just look at the life of Christ and follow that. That's how to be a good soldier. He was the author and finisher of our faith. And so we need to follow in those footsteps, looking under Jesus. That's what the whole Christian life is about. We come into the kingdom by looking to Christ. And we end the Christian life by looking for that blessed hope, that glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. The key of living in between is looking at Jesus constantly. keeping our eyes on Christ, looking at his life. And we do that through the scripture During World War II, a soldier wrote his mother a letter telling her of the story of God's miraculous per protection and an event that happened. He had a Christian sergeant leading his platoon, and they were advancing on German lines, and they had to go through a minefield. And it wasn't hard because just before they got there there was a a man who had basically a a detector that detected all the where all the mines were and he would he sp he marked them with a red X So all they had to do was just avoid those X's so that they wouldn't step on a mine. And the sergeant simply met his uh led his men around those red X's as they were advancing on enemy lines. But after they came through that field, they came under heavy fire from the enemy. And the sergeant commanded all his men to take cover From the fire. His decision was just to wait them out. Just to wait. The problem was it began to snow. And the snow soon covered all of the red X's in the minefield. And the sergeant didn't really worry about it because he thought he could still lead them through the field. He still remembered where the mines were, but the hours were passing away, and he knew that it would be dark. And he knew under darkness he may lose some men as he led them back through that field. And so he prayed and he asked God to intervene. And in answer to that prayer, a heavy fog settled in between them and the enemy line. Sergeant knew this was his chance. He moved quickly. He lined all his men up at the edge of the minefield. And before crossing, he said to his men, Be careful when you go through this field. Make sure you put your steps into the footprints of the man in front of you. And don't worry from that. And so they followed their commander, and the man behind them put their feet into the footprints of the one before 'em and they were able to make it out of that minefield and the sergeant lost no one. The next day, the commander came to look at the battlefield to kind of give a report on the situation of the previous day's events. And as he looked over the minefield covered with snow, He wrote in his report what he saw was really amazing because when he looked onto that field, all he saw was one set of footprints in the snow, just one set of footprints. You know what? There's only one set of footprints we need to follow if we're going to be good soldiers. It's the footprints of the Lord Jesus Christ. And if you want to be a good soldier, just put your footsteps into his footprint. And follow Christ. He is our commander. He is our leader. Three marks of a good soldier. A willingness to suffer hardship A separation from a normal life, an obsession to please the commander. And I want you to look at verse 7 as a as a closing verse here. Consider what I say, Paul says to Timothy, consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. After Paul gives this metaphor of a good soldier along with two other metaphors about the Christian life. He says to Timothy, Timothy, I want you to think about what I've told you. You ever say that to your children? Think about what I just said to you. Think about it. Consider, present tense, continually think on what I've told you. Don't lose this mindset. You're a soldier in the army of God, and your commander is Jesus. Don't lose that military mindset. Be devoted to being a good soldier. This is the mindset that Paul had, so much so that and remember 2 Timothy is the last words that Paul wrote, and in 2 Timothy 4 Verse 6, Paul said this, I fought a good fight. When he knew that he was going to die, what did he say? I fought a good fight. I fought a good fight. I want to be able to say that when my time comes. I I fought a good fight. May all of us be able to say those words. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for your word, and I pray that it will encourage our hearts tonight. We live in a day, Lord, when so many people are going AWOL that claim to be a Christian So many that are unfaithful. So many that allow the le least thing to cause them to lose heart Stop serving you, stop being faithful. Any excuse seems to hinder so-called Christians from doing their duty. In this time of ease, comfort, we need good soldiers of Jesus Christ. In this time of apathy in our world and in the church, we need devoted soldiers of Jesus Christ. Who are serving not because they want to impress others, not because they want to please man, not because they want to pat on the back, but because they want to please their commander. And they're willing to endure hardness as a good soldier. And they're willing to separate themselves from other activities. to put Christ first. Lord, raise up here at grace an army of good soldiers of Christ, so that we can say when our time comes, I fought a good fight. And we can say that with a clear conscience. I fought a good fight. I finished my course. And I kept the faith. We pray all this in Jesus wonderful name, Amen