The Old Testament tonight. Open to 1 Samuel chapter 7. 1 Samuel chapter 7. And uh look at verse number 1 And tonight I want to preach on raising your Ebenezer. 1 Samuel chapter 7. While you're finding that, let me tell you a story about a young man by the name of Robert Robinson. He was just a small boy when his dad died. And that was in 18th century England, and there was little in the way of a social welfare system, and so this meant that he had to go to work at a very young age. And without a father to guide him and give him instruction, he fell in with bad companions. And as he grew older, he and his buddies one day harassed a drunken gypsy. And they demanded that uh she tell them uh or tell them her their fortune. And uh the gypsy pointing a finger at Robert said, You're gonna live to see your children and your grandchildren Well there was something about that that struck his heart. And his thought was if I'm going to live that long, I need to straighten up. If I'm going to live to see my children and grandchildren, I can't keep going on the way I am And so he decided to go and hear a preacher by the name of George Whitfield. George Whitfield, you might know that name, a tremendous, powerful preacher of the gospel But he took his buddies with him, and his buddies determined they were going to heckle during the service. However, Whitfield preached so powerfully that all they could do was sit there and listen. And he preached on the text, O generation of vipers, who have warned you to flee from the wrath to come. Perfect text for that bunch that was there to hear him. Well, Robert Robinson was under deep conviction. He left with a sense of dread in his own heart, and that conviction never left him until finally At the age of 20, he repented of his sin and he made Jesus Christ his Lord and Savior. And almost immediately after that, he felt the call to ministry. And actually Through uh time and events he was ordained to ministry by John Wesley. And he began preaching the gospel, preaching the Word of God And one day, while he was uh going to preach a sermon at a church in Norfolk, England, he decided to write something at uh a poem to end the sermon that he was preaching, and he wrote the words to the hymn that we now sing. Come thou fount of every blessing. And in that hymn, he speaks about the mercy of God, streams of mercy never ceasing. Call for songs of loudest praise. He was talking about the mercy of God in his own life, how God's mercy was there for him. And there was also a line in the hymn that we sing, and sometimes we may not understand exactly what it's referring to, but there's a line in that hymn that goes like this, Here I raise my Ebenezer, hither by thy help I've come. Well, did you know that that line comes from this story that we're going to look at here tonight in 1 Samuel chapter 7? In fact, it comes really from verse number 12. Go down to verse 12 because this is taken from a story in the life of Israel, the history of Israel. God did something great for Israel. God gave them a great victory. Samuel raises an Ebenezer stone. Look at verse 12. Then Samuel took a stone and set it between Mizpah and Shen and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, Hither hath f hitherto hath the Lord helped us. And that's exactly what the word Ebenezer means. Eben is the Hebrew word for stone by the help of God, by the strength of God. God has helped us. Hitherto. He's helped us this far. Now this was a memorial stone, and it was designed to force the people to remember the works of the Lord. To remember what God has done. So whenever someone would come by that stone, they would stop and they would see it and they would pause and remember the works of the Lord. And so this stone was for the whole nation, for anyone that would come by to see that stone and to remember. Now, I want us to look at that this whole story tonight, and actually I want us to see three characteristics of this Ebenezer stone and why we need to, in our own country, in our own personal lives, raise the stone of Ebenezer. Raise your Ebenezer. Here's the first thing I want you to notice about this stone. Number one, excuse me, it was a stone of repentance. It was a stone of repentance. Look down at verse number one. And notice what it says, and the men of Kurdith Jiram came and fetched up the ark of the Lord and brought it into the house of Abinadab. uh and in the hill and sanctified Eliezer his son to keep the ark of the Lord. And it came to pass while the ark abode in Kurdjiram that the time was long, for it was twenty years. And notice this next phrase, and all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. So this stone, again, was designed to help them remember And in order really to get the understanding of what this stone means, we have to get all of the background, everything that happened. What were the events that led up to raising this Ebenezer stone? Notice, first of all, how Israel lamented Notice that in these first two verses the ark of the Lord is brought back within the borders of Israel. You say, why is that important? Well, it's important because it had been gone for so long. Let me give you a little context of what was happening in Israel at that time. This was a very difficult period in the history of Israel. In fact, this is what is called the time of the judges And and really the time of the judges is more than just what happens in the book of Judges. It goes beyond that. After judges there's Ruth. Whatever hap happened in the book of Ruth took place in that same time period, the period of the judges when they judged Israel. And it also in in 1 Samuel, up until they get their first king, all of this was the period of the judges. Now if you read the book of Judges, you know there's a key phrase in there, and it's this phrase, every man did that which was What? Right in his own eyes. That is to say that they did what they wanted to do rather than what God wanted them to do. And whenever that happened, God would be faithful to chastise his people. He would raise up a nation to come against his people, and they would terrorize Israel. Terrorism is nothing new, my friend. If you don't believe that, look, read the book of Judges, and you'll see that terrorism was there. And these these uh oppressive nations would terrorize the people of God, and they would come back to God, and this same vicious cycle would happen again. Well, on one occasion, God used the Philistines as his rod of correction. They defeated the people of Israel, and the ark of God was taken. In fact, look in chapter 4 and verse number 14, because this is right after the battle. And just notice this, and the messenger answered and said, Israel has fled before the Philistines, and there has been also a great slaughter among the people. And thy two sons also, Hopni and Phineas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken. What happens? They lose in this battle This report is given to Eli the high priest at the time. He hears this report, and the Bible says that when he hears it in verse 18 Uh it's such uh a terrible report that he falls back over on his chair, he breaks his neck, and he dies. Ha uh his son-in-la uh his daughter-in-law, I should say, has a child and names him Ichabad Because the glory has departed. Why? Because the Israel uh Israel had lost the Ark of the Covenant. It had been taken into enemy hands. And by the way, the Ark of the Covenant represented the presence and the power of God. God, by allowing that ark to be taken into pagan hands, was essentially symbolically saying to the nation of Israel, I am departed. You have left me, you have forsaken me, therefore I have forsaken you. And so this was a very dark time in the nation's history. We could even call this the dark ages. for Israel. And indeed it was dark. We don't have time to look at it all, but if you look in 1 Samuel chapter 5 and chapter 6, you're going to find out that the ark of God, wherever it went, it brought a curse while it was in the hands of the pagans. In fact, look at chapter 5, verse 2. When the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon, and they set it by Dagon. That is, whenever an army would seize a religious relic from a defeated foe, they would take those relics and bring them to their own temple of their own God as a way of taking trophies into their own temple And that's what they did here. But notice in verse 3. And when they of Ashdod arose early in the morrow, behold, Dagon was fallen on his face to the earth before the ark of the Lord. There's a pretty powerful statement right there. They would come in and the idol of Dagon was fallen down onto the ground before the ark. of the covenant. Look at verse six. But the hand of the Lord was heavy upon them of Ashtod, and he destroyed them and smote them with emrods and Ashtod and the coast thereof. And verse 7, and when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us, for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our God. We don't want this thing Since we brought this ark into our temple, nothing has gone well. In fact, there's been sickness and God has cursed them. Look at verse 9. And it was so that after they had carried it about, the hand of the Lord was against the city with a very great destruction, and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and they had emrods in their secret parts. That is, there were tumors in their lower parts This was God just cursing them with sickness, and God's hand was heavy upon them. So what happens to the ark? Well after a while they're they're kind of playing hot potato with this thing. I don't want that you take it. No, I don't want it you take it. And it goes from city to city. And finally, in chapter 6 verse 19, it goes to Beth Shemesh. And there the Lord also is heavy against them. He smites them. Look in Chapter six verse nineteen and he smote the men of Bethemes because they had looked into the ark of the Lord. He smote uh of the people fifty thousand and three score and ten men, and the people lamented because the Lord had smitten many of the people with a great slaughter. So finally, the men of Bethemus Contact the men of Kurdjeth Jiram and they say, Here, take this thing back. We don't want it. And the Ark of the Covenant is brought back inside the borders of Israel, and there It abides in that region in Kirgethkiram for 20 years, the Bible says Now someone would say, well, that's wonderful news. The ark of the Lord is back in the hands of Israel. It's back within the borders of Israel. Surely then the Lord brought deliverance. Well the Lord is going to bring deliverance, but it's not going to be because the ark is back in Israel. It's not the movement of the ark that brings deliverance and revival to Israel. It's the movement of the hearts. It's the change of the hearts. of a people that bring revival. Because the Bible says, look again in verse 2 of chapter 7, while the ark was there for about 20 years. Notice the last phrase, for it was 20 years. And all the house of Israel what? Lamented after the Lord. This is an important phrase here. Naha, to weep after the Lord. This was a time when the people began to truly seek the Lord. This is a sign of true repentance True repentance comes first of all in the mind. There's a change of mind, right? That's the word metanoia, to change the thinking. But it always follows the heart. There's always an emotional response after that. It's not just the mind, it's the mind and the heart. But what happens first of all is I think when the ark comes back And it's there, and the people begin to long after God. Perhaps they saw the coming of the ark back within the borders as God giving this nation another opportunity, another chance to seek the Lord. The Lord had come back in the presence of this ark. Perhaps God will give them another opportunity. And so in their thinking, they begin to think about God and they want to draw near to the Lord. And the Bible says they begin to lament. That's a, again, another sign of revival, an emotional element to it. It is a a grieving over sin. Thomas Watson said this, the eye is made both for seeing and weeping sin first must be seen before it can be wept for. And so these people have a genuine repentance that accompanies true sorrow. Remember what the Apostle Paul wrote? For godly sorrow works what? Repentance. And that's what happens here. There's a godly sorrow. They're lamenting after the Lord. They're not lamenting because of their darkness of the circumstance or their difficulties, they're lamenting after God. Sometimes people are sorry, but they're sorry because they got caught for their sin. Oh, they're sorry for the difficulty that they're in as a result of their own foolish ways. But they're not necessarily sorry under the Lord. They're not necessarily going after God in their heart, wanting that relationship restored. But here Israel is doing that very thing. They are seeking after the Lord. They are lamenting after the Lord. Thomas Watson again when he wrote about repentance. He said, A man may be sorry yet not repent, as a thief is sorry when he is taken, not because he stole. And so on. And Thomas Goodwin wrote, where mourning for offending God is lacking, there is no sign of any goodwill wrought in the heart. But here they're lamenting for the right reason. But I want you to see not only how they lamented, but notice how they consented, because look in verse number three Samuel, and Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, if ye do return unto the Lord with all your hearts, then put away the strange gods and Ashteroth from among you, and prepare your hearts unto the Lord and serve him only. He will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines. Now Samuel is a very wise man of God. He sees what's going on in the hearts of the people of Israel. He discerns that this is a true sorrow and a lamenting after God. And he takes this opportunity to do a spiritual cleansing in Israel. And he says to them, Listen, if you'll turn to the Lord with all your heart, If you'll put away these other gods, and the language that he's using here is similar to that of Joshua of old when Joshua told Israel to put away the strange gods, the foreign gods, get rid of all of your idols And here Samuel is saying the same thing. Notice that when there's true repentance, there's not only the mind and the heart, but there's a commitment of the will. It's seen in action. And what you do. And what we see here is the negative side. Put away the idols. Put away the evil influences. Get those things out of your life. There's always a negative action followed by a positive action. And what is that in verse 3 where he says, Prepare your hearts unto the Lord to serve him only? That's the positive side. Get rid of all the negative influences of your life. By the way, if a person only does that and doesn't fill the void with something positive, pretty soon you'll be back under those negative influences again There's got to be the positive side. You get rid of the bad and then you replace it with good. You turn from sin and you turn to the Lord with all your heart And the Bible says they had to prepare their hearts, literally establish your hearts. And so Samuel is commanding outward acts that demonstrated their true repentance before the Lord. Again, repentance is a is accompanied by the right action, the right works. Sometimes people will come to church and they'll cry crocodile tears. over things in their life, and yet later on they'll forget whatever the Lord had said and they'll go right back into what they were doing. Friend, that's not true repentance. True repentance involves a turning from sin. It's a permanent, it's a repentance not to be repented of, Paul said. You don't turn to the Lord and then later turn back into sin. You turn to the Lord. It's a redirecting of the will. It's a commitment to follow the Lord and forsake all unrighteousness. A. W. Tozer wrote this A thousand years of remorse over a wrong act would not please God as much as a change of conduct. And that's so very true. And so repentance produces a earnestness and righteousness. It produces a desire to show that your repentance is real. It produces an anger over your previous sin. It produces a reverence for God. A fear of God. It is a desire to have that relationship restored, and this is exactly what Israel is looking for They want that relationship restored with God. It produces a zeal for holiness. It produces a desire for restitution. You're willing to do whatever to make things right. And so look what happens in verse 4. Then the children of Israel did put away Balaam and Asherah and serve the Lord what? Only. God only. They serve the Lord only. And so we see not only how they lament it And how they consented to do the things, everything that Samuel did. But notice how they repented. Look in verse 5. And Samuel said, gather all Israel to Mizpah. And I will pray for you unto the Lord. And they gathered together to Mizpah and drew water and poured it out before the Lord and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against the Lord. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah. And so Samuel says, gather together here at this place of Mizpah. Where was that? This was five miles north of Jerusalem. And this was a place where, in a time of crisis, all the tribes would come together in a holy convocation This happened once before in Judges chapter 20, verse 1, when there was a terrible sin that had happened in Israel, and everyone gathered together at this same place. Samuel calls them together. And in verse 6, we see that dramatic action where they pour out water before the Lord. What does that signify? A few things. First of all, it was a sign of sorrow And also it was an expression of saying, we're pouring out our souls before you, God. We're pouring out our hearts before you. And it was also an expression of denying The physical. They poured out water. We don't want water. We don't want food. They denied food. This was an absolute fast. Because they were saying, Lord, we need you more than we need any of these other things. And so what they display here is a desperation signified in this pouring out of water. Lord, we're desperate. for you. We need you. We want this relationship restored. And the Bible says there they confess their sins before God. Can you imagine what God would do for our nation if our leaders did this? Can you imagine what would happen if they got together perhaps at the nation's capital and said, we're going to seek the Lord? We're going to pour out our hearts before God. We're going to confess our sins as a nation. We're going to ask God's blessing upon us again. You see, all of that is implied when later Samuel set up the stone of Ebenezer, the stone of hell. It would remind Israel of what took place there. It was a stone of repentance. And here's the message that whenever a people repent, truly repent before God, God will help them. He will come in and he will be their help. He will be their deliverer if they'll truly do that. We need to turn an America from our idols. He said, does America have idols? An idol is anything that you put before God. And we need to turn to the Lord with all our heart and raise our Ebenezer. It was a stone of repentance But here's the second thing I want you to write down. Not only was it a stone of repentance, but secondly it was a stone of reliance. It was a stone of reliance. Now let me just say this. Whenever you turn to the Lord with all your heart, don't get the idea that everything after that's going to go smoothly. Don't get the idea that Satan will let that go unchallenged. Someone said, whenever God opens the windows of heaven to bless us, Satan will open up the gates of hell to blast us. And that's what happens here. Notice there's a report that the Philistines here, look in verse 7. And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines. Again, strong word terrorized by the Philistines. Again, the Philistines were the terrorists of that day. When they heard that the people of Israel were gathered together in this convocation, they kind of put two and two together and knew that that was trouble for them. They're kinda uh becoming uh uh a a a a problem. They're no longer r responding to our oppression, our submission, in all likelihood, the Philistines have perhaps forbidden them to ever hold a public assembly without asking them first That's the kind of oppression that they were under. And so when they hear that they had gathered together at Mizpah, they get nervous. And so they come against Israel in full force. The five lords of the Philistines gather together all of their military might to come down against Israel. And the children of Israel are rightly afraid. But notice their response. Look in verse 8. And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Cease not to cry unto the Lord our God for us, that He will save us out of the hand of the Philistines And Samuel took a suckling lamb and offered it for a burnt offering, holy unto the Lord. And Samuel cried unto the Lord for Israel, and the Lord heard him. I love this response. This is the important thing. Notice how they respond. Their first response was not to gather together any military might, because quite honestly, Israel at that time had no standing army They didn't appeal to any military leader because, quite frankly, they really didn't have any military leaders. The five lords of the nation of the Philistines, they had a mighty army, but Israel didn't. But the Israelites did have one weapon. And what was it? It was prayer. It was praying to God. It was faith expressed through prayer. And let me tell you that there is no greater demonstration of dependence upon God, of reliance upon the Lord, than prayer. No greater expression. And so that was their weapon They didn't have a general, they had a prophet. They had Samuel. And by the way, Samuel was uh was a man of prayer. That was his defining characteristic in Scripture. He was a man who knew how to pray, who knew how to lay hold of God. And so the children of Israel come to Samuel and they say, would you please pray for us? Again, this is full reliance upon the Lord. Did you know that there was only one other time in the history of the nation of Israel where they came to a man of God and said, Pray for us? Only one other time. And that happened under the ministry of Moses in Numbers 21, 17, when they all came to Moses and said, Moses, pray for us. And here it happens again. So there's a sense in which Samuel, the prophet becomes like Moses to the nation. But the key to this whole section is that Israel does not trust in military might to deliver them from the terrorists. What do they trust in? They depend upon God. They depend upon the Lord. So in verse 9, Samuel offers a lamb for a sacrifice and he calls unto the Lord. Now think about this. God saw the Lamb, and God, when he saw the Lamb, he thought about his son, who would be the Lamb of God. Here is an Old Testament illustration, I think, of praying in the name of Jesus. The only way we can approach God is through the blood of the world. of the Lamb. That's the only way we can come to God. And the Bible says God heard the prayer of Samuel. In verse 10 And as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel. But the Lord thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines and discomfited them, and they were smitten Before Israel. So what happened? Samuel was offering the sacrifice, the sacrifice, the Philistines were forming their battle lines. And the Bible says the Lord thundered with a great thunder. That day. Now, what is this thunder? And why did God do this? I think it was God showing the Philistines that He is the God of heaven. You know, people in the ancient Near East believed that in every military combat there were two battles being fought. There was one on the human level, on the human plane, and one on the divine plane. And so whenever there was some kind of an atmospheric phenomenon during a military operation, they would take that very seriously. And here there's a great thunder. Just as the Philistines come out a ready for battle, there's this tremendous earth-shaking thunder. And this was not a good sign for the Philistines. At least they didn't take it that way. It was such a great thunder that they were totally confused. And they were no good for battle. This must have been some serious thunder. Now, there's something else That I think we should note here, and that is, did you know that one of the gods that the Philistines worshiped was the god of Baal? And you know how Baal was depicted in that day? He was called the storm god Or he was the god of thunder and the god of lightning. In fact, there are ancient statues depicted of Baal with thunderbolts in his hands. And the idea was that he was in control of the rain. That's why later on when Elijah prayed, and it didn't what? It didn't rain. Because Elijah was showing the people of Israel that God is God, not Baal. And here with this thunder, God was showing the Philistines that the real God is the God of Israel. He's the God who controls the heavens. And that was the message that was there. But also there's another thing that I find interesting about this thunder. I think this was the fulfillment of a prophecy. In fact, go back to 1 Samuel chapter 2 and look down at verse number 10. Because what happens? This is right after Hannah brings her son Samuel to Eli in fulfillment of her promise to give her son to the Lord. And after she gives her son to the Lord, she rejoices in chapter 2 and she prays and she prophesies. And look in chapter 2, verse 10. This is one of the things that she said would happen As a result of God's blessing, verse 10. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. Out of heaven shall he what? Thunder upon them. I think that's a fulfillment right here of this prophecy. Quite literally, the prayers of that godly mother save a nation. Because God fulfills that and he does thunder against the Philistines. And you know what happens? They're defeated. And uh all the days of Samuel, the Lord kept the Philistines at a distance from Israel. But here they're initially defeated. And you know what this shows us, whenever God's people depend upon their own resources and plans, they'll fail. But whenever they depend upon the Lord And they trust in the Lord. He meets the need and he receives the glory. And one man or woman of prayer is more powerful than a whole army. That's what we see here. This was the result of Israel's reliance upon God. And what does the Bible say? And uh it's it says uh in verse 10 that the Philistines were smitten before Israel. They were routed. They were soundly defeated. It reminds me of Psalm 20, verse 6, or verse 7. Some trust in chariots and some trust in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. Another lesson we learned from this is that a nation's security does not rest in military might or power, but it's in reliance upon God. It's in reliance upon God. If our national leaders and citizens trusted in the Lord, he would defeat all of our enemies. And we would have no worries. I believe the reason that we have been attacked on our own soil by terrorists is because as a nation we have ceased relying upon God. We have stopped trusting in God. We have put our trust in military weapons. We put our trust in intelligence and technology. I still hear the question, even though it happened so long ago, where was God on 9-11? What do you mean where was God? America kicked out out of their schools, kicked out out of their courts, kicked out out of government. America, kick the Ten Commandments out of any public place, and then they say, where was God on 9-11? Friend, well let me tell you, God was there. He was there comforting and loving and showing mercy. But our country has stopped relying upon the Lord. As Pastor Johnson preached this morning, our nation was founded as a Christian nation. Don't you let anyone tell you any different It was founded as a Christian nation from its very beginning, from the pilgrims who came over looking for religious freedom to the first president of the United States, George Washington. Let me let me tell you what happened. Most people don't know this historical fact. Did you know at the first inauguration of the first president of the United States, this is what Washington said dur in his speech. Listen to what he said. Quote The propitious smiles of heaven can never be expected on a nation that disregards the eternal rules or order and right which heaven itself has ordained. What was he saying? God's smile will not rest on a nation that disregards his word. And that was a bit prophetic. But did you know that on April 30, 1789, when George Washington took the oath of office, he placed his hand on the Bible and he took that oath. And by the way, it was George Washington of his own accord who added the last phrase, so help me God. That was not written in there. That was something he did. He said it because he meant it. He meant it. So help me, God. That is a statement of reliance upon God. So help me God. And did you know that on that morning of April 30, the bells of the churches rang out and they filled the nation's capital at that day? For 30 minutes they rung. Why? It was calling people to go to the house of God, to go to their church, and to pray for their new government. to pray for their new leaders, to commit this government and this nation to God for his holy protection. That's why they were ringing. And by the way, did you also know this? That right after the inauguration, you know what George Washington did? He led a procession on foot. He led every senator and every congressman of the House of Representatives, he and all of them, he led a procession down the street a few blocks And you know what they did? They walked into a stone church, a little chapel. And you know what he did there in that little chapel? By the way, this is the first official act of the president, the first president of the United States. This was the first session of joint congress together, both senators and congressmen of the House of Representatives. Their first official act took place in a church. And you know what they did? They gathered together collectively and had a prayer meeting. A prayer meeting. And this is what they said. And by the way, if you don't believe me, just look in the annals of Congress. This is recorded in the Annals of Congress. This was the first joint session of Congress with an acting president. This is the first time this has happened. And they took notes. And why did they gather together, quote, to gather for prayer to commit the future into holy protection and blessings of the Most High. They pray for God's protection. And they consecrated this nation to God. That's what they did on April the 30, 1789. By the way, the name of the church was St. Paul's Chapel. And that was the grounds upon which they prayed, and that became sacred holy ground, consecrated and dedicated to the Lord. They consecrated and dedicated this whole nation to the Lord by kneeling on that ground right there and praying for God's blessing. So in a sense, this became America's ground of dedication. Just like Solomon dedicated the temple and the nation of Israel to the Lord, even so our first president dedicated our nation to God there in that place. By the way, what happened to Israel and what happened to the temple when they turned their backs on God? The temple became a heap of bricks Because when they turned, when Israel turned their back on God, God said, okay, if you don't want me, then I'm out of here. And they became vulnerable to the enemy. By the way, do you know what happened to the place where Washington and Congress prayed together? That also became a heap of bricks. You say, how so? Because, by the way, the nation's capital at that first inauguration was not Washington, D. C. Because Washington didn't exist at that time. The city of Washington was not there. The first capital was what? New York City. It was New York City And the place where they knelt there, St. Paul's Church, became later the location of Ground Zero on 9-11. America's ground of consecration to the Lord became ground zero on 9-11. And beloved, I don't think that's an accident. I don't think that the very place where this nation was consecrated to the Lord became a heap of bricks, just like Solomon consecrated the temple and the nation of Israel to God, and it became a heap of bricks. God did that to Israel because Israel Turned their back on God, and I believe God allowed it to happen in our country because we turned our back on God. And that is a warning sign. It's a warning. A warning to what? A warning to turn back to God. A warning to once again rely fully on the Lord. Just like our original president, our first president, and all of our governmental leaders did that first inauguration day. That's what we need to do. As a nation, we need to raise our Ebenezer The stone of reliance, and once again trust fully in the Lord. Let me give you the last thing quickly. Not only was it a stone of repentance, and a stone of reliance, but also it was a stone of remembrance. Look again in chapter 7, look down at verse number 12. And the Bible says, then Samuel, this is after the victory, then Samuel took a stone and set it between Mizpah and Shen and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, hitherto has the Lord helped us. Now setting up stones was something that was uh a part of Israel since Jacob put up put up that first stone there at Bethel. Joshua later would have twelve memorial stones in the midst of the Jordan and some on the west side there at Gilgal and later a heap of stones at the valley of the Acor. So this was all part of the history of Israel. When something big or significant would happen, it's something that the people needed to be reminded of. Stones were set up, memorial stones. And these stones that was raised by Samuel was, again, a message to the nation of Israel to not forget God. Don't forget. Because Samuel knows the heart of man that we are people prone to forget. And this is especially true when it comes to the blessings of God. We are so prone to forget. the blessings of God. And so this was Samuel saying, don't make that mistake. Here I raise this stone, this Ebbenezer stone. Why? Because up until this point, the Lord has been our help, as if to say, if you don't continue to rely on God, you won't get the help. You have to rely upon the Lord. And so this was a warning, as it were, to remember the Lord. It was Winston Churchill who said, those who fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat it. All throughout Deuteronomy, God again and again reminds Israel to not forget the Lord. And that's the message that God has for us today, not only as a nation, but also for us as individuals. We better not forget God. We better not forget what the Lord has done. Remember, he's the one who brought us safely thus far. Look in verse 13. So the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more into the coast of Israel And the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel. That's incredible And not only that, look at verse 14. And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel. Everything that the enemy had taken away, God had given back to Israel. And it was under the leadership of Samuel, the man of prayer. Again, this is incredible. All that the enemy had taken was restored. And by the way, that's exactly what God wants to do in your life. He wants to give you back whatever the enemy has taken from you. Whatever sin and rebellion has taken from you, you need to repent and turn to the Lord, and God says, I'll give back to you what was taken. That's what God did for Israel. God wants to give it back. He wants you to raise your Ebenezer. He wants you to fully rely upon Him and trust in Him. And He'll give back to you all of that. I was reading about Jay Hudson Taylor, the founder of the China Inland Mission, and he had a plaque that he displayed. in his office. And it had two words on it, Ebenezer and Jehovah Jerai. And what that that meant to him was, the Lord has brought given me and brought me safely thus far, and it's God who will provide for me in the future. And that's exactly what that means. Friend, if we would have the blessing of God upon our life and upon our country, there has to be repentance. There has to be reliance and remembrance. Don't forget the Lord. I'll close with this. I was telling you about Robert Robinson who wrote the song, Come Thou Fountain. of every blessing. Did you know that he wrote the song prone to uh the line in the song, prone to wonder, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. He wrote that line in there because it was really a weakness in his own character that he was a man who was prone to wander and he knew it And so in that song, as it were, it was really a testimony for the Lord to keep him on the right path because he was prone to wander. And you know what he did wander? The story of his life testifies that he got away from the Lord. He befriended a Unitarian minister who didn't believe the word of God, and he was influenced by this man. And he s he he backslid away from God, and his heart got cold and hard. And one day he was riding in a carriage, and there was a woman next to him, and she was reading hymns of all things. Reading hymns. And she was reading the hymn that he had wrote. This very hymn. She read the words out loud. Here I raise my Ebenezer. Hither by thy help I've come. And then she read the words, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart, Lord, take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. And when Robert Robison heard the words that he had written years ago He was under great conviction. Great conviction from those words. And you know what he did? He repented. He repented. And he remembered God again. And he raised his Ebenezer, as it were. And he came back to God. Here I raise my Ebenezer. Maybe you today need to do that same thing. Maybe there's something in your life that you need to repent of. There's some idol that you need to remove and get out of your life. There's some way in which you need to return to the Lord and rely fully upon God again. You've taken things into your own hands rather than relying on the Lord. And you need to go back to full reliance upon God. And you have wandered from the Lord. You have forgotten God and you need to come back and remember Him. You need to raise your Ebenezer if you would have the help of God in your life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, we we thank you for the word of God, for this story that encourages our heart And Lord, tonight, by faith, we want to raise our Ebenezer. We want to confess that, Lord, we need you fully. We're relying upon you, depending upon you, you and no other. We want to remove out of our heart and our our life any idol, anything that is between Us and you. Anything that we love more than you or trust more than you, Lord, we want to remove those idols out. And we want to worship and serve you only. Forgive us, Lord, for the times where we have forgotten you and have taken matters into our own hand. So Lord help us tonight in our heart to raise the stone of help, our Ebenezer, and confess our full trust and dependence upon you. And Lord, tonight we even intercede for our nation. Lord, how we need you. How we need revival in our country. I pray that you'll turn the heart of our leaders towards you, Lord. May they express full reliance and dependence upon you. As it was when we first started out as a nation. May we get back to that. May we as a nation raise our Ebenezer and trust in you forever. fully. Take these words, apply them to our hearts, and Father, we pray all this in the mighty name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.