Loretta, it's good to see you in the Lord's house tonight. Would you take uh your Bible, please, and open to the book of First John? First John chapter two, verse twenty-eight. Uh this is the sermon I should have preached this morning. I've been inverting here uh some and uh I hope that uh Hope I'm not boring you with those echoes from the Puritan things. I'm a history nerd, so let me know if I'm boring you with some looking back in history like that. Of course the goal is to teach you scripture and truth and things that I've learned that have been a help to me that I hope will be a help to you. But look in verse John chapter two and look down at verse number twenty-eight. And now little children abide in him, that when he shall appear we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him that is coming. If you know that he is righteous, ye know that everyone that doeth righteousness is born of him. So I want to speak tonight on being ready for his return. Do you ever have an unexpected visit? Sometimes the thought of someone coming over unexpectedly or visiting unexpectedly kind of Sends a kill off the spine of homemakers, you know, to have someone just pop in. We want to always be ready for company when it comes. Um you know, it seems like that when the house is spotless and clean, nobody comes. But the moment it's really, really bad. Someone decides to visit. Um I've been guilty of making unexpected visits of church members. I heard a pastor was making visits on Saturday visiting church members and he went to one house and knocked on the door. There was no one that answered. He could tell that there was somebody inside But so he knocked several times and uh still there was no answer and uh he could hear some commotion going on in there and so he just took out a three by five card and he wrote on it the scripture, Revelation 320, behold I stand at the door and knock If any man will answer, I will come in and sup with him and he with me. And he left that three by five card at the door. Well the next day that three by five card turned up in the offering plate and and it they had written a verse on the other side of it, they turned it over and they wrote down Genesis 3. 10, I heard your voice in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. We've all been there. This passage here in 1 John tells us how to be ready for an unexpected visit. Not from a pastor, but someone far more important. That's the Lord Jesus Himself. Look at verse again 28. And now, little children, abide in him, that when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. Now what John is doing here is he's actually concluding the first round of tests that he gave for assurance of salvation. You say that you're a believer, you sh you say that you know the Lord Jesus Christ, well, then you will uh Look at the test that John gives in the first part of this letter and you'll pass these tests, so to speak. Um as we've been studying first John, we realize that part of the test he gives in chapter one is that you'll have a uh a real walk with Jesus Christ. He will be the most important figure of your life. He'll be real to you in every way. He'll be historically real. You will believe the not just any Jesus because people can make up their own Jesus But the Jesus of Scripture, you don't have a right to define Jesus for yourself, but you have to believe the historical Jesus that was given to us in the Word of God. You'll believe the history of what Scripture says regarding his life, his sinless life, his his whole ministry. He'll be real to you spiritually because you will repent and you'll know him and you'll have that spiritual relationship with him and you'll be personally fit fulfilled in that relationship. Another test of whether your salvation is real is that do you confess your sins? Because there will be a new awareness of sin in your life. And if you know the Lord then you're going to have a constant life of concession. Not because we we believe we're going to lose our salvation, because we know that we can never lose our salvation, but we can certainly lose our fellowship and our closeness. So we are confessing our sins. The Bible says if we say we have no sin, what we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us. So we're constantly dealing with sin. That's one test. Do you confess your sins? And then also, do you walk in obedience? In 1 John 2, verse 3, hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. How do we know for sure that we've already come to know Jesus? What's the assurance of that? Well, we will obey him. We will walk in his commandments. We're going to want to please Jesus. We're going to want to do what he tells us to do. When I first got saved, I didn't know what all the Lord demanded of me, but I I knew this one thing. I w whatever Jesus told me, I want to do that. I just want to do that. I want to obey him. And that will be true of your life. We're not going to obey him perfectly, but we're going to We're going to try to, and then when we do fail, we're going to confess that sin because we don't want anything between our soul and the Lord. So that's the that's the moral test. There's a doctrinal test of knowing who Jesus is. Confessing the Christ of Scripture, believing on Him, repenting, coming to Him. There is the moral test of walking in obedience, and when I do fall, I'm going to get up, I'm going to confess that sin. I'm going to continue on. The pattern of my life is going to be one of continual obedience. with every occasional lapse here and there of me failing, of me sinning, and then I confess that and I get I get back into fellowship. That's going to be part of your your processes growing in the Lord. But then there's another test that John mentioned, if you remember, in chapter 2, where that is that you're going to love others. You're going to love your brother. The love will be shed abroad in your heart. This is an old commandment, John says, and yet it's new, new in its its example. Jesus perfectly demonstrated what love is supposed to be in his life. Uh loving your neighbor was commanded in the Old Testament when no one ever really perfected it until Jesus came along. It's new in its example. It's also new in its enablement because now that you are a believer, you have the Holy Spirit living inside of you who now enables you to love others the way you're supposed to love them. Whereas before we couldn't do that, but now that we're a believer, we're able to do it. And so we're going to have this love for others. We're going to love the church. We're going to want to be a part of the body of Christ and just be there. And then there's also, however, another test, and that is there's going to be growth, or you're going to grow spiritually. Uh John mentions three levels of growth. Little little children and who have discovered the new things of uh of of being forgiven of their sins and then young men, those are those who are spiritually mature. Uh these are not literal ages, but spiritual levels. People who discover forgiveness and have a new walk with God, then they grow to where they're able to overcome the wicked one because they're strong in the Word. And then fathers, those are the people who have a deep walk with the Lord. And they've known him that is from the beginning, and they're more focused on uh the things of eternity than they are on this temporal world. And then another test is you're not going to love the world. Or the things that are in the world. Because what does John say? If any man love the world, what? Love the Father is not in him. If you have a love for the world You're not a believer. And John, again, is very antithetical in his writing as we've seen so far. You either walk in the light or you walk in darkness. You either confess your sins or you say you have no sin. You either love others or you don't love them. If you love others, you walk in the light. If you don't love, you're in darkness. Very antithetical. You either obey Jesus and abide in him, or you don't obey him. But here John says you either love the world or you love the Father. And if you love the world, then the love of the Father is not in you, for all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. That is not of the Father. That is of the world. Now I'm not saying that a true believer can't last in the worldliness. I'm not saying that uh that the world can't draw you in from time to time because it can. True believers can be sucked in by the world. That's why Paul said I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your body a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, and be not what? Conform to this world he's talking to believers there Why? Because the world is constantly from the outside trying to conform you, trying to press you into its mold. That's literally what it means there. But be he transformed by the renewing of your mind. You know how you keep from lapsing into worldliness is the constant renewal of God's word in your mind. The renewal of scripture in your mind. So you're either being conformed by the world or transformed by the word. So it's possible for a believer to lapse in the worldliness, but if you're a true believer, you're not going to stay there. And the world doesn't have the pull over you that it once did. Remember, I said the world is like an old girlfriend that tries to bring you back, but you're already married to Christ. You already have a new master, and you refuse to be lured in by the world, but the world can still try to pull you in. That's why James says that when you are worldly, you're committing spiritual adultery. He said, You adulterers and adulteresses, you're friends of the world. And so, but however, the pattern of the life of a true believer is that you'll have victory over the world. John said, this is the victory that overcometh the world. What? Even our faith. So you're going to have a faith that will help you overcome the seduction of the world, the lies of the world, the empty vanities of the world that try to pull you in and capture you all the time, you're going to be able to overcome that because This is the victory that overcomes the world. It is our faith. Faith in truth. Faith in what God says. So that's another test that John gives. And then another test he gave in chapter two was your ability to discern. Look in verse eighteen of chapter two. Little children, it is the last time, and you have heard that Antichrist shall come. Even now there are many Antichrists whereby we know It is the last time. We know that we're living in the last days because the spirit of Antichrist is all around. And what is Antichrist? It is a the spirit that wants to present things instead of Christ. I read this afternoon a troubling article. Did you know that there are certain pastors now that are signing up to get this AI software that presents Jesus Christ. It's almost like you're having a conversation with Jesus Christ. And they're giving that to their churches for them to get counsel from Jesus. So you go to the AI software, you plug in, you ask Jesus your question, and AI, supposing to be Jesus, gives you the answer. I I just am shocked that pastors would actually sign up for that. I mean that is the definition of Antichrist. Instead of Christ, a substitute for Christ. AI now is supposed to know how Jesus would answer these questions? That's pretty scary. John says, look, even now are there many Antichrists, whereby we know it is the last time. And what's the whole point? Well, but because you have an unction from the Holy One, and this is a word that the Gnostic false teachers in John's Day would use all the time. They talked about a charisma. And they would say to those believers, Oh, you don't have this elite knowledge that we have. You need the unction, you need the anointing like we have. And John says, That's not true. You have the Holy Spirit, you already know everything you need to know And that is in the sense that you have the ability to know truth because of the Holy Spirit, and you can discern truth from error. You have the anointing. If you're saved, you have all the Holy Spirit. You got what you need. I always wonder about these Christians out there praying for more of the Holy Spirit. Look, you already have all of the Holy Spirit. God doesn't give His Spirit by measure, Paul said in Romans 12. The question is, does the Holy Spirit have all of you? You don't need to pray for more of the Spirit. You have what you need. And He's given you the ability to discern between truth and between error and to know what's right, what's true. And John says, he says therefore in verse 24, chapter 2, let that therefore abide in you which you've heard from the beginning. That which you heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son and in the Father. You just hold on to the truth of the gospel that you've been taught from the very beginning. There's no such thing as a new and improved truth Or knew and improved gospel, or knew and improved Jesus, and you're not going to find some crazy idea out there that suddenly frees you and gives you this extra knowledge and this, you know experience, spiritual experience, which is what the Gnostic teachers were teaching the people of that day. No, you already have all you have all you need, and you have the discernment to need to know what is right and what is not right. Now all that to say That when you come to verse 28 of chapter 2, then John is kind of in this r uh expression concluding the first round of tests that he just gave that I just went over with you and summarized with you. He's concluding this first round of tests. Notice what again what he says, and now little children. And now, that's kind of a concluding statement. Now, little children, this is the summary of the first presentation. Uh James Montgomery Boyce calls these two verses um an introduction to the second. He's he's concluding the first round of tests to see whether you're a real believer. And now he's going to begin the second round after this. But he's going to give some concluding remarks here in verse number 28 and verse number 29. And so notice verse 28 where he says, And now little children, abide in him. That when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. So John makes it clear that this is Jesus' coming. There's no question. He's telling these believers that he could be coming in their day. Now if that's why we teach the imminent return of Jesus Christ. John is telling these believers he's going to come. He could come. You better be ready. If John was telling those believers back that in that day, how much more should we be ready in this day that the Lord is going to come? The word he uses here for coming is parousia is the Greek word. It's a combination of the words Emi and Greek and Parabaside. Every time this word is used in the New Testament with in reference to Christ, it is always referring to his second coming. For example, write down Matthew 24, verse 27, for as lightning cometh out of the east and shineth even unto the west, so also shall the coming of the Son of Man be. Again the word coming there, parocia In Matthew 24, verse 37, but as were the days of Noah, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. Same exact word. And Matthew 24, verse 39, and knew not until the flood came and took them all away, so also the coming of the Son of Man shall be. Now this word was used in classical Greek literature to speak of the coming of a king. It was a technical expression for official visits from royal kings or emperors. So whenever this word was used, it was a technical word. And this is again referring to Jesus. John pulls it in here and he uses it to talk about the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think that it's the coming of Christ that provides some of the greatest encouragement that we can have as believers to know that Jesus Christ is coming. The Bible was saturated with prophecies about the coming of Christ. One scholar estimated that there are 1,845 references to Christ's coming in the Old Testament. And then there are 260 chapters of the New Testament that talk about it. There are 318 references to the Second Advent of Christ. That's one out of every 30 verses in the New Testament talk about the coming of Christ. Twenty-three of the twenty-seven New Testament books refer to his coming. This is a fact. It is going to happen. Our Lord is coming again just as surely as he came the first time. He is coming again the second time. And so we need to be ready for that. And notice the certainty of it. When John says in verse 28, when he shall appear, not if, but when. And note now little children abide in him that when he shall appear, he's coming. This is uh what Greek scholars call a third class condition in Greek. It's a condition of probable future. Or we could say the certainty of what is going to happen in the future. It will happen. Dr. Adrian Rogers uh used to say, we ought to live as if Jesus died yesterday, rose today, and is coming back tomorrow. Because he is coming. Again, this is the imminent return of the Lord Jesus. And the Bible tells us all about it. And by the way, this is also called the believer's hope. The believer's hope Like when we use the word hope, it means a wish. But when the Bible uses the word hope, it is a certainty. This is a certainty for us. This is not something that's a maybe. It's something that will happen. It's like we use the word, it's like I I hope the Ravens beat the Browns tonight. That's that's a that's that's uh there's a chance, but based on what I saw recently it's probably not gonna happen. That's how we use the word hope. But when the Bible uses the word hope, it is an absolute, complete certainty. And so that's the difference. We know Jesus is coming. That is our hope, our certainty. In 1 Peter 1, Peter calls this a living hope. In Titus chapter 2, verse 13, Paul calls it our blessed hope. The Bible says so much about this hope that it's this hope that removes fear. Having this removes any fear of death. Because we know that our Lord is coming. The Bible says in Colossians 1:5 that the believer's hope is laid up in heaven There is coming a day when we will meet the Lord and we know this is happening. That is our hope in heaven In Colossians 1 27 it says to whom God would make known what is the riches of his glory, of the mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. We have hope for the future because Christ now resides in us. That Christ in us is the hope of our future glory. All of that is a divine certainty. Hope is secure. We uh the Bible talks about Hebrews 6, verse 18. By two immutable things, two things that can't change, we would say God made a promise and he swore by it, in which that it is impossible for God to lie, we might have strong consolation who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope. set before us. Our hope is secure because God established that hope upon an oath, a promise that He made. And normally when a person would make an oath, they would swear by something. Swear by a city or swear by, you know, an object or a person. But God could didn't swear by anything except for his own character because there's nothing higher than God. You would swear by something bigger than you, something more important than you, something that had more authority or more significant than you But there's no one higher than God. And God, when he made this oath of our future hope, swore according to himself. That's how secure it is. Because God, who cannot lie, gave us this promise. And this hope is fulfilled in the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, it is this hope that we have that should purify us It should purify us. Look in 1 John chapter 3 and look down in verse number 3. John kind of continues on the same idea, but look in verse 3. And every man that has this hope in him, what does he do? He purifies himself, even as he that is Jesus is pure. John is saying that hope in Christ has a purifying effect. Our hope isn't just theological, it's ethical. It has moral b behavioral consequences in our life. If we believe in the return of Jesus, if we know he's coming back, it's going to impact the way that we live. If we know that one day we're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ, it's going to impact the way that we live day by day in our life. That's what he's saying. If we know that he has crowns laid up for those that live a righteous life, then we're gonna live righteously. We're going to have this hope that purifies us. In fact, this purifying hope is a test, again, that John gives for true salvation, for genuine Christianity, because if you believe this And you live according to this purifying hope, that reveals that your faith is real. So John uses the concept of purifying hope. to I think reiterate and elaborate on the moral test that he gave at the beginning of the of this letter of obedience to Christ, of wanting to walk like Christ. So this we we'll have this hope. We'll live according to this hope. I remember when I was uh uh in college I went to a very strict college and they had what was called white glove inspection. They had it all the time. I mean, you know, in this college, uh you had to you had to actually make your bed every day. You had to get up, you had to make your bed, and it had to be made with no wrinkles on it. Uh and you had to dust your bookshelves, you had to dust your desk. You had to clean the bathroom. Everything had to be pristine clean. And they would have these white glove inspections where the dorm supervisor would come in and he would inspect a room. And the thing that you didn't want to see if you came back after class is that pink slip laying on your desk. Or on your bed or on your bookshelves. Why? Because what did that say? You had demerits Now demerits might not sound like painful things, but if you got so many of these demerits, you were punished, you were get re you were restricted. You could be campused, which meant you can't get off the campus, you can't go anywhere, you had to stay in your dorm room. And in my case, the only thing that really motivated me, if you got campus, you couldn't talk to your girlfriend, and I had Carolyn with my girlfriend at that time. I wanted to talk to Carolyn. But if I got so many demerits, I couldn't sit next to her in chapel, I couldn't talk to her. So I was motivated. But here here's the secret. They didn't have the they didn't have the wake-up inspection every day. I mean it wasn't every day. But we didn't know when they were going to have it. So it could be any day. So you could take a chance to say, you know what, I'm not going to make my bed today. Because I don't believe they're gonna come today and come back and see a big demeris lip there. You know. I the idea was we didn't know when they were gonna come and so what did that what did that cause us to do? The every day to purify the room. Every day make your bed, every day dust your bookshelves, every day, make sure that everything was straight so that you could be confident. You could return to your your room in total confidence. I'm not worried I I did everything I needed to do. I I purified my room uh with Mr. Clean. And uh Now, this is the whole principle that John is talking about here. That this hope that we have in the coming of Christ will impact the way we live our life. The way we operate as Christians. In fact, what we see here are three qualities of a believer who is ready for the coming of Christ. This purifying hope. Here's the first quality. Number one, we're going to live with perseverance. Perseverance. Look again in verse number 28. And now, little children, abide in Him. That when he shall appear we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. Notice the word abide. It's translated remain in verse 24. And continue in other places is that same Greek word meno to remain in, to continue in. And John is saying is you continue in what you've heard and what you've been taught, if you continue in that If you abide in that, if you're obedient to him, then when he comes, you won't be ashamed. This perseverance will be a part of your life In other words, a true Christianity doesn't just say, well, I'm going to try Christianity out for a little bit, and if it doesn't work, I'm just going to try something else. What does that reveal? You didn't have it to begin with. Look at chapter 2 verse 19. They went out from us, but they were not of us. Had they been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us, but they went out that it might be made manifest that they were not all of us. John says they went out because they were never really of us to begin with. You see, we, if your truth, if your faith is real, then you're going to persevere. You're going to continue, the word continue here in imperative, a command, present tense, continual action. This is the doctrine called the perseverance of the saints. The perseverance of the saints. True Christians hold on to the faith tenaciously. I'm not saying they don't struggle at times, but ultimately they're going to hold on to the faith. God is going to renew them in their understanding and in their repentance. Again in 1 Corinthians 15, Paul said, This moreover and brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preach unto you, which ye have received, in which you stand, by which you are saved, if You keep in memory when I preach you. That is Paul saying, look, if you continue to persevere in the gospel that you were taught, that reveals that you are saved. Jesus said, if you continue in my word, Then are you my disciples indeed? Notice, continue in my word. What is his word? It's the revealed scripture. If you continue in my word Now there's two doctrines that we get confused that I think we need to clarify. One is the the the uh Preservation of the saints, another is the perseverance of the saints. What's the difference? Preservation of the taint of the saints, we say once saved, always saved We are secure. We have eternal life. But this is from God's aspect, from God's side. The reason we can't lose our salvation is because God is holding on to us. Right? He's holding on to us. That's why I know that I will never lose my salvation. But the perseverance of the saints, that's eternal security from our perspective. God will do his part by preserving us, holding on to us, but we also on our side are going to do our part. We are going to persevere. We're going to persevere, we're going to do our part. We're not just going to live however we want to and say, oh, you know, once saved, always save. No, we will Lay hold of God. We'll do our part. God will do his part. And we see this this uh synergy in scripture in other places. I call it concurrence. You heard me use that word a lot. Where these two things are equally true, God is holding on to us, but that also means that we in return we're going to hold on to him We're going to hold on to him. We see the same synergy in Philippians 2, verse 12. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, but the very next verse says what? It's God who works in you. Yeah, you can work out your salvation. You need to do your part to do that. But you also need to realize, however, that God is the one working in you. And so it's really from both sides there. We see both both things. But the fact that God holds on to us doesn't mean that we could, you know, just be lazy. in our Christian life. And Jesus gives a parable about this. Look at it real quickly. I can't resist you seeing this. Look at Luke chapter 18 and look at this parable. I don't have time to s comment on it too much, but I do want to just at least show you the parable here. And Jesus is speaking here in Matthew, or excuse me, Luke chapter 18, verse 1. And he spake a parable unto them. To this end that men ought always to pray and not to faint. Don't quit. Just keep on. Verse 2, saying there was a j a city, there was in a city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow that in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And he would not for a while But afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God nor regard men, yet because this widow troubleth me I will revenge her, avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith, and shall not God avenge his owner lack, which cry out day and night unto him Though he bear long with them. What is this really telling us about it? Really, it's the whole idea of perseverance in the midst of a wicked and evil day. Just like this woman would not give up. She was persistent. She wanted justice before this unjust judge, and he wouldn't give it to her, but she didn't give up. She kept coming back again and again and again. And this judge finally realized this woman is not going to go away. She's not going to go away. I just need to give her what she wants. So that she will not weary me anymore. And he realized he wasn't a just judge. He said, I don't fear God or man. And I'm not doing it because I fear God or man. I'm doing it because this woman is wearing me out. And notice how Jesus ends it. Look at verse 8. I tell you, he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find what? Faith on earth. That's the whole idea. This is the characteristics of those who are gods. We persevere. We don't let the wickedness of the world keep us back or hold us back from persevering. And if this woman can get what she needed from an unjust judge, we should surely be able to get what we need from a gracious, loving Father who's willing to give us all that we need. And so that's the idea of perseverance. We're going to continue it. Continue in what? We're going to continue in the Word of God. We're going to continue in the church. We're going to persevere in all these things. So that's one thing that we see here, and that's perseverance. But here's the second thing. Move on quickly, confidence. Confidence. Look again in 1 John 2, verse 28. And now, little children, abide in him that when he shall appear, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. And the word confidence here, uh I think there's a plate on words here in Greek. It's the comp word confidence is parasea. The word coming is parocia. So you can kind of hear the how they almost sound alike. So that we can have parasia at his parocia. So that we can have confidence at his coming. And the word confidence here is means boldness. We have boldness because we have been obedient, because we've been living a righteous life. That is to say, when Jesus comes back, we won't be ashamed. When he comes, why would we be ashamed? Because we disappoint him with not living out the Christian life that we've been called to live. That's the whole point here. We don't want to be ashamed when the Lord appears before us. Now, some people will be assured when Jesus comes. That is, they it comes from a clean conscience, from living a godly life. We'll have boldness. Because we have nothing to hide. And we know that we're right with God. We kept short accounts with God. And we're courageous because we have not compromised with the world and the evil of this world. And why is that important? Again, because there will be a judgment seat even for believers. The Bible says we all must appear before the judgment seat of Christ. This isn't a judgment seat that will condemn us, but will decide whether or not we are worthy of reward. All our works will be tried with what? With fire, right? Paul said that in First Corinthians um he talked about being our works being tried by fire fire as believers, we don't fear the fire of hell, we fear the fire of heaven. We want to make sure our works stand in that day and that we're accepted Or that rather we're acceptable, I should say. We already know that we're accepted in the beloved. When you're saved, you're accepted by Christ. There's no condemnation. You're never going to lose that You might be accepted by Christ, but you may not be acceptable when he returns. There's a difference between being accepted and acceptable. Here's a mother who gets her little boy ready for church and she you know scrubs him up and she puts on his nice little suit and you know and she says now you wait here while I get ready and he goes out the door and he finds some kids down the street Decides to play with them, it's a muddy day. He comes back when it's time for church and he's all muddy. You know what? Is he accepted by that mom? Yes. Is he acceptable to that mom? No We understand the difference. We are accepted by Christ, but we may not be acceptable. Some people will be ex will be ashamed when he comes. Again in verse twenty eight, when he says, that we may have confidence and not be ashamed before him at his coming. The ashamed literally, we could translate it shall shrink in shame when he comets. comes. You know what the Lord wants? He wants a church that's a pure bride. He wants people that walk in holiness. To live out the righteousness that's been imparted to us by the Holy Spirit. But then here's the third thing quickly. Qualities of a believer that's living in that hope of his coming is perseverance. There'll be perseverance, there'll be confidence, and then finally there'll be assurance. Look at verse 29. If you know that he is righteous, You know that everyone that doeth righteousness is born of him. Interesting word. You know if you know that he's righteous. Now the look at the word no there. It's used twice in verse twenty nine. But the two in English it's the same word, but in the Greek it's two different words. The first time it uses the word no, it's Oda Which means absolute knowledge, something that you've learned absolutely, that was taught, you understand that. That's the kind of knowledge But then the second time the word no is used in verse 29, it is a different Greek word. It's Kenosko, and this is knowledge by experience. Knowledge by experience. And so, you see John's logic? We know Jesus is righteous, right? That's end of discussion. Is he righteous? He's absolutely righteous. We know that. We've learned that. We see that. But the thing that we'll learn by experience is that everyone that doeth righteousness is born of him. We know our master is righteous. And again, John is pointing to another objective evidence of assurance. True believers. practice righteousness. If you see someone in their life practicing this righteousness, what do you know? You know that anyone who practices this righteousness in their life is born of God. God, you know that they are a child of God. They don't get that righteousness from themselves. They you know that they're born of Him Because he's righteous and when we get saved, he imputes to us the righteousness of Christ. God looks at us like Christ now, but he also gives us imparted righteousness. He gives us the ability to live out that righteousness. So therefore if you see someone obeying Christ and trying to live out that righteousness, you can know, you can have assurance that that person is born of him. You'll have assurance when he comes. won't have to worry about whether or not he'll take you with him because you'll you have that uh you have that assurance And so what John is doing here is he's unmasking the phone he's really he's giving this in light of the Gnostic false teachers who claim to be born of God, but they were living an unrighteous life. And John says, you know, only those who are living righteous lives. They're the ones born of him. But then he also is helping us to understand righteousness. God is righteous. And therefore his children will, those who are truly his, will walk in righteousness. So these are the three three qualities of a believer who is ready. for the return of Jesus Christ. You'll have perseverance, you'll have confidence, you'll have assurance. When he comes, you won't be ashamed. During his uh 1960 presidential campaign, John F. Kennedy would often close his speeches with a story, a story from that ha something that took place in early American history. It's the story of the uh Speaker of the Connecticut House, Colonel Davenport. On May the nineteenth, seventeen ninety, the skies of Harford, Connecticut grew very, very dark. The skies were very ominous and it Frankly scared many of the representatives that were glancing out the windows. They saw this horrible sky and they feared this fierce storm that was blowing in. And a few men were kind of wanting to adjourn. And the Speaker of the House, Davenport, rose up and he said, Look, the jet the day of judgment is either approaching or it's not If it's not, there's no cause for adjournment. If it is, I choose to be found doing my duty. So let's just continue on and relax. If we know that Christ is coming and he is coming, then it should provoke us to purity It should provoke us to live the way God wants us to live. We're to be lights in this dark world so that when the Lord comes, we won't be ashamed when he comes. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, thank you for the assurance that your word gives us. And how, Lord, you want us to have absolute certainty of our own soul before you. And these tests are given to believers who are struggling, many of them that were taught the wrong thing. And many of them had that sweet assurance that they had wrestled away from them from lies and false doctrines. And and yet, Lord, you rose up your servant John to write this letter. to help us to know what true Christianity is all about, authentic Christianity, to have a true, genuine assurance of our salvation. Father, help us to examine our own heart and life in light of what your word says. And my prayer is that every person here tonight will have that absolute biblical assurance that They know Christ, that their sins are forgiven, that they know that they know that they're on their way to heaven. May they know it so well that they're able to teach others how they can know. Give them these same assurances that you've given us. Do your work in every heart for your own glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.