Would you take God's word tonight, please? Open to the book of Philippians. We've been looking at uh Philippians on Sunday night, and I want you to look in chapter 1 and find verse number 20. And we're going to look at verse 20 down to verse 26. There was an ancient coin that was discovered that had interesting imprints on either side of it. On one side it had an ox that was with a plow, and then you turn the coin over, there was an ox that was at an altar, and the inscription at the bottom of the coin read, ready for either. And one missionary organization that discovered the coin and the motto adopted it as their logo for their organization. Because that's really the idea of living the Christian life. We're ready to serve and we're ready to sacrifice Now, this was really the way Paul lived his life. He was ready for either. The one thing that Paul lived for was to magnify Christ. And if he could magnify Christ in his life, well then he wanted to live a life for Christ. And if he could magnify Christ by his death, well, then he was ready to die if that's what the Lord Wills. And so that was the real question of his life. How can I best magnify the Son of God? Um look down at verse number twenty-one. For me for to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. And so verse twenty two, but if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. What yet what shall I what I shall choose, I woke not. For I am in a straight betwixt two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. And so Paul is uh he is in prison and he knows that it's very possible that he could live, he could get off, or he could die. But either way, he wanted to magnify Christ. Back up to verse number twenty. According to my earnest expectation and my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. And so again, that was the passion of the Apostle Paul. He wanted to magnify Christ. Now the question we have to ask ourselves: is it possible for us to magnify the Son of God? How can we as mere mortal, sinful people magnify the Lord Jesus Christ. The word magnify here is mega luna, which means to enlarge or to exalt. So again, the question is how can we uh enlarge Christ? How can we do that? You know, uh when you look up at the sky at uh uh stars, uh they they look pretty small. But you look through a telescope and what does that telescope do? It it it it enlarges those stars, doesn't it? And it brings the stars closer. Well that's exactly how a believer magnifies the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, we are the lens through which the world can see Christ. Through our life, we make Christ bigger and then we also bring him closer. to those that don't know the Lord Jesus. And so this is what Paul wanted to do. He wanted to magnify the Lord Jesus Christ. Now remember his circumstances. Let's kind of remember the context. Remember the situation that Paul is in. Remember he's in Rome, he's in prison, he's under house arrest, he's waiting to appear before Caesar in court. We looked at verse number seven. Verse 7 where it talks about his defense and confirmation of the gospel. The word defense is uh apologia, and uh it's a word that basically is a It's a court word where you're mounting a defense, making an argument in defense of something. The the emperor on the throne at r at uh Rome at this time is the cruel man named Nero. And uh he was arbitrary, he was wicked, he was unpredictable. And Paul is musing about his situation. He knows he's going to stand before Caesar and he's thinking, you know, I I could stand for him before him and I I could live Or I could be put to death. He knew that Nero, there's no r rhyme or reason to a lot of his decisions or a lot of the things that he wanted to do And so he knows that his life could be taken from him. But again, look at verse 21. This is such a tremendous verse. For to me to live is Christ. And to die is gain. He said, if I live, it'll be for Christ. If I die, it's gain. Actually the word is is not present in the Greek text, so we could literally read it like this. For me to live Christ. To die, gain. And that's the way Paul looked at it. The the whole purpose of Paul's life His whole mission statement can be summed up in one word. Christ. You ever hear people say, well, I have a mission statement for my life? Well, Paul had one. It wasn't very long. It was this, Christ. For me to live is Christ. It's all about Christ. My life is all about him. And he didn't have a purpose-driven life. He had a person-driven life. He was driven by that person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul is saying, if I can best magnify the Lord through my life, then so be it. If I can magnify the Lord best through my death, then that's even better. And so we see then Paul's circumstances, but then also his confidence. Now, Paul was not absolutely sure what would happen. He kind of thought that he would be delivered. Um I mean he he he knew he could die. I think he was thinking that the Lord was going to allow him to live, but either way, he was going to be delivered. Either way he was going to be free. Paul was kind of looking into the foggy future, and he wasn't sure exactly what was going to happen, but yet he was totally confident. He was absolutely confident. How? Well, if he if he was delivered, Paul said, you know, that's wonderful. It's going to be Christ. Again, if if if if he was going to die, well he would be delivered by death. So he'd either be delivered in life or he'll be delivered by death. But either way, he's going to be delivered. That's kinda like a a no you ever hear of a no win scenario? Well this is a no lose scenario. For Paul. Paul said, I can't lose here. I'm going to win. Heads I win, tails I win. That's the way he looked at this. So I want you to learn with me both sides of this coin here And really it it's very simple. We need to have the same attitude as the Apostle Paul as we serve the Lord here. We have to be ready for either. Our whole passion, our whole desire in this life should be to magnify Christ. As long as God gives us breath, as long as we're here on this earth, we should live to magnify Christ. And if God in His providence allows us to die to be taken, well, that is so much better. That's all the better. And so let's talk about first the first side service. To live is Christ. What does Paul mean when he says to live is Christ? Well, let me give you a few things I think it means. First of all, it's standing firm for Christ. Standing firm. Again, look at verse number 20. According to my earnest expectation and my hope. That in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness as always. So now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. Paul was confident that God was going to help him to be bold when he stood before Nero. The word boldness here is a word that actually means freedom in speech. And uh you know put yourself in Paul's situation. I don't know if you've ever been to court, but it's uh it's always a kind of a a uh a fearful prospect when you know you're going to stand before a judge in court. And here's Paul. He's going to go to court in Rome, but he's not going to stand before just any judge. He's going to be standing before Nero. Himself, who was so unpredictable and irrational, as I said before, uh one was extremely careful uh when they were around Nero. Let me give you some some uh some facts I dug up about him um just to kind of give you an uh uh a little bit of an understanding of uh how dangerous this man was Nero poisoned his own brother because of something that his mother said. When Nero poisoned him, he watched him die with no emotion. And yet the crowds mourned for his brother, and so Nero pretended to weep. He cried to have his own mother drowned in the sea, but she managed to escape. And Nero hearing that she escaped sent a servant with a sword to finish the job. So he had his own mother killed It was said that Nero loved attention, he loved to be up go on stage and perform, even though he had a poor voice and he was a terrible actor. His service with people around him told him what a great actor he was and how he had a tremendous voice because they were afraid to tell him the truth for fear of The poor people were admitted free of charge at the games that he provided. Only one condition that they applaud The loudest and cheer the loudest for Nero and his favorites in the games. There was a comment that appeared around the time of the reign of Nero, and some of the superstitious Romans ventured to suggest that it was a sign of a new reign. In other words, the comet was a sign that a new emperor was coming. And when Nero heard these words, it displeased him so much that he ordered an investigation. All the people that spoke those words were put to death. He had 'em all put to death. Uh for the sake of excitement, Nero used to put on a disguise and go out on the highways to rob and murder travelers. On one occasion, he attacked a senator who, failing to recognize him, struck him with a blow The very next day the senator found out who the robber was, and hoping to uh to swage him or dis disarm his rage, he went in to apologize and humbly beg for his life, and Nero commanded this man to take his own life. to commit suicide. And the man he did it. He took his own life. He was afraid not to listen to Nero for fear of what he would do to his family. And then Nero asked the Roman Senate to approve his urban renewal project. You've probably heard me talk about this before. The Senate voted down his project to uh of urban renewal at a certain place in the city of Rome and so Nero sent out some of his own henchmen to set that section on fire and when it got out of hand much of the city of Rome burned And and Nero was blamed for it and uh he had to find a scapegoat, so he blamed the Christians. And he he said it was the Christian. They were always talking about a baptism of fire. And so it was open season on the Christians This nearer would would throw Christians to hungry lions. He would have them pulled pulled apart with horses. He would impale them on wooden stakes, dip their bodies in wax, and set them on fire to light up his chariot racial He would have them sewn in animal skins and thrown into wild dogs. Now, this was the judge that Paul was going to appear before. Now, I don't know about you, but if I had to stand before Nero, I think I would be a little bit fearful. I'd be a little bit careful about what I would say and how I would say it. But what what's Paul's concern? Paul says in verse 20, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness as always, so now also Christ shall be ashamed. magnified. All he wanted to do was clearly give the gospel. He wanted to magnify Jesus Christ. And if he died, he said, that's fine. That's all the better. His concern was to be bold. And the earnest expectation is a is a very interesting word. Like you're you can't wait for what is ahead. You're ready and you want to this event to happen. Uh and so here's Paul, and uh I I would say, you know If if Nero's not ready right now, that's okay. Let him take his time. You know, I'm not in a rush to stand before him, but not Paul. Paul said, I'm ready. Let's do this thing I'm ready to defend the gospel. I'm ready. This is my earnest expectation and my hope because he felt like that uh he had an incredible opportunity to magnify the Lord Jesus Christ before the most corrupt earthly ruler that there was. I mean, what an opportunity to really magnify the Lord Jesus Christ. John Fellows wrote this: the apostle expected to magnify the Lord Jesus before the wretched man and corrupt court. It did not matter to Paul that he would likely pay for his candor with his life. And that in that case, Christ would be magnified. Uh again he was he wasn't afraid of death. The only thing he was afraid of was to be put to shame. And Paul knew that with the help of God he would not be put to shame, but that he would truly, truly magnify the Lord Lord Jesus Christ. And so uh he had he was he meant it meant to him standing firm for Christ. But also at number two it meant staying fruitful for Christ. Look at verse number 22. But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. Paul is saying, if God allows me to live, I want to keep being fruitful. We could actually say it like this. This will mean fruitful labor for me. If Paul lived in the physical world, he fully expected that it would result in fruitful labor. Because he just can planned on continuing to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh so that's what that's what he meant when he said, for me to live, it's Christ. I'm just going to keep on serving Christ. I'm going to keep on laboring for Christ. I believe that there will be more fruit that will take place. And what did Paul mean by fruit? It meant that it was the the In Romans 113, Paul said to the Romans, I had planned to come to you that I might obtain some fruit among you. That's a reference to converts. Paul was thinking he wanted more people to come to know Jesus. In 1 Corinthians 16, 15, he talked about the house household of Stephanus. They were the first fruits of a cha. And Philippians 1 verse 11, as Christians were to be filled with the fruits of righteousness, so it meant for Paul, righteous living. And of course we know in Galatians five, verses twenty-two and twenty-three it speaks about the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, uh, and and so on, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, and and so so on. And also in Hebrews 13 verse 15, we're to offer the sacrifice of praise to God that is the fruit of our lips. that give thanks to his name. So all of this is spiritual fruit. All the works that we do, all the words that we speak, our our actions, our attitude, all of that is done to magnify the Lord Jesus Christ. And not just Brings more fruit. So for Paul, to live as Christ meant standing firmly for Christ. It meant staying fruitful for Christ. But then here's the next thing I think Look again at verse twenty-two. He says, Yet what I shall choose I woke not For I am a straight betwixt two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for humanity. And we see here that Paul was submissive to God's providential will. Again, he wasn't absolutely certain what was going to happen He said, I'm in a straight betwixt two. This is a straight betwixt two is from one word in the Greek, soon echoed, literally hard-pressed. Uh we could say it like this. I'm I'm I'm hard pressed in both directions. I mean I I feel the pull on each side. We could say it like that. This is a word that speaks of a traveler traveling down a narrow path where there's a a wall on each side. And uh Paul felt someone said Paul was between a rock and a hard place here. And uh he said, I'm being pressured from both sides. And what was causing the pressure? Well, his own desires He had a desire to go to heaven. He had a desire also to stay and continue on. And this is what was causing this pressure Uh, to go and be with Christ, man, that was appealing. In fact, I think Paul desired that more. But he also looked at the work, he looked at what needed to be done, and he said, you know what, I I want to stay here and I want to continue on here. And so both of these things were pulling at him. He said, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ. The word desire here, a very strong desire. The word depart here, again an interesting word. This is the same word that Paul would use in 2 Timothy 4, 6. uh the time of my departure is at hand. Um and so Paul knew what would take place when he died. Uh he he knew it wasn't going to be soul sleep I mean why would he have this I I've heard people argue about oh you know when you when you die your soul goes to sleep and then one day we're all resurrected, our soul to go with you be with the Lord, but until that time uh there soul sleep. Listen, Paul wouldn't feel this way if soul sleep were true. Paul would say, you know what, I'm just going to stay here. I don't want to sleep I want to keep on working for Christ. The only way Paul could say, I have a desire to depart and to be with Christ is knowing that once he died, where would he be? He would be immediately, instantly in the presence of the Lord Immediately with the Lord Jesus. That's the only way this makes sense. So he was longing to be with the Lord. But Paul was willing to submit to whatever God's sovereign will was. He knew it was all in God's hands. So in essence, he was saying, you know, I'd rather go to heaven, but I'm okay staying here. Really, it's whatever the Lord wants. Whatever God decides. Whatever is going to magnify Christ the more. That is what I'm willing to do. And so Paul found it impossible for him to choose for himself. But uh So it meant that he was submitted freely to Christ. Standing firm for Christ, staying fruitful for Christ, submitted freely to Christ. But here's another thing it meant. It meant striving forward for Christ Look at verse 25. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for the furtherance for your furtherance and joy of faith. That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you. Again, Paul felt confident that God was going to spare his life, allow him to stay longer, and just serve more. I think that uh if he if he knew that the Lord was going to take him, he probably would have said that. In fact, later on when he writes 2 Timothy, he says to Timothy, the time of my departure is at hand. He knew that he wasn't going to get another chance at that point. He knew that it was his time and God was going to take him home. But here, he has the sense, even though he wasn't sure, he had the sense that God was going to spare his life. And that he was going to remain with them. He was going to abide with them. Look again in verse 25. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide. That's the word meno. Um, abide and continue, parameno. It's kind of a play on words there. I'm gonna meno and para meno. with you for your furtherance and joy of faith. The word furtherance here, we already saw this word in verse 12 means blazing a trail. For the gospel, opening up new doors and opportunities. It's the idea of an advance. I think that God's going to leave me here to see the advancement of your faith. And of your joy. In other words, he had the sense that God wasn't finished with him just yet, because there was more for him to do. And so in verse 26 he says that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again. And so Paul was confident about it. Um he was confident about the Lord leaving him there. So that that their faith would grow, the gospel would continue to advance, God was not done with his servant. And so he was ready to just continue moving forward for Christ. Uh Paul, you know, he he didn't he wasn't uh looking for retirement. He he planned to continue striving forward until the Lord called him home. He was just going to keep on keeping on. But let's look at the other side. First, we see service. Paul said, for me to live is Christ. Then let's look at the other side of the coin. Sacrifice. To die is gain. We magnify Christ not only by how we live life, but also by how we face death. Now the world would read a verse like this and they would say, Paul is crazy. In fact, they look at Christians who are not afraid of death and rejoice at the prospect of death, and they say, You people are nuts. You're crazy. And of course we would expect them to to think that way because they don't understand the reality of heaven that we understand. They don't have the Word of God like we have. Or they don't believe it. They can't understand this idea of to die is gain. The world says to die is pain. Nothing about gain in it. The Egyptians at every feast had a extraordinary visitor who sat at the head table. He didn't eat, drink, or speak. He wore a veil. He was a skeleton placed there as a reminder of death. And uh it was to remind them that your life is very short. That's a morbid way to kind of look at life and live life. A man fell ill in Paris right after the death of Voltaire the atheist the unbeliever. And a professional nurse was called on the phone and she was asked to come and attend this man at his dying and she said, Well is this man a Christian? And the person said, Well, why do you ask? She said, Because I'm the nurse who attended Voltaire at his last illness, and for all the wealth in Europe, I'm not going to be at the bedside of another unbeliever when they die. When Queen Elizabeth I was dying, she turned to her lady in waiting and said, Oh my, it's over, it's over, I've come to the end, it's the end, it's the end And so the world, that's their perspective. To die is pain. But for the believer, we know that death is not the end. Death is the beginning. It's the beginning for believers in Christ. And so Paul can look at death and he can rejoice and he can say to die is gain. Look at the word gain there. It's the Greek word kurdas. And it means a profit made on an investment. We could translate it dividend. Paul is saying, you know, if I die, I'm going to cash in all my investments and I'm going to receive the principal and the interest. So I'll have even more uh when I was living for Christ, I'll have even more when I die. I'll have all of the inheritance, I'll see Christ face to face, all of my investments will be cashed in, I'm gonna be rich. Heads I win, tails I win. No matter what happens, it's going to be okay. And what did death mean for Paul? Well look again at verse number 22 He said, To depart is far better. Now Greek scholars tell us he's pulling up comparatives here. We could say it like this in English, to depart is very, very, very, very, very, very much better. Better. Now that might not be good English, but it's good Greek. It's a very interesting word, this word to depart. Again, it's only used twice in the New Testament. One time it's used here in Philippians. Paul uses it again in 2 Timothy. Each time it's used to speak of death. Again, each time it's used by Paul, it's a euphemism for death. And uh The Greek word is aneluo. Analuo. And uh it's actually where we get our word analysis from. But when it's used in uh classical Greek literature, that is Look the Greek that was used back in Paul's day. Uh it was used in many different ways. First of all, it was a nautical term. It was used by sailors and it meant to untie a ship. It's the idea of a ship Going forth from its moorings, being loosened. And uh and that's the way we can think of death as believers. This is what death is to a believer. They leave this shore, they go to the other shore. It's moving to another shore. People on this side say there he goes. People on the other side say there he comes. It's a voyage to the shore. It's a martial term. It was used by soldiers. It meant to loosen the tent pegs, to take down your tent, to fold your tent. Paul said this in 2 Corinthians 5. 1, for we know that if our earthly house or this tabernacle were dissolved or folded Peter said this in 2 Peter 1. 14, knowing that surely I must put off this my tabernacle. So death for a believer is moving out of this tent. This tent is meant to be temporary. It's moving into a house not made with hands, an eternal home that God prepares for his people. It's just moving into another location. A bank in Binghamton, New York, where I used to pastor, sent some flowers to a uh a competitor who had recently moved into a new building. And there was a mix-up at the flower shop and the card sent with the arrangement read this with deepest sympathy. And the forest was greatly embarrassed and apologized. that mixed up. But they were even more embarrassed when they realized that the card intended for the bank was attached to a floral arrangement that was sent to a funeral home and the card read, Congratulations on your new location. Well, I mean that's what it is. For a believer at death we get a new location. And that location is heaven. But this was a political term that meant loosening of a prisoner, setting a prisoner free, taking off the shackles. And the body, we thank God for this body. But there comes a time when this body of ours it starts to give way, give out, and it becomes more like a prison 'cause we're not able to do the things that we once could do do and the things that we long to do. And and death for a Christian is being freed from a prison. But also it was an agricultural term. It meant to loosen the oxen of their yoke, to lay down the burden. And we know that in this life we all carry burdens, but death is when we lay all those burdens down. Thank God that we're going to lay down these burdens one day when we get that And it was also a philosophical term. It means to unravel a mystery. It's the idea that you really can't you can't really comprehend something, but finally it dawns on you. You ever uh You ever try to think through a problem and you just can't really get to the end of that problem? There was a man who stayed up all night wondering what happened to the sun and finally it dawned on him. It's when you finally understand. We didn't I think in heaven we're gonna have a lot of questions answered simply when we get there. And uh it'll dawn on us the reason certain things are. But it's also a biological term. It means to set to be set free from a cocoon or a shell. And again, this body is like a shell. And one day we're going to be set free from this life here to go be with God. the Lord in heaven. And so those are th those are just some of the ways that this word was used. That's why it's such an interesting word. And Paul chose to use this word when he said, you know, to depart to depart and to be with Christ is so much better. It is far, far better to go and to be with Christ. And that's really what he longed for But again, for Paul, whether by life or whether by death, he was ready for either. He just wanted to magnify the Lord Lord Jesus Christ. Can you say that? Can you say that for me to live, I'm gonna live for Christ. If I die, it's gonna be better. It's gonna be gained But it's whatever God wants. I'm submitted to whatever God wants. So, Father, do your will. Just help me to magnify the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that all of us can learn to live that way. What a wonderful way to live. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Just with your heads bowed, would you just take a moment and ask God to give you the same passion that Paul had Help us ask God to help us live our whole life to magnify Christ. And also to be ready to understand that for the believer death is gain. It's so much better. Just go and be with the Lord to loosen the yoke, lay down our burdens, go to that celestial shore, to move locations If God calls us, then so be it. We cash in all of our investments. We reap an eternal reward. And friend, if you're here tonight and you've never put your faith in Christ, I would encourage you to do that right now. Or if you're not absolutely sure of your own soul salvation, I would encourage you to make it sure right where you are Just reach out in prayer. Say, Lord, save me. Doesn't have to be an eloquent prayer, but it has to be a prayer that was filled with repentance. And faith, turning from sin, turning to the Savior. Father, be merciful to me. God be merciful to me and save me. Me, a sinner. Me the sinner. Save me, and you'll find mercy. And you could say with Paul, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Father, may this be true of our lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.