Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall prosper that love thee. Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces. For my brethren and companion's sakes, I will now say, Peace be within thee, and because of the house of the Lord our God will I seek thy good. Now, if you've been with us on Wednesday night, you know in these pilgrim psalms, these are psalms that were sung by the Jewish pilgrims on their way into Jerusalem for the various feasts and holy days. And so this was a long journey for a lot of them. You remember in Psalm 120, uh the the the travelers started all the way from the othermost parts of the north of Meshach, and he had a long way to go. And so these were travelers that came from all over And they took a long, sometimes arduous journey to get to Jerusalem. Now remember, these are called Psalms of Ascent because they're literally going up. Jerusalem is located geographically 2,800 feet above sea level, and so anyone traveling into the city would be going upward. They would be ascending into Mount Zion. Now put yourself in their sandals, I guess you could say. They had a long journey. Some traveled weeks, some even perhaps longer than that And when they finally got close to Jerusalem and the city got in sight, there was a surge of adrenaline, there was a surge of joy. There was a surge of anticipation of being in God's house. In fact, it's probably hard to describe the emotion that they felt. when finally their eyes laid on Jerusalem. The city provoked such profound emotion to any pilgrim traveler that was entering into it. I guess the thing I would probably compare it to is have you ever taken your children to Disney World? You know, on that trip? Are we there yet, Dad? Are we there yet? And then finally When you get close, they're able to see the I've never been there, so I don't know what you see, but pray for me, maybe one day I can go. A big castle like thing, I guess, right? Something beautiful and the kids are so excited and they're filled with the anticipation of all the fun that they're going to have. Well you kind of multiply that a little bit and you have a sense of what the pilgrims were feeling when they were traveling into Jerusalem. Now someone might ask, why does Jerusalem provoke such emotion? Because in the Old Testament, this is where God dwelt. For the Old Testament believer, God resided in Jerusalem. No other place on earth could claim such a distinction. In fact, Deuteronomy 12, 5 says, But unto this place, which the Lord your God shall choose out of all of your tribes to put his name Even unto his habitation shall ye seek, and thou shalt come. This was the place of God's habitation on earth. This was the place where God put his name. Now you might be sitting there and saying, well that's all good, but how does Jerusalem speak to me today? Well actually we can look at Jerusalem three ways. First of all, we can look at the literal Jerusalem, national Jerusalem, I could call it, the literal city, and Jerusalem is at the center of God's plans. Did you know that? If you want to know what's going to happen in the end days, keep one eye on the Bible and one eye on Jerusalem. Because it's still in the center of God's prophetic plan. Uh as a just a little brief history of the city. It was a Canaanite city of Jebas. David captured it in 2 Samuel. He made it his capital city. He moved the ark into Jerusalem Later on, Solomon built the temple on the prominent hill there, Mount Zion, because the Bible says this was the place that God had chosen. We see that in many Psalms. And with the coming of the ark to the city, then it became the city of God. This was the center of worship. This was the center of activity for Israel. The wicked King Jeroboam tried to replace Jerusalem with a city of Bethel up in or up in Dan He tries to replace that as the center of worship and move it north around him, but all of that failed because this was the place that God chose. This was the center of Israel's life. There, judgments were made. There at Jerusalem, God's law was read. Holy festivals were celebrated. God called again this place his dwelling. The prayer of an Israelite regarding Jerusalem would be Psalm 274, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life To gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to seek him in his temple. By the way, did you know someone would sit you may be sitting there thinking, Boy, I would like to go to Jerusalem. Well, if you're saved and you know the Lord Jesus, you're going You say when? When the Lord returns, when he sets up his millennial reign, the Bible says in Micah 4 that all of the nations and the peoples will come into Mount Zion, and we will hear him teach the word of the Lord. Isn't that going to be exciting? And from there, Jesus will reign. So we can look at Jerusalem, national Jerusalem, in a literal way, but also we could look at this city in a metaphorical way We call this the New Jerusalem. Did you know that Jerusalem stands for heaven? Now Zion points to heaven. I probably told you that before. This symbolically speaks of our place in heaven. You remember in Revelation when John saw the s uh the heaven? He wrote in Revelation, and I, John, saw the holy city He was just overwhelmed that he could see heaven. By the way, your loved ones that died went to heaven. That was their thought when they first saw it. Aye, John Got to see that holy city. And then he called it this the new Jerusalem coming down out of God, from God, out of heaven. And so heaven is the new Jerusalem. And so we can look at this as heaven. In Fox's Book of Martyrs, Fox records how there was one German Christian, a very godly man. who was sentenced to martyrdom, and when they told him the news, he began to sing Psalm 122, verse 1 I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. He understood that as heaven But then thirdly, we can apply this spiritually. And we can call this the now Jerusalem, meaning the church. This is certainly the way the writer of Hebrews looks at it in Hebrews chapter twelve He applied it to the church. The church speaks of the house of the Lord, the place where we worship. And just like the Jewish pilgrims were excited to be in the house of God, to go and worship God there. There was joy. There was anticipation. There was a sense in which when we as God's people come to church, our now Jerusalem, we should have that same sense of joy and anticipation. We should say like him, I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. Are you glad at the thought of going to church? Are you glad at the thought of being in God's house? Now, let me just say, I know I'm preaching to the choir tonight. I'm preaching to the Wednesday night crowd, right? So really this is a sermon that's more suited for a Sunday morning crowd. I'll tell you that up front. So I reserve the right to re-preach this sometime, okay? on Sunday morning. So you can feel good about yourself because you're here on Wednesday night. But do you feel good about coming to the Lord's house? That Question and how we answer that tells us a lot about our spiritual life. And so the whole theme of this psalm is a love for God's house And what I want you to see in this psalm here tonight are three reasons why we should love the house of the Lord. Three reasons we should love going to God's house. And so let me give you the first one if you're taking notes. Write down number one. God's house is a place where we, number one, celebrate. It's where we celebrate. Again, look in verse 1. I was glad when they said unto me, let us go unto the house of the Lord. Now the word glad here means to rejoice, to make merry God's house should be a place of celebration. When the pilgrims went there, they didn't go there with dread, they went there with joy. They brought their worship to the house of God. Some people say, I go to God's house to get worship. No, you bring your worship. And you bring it with joy. And you bring it with celebration. That's what they did. Someone said the Christian life is not a famine or a funeral. It's a feast. And so just like they traveled to those feast days, we're coming to a feast when we come to the house of the Lord. Now first question, why do we celebrate? Well again the now Jerusalem reminds us of the new Jerusalem. That one day we will be in heaven forever, and we'll worship God forever, and we'll fellowship forever You know what the church is? The church is a colony of citizens, heavenly citizens, here on earth. It should be a colony of heaven. You remember what Paul said to the Philippians? Uh they were proud of their citizenship. Remember how the city of Philippi was a colony of Rome, even though they were eight hundred miles away from Rome, they were a colony of Rome. In fact, someone going into Macedonia and going into the city of Philippi would look around and think they were in Rome. Why? Because they wore Roman clothes. The men wore the white toga that was so characteristic of Roman dress. They spoke with one uh with Roman words, the vocabulary was Roman, and they lived like Romans, they followed Roman laws Why? They were proud of their Roman citizenship. And the Apostle Paul knew that, and he picked up on that. And then he reminded them and he said, Listen, your citizenship is in heaven. Philippians 3. 20. He was saying, just like you're proud of your Roman citizenship, you should be even more proud of the fact that you are a citizen of heaven. You understand that? We are a colony of heaven here on earth. That's what the church should be. And so we come with celebration. But then What do we celebrate? We know why, because we're on the way to Zion, the heavenly city. We are a colony of heaven. But what do we celebrate? Just one word, Jesus. We celebrate Jesus. We celebrate all about Him. We celebrate the fact that He is the redeeming, risen, returning, and reigning Lord. And every time we come to God's house, it is a celebration of the person of Jesus Christ. Now think about this. When the pilgrim Worshippers were traveling to Jerusalem. They were going there on feast days. These were prescribed by God in the Old Testament. Sometimes you want when you want to study this Look in Leviticus chapter twenty-three because it gives the seven annual feasts that the city and the nation participated in. And you know what? All of those feasts all pointed to the Lord Jesus Christ. They all pointed to who Jesus was. It pointed to the coming Messiah and the work that he would do. For example, the Passover, that pointed to Jesus, the Lamb of God, and his blood that would be shed for sin. And then there was the feast of the unleavened bread, that pointed to the his sinless life. That he was the sinless Savior. Then there was the feast of the first fruits. That pointed to his resurrection. He was the first fruits from the dead, the Apostle Paul said. And that's why he used that designation And then there was the Feast of Weeks or Pentecost. That was the beginning of the church of which Jesus was the head. Then there was the Feast of the Trumpets, which speak of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, when there's a rapture, there's going to be a trumpet sound. This speaks about the return of Christ. Then there was the feast of the tabernacles, and most scholars believe that this pointed to the fact that God would once again come and tabernacle among his people. This would be when the Lord would reign among us. And so this all spoke about Jesus. Now someone asked, did we still celebrate the feast in the church? We do. Every time we come to church, we are celebrating these feasts. You say, how? Because Christ is the fulfillment of all of that. In the Old Testament, all of that was the shadow Christ is the substance. And so every time we come to church, we are celebrating the feasts. We are celebrating the fact that Jesus is the Redeeming Lord, that's in the Passover, in the unleavened bread. We're celebrating that He's the risen Lord, that's the feast of the first fruits. We celebrate that He's the returning Lord. That's the trumpets And the Day of Atonement, we celebrate that He's the reigning Lord. That's the Feast of the Tabernacle. All of it is about Jesus. It's all about Him. Friend, that is why we celebrate And so we should love the church because when we come to church, we are feasting on Christ spiritually. We're feasting on the Word. That's what the Lord's Supper symbolizes. All of our sustenance, all of our strength It all comes from Christ. We celebrate Him. So we love God's house because this is where we celebrate. But now here's number two. We love God's house because this is where we congregate. This is where we congregate. Look at verse number two. Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem is built as a city that is compacted together. Whether the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord unto the testimony of Israel to give thanks unto the name of the Lord. This is where we come together to worship, by the way, in Leviticus 23. these special feasts and were called holy convocations, the idea of gathering together the word feast really means appointed times. This is where we Come because this is the appointed time. That's why the pilgrims went up to Jerusalem. Why? It was the appointed time. It was the time that God had said Now let me show you something I really love. First of all, write down this subpoint, the commitment to worship, because I see that in verse number two. Look at it again. Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. Now think about that. Here is a statement of absolute commitment to worship. This is a statement of resolution. He was resolved to be in God's house at God's appointed time. My feet shall stand within those gates. I'm going to be there. When it's time to worship. That's resolve. That's commitment. It's as if he's saying nothing is going to keep me from the house of God. Nothing. Now several weeks ago I had to take my laptop to get it fixed. I have a a MacBook Pro, an Apple. And uh you know when those things go on the blank, they're not hard to get fixed. And uh you have to call the Apple store and take it to the Apple store. And then you have to get an appointment. You can't just walk in and say, here, fix my laptop. It's almost like going to the doctor. You have to make an appointment. And then you have to bring it in at the appointed time. And the only time they had, and by the way, the only place is in the Columbia Mall, the only time they had was on a Saturday And so I said, I'll take the appointment. Now I remember taking my laptop to the bar, and I was thinking, first when I made the appointment, this is going to be hard, it's going to be crowded. But then when the day came to take the laptop, it was raining buckets. I mean flood warnings were out. And I remember driving there thinking, boy, this is great. There's not going to be hardly anybody there. I'll find a parking place close. I'll get in and out real quick. Boy was I wrong. The first problem I had when I went to the Columbia Moor, I mean I just raining cats and dogs. And I mean I could not find a parking place. I went through the parking garage, I went around the parking lot several times, I did several laps looking for one space. Finally, I found one close to Washington, D. C. and had a long walk in, finally got to the wall, and then I had to fight through the crowds. To get to the store on time. Everybody in the mall is just strolling along, nice and casual. I was in a hurry. It was very frustrating. Finally weaved my way through, got there, and so on. But I remember thinking, you know, I wish that some people would be as committed to going to church as some of these folks are going to the mall on Saturday. I mean it was raining and the place was still packed. I mean sometimes in God's house a little bit of rain and you know people don't come. Someone said for every drop of rain that falls a Baptist falls. But they were committed. This this man, this psalmist, he was committed. He said, nothing is going to keep me from the house of the Lord. My feet shall stand within those gates. Here's a letter that supposedly a pastor receives a New Year's letter. Said, dear pastor, you often stress attendance at worship as being very important for a Christian. But I think a person has a right to miss now and then I think every person ought to be excused for the following reasons and the number of times indicated. Christmas holidays, two Sundays, before and after. New Year's, one Sunday. Easter, two Sundays, you know, get away for the holidays. July 4th, one Sunday, Labor Day 2, Memorial Day 1, School closing, one Sunday, kids need a break, school reopenings, one last sling, that's one Sunday Family reunions, three, sleeping late, staying up too long on Saturday night, nine. Death in the family two, anniversary one, sickness five, business trip one, vacation six, you know, three to four weeks. Bad weather, two, ball games two, races two, unexpected company, can't walk out on them too. Time changes, spring and fall too. Need to recover. Special on TV like the Super Bowl and so on three. And Pastor, that leaves two Sundays per year So you encounter us to be in church on the fourth Sunday in February and the third Sunday in August unless we are providentially hindered. Signed Faithful Member. I see a bad trend among Christians. I really do. And it is this thing of putting so many things ahead of the worship of God. It's a bad trend. It's a bad spiritual pattern to get into. I think it will lead to much spiritual harm and it will stunt growth. You say, well I don't really need to be here. There are certain Sundays, well I'm fine. Okay, well let's just say that's true. Other people need you here. There are other believers that need your encouragement Do you realize your presence in the house of the Lord encourages others? And the Bible says we're to encourage one another, we're to provoke one another unto good works. This pilgrim would not dream of missing being in God's house. And so there was the commitment To worship. But write down this next thing, the closeness of worship. The closeness. Look at verse number three. Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compacted together. Now as the worshiper gets close to Jerusalem, he notices the city. And what does he notice? It's crowded. It's compacted together. In fact, the city structure is built very close together. The city is built with narrow streets, with houses that are very close together. So when they get close, you can imagine someone living in the country, wide open places, going into the city gates and seeing how compacted it is and how crowded it is, especially with all those pilgrim worshippers coming in on those various days. Remember what Jesus said at the Mount of Olive discourse? He was warning about the end days and the coming of the Antichrist, and he said, When you see the abomination of desolation, that is, when you see the Antichrist Go into the temple and declare himself God, he says, you better watch out. He said, if you're in the city, you better get out. And then he said this: if you're on the housetop, don't even come down. What did he mean by that? The houses were so close together that a person on the housetops in Jerusalem could literally jump from one housetop to another to another and literally escaped the city by going from housetop to housetop. That's because the houses were so compacted and so close together. That's how the city was built. By the way, that's no accident. That's exactly the way God wanted it. He designed it with closeness in mind. You know why the very city of Jerusalem seems to speak of closeness? It speaks of unity. It speaks of love. The very layout of the city inspires unity. This psalmist is not thinking of the city merely in physical terms. He notes the physical closeness of the city as a way of noting the role that Jerusalem had to play in uniting the people that came from all over They came from all over to unite together, to be close together, to bring unity to the whole nation, because they came for one common purpose, and that was to worship the Lord. Did you know that Jerusalem was a border city? That's why David chose it. It really wasn't associated with any of the tribes. And so he chose that city because he wanted that one city that really no one tribe could claim to represent the unity of the whole nation. That's why he chose that city. So people coming from whatever tribe, from Naphtalai, from Benjamin, from uh from Gad or whatever tribe they came from, they can come to Jerusalem and feel like this is our city. This is the place where we meet with God. They come for that one common purpose. It united the people. And by the way, you know that Israel was made up of twelve tribes, and of course you know that they didn't always get along. Don't get the idea that the twelve tribes were always in wonderful harmony. There was competition between the tribe of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin. David came from the tribe of Judah. Saul came from the tribe of Benjamin. There was competition because they were the two kings. If you read the book of Judges, you're going to find civil wars and squabbles between the tribes. But when they came to Jerusalem, they drew together. And worship united them. And they actually drew strength from the closeness together of worship. Friend, you know that's exactly what happens in God's house. We unite together. Our close fellowship, the warmth of our fellowship, encourages one another, it provokes one another There's a real need of community. And that's what we get when we come to God's house. And I'll tell you, we're living in a day when everything is so high-tech and people are putting walls around themselves and they're they're they're doing all the social media. And what they need to understand is that there has to be that sense of unity, being with other people. I heard about a church the other day that has a drive-in preaching. You can just stay in your car, put the speaker in there, not even get out of the car, not even go into a church. Friend, that's not church. That's not worship. I mean, you know, you need the fellowship of God's people. You need the strength of God's people. And we need every service for that. Did you have a Fourth of July barbecue? How did it go lighting the charcoal? You know what you have to do to light the charcoal? Some of you who barbecue, you know, right? You got to keep all the coals close together, right? If you try to spread those coals out, you know what? They'll never ignite. So what do you got to do? You got to push them all close together. And then what happens? They feed off of each other. They ignite each other. There's a sense in which that is exactly what happens in the house of God. We feed off of each other, we ignite each other. That's why I would rather everybody be compacted together if I had my way. I got biblical warrant for it right here. Jerusalem was a city compacted. The closeness we feed off of one another. We provoke one another. We encourage one another. I remember I was preaching in Uganda, and uh actually it was Cameroon, I should say, in Africa. And uh I had preached six times that day, and I my voice was about gone. There was no PA system there, I promise you And uh after six times I was worn out. I preached an hour each time. And they kept saying, W why are you preaching so short? I'm probably suited more for Africa than for America, right? And then I remember they came up to me and said, Would you preach just one more time? I said, Man, I don't know if I my voice can last one more time. They said, Well go back and get some rest and come back tonight Well I did that and I went back that night and there was standing room only. There was a crowd outside. They couldn't get all the people in the in the building. That's never happened to me in America, okay? They were all standing around on the outside. And I remember I went in, it was dark, they had lights on the inside, and right in the middle of the sermon, the electricity went off and the lights went out. I thought, great, what am I going to do now? But you know it was no problem for them. They were prepared for this. Evidently, this happened a lot. Because you know what happened? Something really cool. Each person had a candle with them. We're talking about, you know, 800 people in an auditorium crammed in. They each had a candle. And one person lit his candle and then they lit another person's candle and then they started lighting all the candles. And pretty soon every person in the building Lit their candle from someone else, and the next thing you know that place was bright. It was lit up And I finished preaching with them holding their candles. And I thought that was pretty neat. And you know what? When I thought about that, I thought, you know, that is exactly what should happen in the house of the Lord. When God's people come to church, you know what we do? We light one another's candle. We set one another ablaze for the Lord. We encourage each other But let me move on. The command to worship, the closeness, but notice the company of worship. Look again in verse five, or verse four rather. Whether the tribes go up The tribes of the Lord unto the testimony of Israel. Now it's interesting to me that the psalmist points out the tribes. Because in the previous verse, he's focusing on unity, right? The unity of worship. Now here in this verse, he focuses on diversity. He said, we're compacted together. We're diverse worshippers. We're from tribes all over. And they were a diverse lot. Don't get the idea that all of the twelve tribes they were all alike. No friend, they were different. They were very different. There were the coastal dwellers of Zebulun. There were the highlanders of Dan. There were the farmers of Ephraim. There were the desert dwellers of Reuben. And on we could go. Jerusalem had to be a fascinating place to watch with all these people from all over, different backgrounds, different social places, social levels, different jobs, different trades, different languages. In that sense, there's different cultures there? You don't believe that? Read the book of Acts when they all came for Pentecost. Read the list. of nations and peoples represented in Acts chapter 2, and you'll see the incredible diversity of people and languages. They were from all over. Many languages, many accents from all over the world. You know what this tells me? God loves diversity. He loves it. You know why he created it? He created it. And it's beautiful for him to see diversity come together in unity and for one common cause, and that is to worship him. You know, the flower arrangements that we love that are the most beautiful are not the ones where the all the flowers look exactly the same. It's where you have all kinds of different flowers of different colors. They're the most striking, they're the most beautiful, and so it is in the worship of God. And that's what it's going to be like in heaven, friend. When we get to heaven, you know what? There's going to be people from every tribe. In fact, write down Revelation 7 And after this I looked, and behold a great multitude that no one can number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne, before the Lamb clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands, crying with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and unto the Lamb. Diversity. God loves it. And when the world sees the diversity of people coming together in a church and loving one another, encouraging one another, they see the power of the gospel. And they see that our faith is real. The gospel is the only thing that can rip down all of those barriers that separate people and bring people together in love. And that's what God likes. But now let me give you the last thing, the command to worship. The command. Look again in verse 4. Whether the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord Unto the testimony of Israel to give thanks unto the name of the Lord. Now, this verse is a reference to God's command in Exodus to come to worship three times a year. And God commanded that in Exodus. I want you to come, sometimes just look at Exodus 23, or Exodus 34, verses 22 and 23. I'm not going to take time to look at it now because we're running out of time. But God told them, Come. And God was serious about this. He told all the men, drop what you're doing and come. And he said, Don't worry about foreign nations invading you. I'll keep them away. You just come. Can you imagine what that would be like? That would be like here in America, taking all the military personnel, every one of them, taking them off duty and telling them to go to church. And God said, don't worry about it. I will protect your borders. You just come to my house. You come and worship. By the way, that tells us who the real protector of our nation is. It's not the military and it's not our government. It is God that protects us. But this is what God commanded them to do. Now, someone say, well, we're living in the New Testament. God doesn't command us, oh yes, he does. And Hebrew it says Hebrews 10, 22 to 25, forsake not the assembly of yourselves together. God said, Come, don't be like some that forsake the Lord. They gather three times, we gather three times a week. That's what our church does. And we shouldn't forsake that. By the way, when you become a member of the church, you agree to come together to worship God, to be faithful in the house of God. Unless providentially hindered. That's not legalism, friend. That's just commitment. That's just spiritual discipline. That's all that is Sometimes I see in America people treating church membership so very lightly. God regards it as a serious matter. When I was down in Tennessee, pastoring Ellendale, the membership of that church was 2,500 members. It was a large church. But don't let that impress you. I couldn't find half of those members if I hired the FBI. Their name was on the roll, but I never saw them. But there were members. But that's not what God wants of us. There are some people that follow the Old Testament directive and they only come to church three times a year. We call them CEOs, Christmas, Easter, and other special occasions. Some people only go to church three times in their whole life When they're born, when they get married, and when they die, hatched, matched, and dispatched God expects so much more of us. Why? Why should we be so committed? Why should we be thankful? Well look again in verse 4. Notice the latter phrase. It says, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of our Lord. Don't you realize that every time we come to God's house, we are rendering thanks Unto God for what He has done for us. I got news for you. Thanksgiving isn't just once a year. It's it's every hour. It's all the time. And that's one big reason why we come to God's house. Did you know your that your neighbors watch you and they see how faithful you are to church? And when they see that you're not committed in their mind, they're thinking Jesus isn't worthy of that commitment. I want people who see me to see someone who's committed to worshiping our Lord. Let me give you the last thing We love God's house because this is where we celebrate. And we love God's house because this is where we congregate. Let me give you the last thing. We love God's house because this is where we communicate. This is where we communicate. Look at verse number five. For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David. And then in verse 6, pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall prosper that love thee. And what we see here in these last five verses are two major means of communication in the house of God. You say, what are they? It's the word of God in prayer. The Word of God, God speaks to us. And when we pray, we speak to God. God speaks to us through his word. Someone says, does God still speak to his people? You better believe it. He speaks to us through his word primarily. But then we speak to him in prayer. You say, where do you see the word of God? Well look in verse 5. For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David. What does he mean when he talks about thrones of judgment? or thrones of the house of David. Remember, in this ancient time in Israel, judges sat at the city gates. And when anyone had a dispute, they would come to the gate. They would bring that matter to the judges at the city gates. This was the place where disputes were settled. This is the place where God's law was dispensed. This was a place where justice was reached. The elders would gather there. Judges would gather there to consider a matter. And there was also in Jerusalem the throne of David. And who sat on the throne of David? The king. And what would the king have to do? There were times when he would have to render judgment and justice. Matters were sometimes referred to him when they were large matters. Let me ask you a question. What do you think their reference point was? What do you think their source of authority was when it came time to render judgment? We don't have to wonder about that Because Deuteronomy 17 tells us it was the Word of God. They had to judge and decipher and discern according to the Word of God. Did you know that Deuteronomy 17 says that a king, whenever he took the throne, had to make a handwritten copy of his own law? He had to write down the Word of God with his own hand. Why was he commanded to do that? Because when you write it down, it becomes a part of who you are. And he was going to have to judge according to the word. And so God wanted them to write it down. Have your own copy. And so they would use the Word of God. That's why I love God's house. You know what God's house is? It is the pillar and ground of truth. This is where you will hear the truth of God's Word. There's no other institution in the world that is called the pillar and the ground of truth. Certainly not the government, certainly not the Supreme Court. You're going to hear the truth in God's house when the word of God is preached. And by the way, shame on those preachers and churches that do not dispense the Word of God. That do not preach the Word of God. This is the pillar and ground of truth. And this is why the world hates the church. This is why Satan attacks the church. Now I hear believers all the time. They quote their favorite verse. You know what it is? Judge not. Judge not. You be not judged. I hear people say that. First of all, they don't understand the context of the verse. Right. Jesus was speaking to the hypercritical Pharisees. The ones who had a splinter in their own eye but couldn't see or or had a or saw the splinter in someone else's eye but didn't see the beam in their own eye. They were hyper-critical. And by the way, I get frustrated when I hear Christians intimidated by that and say, Oh, I don't believe in judging? Really? You don't believe in judging? You better believe in judging because that's exactly what you do when you come to God's house. You render judgment. We do it all the time. You say, how? And by the way, in that same chapter in Matthew 7, Jesus later, in that same chapter where it says, judge not, later he said, Ye will know them by their fruits What was he saying? You better use some judgment. If you want to know the false teachers and the ungodly, you better render some judgment. In fact, we can't live in this world without rendering judgment. Did you understand that? Next time you go to the supermarket, just pick up any old piece of fruit. I mean you just go along, grab the fruit, put it in. Is that what you do? No? You go to the watermelon section, you pick it up, what do you do? You stump on it. Why? What are you listening for? That hollow sound? I learned that from my wife. You're li you you trying to find a ripe one? Next time you see someone doing that at the supermarket, just go up to them and say, Why are you judging that watermelon? Shame on you. Why don't you just accept it for what it is? And stop judging. Jesus called upon us. To inspect the fruit. He called upon us to do that in Matthew chapter 7. He said this: He said, even so, every good tree brings forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree brings forth evil fruit. And a good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Ye shall know them by their fruits. So when we come to God's house, we judge. Who do we judge first of all? I judge myself. That's the first person I judge. I judge myself. Why? Because that's what God says. And when the Word of God is preached, I have to judge whether I'm living the right way I have to judge myself. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 10, 31, for if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. If we judge ourselves, God doesn't need to do it. So I ask myself, is there a sin I need to forsake? Is there a commandment that I need to obey? Is there a conviction I need to hold to and stand upon? Is there a course of action that I have to follow in my life? Paul said, examine yourselves To see whether you are in the faith. He was talking to the Corinthians. He said, when you come to God's house, you better judge yourself, and you better know that your faith is real. You better use some judgment there. And we need to judge what is right and what is wrong. Let me just show you one verse. Look in Psalm 119. Look in verse 97. Just flip back one page. Look at Psalm 119, 97. Oh how I love thy Lord is my meditation all the day. Through thy commandments thou hast made me wiser than my enemies. And he just talks about the wisdom that God's word gives. Wisdom to do what? Look at verse 101. I have refrained my feet from every evil way. You have to use judgment to do that. You have to know what's the evil way. Look at verse 104. Through thy precepts I get understanding, therefore I hate every false way. I want to tell you something, friends. There is right and there is wrong, and you better have the judgment to know what is right and what is wrong. And when we come to God's house where we hear the truth, you have to make judgments. Judgment's based on your life and judgments based on the direction of this world. And I want to tell you something, friend, it doesn't matter if the world says it's all right, if God's word says it's sin, it is still sin. It is. I'm not intimidated by that. Judge not. We are to judge. And I'm not talking about being mean and and and I'm not talking about being hostile. We should love everyone, friend. But that should not keep us from using discernment and judging. So we use the Word of God to discern and to judge. But then next there's prayer. Let me give you this final thing. Look at verse 6. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall prosper that love thee. Peace shall be within thy walls. And prosperity within thy palaces. For my brethren and companions' sake, I will now say, Peace be within thee, because of the house of the Lord our God will I seek thy And here the psalmist calls on believers everywhere in all ages to pray for the peace of Jerusalem. And it's just like I said before, the city of Jerusalem is at the center of God's prophetic plan and purpose. And so when you pray for the peace of Jerusalem, you're actually praying for the future of the city. And again, who's going to reign there one day? Jesus. So really, when you pray for the peace of that city, you're praying for Jesus to come. Even so, come, Lord Jesus, come and reign. It's the same thing in the New Testament, it's praying, Thy kingdom come. Jesus, we want you to come. We want you to set up your kingdom. We want you to reign in people's hearts and lives. So when you're praying this, you're actually praying for Jesus to reign in the hearts and lives of everyone. You're praying for their conversion. You're praying for their commitment and consecration to the Lord Jesus. That they would Surrender and be subordinate to the Lordship of Christ, who will reign one day in that city. And so we're to pray. We pray for one another. We pray for the peace of one another. When he talks about prosperity there, he's not talking about physical or financial prosperity, he's talking about spiritual prosperity. And beloved, this needs to be our concern for the church. We pray for one another. You know why? Because we are concerned spiritually for one another in the church. And so this we love God's house because this is where we celebrate. And this is where we congregate. And this is where we communicate. So I want to ask you, do you love God's house? Do you love coming to it? Yes. Like the worshippers of old? Who said, I'm gonna s my feet are gonna stand within those gates. I'm just gonna be there. And again, we apply this to the now Jerusalem, but let me just take it a step further. You know what I can say by the grace of God, and so can you if you're a Christian? We can say about the new Jerusalem, my feet are going to stand in those gates. I know one day I'm going to heaven. I know one day I'm going to be there in the new Jerusalem. And you know why I know that? Because of what Jesus did for me. So I want to ask you tonight, can you say that with the same assurance, with the same commitment? My feet will stand within those gates I'm going to the new Jerusalem. I'm going to heaven. And there's only one way that you can know that for sure, and that's through Jesus Christ. Through accepting Christ as your Lord and as your Savior. Are you sure of that? Do you know Jesus? Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, thank you for this beautiful song. Thank you for the reasons that we have to love your house, to love the fellowship, the warmth, the people, to love the closeness and the company of those In our now Jerusalem, right here, the church. And Lord, I just pray that you'll help us to be committed to worshiping you, to encouraging one another. But let's be reminded of the spiritual strength and energy that we receive by just being in God's house. And Lord, I pray if there's someone here tonight that can't say with absolute assurance, my feet will stand within those gates. If they're not absolutely sure, of their eternal soul. I pray that today would be the day of salvation. And friend, if you're here and you're not absolutely certain That you if you died, you'd go to heaven. Would you be willing to receive Jesus right now? He'll meet you right there where you are. If you'll reach out to him in faith and just pray and just say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner and I know that I need salvation. And I want to have eternal life. I want to go to heaven and be in that new Jerusalem. So please save me and make me your child. Father, bless these words to hearts. Challenge us, Lord, through this chapter, to these words, and we pray in Jesus' precious, worthy name. Amen.