And I want you to open to the book of Genesis again. And I want you to open up to Genesis chapter 30. Genesis chapter 30. And we've been looking at the life of Jacob. We've been trying to get lessons, life lessons from the life of this man in the Old Testament. And I want to continue with that and look at this narrative here in Genesis, part of chapter 29, but most of this tonight will be dealing with chapter 30 and verse number one. The follow-on as I read this. And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister. And said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die. And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel. And he said, Am I in God's stead? who has withheld from thee the fruit of thy womb. I was reading about a su a substitute teacher who had been instructed by the school officials. not to let students leave the classroom except in the most dire emergencies. And one morning the substitute teacher heard a seventh grader shriek, oh no And then this little seventh grade girl ran up to the desk pleading. She said, I have to run down to room 102. And I have to tell my brother to eat peanut butter when he goes home for lunch today. Well the substitute said, well surely what your brother eats for lunch is not that important. And she said, yes Tommy has the first lunch and I have the last. If I don't tell him to eat the peanut butter when he goes home, then he's going to eat the roast beef. This is the roast beef that mom is saving for dad's dinner And that means that when Dad gets home there won't be any roast beef and then he'll tell mom that she has to quit the new job because he she can't get his dinner ready and then she'll call him a chauvinist pig And then she'll tell him to go eat out and he'll go eat out and he'll come home late and when he comes home uh mom will say she wants a divorce and she'll go sleep at grandma's house again. The substitute let the little girl go. She made her argument. Now we may laugh at that story, but family strife is no laughing matter. Sadly, many Christian families today are war zones. The Christian home, think about this, the Christian home above all places here on earth is to be a place of peace. is to be a place where God's love and his kindness are put forth into daily practice. Yet the sad reality is all too often we our homes are defiled by selfishness. And bickering and anger and abuse of speech and even physical violence marks some Christian homes. Christian homes really ought to be a little bit of heaven here on earth. But unfortunately, because of our selfishness, sometimes it has become a hell on earth. Now Christian conflict in the home is nothing new. Conflict in the home is not a recent phenomenon. We know that this started all the way back since the fall. And what our text is going to show here, this narrative that we're going to deal with, it shows a family at war And what's startling about this is that this was the family which God promised to bless, and this was the family which God said, through you, through this family, all the nations of the world will be blessed. And yet, a battle was raging. This was the family through whom the Savior would come to bless all, and yet we see tremendous conflict raging in this family. In fact, if you read this narrative, it reads like a tennis match. Where there's, you know, it's going back and forth, and one family member is trying to get advantage over another family member, and there's all kind of bickering and strife and manipulation that's going on. There's sibling rivalry, there's incredible selfishness. There's incredible rivalry that goes on in this family, and it's really a bleak picture. Yet The grace of God still is a strong undercurrent that runs through this whole narrative as we're going to see. Even though there's so much strife and bickering and manipulation and rivalry that's going on in this home, God still blesses Jacob. And he still gives them eleven sons and one daughter, and a twelfth son will be born later, forming the basis for the whole nation of Israel, the twelve tribes of Israel, this same family which will multiply into two million later in Moses' day and become that nation for whom God would bless the world. Now one question we have to ask ourselves when we come to a passage like this is that why did Moses include this in the story of Genesis? Well I think there's a few reasons. First of all, it's a lesson in humbling. Because really it's showing that God's blessing was on them, the blessings that they received, and the fact that they could be a blessing to others was not because of them. It was all due to the grace of God. I mean, God under uh uh Moses, the the the nation of Israel got into a covenant relationship with God and God said through you all the nations of the world will see my glory and my light and that could have a tendency to really puff up a people So Moses is careful to show them their beginnings in this story. God's not blessing you because you're better than anyone else. In fact, you've got some hang-ups. Your very beginning was dysfunctional. Your very beginning was filled with strife. And so it's a lesson in humbling. And we can learn that same thing. Beloved, if God uses us to do anything, it's not because we're any good, it's because God is gracious. It's because God is good. The second lesson, I think, is a lesson in the purposes of God. Moses is showing Israel that man's sin cannot negate God's purposes for being fulfilled. But then there's another reason I think for this narrative, and that is it's for us to learn. These stories are put in the Old Testament for us to learn from them. They're examples. Write down 1 Corinthians 10, 11. Now all these things happen unto them for examples And they are written for our admonition upon whom the end of the world are come. Yeah, these things happened all the way back then, but they're still relevant for us who are living in these last days on how we need to conduct our lives And so we can learn from a good example. We can learn from some of the good things that we see here in this story. We can also learn from some of the bad things, some of the bad examples that we see here in this story. So with all that in mind, what I want you to see in this passage tonight are six reasons for family conflict. Six reasons for family conflict that I see. Here's the first one. Number one, if you take notes, write down, a failure to follow God's principle for marriage. That could cause conflict. A failure to follow God's principles for marriage. Now, Jacob's marriage had a bad beginning And we don't have to go over this again because if you were here with us on Wednesday night, you saw that in Genesis 29, verses 15 down to verse 30, it showed how Jacob came to be married to two women. Now that can cause strife right there. But I'll tell you once more, they were not just any women, they were sisters. That's a prescription for conflict. And here we see in the very beginning God's principle for marriage is violated. There are some mistakes that we may make early on in our marriage, and they don't surface until years later. Here Jacob made a mistake, and that is he married two women. And they were sisters, and it begins to surface, what a bad thing that is. This is not God's plan. Now you say, now wait a minute. Jacob was deceived, wasn't he? Yeah, that's right. Laban deceived him. This was all part of his plan to enslave Jacob to keep him serving him. However, Jacob was reaping what he had sown in deception And God allowed those consequences in his life. And besides that, we don't read anywhere where Jacob prayed about this, where he sought the help of the Lord, where he sought the wisdom of God. And so he's in a bad thing from the very beginning. Beloved, you know this as well as I do. The creation account makes very clear what God's intention for marriage was to be Write down Genesis 2 22, and the rib which the Lord God had taken from man made he woman and brought her unto the man. That's the first marriage, and there are three participants. One is God, who is the originator of marriage, and the other is man and woman. They are the objects of marriage. Let me tell you something, beloved. Marriage was God's idea. And God originated it. And God said marriage is between a man and a woman. That's the way God made it in the beginning. God gave Adam one wife, not two Not three. He gave Adam one wife. And that the intention from God from the beginning was one man, one woman together for life. And he didn't say if it doesn't work out try another. Now let me just qualify. I'm not trying to make anybody feel bad about a divorce, if you've been the victim of a divorce, or if in your past you've had a divorce. I want you to know that the grace of God can overcome all that and there's life after that. And wherever salvation finds you now, you just cling to the spouse that the Lord has given you now, and you obey his word, and you know what? God's blessing will be upon you and your home. But still we have to go to the scripture, and the Bible says says in Genesis one twenty seven, at the beginning he made them male and female And in the Hebrew, the emphasis is on He made them male and female. In other words, this was God's idea. Marriage is between male and female. This was what God instituted. It's not between people of the same sex. And it doesn't really matter what any state votes about. It doesn't matter what any state official says or whatever the Constitution says for that matter, if the if the world tries to change Marriage, we go by the word of God. God's word, God is the authority here. This is God's institution. It's not man's. And the Bible says what it is to be But this principle is violated by Jacob. And because of that, there was conflict. And what we see here is a story of polygamy. And polygamy, anytime it's mentioned in the Bible, it's always frowned upon. If you read through that, you're going to find that in the scripture. The first polygamist, Lamech, was a murderer. And then we see the next time it's mentioned it's Abraham, and that wasn't a good thing when he listened to his wife and he went into the wrong tent and tried to have a a child through another woman. And then Esau married two Hittite women and then a daughter of Ishmael. And now we see the story here of polygamy with Jacob. Now later on the Hebrew kings will be polygamous, and what you'll see consistently in those situations with the Hebrew kings is that their marriages and their homes were catastrophes. You know why? Because when you don't follow God's plan for marriage, then you're going to have conflict. It's as simple as that. It's not rocket science. If you don't follow God's pattern, you're going to have conflict. But I want to tell you something. Following God's pattern is not hard. It's not hard. We just need the help of the Lord and submit to what he says. I heard of a pastor who had a son one time brought to him a picture of a beautiful horse. And he thought, man, my son, I have a great artist. He said, son, how did you draw that horse? He said, it was easy, Dad. Let me show you. And his dad went with him and he pulled a book off the shelf and opened it up. There was the picture of the horse and he laid the paper down and he traced it He said, Oh, that's how. He didn't have a great artist. He had someone who was just tracing a pattern. And I want to say something, friend. To have a good, godly home is not hard. All you gotta do is just trace the pattern. that God has given us in the Scripture. That's the first failure we see here, but number two. Not only a failure a failure to follow God's pattern for marriage, But right down number two, a failure of the husband to love his wife. That's another failure we see in this passage. Now look in chapter 29. Look at verse 31. Let's back up a little bit here. Look at verse 31 of chapter 29. And when the Lord saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren. Now notice here, God saw how Leah was despised or hated. Jacob hated her. Now the word hate here is used in a relative sense meaning unloved. Jacob didn't really love Leah. He loved Rachel. Leah was forced on him. And he loved Rachel. And it was very evident to her. She didn't feel love. She felt Passover She felt neglected. She didn't feel valuable. And that was because of the way Jacob treated her. That was because of the way he neglected her. And so she was very frustrated, trying to find love from her husband Trying to find respect, and she never really got it. And so she must have been a very unhappy woman And here's another lesson that we can learn as husbands, we are to love our wives, and we are to express that love It's wrong for a woman to have to perform, to do things, to try to draw love out of a husband. This is something that husbands should be giving to their wives, expressing freely their value and their love to them. But Jacob doesn't do this. And so By the way, we already know this, but how are we to love our wise men as Christ loved the church? Do you think Christ loves the church conditionally based on our performance? No. He loves us unconditionally. And that's the pattern. Now Jacob hated her, but God honored her. And again we see in verse 31 the Lord saw that Leah was hated, and he opened her womb. That is, he gave her the ability to bear children And at the same time, what did God do? He took away Rachel's ability to have children. God was coming to the side of Leah and at the same time punishing Jacob for his wrong attitude and treatment of Leah, which tells me that God comes to the side of the mistreated. And Leah na begins to name her sons And then in the naming of her sons, we can see the emotional conflict and the frustration she is experiencing. Look at verse 32. And Leah conceived and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben, for she said, Surely the Lord had looked upon my affliction, now therefore my husband will love me. The word Reuben here means in the in the Hebrew it sounds very much like he has seen my misery. In fact this name here is a very creative uh acronym it's a shortening or a condensing of three words together in the Hebrew. The Lord has seen, brew, and then Ben is And then my husband will love me. Those three words are combined together to make this name Reuben. The Lord has seen my misery, and now maybe perhaps my husband will love me. Did I do something here? Did I do something? Did I do something wrong? Okay. All right, thank you. Uh but don't miss the point here. God was gracious to Leah. And God watched over her. And God is always gracious and protective of those who are mistreated. Now, notice the next thing, verse 33. And she conceived again and bare a son and said, Because the Lord had heard I was hated. And he hath therefore given me this son also, and she called his name Simeon, which means one who hears. The name is from the Lord has heard, Sama, and that I am hated, Senua, and so she brings those together to To Simeon and it again the Lord has heard me because I am hated And so one great Old Testament scholar, Sarna, said this, the names of Leah's first two sons replicate a pair of herbs to see and to hear, and expresses God's providential concern. God sees, God hears what she's going through. And then she bears another son. Look at verse 34. And she conceived again and bare a son and said, Now this time will my husband be joined unto me. Because I have borne him three sons, therefore was his name called Levi. And Levi simply is a word that means attached. Attached. And so she was hoping that because she gave him a third son, that he would become attached to her. That was her hope. But that hope is not realized. By the way, Lee Levi's name later on, the Lord will kind of put a play on that because the Bible says in Numbers 18 2, that the tribe of Levi will be Levi unto the Lord. They will be attached to the Lord in the sense that God would set apart that tribe for himself to be his priest. And so uh look at verse 35. It doesn't end there, one more son. And she conceived again and bare a son and said, Now will I praise the Lord. Therefore she called his name Judah and left. Bearing. Judah means praise. Literally, I will praise the Lord. So by the time she had her fourth son, Leah had come to the reality that bearing sons was not going to cause her love her husband to love her anymore It wasn't going to win his favor. She understood that that was not going to change Jacob's attitude. And so this time, instead of trying to earn her husband's favor and earn her husband's love, she simply turns to the Lord and she praises him. And she thanks him for watching over her and caring for her. And she understands that God is on her side. And you know what happens with Talia at this point? She realizes that God is the source of her satisfaction, and God is the source of her. fulfillment. And so she learns to trust in the Lord. She learns to walk with the Lord as a result of this. And then the Bible says she ceases from burying. And so God blesses her And by the way, not only does he give her these four sons, but also think about this: from Judah comes the institution of what? Kingship. And from Levi comes the institution of the priesthood to the most important Old Testament institutions had their origins in these children from an unwanted marriage. And so we see the grace of God in this. Not to mention the fact that through Judah, who would come? The Messiah. The Messiah would come through the line of Judah. And so she may have been unwanted and despised by her husband, but she was uniquely blessed by God. But what we see here is another reason for conflict. A failure for the husband to love the wife. Now, let me give you the third principle I see. Not only a failure to follow God's principle for marriage and a failure of the husband to love the wife, but here's number three, a failure of the father to give spiritual leadership in the home. We see this in this story too. Faithful fathers are necessary for stable families. Wouldn't you agree with that? It starts with fathers, faithful fathers who understand their role and take the leadership of the family and our spiritual leaders into home. A lot of the moral breakdown that we're seeing in our country, we know is because of this failure. Of fathers in the home. Melvin Worthington said this there is no adequate substitute in the home for a strong and spiritual father. The father ought to do for his human family what our heavenly father does for his family. Joshua said this, as for me and my house, we will what? We will serve the Lord. He was taking responsibility for all of his house, that they all would serve the Lord. Jacob doesn't do that. Notice chapter 30, look at verse 1. And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister and said unto Jacob, Give me children or else I die. And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel, and he said, Am I in God's stead who hath withheld from thee the fruit of thy womb? Now Rachel was very jealous over her sister Leah. And Hebrew culture, as we know, it was a shame for a woman not to be able to give her husband children. This was a tremendous stigma. And so she blames her husband. She blames him. Give me children, or I'm gonna die. Now, Jacob, he makes several mistakes here. Rather than sympathizing with her and coming alongside her, he's very proud. And he refuses to take any responsibility at all. You know why God was doing this? God was actually judging Jacob for his wrong attitude. The Bible makes that very clear as to why Rachel could not be why she was barren. And so basically Jacob refuses to take any responsibility for any of these things that are going on. In fact, he becomes angry, it says in verse 2. Anger is his response. When there's this crisis in the home, he reacts in anger, and the word anger here is very strong, strong. He was enraged. He was steamed. Now Jacob is correct theologically acknowledging that he can't give life. Only God can do that. But you know what he should have done? He could have said, you know what, let's pray about this together. Let's come together. Let's pray. And he didn't do that. In fact, this is the second thing. Not only was he proud, but secondly, he was prayerless. This this was this is something that he should have done. And by the way, do you did you know if you rem remember back in Genesis when Isaac and Ray and Rebekah couldn't have children, you know what Isaac did? He prayed with his wife. And as a result of that, she bore twins. That's how Jacob came into the world. Because his father prayed with his mother. And he could have said that. He could have said, When my mother couldn't have children My father prayed with her, and you know what? God gave her children. And so let's pray together. He doesn't do any of that. He just reacts in anger, which leads to the next thing. He's passive. He doesn't really do much. And he allows his wife to lead in the wrong direction because look what she says, look what she suggest uh suggests in verse three. And she said, Behold my maid Bilha, go in unto her, and she shall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her. This was a scheme from Rachel to have children. Does this sound familiar? This happened already. Remember Sarah made this suggestion to Abraham earlier on? Here's Hagar. Use her as a surrogate mother. And this was part of the custom back then, as we have said before, that when in this culture, in this time, when a woman couldn't have children That if she had a slave or a servant girl, this servant girl, this slave became a surrogate mother, and when this servant girl became pregnant and she was ready to have a child, did you know and that day actually what would happen is the mother The woman would lay underneath this woman that's bearing a child as if she were the one that was actually bearing the child and giving it to her husband. That was practiced in that culture. That's why she says, we saw in verse number three, and she shall bear upon what? Minings. Because that was the culture. When the woman had the child, she was right there underneath her as if she were giving the child to her husband And so that was her solution to this problem. Now, remember Jacob, he just passively goes along with it. He could have said, now wait a minute. This happened in the family one time before. I remember my grandfather did this, and my father Isaac talked about the problem that this brought in the family when this happened. And we're not going to make the same mistake that happened before in the family. He didn't do that. He just passively goes along with this plan. Oh, it was cultural. The only problem was it was a sin. It was not what God wanted. But Jacob is a pragmatist. He's willing to have a short-term solution, never mind the long-range consequences We'll just do a short short-term solution to buy peace for the time being, not thinking about what was going to happen down the road And so he does this. And what happens is sure enough, look in verse five. And Bilhaf conceived and bare Jacob a son, and Rachel said, God has judged me and has also heard my voice, and had given me a son, therefore she called his name Dan. And Dan means he has vindicated because in Rachel her idea, this birth vindicated her, but really it was a vindication of her own scheme. Not really the Lord vindicating her. But then it doesn't stop there. Look at verse 7. And Bilha, Rachel's maiden, conceived again and bear Jacob a second son. And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister. And I had prevailed, and she called his name Napali, which means my struggle, because Rachel felt that through her scheme she had won in her personal struggle against her sister Leah And so, really, what this means though is that her struggle, literally, the Hebrew reads, struggles of God. I have struggled with God and struggling with my sister. And really she was frustrated because God wasn't doing what she wanted. And she was really scheming. And so she seems angry at God. In verse 8, she says, with mighty wrestlings I have wrestled with my sister, she says. Can't you just hear the anger in those words? Can't you hear the venom there? She felt that she was in a battle with her sister. She was in a rivalry, a sibling rivalry. And yet God still had not given her a child of her own. You know why? Because God doesn't reward jealous spirits. Rachel only adds to the conflict She's not submitted to the Lord. And this is a classic example of the end justifying the means. And sometimes we do that. But God is not a party to our own schemes and things that we do. God will still accomplish his purposes, but he will not honor our scheming. He will not honor our jealousies. And she treats her children like pawns in a chess game, just as Laban treats his daughters as pawns in the economic struggle to get ahead. Rachel treats her sons as pawns in a family conflict. And all the while Jacob is sitting back and he's passively going along. He's proud He's prayerless, he's passive, and there's conflict in the home because he's not taking the spiritual leadership in the home. The home. Let me give you the fourth principle. We see a failure to follow God's principle for marriage, a failure of the husband to love his wife, a failure of fathers to give spiritual leadership, but here's number four. A failure to put aside a me first attitude. Or to be selfless. Now here's where the war intensifies, you think, man, there's real conflict here. You hadn't seen nothing yet Because look what happens in verse 9. Now Leah doesn't leave this to rest. And when Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpa, her maid, and gave it her or her Jacob the wife. And Zilpah Leah's maiden bare Jacob a son. And Leah said, A troop cometh. And she called his name Gad. Now, again, the war intensifies. Rachel had two children through Bilha. This intensifies the conflict. Rachel and Leah were competing. This is civil rivalry at its best. Leah's not about to let Rachel get the final word Now we have been impressed so far with Rachel's faith in leaning on the Lord, but you know what? She walks away from all that. And now she's only thinking about herself. Now she's filled with competition and jealousy and rage And since Rachel now has two surrogate children, Leah has got to get back into the game. And so she does the same thing to produce her own two children. She's not about to let Rachel get ahead of her. Her motto is, whatever you can do, I can do better. And so I can do this And so now she has uh the score is four to two Leo, but she's gonna add to that She's going to do more. And really now it's not about children, it's about her. Because here she takes her eyes totally off the Lord. And she puts them on herself. And she's selfish. Notice what happens. Now her last son she named Judah because she praised the Lord, but here she's taking her eyes off the Lord. And notice what happens in verse 10. And Zophah, Leah's made, bear Jacob a son. And Leah said, A troop cometh, and she called his name Gad. And the word gad here means good fortune. And his name comes from the Hebrew begad, and it's literally the word for luck. Oh, what a lucky lady I am. Good fortune has come to me. What happened? Wait a minute. Your last child was named Judah and you praise the Lord. And now here's another son you call him Gad because you're lucky Christians are not lucky. We shouldn't talk about luck or fortune in that sense. We have a God who watches over us. But here she has turned to luck And so she's no longer looking at the Lord. She now attributes the birth of this child to fortune, to luck. And then she has another child. Look at verse 12. And Zilph Leah's Maid bear Jacob a second son. And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed. And she called his name Asher. And the word Asher means happy. And it's from the Hebrew Hebrew, Isha, but not women will call me happy. Leah is basically saying, I'm going to be envied. I'm happy now because now I've been able to add even more sons to my husband and now the score is six to two and oh I'm so happy because I'm doing better. But she again she's scheming now But she never really gets what she desires, and that's love and recognition from a husband. And what she should be doing is she should be just forgetting about herself. And simply seeking to walk with the Lord and keeping her eyes on the Lord as she had done previously, but she gets her eyes off the Lord. Like so many of us do. And again, all this does is it brings competition and selfishness and contention into the home, and we can see this home is just in constant warfare. Constant warfare because of selfishness. Instead of focusing on the Lord and pleasing him, we're trying to please ourselves. And that brings problems. I heard about a mother who was preparing pancakes for her sons, Kevin, who was five, and Ryan, who was three, and the boys began to argue over who would get the first pancake. And the mother saw the opportunity for a spiritual lesson, and she said, you know, if Jesus were here, Jesus would say to his brother, you have the first pancake. And so Kevin looked at his brother Ryan and said, Ryan, you be Jesus. We are to be Jesus. And we are to put others ahead of us. Let me give you the fifth thing. Here's another failure. A failure to depend upon God instead of our own foolish devices. Because what do we see now? Rachel begins to do something. She does some scheming on her own. Now Rachel responds. Look at verse 14, and Reuben went in the days of the wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy sons mandrakes. And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my husband? And wouldest thou now take away my son's mandrakes also? And Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee tonight for thy son's mandrakes. Now what's going on here Rachel's doing some scheming on her own now. During the time of harvest, little Reuben comes in. He has some mandrake that he has taken from the field. You say, what in the world is a mandrake? A mandrape was a plant that bears bluish flowers in the winter and a yellowish plum-like fruit in the springtime. Now back in this day, people thought this was a superstition, this wasn't real, this is not scientific, but they thought in that day that mandrates could help a woman help a woman to have children They were kind of an Aphrodesiad. And sometimes they were called, in fact, the word for mandrake is almost identical to the word for love. So many ancients called them love apples or may apples And it was a superstition that if a woman ate those, that she would bear children. And so here's Rachel. And she sees little Reuben with these mandrakes, and Leah has them now, and she says, Give me those mandrakes, and Leah says You've already taken my husband, now you want to take my mandrakes? And so they begin to barter. And Leah says, I'll tell you what, I'll give you these mandrakes if you let me uh visit my husband, because I've ev evidently she was cut off from her husband because of Rachel. And so they begin to barter, and that's exactly what happens. And so Jacob now is visited with Leah. Leah has given back her marital uh uh rights. And so what happens, look in verse number 18. And Leah said, God has given me my hire. Well back up to verse 17 and God hearkened unto Leah and conceived and bare Jacob the fifth son. And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given my maiden to my husband. And she called his name Issachar. Now, Rachel, she's depending upon these mandrakes. Meanwhile, Leah prays again to the Lord, and the Lord gives her another son, and she calls his name Issachar, meaning reward, meaning God has reward rewarded me For what I have done. God has given me my hire. And there's kind of a pun there. rewarding her. And then again, look at verse 19. It says, And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son. And Leah said, God has endued me with a good dowry, now will uh my husband dwell with me, because I have borne him six sons. And she called his name Zebulun, which means honor, and it means to be exalted, because now she feels she will be exalted. And she had having given him all these sons. She feels vindicated. What happened with Rachel? Well, Rachel, she stays barren for three more years. You say, why is that? She put her faith in superstition. And Leah prays. This should tell us something here, right? What should we depend upon? We shouldn't depend upon our own schemes or any kind of superstition. Always we put our faith in God and we And the Lord honors Celia for that, and Rachel stays barren. And so again, we learned the lesson that we we need to instead of depending on ourselves, depend upon the Lord. Now here's the sixth lesson, last lesson. We said a failure to follow God's principle for marriage brings conflict, a failure for the husband to love the wife. A failure of fathers to give spiritual leadership, a failure to be selfless, depending upon ourselves instead of God, on our own devices instead of God. But here's number six. A failure to be content with your circumstances Because look what happens now at the end of this. Finally, the Lord hears Rachel. Look in verse 22. And God remembered Rachel. And God hearkened to her and opened her womb, and she conceived and bare a son. And she said, God has taken away my reproach. And she called his name Joseph. And said, the Lord shall add to me another son. And so what we see here then is that God finally hears Rachel. This is the there's an implication here that Rachel finally begins to what? She begins to pray. Now she stops all of her striving. She stops all of her wrestling. She stops all of her own schemes, which she's been doing up to this point. She still hasn't given her husband a natural-born son because of all this scheming and superstition and all these things she's been doing. Thinking about herself. But now there's an implication here that she prays, because the word remember there kind of implies that. And the Lord hears her, and finally he gives her a son, and she names him Joseph. Which means may he add, and this is his name really is a prayer, she prays that the Lord would yet give her more. And there's kind of a play on words here. The Lord has, Asaph, taken away my reproach. May he, Yosef, add to me more. May he give me more sons. And she didn't know it, but that really would be kind of a prophetic word for her because God would give her another son, but in doing so would take away her life. Because when she bears him Benjamin, she will die. And also later, Joseph will be taken away from the family, only to be added later. So there's a sense in which her prayer there is really a uh a prophetic word that she's giving. But she's still not content with the number. I mean the score after all is nine to three. And believe me, they're counting. And Leah's counting. And she's saying, I want more. Give me more, God. Instead of thank just being thankful, God, this is such a blessing. This is so wonderful. Well she wants more, again she's got the wrong view here, wrong focus, you know. But what she doesn't know is that although she has just Joseph What do we know about Joseph later on? He becomes the savior of the whole family. And in fact, he becomes the most important of the sons, because without Joseph, there would be no nation of Israel. And Joseph would be such an important person in the plan of God. She doesn't know that. She's not content with this child that God's given her. She wants more, but she doesn't know that in this child God has blessed her so immensely. You know what, when I think about that, I think of us. We sometimes don't are really not content with what the Lord has given us, but what you don't realize is that what you may have and what God has given you is far more than many people have You don't understand really all the blessings that God has given you. It may not be as much as others, but friend, it's the quality of what God has done for you. In your life, how he's blessed you and myself. Being content is understanding that God knows best. Have you ever met a if-only Christian? If only I had a better this or that If only I had a better husband. If only I had a better wife. If only I had a better job. If only I had more money. If only I had a nicer house. If only I had n Nice or furniture. If only I didn't have these kids Back then they wanted kids. Nowadays we don't want so many. We would do well to remember the words of the Apostle Paul. That you've heard so many times, I've learned to be content. I've learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. And a lack of contentment causes strife in the heart home. So what we're seeing here is just here's a family that is at war and at conflict and this passage is given to us so that we can learn from this. We can learn not to make these same mistakes. We can learn from this example here, to have peace in the home. A boy once asked his dad, he said, Dad, where do wars begin? And the father said, well take for instance World War I. That got started when Germany invaded Belgium and then the mother entered in and she said, now you tell him the truth, it was started because somebody was murdered And he said, Do you want to tell this story or you want me to tell the story? And they got into a big argument, and she slammed out and slammed the door, stomped out, slammed the door, that caused the cupboard to rattle and the dishes to shake And the little boy said, you know what, Dad, I think I got my answer. I think I know where wars come from. Where do wars come from? The Bible tells us it comes from From our own selfish striving. James chapter 4, right? Don't they come from among you? From your own selfish desires that are in us? The strife that is in us? You say, so what should we do then based on what we have learned here tonight? Well, we need to determine to follow God's plan. Let's just follow God's plan. Love your spouse Love your children. Be selfless. Just think of others. Put others ahead of you. Be content with what the Lord gives you. And don't be scheming and don't depend upon your own foolish plans. Go to the Lord in prayer. Claim the promises of God. Trust in Him. You'll be amazed at how much contention that will remove from your circumstance. And also I would close with this. Whenever I counsel married couples, I make them repeat three phrases. I say this will help you in every situation. And this is what they are. I'm sorry I was wrong, please forgive me. And I make them repeat that several times. Say it again. I'm sorry, I was wrong, please forgive me. It's amazing how those three phrases put contention to rest. I could say them in my sleep. I'm sorry, I was wrong. Please forgive me. They should just come out. In fact, I want you to say tonight. Say it. I'm sorry. I was wrong. Please forgive me. That's your sign that memorize those words. Use them. And that will keep strife from happening. Or when it happens, it'll it'll take it away Don't be afraid to say, you know what? I'm sorry. I messed up. And you know why I messed up? Let me tell you something. When I mess up normally, it's because I'm thinking about myself. It's selfishness. That's what brings the strife. That's what we see in this whole story here. So let us determine to have homes that honor the Lord, that follow his principles That put others ahead of us. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for the word of God that is so practical for us. We're grateful, Lord, that we have these. These narratives, these Old Testament stories that we can learn from. You've given them to us, as the Apostle Paul noted, that we can learn from their examples. So that through patience and comfort of the Scripture, we can have hope. We can learn from these things, and we can have hope for ourselves. And so I pray tonight, Lord, for every family here, every member represented, that we would take these things to heart. And Lord, may we know that there's no way to have real peace in our life, in our home. Until Jesus Christ is Lord, until he reigns supreme, until he's preeminent in our life, in our home. May that be so And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And let me just say this, everything that I have said here really isn't going to help unless you first know the Lord Jesus as your Savior. That's where it's got to start right there. You don't have the strength and the power to do this. I don't have it. It has to be the Lord in and through us So I want to ask you, do you know Jesus tonight? Do you know him as your Savior? And if not, would you be willing right now to reach out to him? And say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. My heart is filled with so much strife and selfishness. Lord, today I'm turning to you. I'm asking you to cleanse me and forgive me and save me. And friend, if you'll turn to Jesus Christ, turn from your sin Reach out to him in faith and say, Save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, the scripture, you know what the Bible says? As many as receive him, to them gave he power to become the Sons of God, the children of God. You can become a child of God right now if you'll reach out to Him in faith. And then for those of us who are Christians, let us pray for God's grace to help us apply the pattern of scripture to our life and our home. And when we do mess up, repent. Confess it. Humble ourselves, ask for forgiveness, and move on. And let our homes abide in peace and love. And may people see Christ in us, in our homes. Father, bless these words. Use them for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.