Would you take your Bible now? I hope you have it close by. I want you to open to the Gospel of John, chapter number twenty. On Good Friday we spoke out of John nineteen, and then the rest of the story here is in John 20. And this morning I want to talk about uh reasons to believe in the resurrection. I read an article not too long ago about two famous Hollywood actors that grew up in Christian homes. They were taught Christianity, but as they grew older, they walked away from their faith. One was Brad Pitt. He writes that uh when I got untethered untethered, he said, from the comfort of religion, it wasn't a loss of faith, he said it was a discovery of self. And he said that he realized that he could handle any situation himself. And so he gave up belief in Christ for belief in himself, which I think is a very bad trade. Hugh Jackman is another of the uh actors who said he grew up in a deeply religious family. His family was converted to faith by the preaching of Billy Graham, but when he grew older in his teens, he began to question and doubt some of what the scripture says. And and that is really a testimony of the society that we live in today. There are many people that question the Bible. They question um things like doctrines like the resurrection of Jesus Christ. After all, we kind of live in this postmodern world where doubt and skepticism is is looked upon as some kind of a noble virtue. Well, I would have to admit that there's nothing wrong with doubts. It's just dependent on what kind of doubter are you. All thinking people are going to go through times of doubt. Again, the question is, are you an honest doubter or are you a dishonest doubter? Now, what's the difference? Well, a dishonest doubter is someone that's really not looking for the truth And it doesn't matter how much evidence you give them, they're still not going to believe. In fact, not only are they not looking for truth, but they are pushing truth away. Now it might seem like on the surface that they're really looking for truth They're going from one place to another. But the truth of the matter is when they get close to finding the truth, they walk away from it or they push it away. And they're not looking for God for the same reason a crook's not looking for a policeman because they don't want to be accountable, they don't want to be under that authority. The problem with a dishonest doubter is not uh intellectual, it is moral It is not reason, it is rebellion, and it's a classic Romans 1. 18 where they are pushing truth away. But then there's the honest doubter. An honest doubter is someone that is genuinely trying to find the truth. They may be wrestling with some things. They have a genuine struggle, but they really are looking for the truth. This might be a young person that maybe was taught Christianity and then later on they heard some other ideas that contradicted what they had been taught And now they're wrestling. And they have been challenged in those beliefs that they were given, and those presuppositional beliefs that they have held. And doubt comes in. Well, um the what is how does the Lord respond to uh doubt like this? And by the way, again, this kind of doubt to me is not a sinful doubt, it's a reality. that people will doubt from time to time. Um, did you know that this was the first response of the Christians when Jesus resurrected, the first initial response to this idea of the resurrection was one of doubt. Uh for example, the women who brought the spices to the tomb of Jesus that resurrection morning, uh in a way they were expressing doubt. Luke chapter 24, verse 10 says that It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, the mother of James, and um and Mary the mother of James and other women that get up early Sunday morning to bring Spices to the tomb of Jesus. Now they didn't come on Saturday because Saturday was the Sabbath. That would have been a violation of the law. So they waited to get up early on Sunday morning. uh so that they can finish preparing the burial or the body for the a long burial. And this was the Jewish custom. The Jewish custom was they did not embalm a body. Instead, what they would do is they would wrap a body fur in in strips of of uh cloth that was dipped in spices. And uh this of course would um uh would keep the stench down while the body was decaying. That was the whole idea. And they would use a lot of spices they would pour onto the body. Sometimes uh seventy pounds of ointment they would use. And after 90 days they would come back And they would sprinkle lime on the decaying body to hasten the decay. And then later on they would come back and they would have an ossuary, a bone box, and they would take the bones of the person, put them in that box They would inscribe the name of that person on the side of the box. This was the whole process of Jewish burial. Now, when they took the body of Jesus off the cross on Friday, they had to hasten to get his body into the tomb before the Sabbath, before the um sundown. And so they did not really do a thorough job of preparing the body. This is why the Women came back that morning to the tomb of Jesus. They wanted to finish preparing the body of Jesus, but in a sense Doing that expresses doubt. You say in what way? Well, because if Jesus was going to come out of that grave on the third day, as he had said Why would you need to prepare the body for a long burial? Remember the prophecy in Psalm 16, verse 10, For thou shalt not leave my soul in hell? Neither will thou suffer thy holy one to see corruption. God would not leave his son in the grave long enough for corruption to take place. And so, in a way, these women were expressing doubt about the resurrection when they went with the spices to the tomb. The disciples expressed doubt. When the the the women came and told the disciples that the body was gone, the Bible says in Luke 24, 11, and their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed not. Idle tales is the Greek word layros That is the idea of delirious stories told by crazy people. In essence, what they were saying was, You're crazy. That was the first response of the disciples. And the Bible says they believed them not. And then Thomas doubted Look in John chapter 20 if you have your Bible there. Look at verse number 25, where it says, The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord But he said unto them, Except I see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. Thomas expressed doubt And I would say he was an honest doubter. He truly believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, but he had some questions. Some honest questions about the resurrection of Christ. Why do people doubt? I think part of it might be their personality. I think as I read of Thomas in the New Testament. It was probably part of his personality to uh to be skeptical. Some people are just like that. They don't commit themselves to believing something until they have all of the evidence. They make a careful reasonable, logical decision whether or not to believe. And that was certainly the personality of Thomas. But once he believed something, he was committed to it. You might remember in John chapter 11 when Jesus wanted to go to Bethany for the resurrection of Lazarus, the disciples said, Don't go there, it's too dangerous. And Thomas' response was, Let's go and let's die with Jesus. Thomas was ready to die with Christ because he was so committed to him. Although he was slow to embrace something, once he embraced it, he was committed to that. And I think that that was part of the reason for his doubt, just his personality, and then a lack of understanding. He didn't understand everything about what was going on when Jesus the the night before he was crucified, gathered with the disciples and said, I'm going to a place and I'm going to prepare that place. It was Thomas that said, Lord, we we don't know the way. We don't know how this is all going to happen. And then that's when Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And I think Thomas was also disappointed when he just saw the sufferings of Christ. When he saw the shock of what Jesus went through on the cross, this all had an impact on him. And then for some reason Thomas was not with The rest of the disciples when Jesus showed up. All those things, I think, his isolation from other believers led him to doubt about the resurrection. And there are people that may be listening to me, you may uh have the same kind of reservations. Um you may be an honest doubter and you're grappling and wrestling with things about the resurrection. Well, how does the Lord respond To honest doubters. Well, first of all, he has compassion. The Lord understands. And secondly, what the Lord will do to someone who's honestly doubting is he will provide the evidence. He will give that evidence. Remember when John the Baptist was in prison? He was the John the Baptist that said, Behold the Lamb of God Later on, he began to doubt, is Jesus really the Messiah? And while he was in prison, he expressed that doubt, and what did Jesus do? How did he respond to John the Baptist? He sent his disciples to John with eyewitness testimony about the miracles that Jesus did. Jesus responded, to John by giving him the evidence. Well with all that said, John chapter twenty really is a chapter that is prepared for people who may have honest doubts. In fact, the whole purpose of this chapter, if you look in verse number 31 of John chapter 20, look at verse 31. But these things are written That you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you might have life through his name. The whole purpose of this narrative that's being written, or we could say the whole book is to convince you that Jesus is the Son of God, the risen Savior, and that when you believe that, you would put your faith in Christ, that you would believe and you would have life. And when John says life here, he's talking about eternal life. Life after death. You know, there is life after death for those who put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now with that in mind, I want you to just see five reasons. Why you should believe in the resurrection of Jesus that we see here in this narrative. And I would say the first one is the moved stone. Look in verse number one of John chapter 20, the first day of the week. That's Sunday cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, it was so early that the it had not dawned just yet, unto the sepulchre And see if the stone taken away from the sepulchre. Now that's an incredible thing. Here she comes, and Luke records that there were other women that were with her. And when they come to the tomb, they're shocked to find that the stone was rolled away. And the question is, who moved that stone? In Mark chapter 16, verse 3, it says that the women they were discussing this very thing on the way to the tomb. Here they are on the way to the to the tomb of Jesus. They're carrying these ointments and spices. But there's a question in their mind, when we get there, who's going to move that stone so that we can finish preparing the body of Jesus. That was the question in their mind. And imagine their shock when they got there to the tomb of Jesus and the stone, this massive stone, had already been rolled away Now you say, why is this a big deal? Well, it's a big deal because, first of all, like I said, this is a huge stone. This is a stone that weighs one and a half to two tons. It would have taken several men to roll that stone away And when the Bible uses the word rolled, the Greek verb is koluo, and uh Mark adds the pre preposition anakolu, which means really to kind of roll upward. Mark's word has the idea of there being a little bit of an incline there, a little bit of a slope. And Luke adds to this picture by he gives the preposition apo. Which means kind of a distance from. So think in your mind that this stone was moved kind of on a slight incline and a good distance away from the mouth of the tomb. How did that happen? Who did that? And then also remember that the tomb was sealed. In Matthew's account, when he gives this story in Matthew 27, the Pharisees come to Pilate. on the Sabbath day. Now that was something that was uh unusual because normally Jewish leaders would not go into a gentile praetorium because they would that would be considered to be defiling for them And they would not do it, especially on a Sabbath day, but on this Passover Sabbath, they certainly wouldn't want to risk that. But here they throw all those traditions aside. They go to Pilate. uh to his Praetorium, what was so important that they had to see Pilate on that day, on the Saturday? Well, they remembered the words of Jesus. They remember Jesus said, for as Jonah the prophet was in the belly of the whale three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. And so they understood Jesus correctly that he would rise again on the third day, and they were afraid the disciples would come and steal away the body of Jesus. So what did Pilate do. He listened to the religious leaders and he consented to their request. And the request was that they that that Pilate put a watch of Roman soldiers there to guard the tomb. So think about that. What's a watch? That's sixteen Roman sold soldiers guarding the tomb. There would be four on the south, four on the on the north, for on the east, for on the west, they would totally surround the tomb. They would guard it. And then you add to that that the tomb was sealed with a Roman seal, a cord stretched across it with a wax seal in the middle connecting it And to violate that seal and to move that stone would mean certain death for whoever would try to do it. It was kind of a psychological barrier to anyone tempted to break in. All this was in place. Who would dare come and move that stone? Well, the Bible tells us in Matthew 28, too, that on that Easter morning, it says this, and behold, there was a great earthquake. For the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat upon it. The angel comes from heaven and rolls the stone away And it's important to note that the reason the angel rolled the stone away was not so that Jesus could come out of that tomb. He who had the power over death was certainly strong enough to move that stone. He rolled the the stone away to reveal that that tomb was empty. That was the reason for it, to demonstrate the emptiness of the tomb. Now the Matthew's account says those sixteen soldiers were paralyzed with fear. And later they left that scene. They were gone. They went to tell the religious leaders who would bribe them and say, you just say that the disciples stole the body. And when the time all that had happened now, here comes Mary and these other women, and they come to the tomb, and already the stone has been rolled away. That in itself is evidence of the resurrection. Years ago an attorney named Frank Morrison set out to refute the evidence of the resurrection. And he appreciated the life of Jesus, but he believed that the idea of a resurrection was a myth that was made up by the disciples. But as he took his legal mind and he examined all of the facts about the resurrection, he came to the conclusion that Jesus did physically bodily come out of that grave. And he wrote a best-selling book to talk about all of his research and his conclusions. And you know what the title of the book was? Who moved the stone? Who moved the stone? That in itself was evidence to him for the resurrection of Christ. There's the move stone, but there's a second thing. that John points out, the empty tomb. Look at verse number two. It says, Then she that is Mary runneth and come to Simon Peter and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved And said unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulcher, and we know not where they have laid him. So once Mary goes to the tomb and sees that it's empty, she automatically assumes that someone had stolen the body of Jesus away. So she She runs to the disciples, Peter and John, and she tells them. But the reality is that tomb was empty. It was empty. How do you explain that? If there was no resurrection. This is one incontrovertible fact. By the way, both the disciples and the Jews agree that the tomb was empty. The question is, how did that tomb get Now there are arguments that critics use against this. There's one argument that says, well, the enemies of Jesus could have stolen the body away. And that's simply not plausible. You say, why? Well, because if the enemies of Christianity and the disciples had the body of Jesus, they could have short circuited the church. They could have shut down Christianity Right there at the very beginning, because you remember a few days later, Peter on the day of Pentecost got up and preached. This is recorded in Acts chapter 2. Do you know the theme of his sermon? The theme of his sermon was the resurrection. He said this. He said God raised him up, loosening the pains of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it. This is Peter's sermon. He's saying God raised him from the dead. Now can you imagine if Peter's preaching that and the enemies of the disciples in the church had the body of Jesus? All they would have had to do is show that crowd The corpse, the body of Jesus, and Christianity would have been over. The message would have been over. Peter and the rest of the apostles would have been laughed at. that the enemies stole the body away. Others say, well, it was the Roman guards who stole the body. Well why would they want to do that? They had absolutely no motive to do that. In fact Um they were paid to guard the tomb. And what would they do with the body? Well, if they gave it to the Jewish leaders or the enemies again of the disciples, again you have the same problem. When Peter got up to preach All they would have to do is produce the body. Well then some people say, well, the disciples stole the body away. And by the way, the Jewish leaders tried to promote this in Matthew 27. When the disciples, uh excuse me, when the Roman soldiers came back, having been scared out of their wits by the angel, and they explained to the religious leaders what had happened, the Bible says very clearly in Matthew that they bribed. These men to tell a lie. And what was the lie? The lie would be that the disciples came and stole the body away. That bribe in itself proves the resurrection was true. that you would have to bribe someone to tell a lie. And by the way, it's very implausible that the disciples would steal the body away because the Bible says in John 20 verse 19, they were assembled away, locked there together in a room. Why? for fear of the Jews and the Romans. They were afraid themselves. They would never have the boldness to come to a tomb that was being guarded by sixteen Roman soldiers. And steal away the body of the Lord Jesus Christ. And besides that, the Bible tells us that they became bold witnesses. What changed them from being so fearful to being so bold? To being afraid, locked away in a room, to boldly preaching the resurrection of Christ. Do you think a lie would transform them that way? Of course not. Only the truth of the resurrection could make them so very bold. So John points to the moose stone. to the empty tomb. But then notice the folded grave clothes. Look at verse number three. Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple and came to the sepulchre So they ran both together, and the other disciples did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre, and he stooping down and looked in and saw the linen clothes lying. Yet went he not in. Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeeth the linen clothes lie. Verse seven says, And the napkin that was about his head Not lying with the same with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself And so what happens here? Well, Mary Magdalene didn't look very carefully when she first came into the tomb into the tomb. She saw the stone was removed. And she ran to tell Peter and John, they come to the tomb of Jesus. Verse 4 says, That other disciple did outrun Peter. Who was that? That was John. And when John refers to himself in this narrative, he's always referring to himself as the one whom Jesus loved or that other disciple. That was kind of a humble way to refer to himself. And also in a very humble way he lets us know that he outran Peter to the tomb. Maybe it was because he was younger and swifter than old Peter was, but he gets there first, and the Bible says in verse five that he He didn't go in. He simply stooped down and he looked inside. And what's the first thing that he notices when he looks inside the tomb? He notices that the grave clothes were lying there. The graveclothes that that Jesus had. And now in verse 6, when Peter gets there. He bursts in the tomb. You kind of see the personality of these men. John kind of reverently peeks in. Peter kind of rambunctiously pushes in. And in verse 6 he seeth, it says in verse 6, that is, he gazeth upon it. In Luke's account, he says this, they wondering in himself at that which was come to pass, wondering is through Mazo, he was marveled, he was amazed He saw the grave clothes that were there. They were not disheveled in any way. They were not left in a heap. They were laying there. as if uh they had been folded or as if the body had simply slipped out of them. And actually Peter sees two pieces of grey clothes. And the napkin that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself There is the there is the the linen cloth that went around the face. The Greek word is suderion. This would be the head cloth, that one piece. around the head. Then the other part of the linen grave clothes was also diff separated from it. And again they were there. They were together in its place. In verse seven he says, um lying together And the word here is into Lisio, which means to literally to fold up or to roll up. Again, in other words, those grave clothes were not disheveled. They were not in a heap. They were just simply there. And this implies neatness. So it's really one or two things. Either Jesus folded these clothes. before he left. I like that idea, just like a courteous guest who borrows a guest room in a house and he leaves with a bed folded after a restful night Before Jesus left that tomb, he folded those grave clothes from his bed. How did you leave your bed this morning? Or it could mean that Jesus simply passed through the wrappings and the cloth the cloth the cloth there. being right where it was, um neatly behind, right there. You said, what is this proof? This proves that there was no theft. It proves that the body was not stolen. Think about it. If some grave robbers like the disciples or the enemies of Christ or someone else was going to steal away the body, do you think they would take time? To unwrap the grave clothes and then wrap them and fold them there and leave them behind? If they were going to steal away a body, they would just take the whole body, grave clothes and all, and just take it and run. They certainly wouldn't take time to unwrap the body, and if they did, they certainly wouldn't fold the wrappings after they had uh unwrapped the body. This is evidence of non-theft. This is evidence. of the resurrection. In fact, this was enough evidence for John because look at verse number 8. It says, then went in also that other disciple which came first to the sepulchre. And watch this in verse 8, and he saw and believed. When John saw that, that was all he needed. He saw, this is the idea, to see with understanding. He knew exactly the implications of those folded graveclothes. He knew what happened. He was the first disciple to get there, to see this. He put it all together in his mind. He knew that Jesus rose again from the dead. Look at verse 9, for as yet they knew not the scripture that he must rise again from the dead. That is other disciples were still wrestling with these things. They were wrestling with these doubts. They hadn't put it all together. They needed to be reminded of what Jesus said. They needed to be reminded of the Old Testament scriptures about resurrection. But John, he didn't need that When he saw the folded clothes, that was enough for him. The Bible says at that moment he believed. Then there's a fourth. Reason. Not only the moose stone and the empty tomb and the folded grave clothes, but then there's the angelic witness in verse 11. But Mary stooped without at the sepulchre weeping, and as she wept She stooped down and looked into the sepulchre, and see two angels in white sitting at the one at the head, the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. And they said unto her, Woman, why weepeth thou? So here we have the angels that come and bear witness. And they say to Mary, why do you weep? This was sometime after Peter and John had left to go home. Mary comes back to the scene. She looks into the tomb and she sees These two angelic beings sitting there where the body of Jesus had laid, and they said to her, Why do you weep? Why are you crying? This is not a time to cry. This is a time to rejoice. And Luke's account in Luke chapter 24 uh he he kind of makes it clear that they kind of give her a gentle rebuke. Why are you seeking the living? Among the dead. Jesus is alive. And then let me give you the last thing. Not only the moved stone and the empty tomb and the folded grave clothes and the angelic witness. Here's another reason, the post-resurrection appearances. And what John will give us here in John chapter 20 are three appearances of Jesus after his resurrection. Later in chapter 21, he'll give another or some others. But here are three. First he appears to Mary. We already saw that. When she hears the voice of Jesus, she knows it's him. Look in verse number um fourteen, and when she had and when she had thus said she turned herself back and saw Jesus standing and knoweth not it was Jesus and Jesus said unto her woman why weepeth thou whom seeketh thou and she supposing him to be the gardener said to him Sir If thou had borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. And Jesus said unto her, Mary Well now when Jesus said that, Mary recognized him. There was something about the way Jesus said Mary. She thought at first that Jesus was the gardener. And she said, if you're the gardener, tell me where you lay the body of my master. And when Jesus said Mary, she knew him. The Bible says, My sheep hear my voice. And they know me, and Mary knew that it was Jesus. And you can imagine her her response. She threw herself down perhaps at his feet. She wrapped her hands around his ankles and she worshipped him. And Jesus said, Touch me not. That's present tense. Or we could say, Stop touching me. Uh I haven't yet ascended to my Father. All types of interpretations have come from that. But suffice to say, it just simply means Jesus is saying, I'm going to be around for a while. You'll see me again. There was the appearance to Mary. Then Jesus makes an appearance to the disciples without Thomas. In verses 19 to 23, and we don't have time to go into all of this, but Jesus appears in the upper room with the disciples. In verse 21, he said, Peace be unto you. And so here's one appearance to Jesus with his disciples. Now Thomas is not there. This is on a Sunday. By the way, this is why you shouldn't miss church on Sunday. You never know what you're going to miss. Here is Thomas missing. And eight days later, Jesus appears again. to the disciples with Thomas in verse 25 where it says uh the other disciples therefore said unto him we have seen the Lord But he said unto them, Except I see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand to his side, I will not believe. Again his disciples were were within, and Thomas with them. And then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and he stooped in the midst and said, Peace be unto you. Now I kind of get the impression here, I could be wrong. But I kind of get the impression that he appears primarily for Thomas's sake. Here Thomas is with them. And immediately after he says, peace be unto you, he speaks to Thomas immediately in verse 27. And he saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but believe. And so here, Jesus says to Thomas, Thomas, put your finger in my nail prints Put your hand in my side. If you wanted evidence, if you said I'm not going to believe until I can feel myself, my own empirical feelings and and senses can see him and feel the wounds. I'm not going to believe. And so what does Jesus do in response to Thomas? And remember, I think again, he's an honest doubter He just wants the evidence. Jesus provides that evidence. He says, here I am, Thomas. Put your finger in my nail prints. Put your hand in my side. And Jesus was providing all the evidence that he needed. One New Testament scholar said this, taking all the evidence together It is not too much to say that there is no historical incident better or more variously supported than the resurrection of Jesus Christ, and I think that's true. The Christian faith is rooted in objective, historical Verifiable fact of the bodily resurrection to Christ. Any honest doubter All you have to do is consider this evidence that John gives the move stone, the empty tomb, the folded graveclothes, the angelic witness The post-resurrection appearances. And by the way, these were just a few appearances. Paul will later write, he made many more appearances. At one point, he appeared to 500 people at once. All of this evidence demands a verdict. In fact, Josh McDowell is famous because he investigated all the evidence for the resurrection and he Put it all in a book, and the title of that book was Evidence That Demands a Verdict. And this is what he wrote. Listen to this. He said, after more than 700 hours of studying this subject. And thoroughly investigating its foundation. I've come to the conclusion, he says one or two things here, that the resurrection of Jesus Christ is one of the most wicked, vicious, heartless hoaxes ever fostered upon the minds of men, or it is the most fantastic fact of history. It's one or the other. Either it's a vicious lie and a hoax, or it's a miracle. It's one of the most fantastic facts of history. Now, you have to give the verdict You have to come to the conclusion. And by the way, Thomas, the honest doubter, what was his verdict Look in verse 28, he said, And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. And by the way, did you know that Thomas preached the gospel all his life after that? And he went to as far as India, planting churches, spreading the gospel. He died as a martyr in India. In fact, most of the disciples died as martyrs. John shows us that none of these witnesses were expecting the resurrection. None of them. Mary Magdalene, she went to prepare Jesus for a long burial. Peter and John thought when they first heard it it was crazy. Thomas doubted all of it. And yet all of these became transformed when they saw the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, they were so convinced Of the resurrection of Christ, that they gave their whole life and they died as martyrs. How do you explain that Charles Coulson was convicted for his involvement in the Watergate scandal as an assistant to President Nixon. Some of you may remember that in history. And he wrote this. He said, I know the resurrection is a fact. And Watergate proved it to me. So he was involved in this Watergate and he says, I know the resurrection is a fact. And Watergate proved it how? He says, because twelve men testified that they had seen Jesus raised from the dead, then they proclaimed that truth for forty years, never once denying it. Everyone was beaten, tortured, stoned, or put in prison. They would not have endured that if it were not true. And then he says this Watergate embroiled twelve of the most powerful men in the world, and they couldn't keep alive for three weeks. You're telling me that 12 apostles could keep alive for 40 years? Absolutely impossible, he says. So the question is, what is your verdict? What do you believe? Let me just show you a blessing before we close. Look at verse 29. Notice what Jesus said to Thomas. And Jesus said unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed. Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed. Isn't that good? Do you believe? Now, friend, that's what Jesus said. Blessed are they that have not seen. I want to tell you, friend, I I have never with these eyes seen the risen Christ. I have not with my hands touched him as Thomas did. I haven't got empirical evidence in that sense of the resurrection of Christ, but I have the recorded word of God. And I want to tell you something, friend. I believe. I believe that Jesus came out of that grave. The question is: do you believe? And Jesus said to those who do, to those who have not seen and yet they believe. He said, Blessed is that person. You know why? Because if you truly believe that Jesus came out of that grave, you'll say like Thomas, my Lord and my God, and it won't end there. If Jesus did come out of that grave, that means he is the Savior. That means there is only one way to heaven. And you must put your faith in Christ and Christ alone. As your means of salvation. Have you done that? And friend, if you believe Jesus came out of that grave, that is where it leads you to. This is the inevitable conclusion that you must confess him as Lord and God. And give your life to him so that you have eternal life. Have you done that? Have you submitted your life to the risen Christ? Would you bow in prayer with me today? Would you bow in prayer? Father, thank you for the testimony of Scripture. Thank you for this evidence of the resurrection of Christ. The move stone, the empty tomb. The folded grave clothes, the angelic witnesses, the post-resurrection appearances, all of this leads us to say with all our heart, I believe. I believe. My Lord and my God. Jesus, you are my Lord You are my God. I surrender myself to you. I put all of my faith in you and you alone for salvation. There is no other way You yourself, Lord, said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes under the Father except through me. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here watching, listening, if they haven't prayed that, if they haven't made that decision, to put their faith in Christ and Christ alone, that they'll do it today. Thank you, Lord, for what you've done for us. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful, matulous name, Amen