Anyways, good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please, open to uh Zechariah chapter eleven. Zechariah chapter eleven. Tonight I want to talk about rejecting the good shepherd. Rejecting the Good Shepherd. That's what this the theme. Unfortunately, this is the theme of this chapter here, and it's not a good theme, but we can learn something from it Nobody likes tragedies. Wars, famines, and earthquakes and floods and tornadoes and so on. They all result in a tragic loss of human life. and and difficult consequences for those who survive. And we don't like to study these things. I suppose we have a curiosity and when they happen, we like to read about it on social media or listen to it on the evening news. But uh to dwell on these things would be really depressing. And yet the study of tragedies can yield positive results if we learn what caused the tra the tragedy and and learn to avoid Anything like that, any circumstance like that in our life. Zechariah chapter eleven is an analysis of the of history's greatest tragedy. This is the greatest tragedy ever. uh here in chapter 11. And the interesting thing is this analysis of this tragedy was not written after the fact, but it was 10 500 years in advance. And it outlines with amazing detail the tragedy of the nation of Israel rejecting Jesus as their Messiah and the awful consequences that would follow because of that rejection. And it teaches us a vital lesson. The greatest tragedy possible is to reject Jesus Christ, the Good Shepherd. To reject Jesus Christ. That's the worst thing. And it leads to the worst possible consequences. Now, Zechariah chapter 11 is in stark contrast to chapter 9 and 10. If you've been with us in our study, you know chapter 9 and chapter 10 of Zechariah speaks about the blessings that God has in store for his people. But then when you get to chapter eleven, it hits with predictions of ruin and doom. And what's going on here? Well, part of this is in order for God's people to appreciate and not neglect their great salvation, they need to remember what the alternative is. What would happen to people that don't know Jesus Christ? What happens when they come under the awful judgment of God? We are prone as believers sometimes to forget or to take for granted the grace and the goodness of God. And it's a good thing to remember what would it be like if we didn't know Jesus. And uh so Zechariah chapter 11 was written to God's covenant people to warn them about the ultimate tragedy of rejecting The Good Shepherd. Now we know that godless pagans need to be warned about the consequences of rejecting Jesus Christ, but so do those who attend church regularly. Though we profess to receive Jesus Christ, it's easy to fall away or to fall into a life where that we practically reject Him. We don't reject him with our lips. We confess him. We profess him. Uh but do we really, really live a life where we're are not rejecting him because practically And the things that people do and don't do, they're rejecting Christ, even those who call themselves believers. Now, this chapter then explains the nation's rejection of their true Messiah. And because of that rejection, it also explains how that they one day will receive the false Messiah, the Antichrist, that will appear at the end of the age. And the key image in chapter 11 here is that of a shepherd. That of a shepherd. Now the Bible speaks about shepherds a lot. Over 100 times it refers to shepherds. Two hundred times the word sheep is used. And the shepherd theme is frequent here in the book of Zechariah. In fact, we see this motif used 11 times in this book. And I told you the last time we studied Zachariah, the w the the idea of a shepherd in the ancient Near East was used to designate any number of leadership positions. A shepherd could refer to a king, it could refer to a priest, it could refer to a prophet. or elder rulers or governors and so on. So any leader really in Israel could be designated as a shepherd. And what I want you to see here in this chapter are three different shepherds that are looked at as we examine the chapter. Three different shepherds presented. Here's the first heading that I want you to write down if you're taking notes. Number one, the poem of the wailing shepherds. The poem of the wailing shepherds, because verses 1 through 4 are written in Hebrew poetry. Look at verse 1. Open thy doors, O Lebanon. that the fire may devour thy cedars. How, O fir tree, for the cedar is fallen because the mighty are spoiled. How, O ye oaks of Bashan, for the forest of the vintage is cut down. There's a voice of the howling of the shepherds, for their glory is spoiled, a voice of the roaring of the young lions, for the pride of Jordan is spoiled. Now, this is an example here, these verses that we just read, is an example of Hebrew poetry. Now, I've told you this before, but in English poetry we try to rhyme words, but in Hebrew poetry, they tried to rhyme thoughts. And normally in Hebrew poetry it's it's what is called parallelism. The first line is given or it's called a stick, first line is given, and then a second line. tries to in some way parallel the first line. The second line will either restate the first line in a different way, or it'll give in other words, the first line will give a thought, the second line will complete that thought. Or maybe the second line sometimes would contrast the thought in the first line. Or sometimes the second line would compare the thought in the first line. And so that's Hebrew poetry, basically. It's it's It's a completive, comparative, or contrastive in the way that these lines go together. This is an example of where the the lines basically are um completed Again, we see in verse two where it says, How, fir tree, for the cedar is fallen, because the mighty are spoiled. There's the first line. Second line. How, O ye oaks of Bashan, for the forest of the vintage is come down. And here he's using poetry to describe the destruction that will come to the land one day. because of God's judgment on the people. You can almost feel the emotion as you read the text. Now these verses prophetically describe the invasion of the Holy Land by the Romans. And again, this is yet into the future Many, many years into the future, the Romans are going to come into the Holy Land and they're going to invade and they're going to destroy the land. Titus, the general, will destroy Jerusalem and slaughter the Jews. We know that this happens later on The survivors were scattered worldwide, and for a time Israel ceased to exist as a nation for about 1900 years. Lebanon, Bashan, and the Jordan represent the whole land. The destruction of Lebanon's stately cedars was literal, but it also is figurative. It represents the leaders that are in charge of the nation Even the shepherds will wail over the end of their peaceful way of life. Again, we see this in verse 3. There is a voice of the howling of the shepherds, for their glory is spoiled. And so that invading army is like a fire that burns before us. And this poem describes the response of the shepherds. The shepherds, again, the rulers of the nation, three times it says, how. This is a deep lament. The destruction of the land will be so thorough that there is such a great lament, there's a how uh here. And so again, this is prophetic. Now think about this, beloved. This points forward to the earthly ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so who would the shepherds be during that time? They would be the the uh the priests, right? The scribes, the elders during the earthly ministry of Jesus, the ones that were always giving Jesus a tough time. And these were the shepherds that led the people of Israel to reject The Lord Jesus Christ. They sought to destroy the credibility of Jesus during his earthly ministry. They even started campaigns against Jesus, campaign of lies, saying he does miracles in the power of who? uh Beelzebub. He doesn't do it in the power of God, he does it in the power of Beelzebub. And they look for a way to put him to death The high priest Caiaphas thought that by killing Jesus he would save the Jewish nation from destruction, but really the opposite occurred. By rejecting the Messiah, they opened the doors to judgment and destruction. So we see then the poem of the wailing shepherds. All right, right down, here's heading number two, the parable of the worthy shepherd. Now from verses four down to verse fourteen. This is a section where God commands Zachariah to play the role of a true shepherd. He's going to play the role of a shepherd. He's going to kind of play acts here. Now notice the subtitle I would give under this would be The Protection. Now in this, Zachariah becomes a type of Jesus Christ, the Messiah, during his earthly ministry. The flock of Israel was destined for slaughter because of their wicked leaders. So looking down in verse number four, notice here's God talking to Zachariah. Thus saith the Lord. My God, feed the flock of the slaughter. Now, I really like the way the ESV reads on this. Thus saith the Lord God, my God, become shepherd of the flock, doomed to slaughter. So God is again commanding Zechariah to kind of act out a drama. Zechariah, I want you to pretend to be the shepherd for this doomed flock here. Just act it out. Now, this is called in the Old Testament, Old Testament scholars have labeled these things an enact of parable Here, Zachariah is actually acting as a as a shepherd, the worthy shepherd. This would be the shepherd that would come one day in the future. And again, who does this represent? This represents Jesus Christ, right? The worthy shepherd. And uh so look in verse number five. Whose possessors slay them and hold themselves not guilty, and they that sell them say, Blessed be the Lord, for I am rich. And their own shepherds pity them not. This ultimately refers to the greedy religious leaders of Jesus' day who make a comfortable living off religion, but had no concern for the people. Now again, the question that some people ask when they read this passage is, did Zechariah actually buy a flock of sheep and uh and become a shepherd? Or is this something that is only written down in a book? Well again, this is God I think is actually asking Zachariah to go and get a flock and act this out in front of the people. This was going to be a drama that he would act out in front of the people. And many times God would ask his Old Testament prophets to do things like that. God doesn't ask pastors to do that today, thank God. I heard about one pastor who was uh trying to use reverse psychology for his church and one Sunday morning he he got dressed up in a devil suit and stood out in the front of his church and when people were trying to come in, he was trying to persuade them, go away, go away, don't go to church, don't go to church. And some people got really concerned. They didn't know who it was, so they called the police. And the police came and they uh they grabbed the guy, seized him, and took his mask off, and it was the pastor of the church. you know, that was there doing that. So uh you'll never see me do anything ever like that. All right. God doesn't call pastors today to act out, you know, in a drama. But God did call the Old Testament prophets to do that. In fact, again, these are called enacted parables. God asked Ahijah the prophet to do it, uh Elijah, Isaiah, Jeremiah. We read about Joshua who stretched his spear out over Ai. We read about a hijab who tore a new garment into twelve pieces, signifying the division of the twelve tribes of Israel. Jeremiah was told to take stones and put them in an oven. To act out a message. God had Isaiah walk around for three years through Jerusalem naked. We say naked, it just means he didn't have his outer garments on. And he walked around Jerusalem like that for three years to symbolize the coming shame that would happen to God's people Ezekiel did several things that God commanded him to do. God first had Ezekiel make a little model city of Jerusalem. Uh just build a model city. And then after he built the model, he had little stones he was throwing at it and everything, you know. Can you imagine coming along and watching Ezekiel play with a model city and throwing stones at it? And the people would wonder what's going on? What's this guy doing? He's lost it But it was all a message that God was going to judge the city of Jerusalem. God had Jeremiah the prophet go and and buy a linen sash that priests would wear. It was a very expensive sash. But Jeremiah was a prophet, you know, prophets didn't wear a sash, only priests did or royalty did. So it was kinda out of place for Jeremiah to wear something like this And God said, wear it and don't put it in water and let it get really, really dirty. And then when it's really dirty, I want you to take it off and go and bury it by the river Euphrates. And then after a few days go back and dig it up and put it back on Why all that? There was a message for the people and all of that. He was acting all of this out to give a message from God to the people. And so this is not unheard of for God to ask prophets to do these sort of things. And now here God is saying to Zechariah, Zachariah, I want you to play the shepherd, I want you to go get a flock, I want you to tend to that flock. Because in doing that, he was representing the good shepherd who is going to come one day, and that is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ And he's saying, Zachariah, I want you to protect these sheep. And by the way, the people that saw this, they knew there was a message in it. Drop down to verse number 11. This is the reason I say that. He literally acted it out. Because look at verse eleven, and it was broken in that day, and so the poor of the flock that waited upon me knew that it was the word of the Lord. And in other words The people that were watching Zechariah do all of this, they knew that what he was doing was giving them what? The word of the Lord. He knew that he was giving them a drama of God's word. And so people would see the prophet Zechariah. And they would say, Zechariah, why are you sending sheep? And he would say, Well, just like I'm a shepherding the sheep, there is coming a worthy shepherd. One day. A worthy shepherd, a good shepherd. And notice the prophecy. Look look back in verse number six. For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land, saith the Lord, but lo, I will deliver the men, every one into his neighbor's hand and into the hand of his king. And they shall smite the land, and out of their hand I will not deliver them. And again, this is a prophecy about the judgment that will come upon the land of Palestine. under the Romans in 70 AD, they would destroy the city of Jerusalem. God says, I'm no longer going to have pity on the inhabitants of that land. But I'm going to go ahead and give them up to those that would strike the land. This again is a judgment from God. Look at verse 7. And I will feed the flock of the slaughter, even you, O poor of the flock. And so in obedience to God's direction, Zachariah does something. He notice verse 7, and I took unto me two staffs, or we could say staffs, a shepherd's staff, two of them, the one I called beauty and the other I called bands. And I fed the flock. Every shepherd has a staff, right? Well here, this shepherd, Zechariah, has two. And he has two staffs. One of them he called beauty, or we could say we could translate that word favor. And the other staff he called band, or we could also translate that word union. So he has two staffs, one called grace or favor, one called union or unity. And he has these two staffs in his hands. So here's Zachariah the shepherd with a staff in each hand, shepherding these sheep And he does something else that's very interesting. He fires three of his under-shepherds. Look in verse 8. Three shepherds also I cut off in one month. Three of his under-shepherds. By the way, John, David, and Aaron, I want to see you after church. No, I'm just kidding. Just teasing. He had three now this this this means that he he must have had a big flock because he has these under shepherds here. And he fires them within the course of a month. So what does that mean? Now by the way, verse 8 is one of the more difficult verses in all the Old Testament. I don't want to weigh you down with all the technicalities about this, but no less than 40 interpretations have been suggested to that verse. Forty. You want to hear all of them? Okay, here we go. Number one. No, I'm just kidding. Forty different interpretations have been offered. Let me tell you what I think is the best view, in my humble and yet most accurate opinion. I'm just kidding. Remember, this is a prophecy. Remember, this is a prophecy about the earthly ministry of Jesus and how the leaders of Israel rejected him. And the three shepherds here That Ezekiel, or I'm not Ezekiel, Zachariah is going to fire. They represent the leaders in Israel. The three main offices in Israel are what? Prophet, priest, and king. Right? When it talks of one month, that represents a relatively short period of time. So during the earthly ministry of Jesus The religious leaders rejected Jesus as the Messiah and abused their roles for personal gain, right? And they were false and worthless shepherds. But the worthy, true shepherd, Jesus Christ the Messiah, guess what? He and himself and his own person fulfilled all of those roles. He was the perfect prophet, priest, and king. All those roles combined to end the Lord Jesus Christ. So Jesus during his earthly ministry pretty much brought an end or abolished those other ministries. He abolished them. John the Baptist was the last of the prophets. After 70 A. D. there was no temple, no high priest to offer sacrifices, no more need for a priest after that. And after that time there would be no king of the Jews because there is no Jewish nation. And so Jesus basically in his earthly ministry ends the role of those three, because all of them are embodied in him. And besides that, they all rejected Jesus anyway. So look in verse number eight where it says this. My soul loathed him. The word loathe there, really, we could say impatient. Jesus said, I'll Looking in the future, he was impatient with them, and their soul abhorred me. They detested me. Amazing that the sheep began to hate detest the true and worthy shepherd. So what did Jesus do in his earthly ministry? He gave up his role as shepherd. He leads the flock to their fate. And notice verse number nine, then said I, I will not feed you. That dieth uh I will not see you that dieth let let it die. That that is to be cut off, let it be cut off And let the rest eat one the flesh of another. This is an amazing prophecy. And this was all literally fulfilled during the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD. In other words, here's the idea. Since they wouldn't receive Jesus, they would not have him. And Jesus put an end to those leaders. He himself was the ultimate leader. All those offices were really fulfilled in Christ. And yet they detested him. And Jesus said, Fine, if you don't want me, you don't have me, I'm going to withdraw myself then as being your shepherd, and I'm going to turn you over to yourself and let you devour one another. And by the way, that literally happened. In seventy A D, when the famines resulted as a result of the siege from Titus as they tried to take Jerusalem, people were starving and they literally turned to cannibalism and they def devoured the flesh of one another. That literally happened. But then there's what I call the postponement. Look down to verse number 10. And I took my staff, even beauty, and cut it asunder, that I might break my covenant, which I had made with all the people. So Zachariah does something very dramatic in this enact of parable. He's acting all this out. He takes the one staff that he has called beauty, or we could say favor, and he breaks it in half. Why does he do that? Because that was a signal or a sign that the covenant that God made with Israel was invalidated. It was it was uh Annulled, we could say. In other words, the favor that God had with his people before he no longer had that had favor. God's favor to his people had come to an end. The promises that God made to Israel were now postponed. They wouldn't be permanently canceled because we know the Old Testament is pretty clear on that. And others There's different opinions about what the what the agreement was. Some people say it was the agreement to protect Israel from uh invaders coming in. Others say this was God's original agreement to be their God, and since they had rejected God, since they had rejected their Messiah, God had rejected them and postponed what he was going to do for them. But either way, they lost the favor of God. And the implications for breaking the staff called favor could not be missed. Again, verse number eleven, which we read before And it was broken in that day. He breaks the staff. And so the poor of the flock that waited upon me knew that it was the word of the Lord. The people who watched and saw all this understood that this was a message from God that Zechariah was acting out. One day that they would reject our true shepherd And God would reject them. They would lose favor with God. Then notice the next section when I call the price. Now, because of this, Ezekiel, excuse me, I keep coming up with Ezekiel, Zechariah. Y'all keep me uh accountable here. So Zachariah, he's still acting out this parable of the Good Shepherd. And notice what he does next. Since the Good Shepherd has been basically rejected. And Zechariah is playing him in this role. Zechariah, still acting out the parable, he asks for his wages for shepherding the people. In other words, the contract is terminated, so give me my wages. Look at verse number twelve. And I said unto them, If ye think good, give me my price, and if not, forbear. So they weighed for my price 30 pieces of silver. So again, verse 12A, you think it's good, give me my price. In other words, give me my final check. You don't want me anymore? The agreement's annulled. Then I just want to get paid for my wages. Pay me my wages for what I did as a shepherd. Give me my final wage. And they The authorities give him the price of a slave, which was thirty pieces of silver. Now think about this. The price of a slave in the Old Testament, which had been gored by an ox. According to Exodus 2132, was 30 pieces of silver. In other words, that was the price for damaged goods, you could say. A slave that was gored by an ox would not be, you know, fully healthy, you know, strong. And so it was really just It was less than minimum wage. It was it was the price for damaged goods. That's the w that's how they considered uh the ministry of this good shepherd. So in verse 13, he sarcastically calls it a lordly price. Look at verse 13. And the Lord said unto me, Cast it unto the potter a goodly price. Or a we would say a handsome price or a magnificent price. That would be a sarcastic way of referring to this. Oh, thank you for that lordly price. That handsome price. And to show the disgust over this how how and how cheap they cheaply they valued the service and the ministry of the Good Shepherd. The Lord commands him in verse thirteen, Take this money and cast it, throw it to the potter. In verse thirteen he says And the Lord said unto me, Cast it unto the potter a goodly price, that I was uh prized at the at of them, and I took the thirty pieces of silver and cast them to the potter in the house. of the Lord. So Zachariah goes into the temple and he throws the thirty pieces of silver to the potter who was working there. Now there was probably a potter there in the temple all the time. making vessels. Why? Well you can imagine they were constantly using vessels there in the temple of the Lord. And so he goes into the temple, he sees the potter there, he takes the thirty pieces of silver, he throws it at him. Out of out of disgust, because the authorities said, here, that's his wage. That's all he's worth. He's only worth thirty pieces of silver. Now there is a debate about why the money was thrown to a potter. Probably because the potter was seen as one of the lowest of the working classes. And clay pots were from time were commonly used and cheaply replaced when they were broken. And by throwing the money before the potter in the temple, the prophet reinforced the message of how cheaply Israel regarded the ministry of its shepherd. And so this gesture of throwing the thirty pieces to the potter in a temple, by the way, this is all prophetic. Because what does this remind you of? According to Matthew 27, verses 3 to 10, this is the prophecy of the betrayal of Jesus. When Judas betrayed Jesus, how much did he betray him for? Thirty pieces of silver. But then he felt remorse for it. Remember, Matthew records all of this in Matthew 27. Judas betrays Jesus for the thirty pieces of silver. Afterward, he feels remorse. And he tried he tries to go back and return the money to the Jewish leaders, but they refused it. And when the Jewish leaders refused it, Judas took the thirty pieces of silver and he flung it at their feet at the in the temple And then he went out and did what? He went out and he hung himself. So here's Judas throwing the thirty pieces of silver to the men at the temple. But the Jewish leaders didn't want to take that money and put it into temple treasury because to them that was contaminated money, that was blood money. And they wouldn't do that. So they took the thirty pieces of silver and they did what with it? They used it to buy a potter's field as a burial place for strangers, and thus fulfilling the prophecy here of Zachariah the prophet. However, there is a problem in Matthew 27, verse 9. You might want to turn there. You can look at the verse that we have here, Matthew 27, 9. Because look what Matthew says. Then was fulfilled what had been spoken of by the prophet who Jeremiah saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him on whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel. In other words, what's the problem? Well the problem is that when Matthew refers to this prophecy, who does he ascribe it to? He ascribes it to Jeremiah. Well, wait a minute, this prophecy is in the book of Zechariah. And Zechariah the prophet is the one who gave this prophecy. So why is that? Now for some this is b this is a big problem and you can you can imagine how some liberals will have a field day with something like this and they'll say oh there you see you know the Bible's wrong Uh th this is this is something that you know you can't reconcile. And so uh this is a real problem for some people. And by the way, there's all kind of explanations out there given on this, and again, I don't want to waste your time going through all of them All right, because we only got five minutes left. Actually, I might take a little longer. But anyway, let me just give you what I think are the two most plausible explanations. For this. Number one, here's one explanation. One explanation is that Matthew brought together prophecies from both Jeremiah and Zechariah. He pulled prophecy out of both of those books, and since Jeremiah is the prominent prophet, then he used the name of the prominent prophet to refer to these prophecies regarding the betrayal of Jesus. That's one explanation. But I'll be honest with you, the act that explanation doesn't work for me because none of the prophecies that they refer to in the book of Jeremiah really Point to purchasing a potter's field. It talks about Jeremiah going down to the house of the potter, and then later it talks about Jeremiah buying a field in his old hometown. But none of those things really shed light on the prophecy And to me it's forced to try to bring all those things together and and try to satisfy the problem that way. I don't think that that's the answer to this. So here's the second, and I think this is the the best explanation and the one that I think satisfies the problem. Matthew referred to Jeremiah Listen to this, because his book appeared at the head of the whole section on prophets in the Hebrew Bible. Now think about this. The Hebrew Bible is divided up into three sections. Right? There's the law, the prophets, and the what. You guys should fail Hebrew class, man. The law, somebody said it over here, the prophets and the writings. The law, the prophets, and the writings. So it's divided up into those three sections. Now they're not the the the set the third section is not always called Or sometimes the first section of the law is sometimes they'll say Moses. Moses said. And that can include any of the first five books. Or, you know, the prophets. The prophets say, and they could be quoting from any one of the prophets out of there. And then the writings. The writings is a third group. And in that third category Um th there is the Psalms and so on, other other other books that are listed. And so in the section called the prophetic Writings or the ro the prophets, the first book in that section is what is what book? Guess what it is? It's Jeremiah The book of Jeremiah. Now sometimes New Testament writers, rather than quoting the specific book, they would just quote the section where it's from. You know. Sometimes Jesus would do this. Jesus would say, Well, you know what Moses said. And he's referring to something that happened in the first five books. Or um Jeremiah, and here in Matthew saying, and Jeremiah said But he's not referring specifically to the prophet Jeremiah. He's referring to that section of prophetic writings. And in that section of prophetic writings is also the book of Zechariah. Alright? Let me give you an example of this. You don't look convinced. Alright? Turn your Bibles or just listen. Luke 24, verse 44. Here's an example of Jesus doing this. Then said he to them, These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you. That everything written about me in the law of Moses, that's the first section, right? And the what Prophets and the psalms must be fulfilled. So there's the three sections of the Old Testament. Law, prophets, and psalms. Now is Jesus referring just to the book of Psalms No, he's referring to the whole third section, or it is also called the writings or the hagiographa, the holy writings. And what are the books in that third section of the writings? Guess what the first book in that section is? Psalms. So when Jesus said Psalms, he's referring to that whole section there. All those books there. Okay? He meant the entire third section of the Hebrew Bible. And this is exactly what Matthew is doing when he refers to the prophecy as being in Jeremiah. He simply means it's in the second division of the Hebrew Bible, the prophets. Alright? But don't let this distract you from the fact that this is an amazing prophecy of the 30 pieces of silver. One of the most amazing prophecies in all of the Old Testament. You see, one of the arguments that liberals have used against the Bible and Christianity is this. They said, well, you know, the disciples of Jesus they set out to purposely fulfill Old Testament prophecies in an attempt to deceive people. Really? They did that, huh? That's a ridiculous suggestion because most of the prophecies included elements that were beyond their control They couldn't control a lot of those things. And here's an example. They had no control of the price for Jesus' betrayal. The disciples were not whispering into the priest, ears, oh, 30 pieces silver, please. We need to fulfill this prophecy. No, that's ridiculous. Nor did they control the fact that the money was cast into the temple and then later used to buy a Potter's field. The only reasonable explanation is that these verses were supernaturally inspired by the Holy Spirit of God. to the to the prophet Zechariah. And their fulfillment is one of the many confirmations that the Bible is the Word of God and that Jesus is the Messiah. And the prophecies of Jesus' second advent will be fulfilled just as literally as the prophecies of his first advent. But then let me give you the next thing, the parting. Look down at verse number fourteen. And then right after Zechariah goes and he throws the thirty pieces of silver into the temple. Verse 14, notice then I cut asunder mine other staff, even bands that I might break the brotherhood between Judah and After throwing the silver to the potter, Zachariah cuts the second staff called union into pieces. This signified the breaking of the brotherhood between Judah and Israel. And this would prophetically speak of the fierce division that would take place among the Jewish people during that Roman invasion in seventy AD. In fact, Josephus recorded that Um the internal dissension among the people and among these conflicting parties of Jews was so bad that they struck each other as cruelly as the Romans struck them themselves So all of this parable then is about the Good Shepherd Jesus, who demonstrates how he will be despised. He will be rejected. And as a result of people rejecting him, there will be a fearful price that will be paid because of that. Let me give you the third part of this sermon real quick. We talked about the poem of the wailing shepherds And the parable of the worthy shepherd. But here's number three, the prophecy of the wicked shepherd. Look at verse 14. Then I could actually verse 15. Oh, and by the way, let me just say this. Between verses fourteen and fifteen, you might could write in your Bible if you have any room. Just write the word church age and put an arrow in between verses fourteen and fifteen. Because between verses 14 and 15, the whole church age is going to take place there. Now, a lot of people don't like, you know, Daniel's prophecy of the 70 weeks. They s you know they don't like the idea that there's a gap between the 69th and 70th week, but you know, it it's there and there's a gap between verse 14 and verse 15. Um, because verse fifteen is going to describe what will take place when the who is the wicked shepherd now? Since they didn't receive the good shepherd, since they didn't receive the Christ, then the Jewish people will receive who? The wicked shepherd, the Antichrist. Christ. And that will happen in the end. And now here God says, Zachariah, Zachariah, now I want you, good job on that first role, but I got another role for you in this drama. Now I want you to play the wicked shepherd. So he goes to playing another role here in this enacted parable. Notice verse 15. And the Lord said unto me. Take unto thee yet the instruments of a foolish shepherd. Now what are these? What are the instruments of a foolish shepherd? A shepherd normally had a crook or a shepherd shepherd staff and a rod to fight off the enemy. Uh he would use a knife and other utensils to help the sheep whenever they needed it for various things. And some think that the instruments of a foolish shepherd would be maybe he's not wearing the robes of a shepherd, this wicked shepherd coming along. Others say that his instrument would just be a club because he's going to club the sheep, he's not gonna feed the sheep or shepherd them, he's just gonna abuse them and club them. But I think really the instruments may be the same, but it's just a difference in the way that they're used. It may be the attitude of how these instruments are going to use. Or going to be used. And we see this by the way today. You know, there are there are good pastors who feed people the Word of God, but never pastors that use the Bible to beat everybody up. And manipulate people and try to rather than mature them in Christ, they try to manipulate them. And rather than feed them their um they're using the Bible for their own agenda. But verse 16 I think supplies the answer to this. Look at verse 16. For lo, I will raise up a shepherd in the land, which shall not visit those that be cut off, neither shall seek the young one, nor heal that that is broken Nor feed that that standeth still, but he shall eat the flesh of the fat and tear their claws in pieces. And so God will raise up a shepherd who would neglect the flock He'll not visit those that are cut off. He won't seek the young. He won't heal the broken. He won't feed them. In fact, he will seek to destroy them. But notice that God is the one who will allow this evil shepherd to come onto the scene. And then, and by the way, some argue that this is Rome who became the shepherd of Israel after the destruction in 70 A. D. And while Rome may represent an initial fulfillment of this prophecy, ultimately this is fulfilled in the Antichrist. You see, since again, God's people didn't receive the Christ and sold him for thirty pieces of silver. Then they will definitely open and receive the Antichrist. Jesus said it like this in John 5. 43: I have come in my Father's name, and you did not receive me. If another comes in his own name, him you will receive. And that literally happened. Because they did not choose the good shepherd, Israel will receive the foolish one Who will do absolutely opposite of what a good shepherd does for the sheep. He will destroy these sheep. That's exactly what the Antichrist does. That's exactly what Daniel tells us. That's exactly what Jesus says in Matthew. So in contrast to Jesus, the good shepherd who laid down his life for his sheep, the wicked shepherd will devour the flock for his own greedy purposes. Then look in verse number 17, because God will in the end Judge this wicked shepherd. Look at verse 17. Woe to the idol shepherd that leaveth the flock, the sword that shall be upon his arm and upon his right eye. His arm shall be clean, dried up, his right eye shall be utterly darkened. And here the sword uh being upon his right arm and it being clean dried up, that's just really s speaking about his strength. His strength will be taken from him A sword will cut him and it'll wither and dry his right arm. His strength will be taken. His eye, which speaks of intelligence, that will be taken from him. He will become feeble-minded, he will become weak. And all this is prophetically speaking about the future destruction of that evil shepherd, the Antichrist, that God will bring about in the end. So this whole chapter is a prophecy. About a tragedy. And what tragedy is it? The tragedy, the greatest of all tragedies, is rejecting Jesus, the Good Shepherd. Rejecting Christ. Now let me just give you a few words of application and I'll be done. Number one, rejecting Christ results in great tragedy both personally and nationally. When a nation rejects Jesus Christ, that nation comes under judgment We see that in the scripture. And that's also true personally. When a person refuses and rejects the Lord Jesus Christ. Then that again is the greatest tragedy. And you open yourself up to any error or any deception that might come along That's what we see back up in verse six, for I will deliver the men, every one to his neighbor's hand and into the hand of his king. That is, when you reject Christ, God will reject you, and you open yourself up to all kind of exploitation and abuse and manipulation and deception from all of those False shepherds that are out there. That's the whole point there. But then here's the second and final point of application. Rejecting Christ is not valuing him properly. And that's what we see here. Go back to verse number 12 of chapter 11. And here's Zechariah. And I said unto them: if ye think good, Listen to this, give me my price. Give me what you think I'm worth. Give me my price. What price would you place on Jesus? Jesus said, What do you think I'm worth to you? Give me my price. For the people of Israel, it was the price of a wounded slave. Of a gorge slave, damaged goods. You're not worth much to us. 30 pieces of silver, and that's it. They didn't value Jesus at all. And so this is a question that each of us needs to consider carefully. At what price do I value the Lord Jesus? That'll be reflected in the way that we live for him. That'll be reflected in how faithful we are to him. Do we value the pleasures of sin above the pleasures of knowing Christ? Do we give them just a couple of hours on Sunday now and then and live all the rest of the week for ourselves? Do we just drop a few bucks into the offering plate? Just to alleviate whatever guilt might rise up in our soul and then spend all the rest of the money we have on our own toys? Or do we submit all that we have and all that we are to the Lordship of Jesus Christ? Christ. The question is, what price do you put on Jesus? How much do you value him? And are you in the process in your spiritual life of valuing him and loving him more and more? with each passing month and year? Do you love Christ more today than you did last week Or more this year than you did last year. Because if you're really growing and maturing and learning more of Christ and the knowledge of Christ, your love for Christ should be increasing and growing and growing and growing. And growing. And you should be valuing him more and more and more. That's what the Christian life is all about. And this all starts at the cross. It starts when we come to the cross initially, but each passing day we value what Jesus did for us and his whole life more and more, and we submit more of ourselves to him. That really shows how much we value Jesus Christ. Yet even Christians can reject a Good Shepherd in practical ways if we don't value him the way we should. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this amazing chapter, this prophecy that was given five hundred years before the time. Of when Christ, the good shepherd, the great shepherd, the worthy shepherd, would come unto his own, and his own would receive him not. And we see also the tragedy of the awful price that had to be paid by those who would not receive their shepherd. And Father, I pray that this will serve as a warning to all of us. Because the truth of the matter is, Lord, we don't love you the way we should. And we need to love you more. We need to value you more. The price that we put on you needs to increase as we learn of you more and more. As we see how precious knowing you is, there's nothing greater. There's no greater gift. There's no greater thing than knowing Christ. There's no greater tragedy. than rejecting Christ. So Father, may this stir our hearts, may it help us to just love you more and prize you all the more. And so Serve as a warning to guard our hearts when we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.