It's good to see you here tonight in the Lord's house. Always a joy to be able to end God's day, the Lord's day in the Lord's house. Now, I want you to take your Bibles tonight. I want you to open to the book of Genesis. I know we've been doing a study in 2 Timothy, and we will get back to there. But tonight I want us to look in Genesis chapter 42. And we're going to start off looking at verse number 36 of Genesis 42 And you know, I've been speaking a lot about overcoming anxiety and I this is kind of a sermon that kind of goes along with that whole idea. And I want us to look in the life of old Old Testament character and actually kind of provide a contrast between two men here in the Old Testament and how they looked at life. Look in Genesis chapter forty two and look at verse thirty six. And Jacob their father said unto them, Me Have ye bereaved of my children? Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin away. All these things are against me. Perhaps you've heard of the children's book called Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day. You ever read that book when you were a child? Well, Alexander starts his day off with gum in his hair, not a good way to start out your day. His uh prize in the cereal wasn't as good as the the what his brother got in his cereal He had a bad seat in the carpool and he was rejected by his friends. He had a pitiful lunch in his lunch bag and a trip to the dentist, and then to top it off for supper that night there was lima beans. And so Alexander punctuated every new trauma of that day with the line, it was a terrible, horrible, no-good, very bad day. Maybe you can relate to that. Maybe some of you are feeling that way here tonight. Uh you ever hear of Murphy's Law? I was reading about Murphy's Law. Will go wrong. You guys know it very well. Anything that can go wrong will go wrong. Murphy's Law was actually born at Edwards Air Force Base in 1949. It was named after Captain Murphy uh who was an engineer working on an Air Force project and while he was inspecting the project he found some wiring that went wrong and he uttered the words if anything can go wrong it will go wrong and that's where Murphy's Law was born. And there are some people that live by Murphy's law. They live with this kind of gloom, this kind of impending doom that's going to come upon them. And as we had talked about this before, that's kind of the essence of anxiety But that's not the way that God wants his children to live. And we're going to see this in the and uh illustrated in the life of Jacob. Now Jacob here is going to illustrate for us this principle, but he's not going to do it in a positive way, he's going to do it in a negative way. Sometimes the greatest lessons we can learn are not from a good example, but from a bad example And before there was Murphy's Law, there was, we could say Jacob's Law, and we just read about it here in verse number 36. At the end of the verse where Jacob is kind of complaining about the things that have befallen him, he said, all these things are against me. All these things are against me. That's Jacob's law. Everything that's happened to me, these bad events in my life. This j just goes to show that all of these things are against me. Now this is not one of the finer moments in Jacob's life. If you observe his words and his attitudes here in this store, you get the impression that he was not very optimistic by nature. He was more of a pessimist. He was more like Alexander, and uh he seemed to be having more terrible days in his life in good days. But you know, we shouldn't be too hard on Jacob because first of all, there was a lot of painful things that happened in his life. We we see that as we study his life in scripture But secondly, there's a little bit of Jacob in all of us, right? We have to admit that that there's there's some of that in all of us We have all had times where we've had similar thoughts, where perhaps we've given in at a time of bereavement or despair and have said something similar to what Jacob said, all of these things are against me. Well in the book of Genesis, what I'm what we're going to see here tonight, at least I hope you'll see, is really two perspectives, or we could say two laws. Can we say it like that? There's Jacob's perspective, Jacob's law, and then there's going to be Joseph's perspective. Joseph's law. And every Christian has to choose how you're going to guide your life. According to which of these laws will you use as you guide your life? Now, let's look at this story. What is it that caused Jacob to say these words? All these things are against me. Well, let's look at the story just a little bit closer. And let me just kind of give you the context. Really, we're kind of jumping into the middle of a drama that had happened earlier with the life of Joseph. Joseph, as you remember in Scripture, was basically betrayed by his brothers. He was thrown into a pit, and then he was sold to some uh some tradesmen that were going some salesmen that were going to Egypt, some Midianites. And uh basically uh he was put into slavery there in Egypt. He was made to serve in Potiphar's house, then he was falsely accused, thrown into a pit. We all know the story of Joseph, how so many bad things took place in his life But with a series of providential events, God sovereignly exalts Joseph from the prison to Pharaoh's court, Pharaoh's house. And he becomes the prime minister of Egypt. And the reason for that, of course, is because God gave Joseph a special gift. He was able to discern what the Lord was doing. the dreams that God had given to Pharaoh. Joseph saw the hand of God and all that. He was also given enough wisdom to see a famine coming and how Seven years of plenty followed by seven years of famine and how he could take the resources gained through that time of plenty and use it to prepare for the famine. And Pharaoh instantly met put him in charge of that whole project. We know that whole story And there was indeed a famine that spread in the land of Canaan, so much so that people were coming from all over to go down to the land of Egypt because of what Joseph had done. There was still food and plenty in the land of Egypt because of the wise stewardship of Joseph. And so we pick up the story where uh Jacob sends his sons down to Egypt, and as they go down to Egypt, I call this part of the story the recognition. When the sons get to Egypt Basically, Joseph sees them coming and he knows who they are. He knows they are his brothers. It's been 22 years since he last saw his brothers. Think about that, 22 years. had passed since they sold his brother into slavery. He was dressed as an Egyptian after all, now he's the Prime Minister of Egypt Uh he probably had all the trappings with Egyptian dress. He probably shaved his head because if you were a part of Pharaoh's household The Egyptians considered hair to kind of be unclean. And if you were a priest serving in a Egyptian temple, you had to shave off all your hair. Pharaoh was considered to be a god. So to work in his household you would have to shave off all your hair, put on all the Egyptian dress, and then make up, they would take on the makeup. So there's no way that Joseph's brothers were able to identify Joseph, but Joseph, he could see them Interesting, 22 years earlier, they saw Joseph coming from afar. Now Joseph sees his brothers coming from a distance. Twenty-two years earlier, the brothers conspired what they were going to do to Joseph. Joseph now sees his brother coming in. He's conspiring what he's going to do to his brothers, how things have changed, and the Shua's on the other foot. But Joseph, what he was interested in, was not revenge. What he was interested in was to find out whether or not his brothers attitude towards him had changed. Whether was any repentance whatsoever, you have to remember that Joseph's brothers, they were very hard men. If you read the Genesis account, you'll find out that Simeon and Levi deceived the whole village and they slaughtered all the males in that village because one of the men in that village violated their sister. And they took all the women and children captive in retaliation for that offense. Reuben the oldest slept with his father's concubine. Judah had two sons that were so wicked the Lord took their lives. And he himself committed adultery with his daughter-in-law Tamar, thinking her to be a prostitute. And so all of the brothers, with the exception of Benjamin, had sold Joseph into slavery. Crushing their father's heart, deceiving him, telling him that Joseph was dead. And so now here Joseph wants to test his brothers to find out where their heart was. And so Uh the next part of the story I call the return. What happens is is that Joseph uh gives them their grain, he gives them their corn, and then he gives them their money back He puts it back into the sacks that they had brought with them. And look at the story. Pick it up in verse number 25 of Exodus, or excuse me, Genesis. 42. Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks every with corn, and to restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provision for the way, and thus did he unto them. And they laden their asses with corn and departed thence. And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass prevendor in the end, he espied his money, for behold it was in his sack's mouth. And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored, and lo, it is even in my sack, and they and their heart failed them, and they were afraid, saying one to another, What is this that God has done to us. They were absolutely perplexed when they found this money. Was this a setup? Was the man in Egypt trying to entrap them so he may punish them? Was he being kind? And so they I love the question where they say, What is this that God has done? Now, just another note on the story. Remember they had to leave their brother Simeon in Egypt behind. Why? Because Joseph said, I want to make sure you guys aren't spies. Of course he knew they weren't they weren't spies. But to make sure that your story is true, I want you to bring your other brother with you. When you come back, your brother Benjamin, and I'm gonna hold Simeon here with me until that happens. And so the brothers were really kind of uh you know uh comment you might say in a but between a rock and a hard place. Here they had they had Simeon and he wants them to come back with their brother Benjamin. Now this is what I call the report. Look down in verse number twenty-nine. And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan and told him all that befell unto them, saying, The man who is the Lord of the land spake roughly to us and took us for spies of the country. And we said unto him, We are true men, we're no spies. We be twelve brethren, sons of our father. One is not The young us is saved with our father in the land of Canaan. And the man the man, the Lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye are true men. Leave one of your brethren here with me, and take food for the famine of your households and be gone. And bring your youngest brother unto me, and then shall I know that ye are no spies, but ye are true men So will I deliver you your brother, and ye shall traffic in the land. And verse thirty five, and it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack And when they and when and both they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid. So as they finished emptying their sacks, as we see here in the story, They discovered through their horror that not just one, but each man's money had been returned to them. And at this point in the story, Jacob You know, you would think that we say, wow, what a blessing. What a blessing from God. No, he sees the glass is half empty here. He kind of wails. And he gives his version of Murphy's law in verse number thirty-six. And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children, Joseph is not, Simeon is not, and ye will take uh take Uh and and he will take aw Benjamin away all these things are against me. Think about that Talk about being a pessimist. Joseph is dead. Simeon is dead. Benjamin's going to die. Now you want to return to Egypt? You want to take Benjamin, my favorite son, and go back to Egypt? Well, this was Jacob not acting in faith, not seeing things at all through the eyes of faith. But notice the response. Go down now to verse number 37. And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my Two sons, if I bring him not to thee, deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again. And he said, My son shall not go down with you For his brother is dead, and he is left alone. If mischief befall him by the way in which he ye go, then shall ye bring down my grey hairs with sorrow to the grave So, Jacob is not going to let them take Benjamin and go back to Egypt to get more food. Now at this point, Reuben makes an extreme offer. This is kind of a crazy offer here in the story He says he'll be responsible for Benjamin and if he doesn't bring him back, then Jacob can take his two sons and kill his two sons. Well that's kind of ridiculous, is it not? Why would a grandfather want to kill his two grandsons? You know And on the behalf of on he he can kill one on behalf of Joseph, the other on the behalf of Ben Benjamin. Again, this is an absurd offer. And why did Ruben make such an offer here? Perhaps he felt as the oldest he he had to do something. Reuben had been on his dad's bedside for a long tr time. He's trying to perhaps change that. He had, as I said, committed incense with his father's concubines. And being in the uh being the oldest, he was actually responsible for Joseph's safety years ago and he blew that one. Jacob wasn't about to give him another chance. and let him take Benjamin down to Egypt. And so in verse thirty-eight, he just absolutely refuses to let him take his son back down. Look at verse thirty eight. He said, My son shall not go down with You. And so, you know, Benjamin is left alone, meaning he's the only one left of Rachel's two sons. You know, that that's pretty selfish. It probably made the other sons kind of feel like second-class members of the family. I only have really one son left. Well, what are we, you know? And so here you can see Jacob is just really having a pity party. And um And so he just refuses. He absolutely refuses. But notice the next part of the story. The famine gets worse. Look in chapter 43. Look at verse 1. And the famine was sore in the land. And it came to pass when they had eaten up the corn which they brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again and buy us a little food. The famine was so severe that it wasn't long before, again, all their resources were gone. Week by week the family watched the food supply just diminish Finally, the food supplies ran out. And Jacob commands his sons, I like the way he says this, go and buy, just get a little food for us Get a little food. What's he mean by that? Well maybe he was thinking if they bought just a little, the harsh governor wouldn't require Benjamin to go down with his brothers. You know Just go down, just get a little food and come back. You know. Jacob is still trying to manipulate the circumstances. We know from reading of the life of Jacob. He's a schemer, he's a manipulator, he's still trying to manipulate here But notice in verse number three of chapter 43. And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face except your brother be with you. If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food. But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down. For the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you. And Judah just steps in and he reminds Jacob that they simply cannot return back without Benjamin. And if Jacob still refuses to let Benjamin go, then they're not going to go back to Egypt. Now At this point, Jacob, he kind of whines a little bit more. Look at verse number six. And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me as to tell the man that ye had a brother? Does that make any sense to you? That kind of response? You know, why did you treat me so bad? To tell this man you had a brother? Why didn't you just lie to him? You know? Isn't that true of human nature? When we're boxed in by circumstances, we want to blame others. It's your fault. You should have never told him that you had another brother. You know, I'm a victim, you know, saying to his sons, why weren't you guys omniscient? Why didn't you read his mind? Why didn't you know what he was going to do here? You know, this is a rational blame that Jacob places on his sons. Now despite that They begin to reason with them. Look at verse number seven. And they said, The man asked us straightly of our state and of our kindred, saying, Is your father yet alive? And have ye another brother? And we told him according to the tenor of these words, could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother down? Dad, do you think that we really understood that he was going to do that when we were talking there? You know? He we're just answering his questions. And so um Judah now makes a more rational proposal than Rubin's earlier extreme idea. And verse eight, and Judah said unto Israel his father, Send a lad with me, and we will arise and go, that we may live and die not, both we and thou and also our little ones, and I will be sure for him of my hand thou shalt require him, and if I bring him not unto thee, set him before thee, then let me bear the blame forever. Judah reminds his father about how desperate their situation is. They gotta have food. It's kind of a life or death situation Send the lad down, he says, that we might live and not die. If we don't get food pretty soon, we're all gonna die. And then he proposes to become Surety for Benjamin. If anything happened to Benjamin, Judah says, look, I will bear the responsibility. I will bear the blame for this. And then he kind of points out the stubbornness of Jacob. Look at verse number ten. For except we had lingered, surely now we had returned this second time. In other words, you know We could have made two trips to Egypt by now. But it was if it wasn't for your stubbornness, we could have been back and forth there two times. We wouldn't be in this mess if you weren't so stubborn. So Jacob's back here is against the wall. So he reluctantly agrees to let Benjamin go. Now Benjamin at this time he's 23 years old. But Jacob, you know, he still has one last scheme up his sleeve. He's always a schemer, always the manipulator. He decides to put get to to put together an impressive gift for the man down in Egypt. After all it worked. You know when Esau was mad at him and he had to return home. He thought maybe this will work again. So look at verse number eleven And their father Israel said unto them, if it must be so now, do this. Take the best of the fruits in the land and your vessels. And carry down the man a present, a little bomb, a little honey, spices, myrrh, nuts, and almonds. And take double money in your hand, and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry it again in your hand. Take also your brother, and arise and go again unto the man. And God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your other brother Benjamin. And if I be bereaved of my children, then I am bereaved Wow, okay. If I have to be bereaving my children, okay, so be it. I'll resign myself to fate. Now what he's doing here is he's still thinking. The worst, this is uh still another version of Jacob's law. You know, if I'm bereaved of my children, I'm bereaved. If the man kills them all, so be it. That's the way it is, that's the way it goes. So he was kind of preparing himself for the worst. In other words, again, all