Well, good evening. Good to see you here tonight. I invite you to please take your Bible and open to the book of Psalm 119 as we tonight uh go to the next stanza of this great psalm. And we tonight want to consider this topic as we study tonight, the um rejoicing in his righteousness. So look in Psalm 119 and look at verse number one Psalm 119, verse 137. This is the eighteenth uh stanza, eighteenth sermon out of Psalm 119, which means If you do your math right, how many sermons do we have left? If there's twenty-two, you could tell me that later. If you get the answer right, we'll give you an extra prayer bulletin tonight. Um So this is just a great psalm. And as we had said before, all of it is about the Word of God. It's looking at God's word, the treasure we have in Scripture. And learning to just uh live by God's word and to thank God for his word. And so in verse 137, this is right, if you notice above it, it is the Hebrew letter Zadai And um and and so we're gonna consider this theme that's in this this section of Psalm 119 tonight. Have you ever gone to a concert and heard the sounds of the orchestra t tuning their instruments before the start It seems like each violin and uh cello lets out a screech and a half half form note. Instead of the harmony that you would expect, uh there's at first this clash of sounds, this kind of this uh disorganized and unsettling. It it's kind of painful to listen to. That kind of serves as a metaphor for our world today. Uh the this world is now under the curse of sin. And because of that, you know, this created order is in chaos. Trees are falling, storms raging, animals suffering, human bodies breaking down. It kind of plays like an orchestra out of tune. And it it groans, we could say. Of course the Bible teaches us that in Romans chapter 8. It groans, waiting for the great conductor to step on stage. And then at the appointed hour the conductor will wave his baton and suddenly all the chaos will resolve into harmony. That will happen when our Lord comes again. There will be a day when creation itself is delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of the children of God. So the Bible teaches us that creation groans. Again, we see this in Romans 8. Paul personifies creation as if it were longing and yearning and crying out in pain. And why? Well, because it was made subject to vanity, meaning futility or frustration. All this took place at the fall. The world was created in perfection, it was created in beauty, it was created in righteousness, but was cursed by sin. And because of that, Thorns decay and death entered into the creative order because of Adam's sin, and creation is now enslaved to corruption. Creation longs for deliverance. Paul makes that clear in Romans chapter 8, verse 21. And by the way, the destiny of creation is tied into the destiny of God's people. When believers are fully glorified, creation itself will be renewed. So we kind of groan with creation. We groan because we desire righteousness, right? We want to be freed from sin, ultimately. And all of creation is that way. All of creation is groaning and longing for the Lord to come and to free it from the bondage of corruption that it's in. Peter speaks of the new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness, second Peter 313. So creation groans under the weight of sin and longs for the day when righteousness reigns and corruption is no more. Isaiah foresaw this, and you might want to write down Isaiah 32, verse 12. The work of righteousness shall be peace and the effect of righteousness, quietness, and assurance forever. So again, as believers, we share in this groan, the groaning of all creation. Write down Romans 8 twenty three, and not only they, that is not only creation, but we ourselves also, which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves grown within ourselves, waiting for the adoption to with the redemption of our body Though we have the Spirit as the first fruits, we await the full harvest, which is the redemption of our body when our salvation is made absolutely complete and we are glorified. And so just as creation longs for freedom from corruption, we again long for perfect righteousness. We long for that. Now, there's a sense in which even the unbeliever in this world share in this. You say, how is that? Well, even people who deny God, they crave fairness, right? They crave justice. They crave moral order. They crave a uh a righteousness. But the Bible tells us, and by the way, that's that again bears witness that uh that deep inside people know, even the lost world knows, there's something broken in this world. There's something that is not right. But the Bible tells us that this righteousness is not found in governments or human courts. This restoration, this righteousness that is missing from this world. That is found only in God. Only in God. That's why we rejoice in God's righteousness And that's really the whole theme of this stanza right here. The psalmist is rejoicing in the fact that God is righteous and his righteousness is put on display. So it's a meditation on this whole thing. Now, again, the Hebrew letter here, Zadai, is the is the letter that begins each verse, and this letter is closely associated with the The Hebrew word Zadik, which is righteousness, there's only one letter difference from Zadai and Zadik, which is the Hebrew word for righteousness. So this letter is all has always been associated with righteousness. In the ancient form, Zadai was drawn like a figure, kneeling down, lifting his hands in surrender. That was the pictograph of what this letter was and then it uh formed into this the letter that it is it evolved into that but it's a powerful picture because kneeling has always been a symbol of what? Been a symbol of humility and submission So think about that. The very letter that begins the word Zadek, the righteous one, was pictured as a person kneeling. And God is teaching us something through the alphabet itself. And the message is this: true righteousness doesn't come from standing tall in pride. It comes from kneeling low in humility before God. That's the whole message. So the writer uses the connection between the letter, which was a picture of a person bowing down, and the concept it communicates, which is righteousness. It communicates righteousness. And so therefore that's the whole theme of this stanza here. It's all about righteousness. And it dominates the whole stanza. For example. It's used five times in eight verses. Look at verse 137. Righteous art thou, O Lord. And then in verse 138, thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous. And then in verse 142, thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. And then it ends in verse 144, the righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting. So that's the theme of this stanza. Clearly, it is about the righteousness of God, right? And that's what he is rejoicing in. This is one of the greatest themes in all of Scripture. Our God is righteous. And the message is clear. The righteousness of God is not just a doctrine to be acknowledged, it's a reality to rejoice in. It is something that we trust in, and it is something that we live out. So let me give you three reasons why he rejoices in the righteousness of God that I see here in this stanza. First, number one is the righteousness of God is described in his character. It's described in his character. Again in verse 137. The way it starts, righteous art thou, O Lord. And again the word here, righteous, perf means perfectly moral, the Hebrew meaning consistent with holiness, it is a word that is declares this is an attribute of God. This is who God is. God is righteous. And the Bible declares this over and over again. Psalm 11, verse 7, for the righteous Lord loveth righteousness. And Psalm one hundred forty five, verse seventeen, the Lord is righteous in all his ways, holy in all his works. In Daniel nine seven it says, O Lord, righteousness belongs unto thee, but unto us confusion Wayne Grudum in his systematic theology just defines it like this. God's righteousness means that God always acts in accordance with what is right and is himself the final standard of what is right. I love that God doesn't act according to a righteous standard. He is the righteous standard. He is the righteous one. It's all about him. Louis Burkhold said, the righteousness of God is that perfection whereby he maintains himself over against every violation of his holiness and shows in every respect that he is the holy one. And so God is righteous. But notice the next thing the psalmist asserts: God's righteousness is everlasting. That's the other sub-point we see here. Look at verse 142. Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. That is to say, there will never be a time when God is will be less than what he is. God is righteous and he will never be less than that. That's the idea here. He will not in some way be less righteous than he is right now. Because he's perfect and the Bible says he is unchanging. Malachi three six, for I the Lord, I change not. Spurgeon said this Man's righteousness is but for a day, like a vapor that passes away, but God's righteousness is eternal. Time cannot tarnish it, nor eternity wear it out. So God's righteousness we could say is eternal in its source because it flows from the nature of God He has never been unrighteous and he will never be unrighteous. But also, God's righteousness is eternal in its standard. Human laws change. What one generation declares is right, another generation might come behind it and say, no, that's wrong. But God's righteousness is not subject to the majority vote or cultural drift. Isaiah says this, Isaiah 51, 6. The heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a garment, but my salvation shall be forever, and my righteousness shall not be abolished. It will not be abolished. That means God's righteousness is the standard for all ages, all nations, and all peoples. But also God's righteousness is eternal in its salvation. Eternal in its salvation. God's everlasting righteousness is not only his standard, but it's his saving gift that he gives to us. Again, Jeremiah 23, 6 says And this is his name whereby he shall be called the Lord our righteousness. And that verse points to who? It points to Jesus, right? Christ our righteousness. He is the eternal provision of righteousness for people that believe in him. The only way we'll ever see God is if we have righteousness, and none of us qualify there because none of us are righteous. What's the Bible say? There is none righteous, no, not one. So if we're going to see God, it has to be a righteousness other than ours. The good news is when you put your faith in Jesus Christ, we are given, we are, it's imputed to us the righteousness of Christ. And that righteousness is eternal, and it is saving. Now, why does it matter that God's righteousness is everlasting? Why does that matter? Well, because it provides assurance for the believer. Our standing before God is secure because it's based on an everlasting righteousness. God's righteousness will not change, therefore, the righteousness that He gives to us will not change. It gives us confidence in trials. When the world seems unstable, God's righteousness does not change. But also, it assures us that judgment will take place for the sinner. If God's righteousness is everlasting, what does that mean? That sin will never be overlooked. It will never be excused. You know, it's the secret hope of the wicked that God will overlook their sin. That, you know, somehow God will disregard it or God will give him a pass and he'll shrug it off and say, Oh well, that's all right. You know, I'm just I'll let it go. Those are vain hopes. Psalm 10 says this, verse 11, He has said in his heart, God has forgotten. This is the wicked talking, this is the way he reasons in his mind. Oh, God has forgotten. He has hidden his face, he will never see it. It goes on to say, Wherefore doth the wicked condemn God? He has said in his heart, Thou wilt not require it. The wicked convince themselves that God's not going to call them into account. Surely God is not going to Rake me over the coals over every little thing I do wrong. I mean, you know, come on. But that's a vain hope because God is righteous. And it's an everlasting righteousness. Psalm 94, 7, yet they say, The Lord shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob Regarded. Here is the arrogant assumption that God is indifferent to evil, that God at some point will close his eyes to evil deeds, and God never does that. Never. And so that's why it's important. That's why salvation in Christ is urgent. The only salvation is in Christ. You better run to it because God's not going to give you a pass. He's not going to overlook sin. All your sins were placed on Christ. You better run to him for salvation. He's the only salvation. So the righteousness of God is described in his character. But here's the second thing. The righteousness, God's righteousness is displayed in his commandments. And we see this connection in this stanza over and over again. Since God is righteous by his very essence, that means everything that flows from him, that is his commandments, his judgments, his promises, his testimonies, they must be righteous. Right? To use a human analogy, a law reflects the character of the lawgiver. And if a ruler is corrupt, then his laws will be corrupt. But if a king is righteous, then all of his decrees, all of his commands, all of his laws will be righteous and just and because God is infinitely righteous, His word, His decrees are perfectly righteous as well. God cannot lie, the Bible tells us in Titus 1. 2 He cannot contradict himself, Numbers twenty-three nineteen, and he cannot act unjustly, Deuteronomy thirty-two four. Therefore his word can never contain falsehood or corruption or error Again, Grudem and his systematic says this: God's word is the ultimate standard of truth because it is consistent with his own character, which itself is the ultimate standard of truth. So God's word is so connected with who God is that they're equal. They're the same. And if God is righteous, that means his word is righteous. So we see this again in verse 142. Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. But then look in verse 144. The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting. See the link there? Whatever God's character is, the word of God is. God's word is the expression of who He is. And so thus God's word is perfect. And then the psalmist goes on to give some just some characteristics about God's word based on this whole idea that it's the essence of who God is. God's word is faithful. So continuing the logic, since God is righteous and therefore his word is righteous, that means his word is faithful. Look at verse 138. Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous and very Faithful. Not just faithful, I love that. Very faithful. And this is a Hebrew word that comes from the word which means stable, firmness. It's the root word where we get our word, Amen. God's word is amen God's word is truth. It's a word of certainty. They're faithful in their promises. Every promise that God has given will be kept, has been kept, or will be kept. Not one of his good words has ever failed. Joshua could say that at the end of his life. Ye know in all your hearts and in all your souls that not one thing hath failed of all the good things which the Lord your God has spoken concerning you. Joshua is telling the people. at the end of his life. Faithful in protection, since God is righteous, his commandments are not arbitrary. They reflect his holiness, they reflect his justice, they reflect his love. To rebel against his commandments is to rebel against the very goodness and love of God. Because God's commandments are designed to protect us, to protect you. Just like a loving parent gives rules to a child. Why? To make their life miserable? No. To protect them Even so, God's commandments keep us from harm. The prohibitions of scripture, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not covet. These are not prison bars, these are guardrails. to keep us from sin's destructive consequences in our life. I remember uh when I was in Cornwall, England, uh a few summers back, I was hiking along the shoreline, these beautiful high cliffs. And it's just a beautiful hike along the cliffs there and looking out over the shore. And I went miles And I came to a certain section where there was a sign that read, do not walk on this path due to the erosion on the path. And um, you know, some people can read a sign like that and say, well, they're they can't tell me what to do. I mean they're trying to keep me from seeing all this scenic beauty here. They can reason in their mind that way. Well, okay, if you want to take the chance, go ahead and walk on that path. But the best way to reason would be someone really cares about the people here Because they're willing to put up this sign to warn them of the danger of what could take place. You see, that's the purpose behind God's commandments. God's commandments are out of love, and God gives us those commandments because he wants to protect us. It's not there to uh to b basically uh keep me from enjoying life, they're there as a protection. They're expressions of his goodness and love. So God's word is also faithful in preservation, we could say. Through the centuries of attack, burning, banning, ridicule, the word has stood unshaken. So God's word is faithful. It's faithful. But here's another way he describes it. God's word is pure. Look at verse 140. Thy word is very pure. I love it from very faithful to very pure. And this uh this word here is is tied to the word refined. It's the Hebrew word here that carries the idea of something being refined or tested like gold, passing through the fire, and removing all the impurities out of it to where it's pure gold. God's word is without flaw. God's word is untainted by falsehood. It is perfect, perfectly trustworthy. It is pure Same word is used in Psalm 12, verse 6. The words of the Lord are pure words as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. So therefore again God's word is trustworthy, very pure. That kind of intensifies the truth here. It's not simply pure in part, but completely, holy, absolutely pure. Every promise, every command, every doctrine is without mixture of error of any kind. And so it's pure. But then also God's word is true. Another word he uses for God's word in one verse 142 Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is what? It's truth. It's truth. So notice that it's not merely truthful, or not one truth among many, but the truth itself. And this is an exclusive claim. If God is perfectly righteous, then his word must be the only pure Flawless standard of truth. It's exclusively true. It's the exclusivity of the truth of God's word. That's what He's talking about here. Human knowledge is limited. It is corrupted by sin and pride and bias. Cultures change and philosophies shift. Scientific theories are constantly being revised. But the word of God stands forever. It is the source of truth that is pure and it doesn't need to change. So again, God's word is truth because it's consistent with the character of God. Paul warned Timothy, he said, look, people are out there ever learning, never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. This describes people who are they're accumulating all this information And we're living in an age of information, but they reject the one source of truth, which is the Word of God. People are being flooded with all kind of knowledge. today, through the internet, through books and degrees and philosophies, but they're starving for the truth because they reject God's word. And so we see the righteousness of God. It's described in his character. And the righteousness of God is displayed in his commandments. But here's the third thing I see in this stanza here. The righteousness of God is demonstrated by his children. It's demonstrated by his children. Man was created in righteousness in the beginning, yet man sinned, and all of what God created in righteousness, as we said, became defiled. And so God's plan has always been to restore that righteousness in man. It's to demonstrate his righteousness to the world through his children. That's God's plan. In the Old Testament we see this right down Isaiah 61, 3, that they might be called trees of righteousness. Here he's talking about his people, that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planning of the Lord, that he might be glorified. And then in verse number 10, He has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He has covered me in the robe of righteousness That's always been God's design desire to cover us in the robe of his righteousness. And in verse eleven, the Lord God will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all nations So you see that God's desire is to clothe his people in righteousness so that his glory is put on display before all the world. That's his desire. In Micah 6, verse 8, he has showed thee, O man, what is good, and what doth the Lord require thee, but to do justly and to love mercy. and to walk humbly with thy God. So God calls his people to embody his righteousness on a daily basis. That's what he calls us to do. In the New Testament, Jesus said it like this, let your light so what? Shine before men that men may see your good works and what? Glorify your Father which is in heaven above. When the righteousness of God is put on display to the world through God's people, God is always glorified because of that. In Philippians 1. 11, Paul said to the Philippians, being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God Again, God's purpose is that his children bear visible fruit of righteousness because when that happens, it magnifies God. It magnifies the name of God. And so the Lord freely justifies us in order that he might at the same time restore us. to righteousness by sanctifying us. And again, it's not our righteousness, is it? It's his. It's his. Because we have none. So how does God's people put righteousness on display? Well, there's a few hints here. A few things that we see are the marks of righteous children of God. How do they do it? Well, in their zeal for God's glory. Look at verse 139. My zeal hath consumed me because my enemies have forgotten thy words. And the psalmist has a zeal for God's honor and glory. When God's word is ignored or forgotten, It fills the child of God with righteous indignation. There is a certain thing as righteous anger. Not all anger is sin. There is a righteous anger, and that should fill us when we see God being dishonored or his name being shamed or his word being ignored or pushed aside. That's a dishonor to God. Jesus drove out the money changers with a whip And he quoted Psalm 69, 9, The Zeal of thine house has eaten me up. But also in their love for God's word. Look at verse 140. Thy word is very pure, therefore thy servant what? Loveth it. Because God's word is pure, the response from the servants of the Lord is we love it. And this love comes from our conviction that it's the sure voice of God. And to love God's word is to love God. Because it's the essence of who God is. But also another way we do it is in in their remembrance of God's instructions. God's righteousness is put on display through Look at verse one forty four. I am small and despised, yet do not I forget thy precepts. Small here refers to weak or or lowly or lack of status or power. He was not mighty in the world's estimation, but he was a humble servant of God. And he shows that his true devotion to God is not dependent on status, it's not dependent on comfort, it's not dependent on popular approval. Even if the world forgets him, he will not forget God's word. That is a mark of a child of God that is displaying the righteousness of God, but then also in their delight of God's comfort. When a child of God goes through trials or suffering, they cling to God's word all the more. Look in verse 143. Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me, yet thy commandments are my delights. The psalmist doesn't sugarcoat the reality of life. God's people are not exempt from suffering. They're not exempt from hardship Trouble here, that talks about external pressures, trials and persecutions, anguish, that talks about internal distress Anxiety, sorrow. We experience both. We have outward suffering and trials. We have inward anxieties and inward sorrow. They seize the psalmist here like enemies laying hold of their prey. And yet what is hit with his response? I will delight. Yet thy commandments are my delight. A child of God runs all the more to the Word of God in times like that. But also, this righteousness is expressed in their hunger for God's truth. Look at verse 144. The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting. Give me understanding and I shall live. And so the psalmist praise for understanding. This is not just for knowledge, but for the Spirit to give discernment, to grasp God's truth, to apply The truth of God to his life. He recognizes that life, true spiritual life, comes through understanding God's truth. Without it, he cannot live as God intends. This verse reminds me of what Jesus said. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by what? Every word that comes from the mouth of God. And so the psalmist is rejoicing in this righteousness of God. The righteousness of God is described in his character, it is displayed in his commandments, it is demonstrated in his children. So, again, I want you to think about the very letter that begins this section here. The person pictured kneeling, God again is teaching us a lesson from the alphabet, and the message is true righteousness doesn't come from again standing tall in pride, but from kneeling And humility before God. Remember the parable that Jesus gave in Luke 18? Jesus talked about two men who went into the temple to pray. One was a Pharisee, and the other was a publican. And the Pharisee stood tall. He was proud of his religion. I fast, I tithe, I'm not like other men. The other, the tax collector, he knelt down. And he beat his chest. And what did he say? God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus said, that man went down to his house justified. That man, what does that mean? He was given the righteousness of God. That's how you get the righteousness of God. That's how it's imputed on your account. When you know and r realize you're a sinner, you deserve nothing, and you come in true repentance be to God. God says, you know what? I declare you righteous. And that's all based on what Jesus would do on the cross, the taking of the sins of all mankind on the cross. The kneeling man was declared righteous. That is zadai in action. Righteousness flows from humility. It flows from humility. We all remember the story of Martin Luther, the young monk, who desperately sought righteousness. I mean, he wanted to be righteous before God. He had a keen awareness of holiness and and justice. In fact he was a law student before he went into the monastery. So he took his legal mind and applied it to what the Word of God said about God's holiness and his justice and his righteousness. And he realized that he had none. And that drove him mad. He he tried his best to be righteous, but he came to the realization that He had no righteousness. He tried fasting, he tried praying for hours, he tried whipping himself, flagellation, he tried confession of sin every day, but the more he tried to stand righteous in his own strength, the more he realized how sinful he was. Until finally One day while reading Romans one seventeen, the just shall live by faith, the truth dawned on him that righteousness is not something we stand tall and earn, it is something that we get with humble repentance and putting our faith in The finished work of Jesus Christ. And that's what he did. Luther later said this: I felt myself reborn and have gone through the open doors into paradise. So when the psalmist begins the stanza here with the word, righteous art thou, O Lord, he's reminding us that righteousness starts and ends with God. It starts and ends with God. The ancient letter itself preaches a sermon. So if you want to be righteous Confess your sin, kneel in humility, receive Christ as your only righteousness. That's the posture of the righteous, kneeling before Him. Let's bow for prayer tonight Father, thank you for this wonderful stanza. And the truth that we see in it, that is woven throughout all of Scripture, Lord, that you are righteous in all your ways. And Lord, it's your desire to r to return righteousness to your created order. Order. And Lord, you sent your Son Jesus, our righteousness, who on the cross took all of our sins, that we might be made in the righteousness of Christ. Father, help us to love this righteousness that comes only from you and to walk in it, Lord, so that we can show your righteousness to a lost world, and that, Lord, you may be honored and glorified. In our lives, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen