Now take your Bibles, open to 1 Peter chapter 1, and we're going to look at verses 3 down to verse 5 this morning. And I want to thank uh our founding pastor and Pastor Earl and Pastor John and Pastor Aaron and all the other men who came And just did a wonderful job in preaching the word. And I didn't have any worry whatsoever. Of course, you know, we have great, great, godly men here. And it's a privilege really just to to work with them. It's my privilege. I'm very humbled by them each day. I want to preach this morning on Rejoice While You Weep. Now, I'm going through 1 Peter actually on Sunday evening And we've been doing the parables on Sunday morning, but I felt led to bring a sermon from our Sunday evening series on Sunday morning. And I think it's just appropriate. And I think also perhaps I can persuade some of you to come out on Sunday night. If you want to hear more 1 Peter, we we'd be glad to have you on Sunday night. But 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse number 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God, through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, year in heaviness through manifold temptations. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever been going through a really difficult time? I mean a really hard time. And then in comes a bubbly Christian, all full of joy. You know, they say praise the Lord and you're going through this difficult time. You know, don't you hate it when that happens, honestly? There's a verse in Proverbs that reminds me of that. Proverbs twenty-seven fourteen He that blesses his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, it shall be counted a curse unto him. This is a verse against morning people. Are you a morning I'm not a morning person. You know, it takes me for a f a few hours to get up, you know, to really wake up. You know, you ever see a morning person, they just pop out of bed and they're just all full of life and they begin singing that song, Oh what a beautiful morning, oh what a beautiful day, I've got a beautiful feeling, and right about that time in the song I want to smack them, you know. Takes me a while to get going there. This verse in Proverbs, the really the principle of this verse is we have to match the mood of the people that we're speaking to. Right? The Bible says we are to weep with those that weep, and we rejoice with those that rejoice. Sometimes we rejoice when someone's weeping. And that's not really appropriate. We weep with those that weep. We rejoice with those that rejoice. That's why to me, verse 3 in 1 Peter is very interesting. Because remember, who is Peter writing to in this letter? He's writing the saints who are suffering. He's writing the saints who are weeping. And yet the Spirit of God inspires Peter to write these words to these suffering Christians. And really, in verse 3, if you look at it, it just kind of bubbles forth with praise. And verse 3, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. How could Peter do that? How could Peter say, praise the Lord? To these people that are suffering so very, very much. And why did he do that? Let me just put it to you this way What if you were going through some trial and I walked in and I said, guess what? You just inherited $100 million. Would that help you? I mean it might not take away all of your problems, but it does kind of give you some interesting things to think about. It does give you the opportunity to get away, have a vacation, think through some things, you know, uh, you know And really just thinking about it kind of lifts our spirits, doesn't it? Man, $100 million. Let's get back to reality. You haven't inherited $100 million, but you've inherited something far, far better. Far, far better. And that's why Peter could say, Blessed be God. Why? Because you have inherited something much much greater than a hundred million dollars. It is so much greater. What is it? It is a living hope because we have been born again. We have been born again, he says unto a living hope. We have an inheritance in heaven. We have so much to be thankful for And so we can praise God as Christians because of what God has done for us, what He is doing for us, and what He will do for us. That's why we praise the Lord. Now you might be thinking, now wait, wait a minute It can't be that simple. That's kind of superficial. You don't understand the problems I'm going through. Maybe somebody here is saying, you know, I I've lost my job and I'm facing uh bankruptcy Or you know, I need help right now. I don't uh you know things that's gonna happen in the future and eternal inheritance that doesn't really help me right now with all the things that I'm facing. I've been uh fired, perhaps you're saying I've been fired because of my Christian testimony. Or I'm married to someone who doesn't know the Lord Jesus and they're making my life miserable because they're not saved. Or I had a good friend who turned against me and now they're doing everything they can to destroy me and run me down behind my back. And since I began to follow Christ, I have more problems than I know what to deal with. Or maybe there are some people here that say, you know what, I'm facing death. You know what? I've just described the people that Peter is writing to here in this letter. All those problems that I just listed, they're all listed right here in 1 Peter. This is what the people are going through. Peter was well aware of what the people were going through here in this letter. There were people that were being treated unfairly. There were quick Christian wives who were being mistreated. Some were being threatened. Some were facing martyrdom. Peter knew all about these problems, and yet he says to these believers, Blessed be God. Praise God. Why? Because we have been born again unto a living hope. Now if the idea of a future inheritance doesn't really help you Perhaps there's one or two problems. Number one, perhaps you're not really saved. If a future inheritance in heaven doesn't really excite you, perhaps you just need to come to know the Lord Jesus. Or perhaps you are saved, and you've kind of given in to this philosophy that some Christians have given into, this errant form of Christianity that puts the emphasis on the here and now and not on what's to come. That's not really biblical Christianity. It's like one health, wealth, and prosperity gospel preacher said, he said, I don't want pie in the sky when I die. I want cash in the stash here and now And there are some people that actually live that way. Most of us aren't that blatant, but I find many Christians who are into Christianity for what it can do for them right here and now. They want the good life. And if Christ isn't going to give them the good life, they'll go somewhere else to find it. I mean when they came to Christ, they were thinking that Christ was going to fulfill all their dreams and give them everything that they want they want. What they didn't understand is that God does have a wonderful plan for all of our lives. However, sometimes the riches that we have in Christ, we have to embrace those things in the midst of suffering. And trials that come into our life. We need to stop and think about what salvation really means. Do you understand what you got when you got saved? Do you understand that you've been saved from eternal wrath? You understand how valuable that is? One of our problems today is that we're trying to get people saved who have no concept of how terrible it is to be lost. And sometimes as Christians, we have forgotten how terrible it is to be lost. And we're trying to coach people. Who've forgotten what it feels like to be lost into enduring trials. They forget they don't appreciate what God has done in saving them. Let me give it to you like this. Suppose you were standing in a bank in a long line And I come into the bank and I grab you and I jerk you out of line and I pull you outside, you wouldn't appreciate that too much. You would say, what are you doing? Why are you doing this to me? I mean you pulled me out of this long line that I was in. I lost my place. You made me look like a fool in front of everyone, and you hurt my arm. Why did you do that? And then suddenly you realize that a terrorist was inside the bank and th they were taking hostages. And they were going to begin to kill hostages w every minute unless their demands were met. Once you realize that, you're not so grumpy anymore. You're not mad at me anymore. In fact, you're not mad that you lost your place in line. You're not mad that I made you look like a fool, and you're not mad that your arm hurts. Now you're thankful That you have been delivered from a horrible death. Well, friend, that's what Christianity has done for you. Something far more. Through the Lord Jesus Christ, we've been delivered from a terrible death. And we need to remember that. Sometimes I think Christians forget this perspective, this eternal perspective, that all that we've been saved from and to because of the goodness of God. So what Peter does here in this letter is he's going to tell these sorrowing believers, he's going to tell them, remind them of what they have. And he's going to tell them that even while you're in the midst of sorrow, you can rejoice. You can rejoice even while you cry if you really remember what God has done for you. So I want you to see three reasons here in this passage why we can rejoice. And here's the first one. Number one, we can rejoice in trials, remembering the past reason for our salvation. Look again at verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope. by the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. Now this is Peter's prayer of praise. And again, it's just like he's saying, praise the Lord for our great salvation. And Peter is emphasizing that our salvation comes from God. It wasn't us. It was all God. He's the one who saved us. The last time we looked at 1 Peter, we saw in verse number two that all the Trinity was involved in our salvation. Look at verse 2, elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. God the Father thought it, it was His plan all the way in the eternity past. He put the plan of salvation together. He had you in mind. God the Son bought it. It was His blood on the cross that purchased our salvation. And God the Holy Spirit wrought us. He's the one who set us apart when we were saved. All of the Trinity was involved in our salvation. It wasn't us, it was all God. And Peter is emphasizing salvation is from God. And we're saved, first of all, because of his great mercy. Look again in verse 3. According to his abundant mercy Again, salvation is not based on our merits. It's because of the mercy of God. And mercy and grace go hand in hand. Grace is God giving us what we don't deserve. Mercy is God not giving us what we do deserve. And the idea of mercy here is God looking down upon us with compassion and pity as he sees us in our suffering. He has mercy on us. Thank God for his abundant mercy. The word abundant here is the idea of it doesn't run out. Long ago a poor woman in London who lived in the slums was invited to go out to the the ocean for a holiday that some folks wanted her to come that they had prepared. And uh she had never seen the ocean before. And they took this poor woman to this picnic. When they got to the ocean, she looked at it and she just began to cry. And the people said, Why are you crying? This is a happy occasion She said, because I finally seen something that this is the only thing I've seen, she said, that there was ever enough of And you know what? God's mercy is like an ocean. He has oceans of mercy. He's got enough of it for everyone. It's abundant. It's because of his abundant mercy. Also because of his life-giving power. Look again in verse 3. According to his abundant mercy, he hath begotten us again. Unto a living hope. And the word begotten, anakineo, just simply means to be given a new birth, to be born again. This reminds us of what Jesus said to Nicodemus: unless you're born again, you're not going to see the kingdom of God It's God who gives us life. Just as we were born physically and given physical life, we must be born spiritually and have spiritual life You realize there's a lot of people out there living physically, but spiritually they're dead. That's why they don't understand the things of God. Jesus said, unless you're born again, you're not going to be able to comprehend the kingdom. You're not going to be able to see the things of God. And this is called regeneration. Because God gives us life. While we were dead spiritually, God loved us to life. He gave us life. And notice he calls it into a living hope. We could say into the sphere of, into the realm of a living hope. That's what salvation is. It's a living hope. Why does Peter call it living? We already know that hope is a certainty. Remember, I said hope is not a wish in the Bible. Hope is a divine certainty. My security in heaven is certain. I know I'm going there, friend. That's my hope. It's a certainty. Why does he call it a living hope? When something is living, that means it's growing. It's getting bigger. And you know what I find? That in the Christian life, the hope that I have, each day, it gets bigger. It gets more certain. I believe in heaven today more than I've ever believed it in my life. I believe in all the eternal promises of God today more than ever. I'm focused more on heaven today than I was ever. I'm thinking more about the eternal. Why? Because this hope that I have, it's a living hope. I know some of you here, if you've lost loved ones, you have friends deposited up there, family and friends in heaven, and you know what? You think more about heaven, don't you? That living hope becomes even more real than it ever has been. And I believe the degree to which we focus upon this living hope is the degree to which we grow in our faith We grow spiritually. Someone wrote this. It's not surprising that such a hope is particularly evident in many older Christians as they approach death. So true. We we've lost some wonderful saints here in our church. Uh before I went to London I had the privilege of visiting with Joyce Henry, she's in heaven now, and she was in the hospital. And I was telling Bonnie this. But when I went by to see her there in the hospital, I've always enjoyed visiting with Joyce, but that particular visit, there was just something different about it. She had such a peace about her. And she told me, she said, I'm ready for heaven. I'm ready to go. She said, I'm looking forward to it. And we talked about it. We talked about heaven And I could see that living hope in her. He had groaned so much. And actually, when I left the hospital And I don't do this often, but I when I left the hospital, I I cried because I knew somehow I knew that was the last conversation I would have with her. I knew that the Lord was going to take her to heaven. Because God does something in the heart of his people. As that that living hope grows. I remember when I was pastoring a church when I was going through seminary little country church, I went to visit a man in the hospital and he was in his mid-90s, and uh And I just had such a good conversation with him before I was going to leave, I just said, look, I'm going to pray for the Lord to heal you. He said, Oh, please don't do that. I said, I said, what? He said, Don't do that He said, I want to go to heaven. And I honestly, as a young man, I didn't really understand that at first. And this is what he said. He said, Look, my parents are there. He said, my wife is there. He said, I've outlived all of my children. My children are there. My brothers and sisters are there. My friends are there. He said, I know more people I have more friends and family in heaven than I have here on earth. And he said, My Savior is there. He said, Please don't pray for me to get well He said, if you want to pray, just pray for the Lord to take me on. You know what happened? That hope in him was growing and growing. That living hope was getting bigger and bigger until he was at the point where he was saying, Lord, please take me home. A living hope. And that's what Peter's talking about here. Our salvation is because of God's great mercy. Our salvation is because of his life-giving power that gives us this growing hope inside of us of eternal life. It's also because of Christ's resurrection. Look again in verse 3. Unto a lively hope By the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. If God had left Jesus in the grave, our salvation would not be complete. But Jesus did come out of that grave, and Peter was an eyewitness of it. Peter knew And so Peter talked about our salvation being because of his resurrection. Let me give you the second point quickly. We can rejoice in trials, remembering our past reasons for salvation. But also we can rejoice in trials, knowing the present riches of our salvation. Look in verse 4. To an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. Now, did you know that salvation made you rich? Do you understand that you're rich today? Now listen to what I say. I didn't say you will be rich. I'm saying you are rich right now. You say, well, how can you say that? Because you have an inheritance in heaven. It's so very real. And Peter's describing this inheritance that God is guarding for us in heaven. I heard about a man that was sitting on the street corner and he was crying and a stranger came up and said, Why are you crying? He said, Haven't you heard Rockefeller died? He said, Well, why are you crying? You're not related to him. He said, That's why I'm crying Let me tell you something, friend, you know what? You're related to the King of Kings. You're related to the Lord Jesus Christ, and you know what? The Bible says we are heirs of God. Join heirs with Jesus And we have an inheritance in heaven. Our salvation includes an inheritance in heaven that God keeps for us. Look again in verse 4. Reserved in heaven for you. Peter tells us that part of our salvation is that wonderful inheritance in heaven. It's already there. You're richer right now than you can ever imagine. The best is yet to come. I heard about a preacher who wrote a book that said your best life now. That's a terrible title of a book for a Christian. There's no way that your best life is now. If your best life is now, that means you're not going to heaven. Your best life is yet to come. Your best life is in heaven. Because God has so many wonderful things laid up there, this inheritance in heaven. You say, what is this inheritance? Now, Peter doesn't specifically come right out and tell us exactly what that inheritance is. But he tells us we have one. You know this reminds me of that game show. You remember the old game show, Let's Make a Deal? You ever remember that show, you know? People would come dressed up in crazy outfits. And then Monty Hall would give him a gift. And then he would say, you can keep that gift that you have in your hands, or you can trade it for what's behind door number one. Now here's the problem. We don't know what's behind door number one. What you have in your hand could be worth more than what's behind the door. Or what's behind that door could be much more valuable than what you have in your hand. You have to make a decision. Do you want to keep what you have or do you want what's behind the door? Now, God's not like that. Here's what God does: God says, look, your inheritance is just behind the veil of heaven. And let me just tell you that it is far more valuable than what you have in your hands. It is so much more valuable. He doesn't tell us exactly what it is, but he does give us some hints about it. Look what he says here in verse 4: to an inheritance incorruptible. That is, it's imperishable. It will never perish. We'll always have it. It can't be touched by the corruption of this world. It is undefiled. That means it's unstained. It has no flaws. And notice it will not pass away. This word here is used by secular Greeks to talk about a flower that did not wither or die. Our inheritance has no expiration date. It's unlike earthly wealth. You can lose all your earthly wealth. Remember what James said to the rich men who were holding on to their riches? He said, Your Your your your your gold is rusted, your your clothes, your garments are moth-eaten, your grain is rotting. In the ancient world, that's the way they measured their wealth, by grain, gold, and garments And it was and they were going to lose Peter, excuse me, James was saying, you're losing all of that. And by the way, later on, the Romans came in and stole all of that wealth away. Financial security here and now is an illusion, friend. Let me tell you about your eternal inheritance. It's being guarded. You know who's guarding it? God. He's watching over it. But then also, another thing about this, he's reserving you for that inheritance. Look in verse number of four or five rather, who are kept by the power of God. The God who is reserving our inheritance is reserving us for the inheritance He is watching over us. He's guarding us. And by the way, the the word here for guard is it's a different word. It's a military word being watched over by soldiers. In verse 7, which says, reserved in heaven for you, that's a perfect participle, means it's already there. That's why I said you're rich now. It's already there. God's guarding it. Why would God need to guard it if it wasn't there? He's guarding it, it's there, it's waiting for you. Again, some of you might wonder, what is that inheritance? Well we can look at other passages and see, but we don't have time. But there are many things waiting for us in heaven, beloved. So many wonderful things. And I think part of that are the loved ones that we s have had to say goodbye to, that are already there. They joined that inheritance. When Carol and I went to London, we arrived at the airport and we went immediately to the hospital to see Abby. And there in her room was the incubator with a little Matilda Grace there. And we had the opportunity to hold her and to say our goodbyes to her. And I kissed her goodbye. But I believe that one day I will see her again. She will be untouched by the corruption of this world. And I think that's part of our inheritance. It's the things that God has there for us in heaven. It's wonderful. The Bible says this eyes have not seen. Neither have ears heard, neither has entered into the heart of man the things that God has for those that love him R. G. Lee was one of the greatest, most eloquent preachers who ever preached, and he preached a lot of sermons on heaven, and he made heaven really come alive. But when he was on his deathbed, He was kind of in and out of consciousness. There was standing beside him Billy Graham and Adrian Rogers, and they watched him as his breathing got shallow. And finally, they thought that he died. His breathing stopped. And they began to pray over him. But after a few minutes, R. G. Lee revived. And he opened his eyes. And he looked at Billy Graham and he said, Billy, he said, I'm here. He said, you know what? I saw it. He said, my preaching has not done it justice. It's more beautiful than I could ever describe. And then he slipped back away, and this time he did go there to heaven. Eyes have not seen, neither have ears heard. Neither has entered into the heart of man the things that God has for those that love him. Our salvation includes an inheritance in heaven that God keeps for us. Our salvation includes an inheritance in heaven that God keeps us for He's guarding us for it. That's why I know I can't lose my salvation. God's guarding me. Look at verse 5. Who are kept by the power of God. Do you know that if you're saved, God is keeping you by his power? You can be kept by nothing any greater than the power of God. That's why I can rejoice. Even through the tears. For and I rejoice, and I'm filled with great joy. Let me give you the last reason quickly. We can rejoice in trials, remembering the past reasons for our salvation, the present riches Of our salvation. We can rejoice in trials, anticipating the future revelation of our salvation. Look in verse number five again. Who are kept by the power of God through faith and the salvation? Watch this, ready to be revealed. In the last time. Peter says, our salvation is ready to be revealed. And what does he mean by that? What he's saying is that we only enjoy a small part. Of our salvation here. Now, I enjoy what God has done for us. God has been so good. I don't have the words. How gracious and merciful. How kind and compassionate. How good he is. But friend, you know what? This is just the beginning. This is just a little bit of it. The real part of our salvation is going to be when it's revealed when we're in heaven, when the Lord comes. This is just the appetizer. This isn't the main meal. Wait till you get to heaven. If you think God's good now, wait till we get to heaven. And there are two things that Peter Talks about here the readiness of it. He said it's ready. And the word for ready is the idea. It's complete. It's all ready. Everything's been prepared. You know, it's like dinner on the table. It's already, it's there. Sometimes my wife gets irritated with me when the dinner's on the table and I'm not there yet. You women can relate to that. You set the table, dinner's ready. You're ready for everyone to get there. God is saying, look, the table has been set. Everything is ready. It's ready for you. And then it's going to be revealed. Look at the word revealed. It's a word where we get the word to unveil, apocalypto, like a statue being unveiled What's going to happen is God is going to unveil one day when we get to heaven all the wonderful things that He has laid up for us there in heaven. And friend, it's beyond description. It's so wonderful. Ready to be revealed. Shall we gather at the river where brought angels' feet have trod? With its crystal tide forever, flowing by the fern of God, yes, yes, will gather at the river. And so I rejoice. I thank God for His goodness. We can rejoice in trials, remembering the reasons for our salvation, the riches. And the revelation. It's going to be revealed what he has for us. Now let me just close with this. We're out of time. Many years ago, a team of climbers, mountain climbers, they began to descend one of the dangerous peaks in the Alps. And the first man lost his footing, and he slipped over the edge. And the next two were dragged down by him because they were all in the same line. But the experienced climbers way above, they braced themselves. They stood firm. They were ready to bear the shock. But when the rope ran its length, rather than bearing the weight, the rope snapped. And those three climbers fell to their death 4,000 feet below. The other climbers were paralyzed with fear for about a half an hour. Finally They continued their descent, and when they finally arrived below, they examined the rope. To find out why the rope failed, why it broke. And this is what they found. True Alpine Club rope has a red strand that's running through it. But this was a weak substitute. And so therefore it snapped. You want to know why your salvation is secure? And while you will never fall, because your salvation has a red strand running through it. It's the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he is our hope. And friend, you can put your hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. It is so strong, it is so secure. If your faith is in your own goodness, you're going to perish. But if your faith is in the blood of Jesus, you will never perish. That's why Peter could say, Blessed be the God and Father. Of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because of his great mercy, he has saved us. And I want to tell you something, friend. Because my salvation is not of myself, it is from God. I'm saved unto eternity. And you know what? It's better than inheriting $100 million. It is so much better. And so we can rejoice. Let's bow for prayer. So, Father, we just with all our hearts, we bless you. We thank you. We praise you For this wonderful salvation, for all the hope that we have, and it's growing. It grows in us each day. It gets bigger. Heaven becomes more real. We can see our inheritance by faith. We know it's laid up there for us, guarded by you, and you're guarding us for it. And so, Lord, we praise your name, and I pray that Lord, we will find comfort in these words. I know that there are many out in this congregation that are sorry over lost loved ones. Lord, I pray you'll comfort them. Help them to lay hold of these truths. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that's never trusted in Christ as their only way of salvation, that today would be the day of salvation. Dear friend, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to invite you to come to know Christ. This is the greatest thing you could ever do When you come to him turning from your sin and you come to the cross, he will forgive you for your sin. He will give you eternal life. He will give you an eternal inheritance. You can be rich just like that when you come to Jesus, friend. And if you're not saved, I want to invite you to come to know Him. How many say that's my prayer today? I want to trust Jesus. Would you just pray this prayer? Say, Lord Jesus, please come into my heart. Please save me. Please make me your child. I trust you today. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, he will save you if you just reach out in faith. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Thank you, Lord, for what you have done for us. We pray in Jesus' matchless name. Amen.