Take your Bibles now and open to Philippians chapter one, verse twenty-seven. And the title of the sermon today is Remaining Faithful During Adversity. I've been preaching out of some passages here in Philippians I know that there are many that have been going through adversity in their life. And I just pray that these passages of scripture will serve to be an encouragement to all of us that we continue on for our Lord. So Philippians chapter one, verse twenty-seven. On March 11, 1830, there was a little British girl, she was Doing her lessons and she knew that she was from a wealthy family. She didn't really understand r really who she was. Uh so she really didn't take her studies very seriously. But on this particular day, the lesson had to do with her family's genealogy. And as she studied the charts, she realized something that was very astonishing to her She realized on that day that she would one day be the Queen. She was next in line to be Queen of Great Britain. And at first little Victoria wept when she realized You see, uh she realized, and by the way, she was good, she became one of uh Great Britain's longest ruling monarchs, but she determined She determined to be good because she realized who she was. She determined to live up to her calling. You might say that she determined to work worth uh to walk worthy of her Spiritually, you are going to reign as kings and queens one day in heaven. The Bible says we're going to reign with our Lord Jesus Christ. You realize that as a Christian, we've been given great responsibility That come along with the great privilege and calling that God has laid upon us. And notice verse 27: only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. Now the word conversation there from our old our King James Version is really an old English word and it doesn't refer to your talk. It really refers to your walk. Conversation is a word that simply means your lifestyle. And the word becometh means worthy of. And so what Paul is saying is just make sure that your lifestyle, your walk, is worthy of the gospel. And this forces us to ask a question when we come to this passage. Does our life measure up to our calling? Are we walking So really picture in your mind a balancing scale. On one side is the message of the gospel, on the other side is my life, is your life. And the question is Does our life measure up? Does it balance out with reference to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ? May the Lord never say to us what the Lord said if you remember this story in the book of Daniel. Chapter five when he said to Belshazzar, Mene mene tekal Yo Farasin, thou art weighed in the balances and found wanting. You remember that story in the Old Testament when Belshazzar was having a party and he and there were emini enemy armies outside ready to take over, but he didn't take them very seriously. But all of a sudden there was a hand that appeared and wrote those words on the wall And he got very serious then. And Daniel interpreted the words, Thou art weighed in the balance and found wanting. And so I wonder if the Lord would say that to us. I've weighed you in the balance of the gospel when you're not living a life worthy of the gospel. Did you know that eighty percent of all people that come to church come because they know someone at the church? Eighty percent of all people that will ever visit Grace Bible Baptist Church visit because they know somebody here in this church. And you know what? We're not going to be able to bring people into the church if our life is not according to the calling. If we're not living up to the calling of the gospel. Someone said you're writing a gospel, a chapter each day, by the deeds that you do, by the words that you say. Men Read what you write, whether faithful and true or true. Just what is the gospel according to you? What kind of gospel do people see? Now let's look at the let's remember the context here Who's writing this letter? Of course the Apostle Paul. Where is he writing it from? He's writing it from jail. You remember he was in Rome and he's going to appear before Nero to defend the gospel. And he realizes he could die. He could also live. And really, Paul wasn't worried about himself. He said, For me to live is Christ, to die is gain. He was more concerned about the Philippians. He was worried over them because they They were worrying over him because many in the church uh were really dependent on Paul. Paul was their spiritual father. Paul had started the church at Philippi. It was a relative Young church, and many of those young converts were looking to the Apostle Paul. And so Paul was concerned that no matter what happened to him, that they go And this is really what Paul's trying to convince them to do. You have to be faithful, no matter what adversity, no matter what trials might come, you must Determined to remain faithful. That's all part of living a life that is worthy of the gospel. And so in essence, Paul was saying, look, it doesn't really matter what what happens to me That's really not the issue. I could live, I could die, but no matter what happens to me, you live a life that's worthy of the gospel. That's what he's saying. Now, what kind of Well what I want you to see in our passage is three portraits we could say of the Christian life that represent really who we are and the responsibility that we So here's number one. If you're taking notes, write down citizens. You know that we're all citizens. Look at verse 27 again. Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel Again, we're going to talk about our conduct our conduct, but look at the word conversation. Let me talk to you a little bit more about that word. It is a word, the Greek word is uh polis, P O L I S. Now we may have heard of that word on the end of other words. It's a word that we use, for example, the word actually means city or citizenship. And we put this on the end of certain words when we talk about a city. For example, here in Maryland we have the city of Annapolis, which simply means city of Anne or Anna, who was I think the Queen. I'll have to study my British history to know that for sure. But it was the city of Ann. Of course there's a city Minneapolis or Indianapolis, so the word Polish Is a word that means city, but actually, here in this particular case, it's a verb. So it really is talking about citizenship, and it really we could translate it like this. Let your citizenship be made known. Let your citizenship be made clear. Paul's basically saying, look, live like a citizen of the gospel. Now this message would have a deep impact on the Philippians. You know why? Because they were a Roman colony. Think about that. They lived eight hundred miles away from Rome, and yet they were Roman citizens They were a colony of Rome, eight hundred miles away. They didn't live like Macedonians. If you read the book of Acts, chapter 16, you're gonna find that the Philippians were very proud of their Roman citizenship This would be like, you know, an American military base in a foreign country. You know, I've never been to one of those, but I hear those who've visited say it's kind of like a little colony of America in a foreign country It's like you're you're living like Americans in a foreign land. And this is what's happening here with the Philippians. They were Roman citizens, and they were living like Romans, not Macedonians When they wore their clothes, they clothed themselves like Romans. They would wear the white togas that Romans would wear. When they obeyed laws, they obeyed Roman laws Not necessarily the local laws of the Macedonians, and so they dress like Romans, they talk like Romans, they walked like Romans, they lived to please the Emperor Of Rome. And so when Paul talked about this issue of citizenship, the Philippians knew exactly what he was talking about. And Paul was saying, don't you realize that you are citizens of heaven. Therefore you should live that way. Look in chapter three and look at verse number twenty. We see the same word used here, Philippians chapter three, verse twenty, for our conversation So what What are we? We are citizens of heaven. We are a colony of heaven right here on earth. And we're living on foreign soil, but we're citizens of heaven We'd like to sing the song This World Is Not My Home. I'm just passing through. My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue. That's exactly true of us. So that's why we On earth. And that's what Paul's trying to get these people to understand. And so that means that as citizens of heaven, we live according to a different set of laws. That we live according to are higher than the laws of this earth, higher than the laws of man. We dress like citizens of heaven, we walk like citizens of heaven. We don't wear those White Roman toga that the Philippians wore, but we wear the white robe of the righteousness of Christ because we're children of the King. And when people look at us, when they hear Us talk, they should say, you know what, there's something different about this person. They're not from around here. That would happen to me often when I'd lived in the deep south They would say, You're not from around here, are you? In fact I had someone just message me and say, Boy, I missed that Baltimore accent, you know, preaching the word to me and I didn't know I had a Baltimore accent I guess whatever you know I do but yet that's how a citizens that's how a person's citizenship is made evident. It's made evident by their talk People should listen to you talk and say, you know what, this person is not a citizen from around here. They're from somewhere else. They should hear Christ in our con Conversation and our talking. You can tell where a person is by the way they talk. I heard about a man who was visiting California. He was looking for El Cahun, California, but he mispronounced it. He called it El Cajon. He went to a person and said, Excuse me, sir, can you tell me how I can find El Cajón? And the person there said, It's not El Cajon, it's El Cajón. You see, because of the Spanish influence We pronounce the J's with the H sound. And the guy said, How often do you visit around here? He said, I come every hoon or hulai You know what? There should be something different about the way that we talk. But also our citizenship is made evident by our taste. I don't know about you when I visit some place foreign sometimes I don't have an appetite sometimes for some of the food. Uh I haven't developed that appetite By our talk, by our taste, by our treasure. Jesus said, Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. And so Paul is saying, listen, you need to live like citizens. Look at again And in verse 27, only let your citizenship be as it becometh the gospel, that whether I come and see you or else be absent, or I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast And again the word only means no matter what happens. No matter what happens to me. When I go to defend the gospel, if I live, that's wonderful. I'll I'll I'll live for Christ and I'll I'll come visit you again. But if something happens to me and I'm I die, it really doesn't matter. You still have to live a life worthy of the gospel. You have to live like citizens of heaven and be consistent in the way you live. Don't quit. Stand fast in the Lord. Now here's the second image. We're citizens. We are we're to be consistent in our conduct, but the the other image I see are is athletes. Cooperation and contest because look at the end of verse twenty-seven that you stand fast and want One spirit and one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. Now Paul switches metaphors here in this one verse. He's using now the language of an athlete And he gives a picture of athletic contest. Look at the word striving together. That's two words in our English, but it's one word in the Greek. And it comes from two words soon, which means with, and athleto, which means It's where we get the word athletics. It has the idea of contest, striving together in a contest. It's the picture of teamwork. We're working together like A team in one spirit and one mind. That's what the church is all about. We are unified. We're together. You know what? We can't make it through without each other. We've got to have Teamwork. And we need to emphasize this. We are of one mind, of one spirit. You say, what gives us that oneness? Our love for Jesus Christ. The gospel of Christ The foundation of our belief, the Word of God, all of that gives us this teamwork where we are working together, we are unified. And now why does Paul emphasize this? Because I told you before Together because that's how we are able to stay faithful in adversity. You know, when someone here in this church is going through adversity and they come to this church, they should come to a place that That is a place of love and unity where they get encouraged and strengthened not just by the sermon, but also by the fellowship that takes place afterwards There's a lot of encouragement that goes on, you know, at our church here after the service lets out, you you all just stick around. And sometimes I like to go through the crowd and quote the verse in First Corinthians eleven. not houses to dwell in. Because everybody stays around and you know what happens? Everyone's fellowshipping and you know it's a wonderful thing. It's a wonderful thing to see God's people fellowshipping together, loving each other. It's a tribute to your faith. It's a tribute to the foundation of our founding pastor who basically taught us to love one another. And to encourage one another, and that's exactly what happens. But we need this. That's why we see this little prefix soon a lot in the the in this text of Philippians, you can't see it in English, but you see it in Greek. It's constantly there. And why? Because Paul is emphasizing togetherness. He's emphasizing unity. He's emphasizing Teamwork. What the greatest football coach uh this is a debatable point, so you can debate with me afterwards. Perhaps the greatest football coach to ever live was Vince Lombardi Ingredients to a championship football team. They said it's very easy, and here they are. He said, number one, fundamentals. He said if you're gonna be a a good football team, you have to know the fundamentals. He said number two, unity There has to be total unity. You've got to play together like a team. And he said, and here's a third ingredient. And he said, this ingredient makes a good team a great team. And you'll never be a great team unless you have This third ingredient. And you know what he said it was? He said it was love. He said if you want to be a championship football team, the players have to love each other. They have to love each other Now when I read that, you know what I thought about? He's copying Jesus. That's all he's doing is repeating what Jesus said. Remember what Jesus said to his disciples? You have to know my doctrine, you have to know the fundamentals He said, You I want you to be one as I and the Father are one. He emphasized unity. And then he said, the world will know you're Christians by your love. Same three ingredients Vince Lombardi is simply copying the greatest coach, Jesus, his pattern for teamwork in the church. And so there has to be This cooperation and contest. But let me give you the third one. We are citizens, we are athletes working together. We are soldiers. Courage in conflict. Look in verse Twenty seven or verse twenty eight rather and in nothing terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of So again, Paul switches again another metaphor here, and this time he talks about soldiers. And he emphasizes courage in the midst of conflict. And uh what he's emphasizing is look, don't be afraid of the afflictions and the sufferings that will come upon you, because fear will cripple you. Well others. Now evidently the church of Philippi was experiencing some kind of an affliction, some kind of a suffering that was going on. And so Paul said, Look, don't be afraid of your enemies Don't be afraid of this affliction. After a while they were beaten and then thrown in prison. Maybe some of that same crowd was now giving the church at Philippi a difficult time. Maybe it was the Judaizers that came in, the ones that followed Paul Paul all around and try to uh stamp out his message and replace it with their own false gospel. Or we don't know exactly, but here's what Paul is saying. He's saying don't be terrified Terrified again in verse twenty eight and nothing terrified by your adversaries. The word here means to be intimidated, to be frightened, to be startled. It was used of a timid horse that would rise up in And Paul saying, Don't panic. He might be referring, he may be making an allusion to the battle at Philippi. This happened in history. Did you know that there was a battle called the Battle of Philippi? And there was a name there was a name of a man in that army. His name was Cassius. And he was so afraid Of losing that rather than fighting the enemies, he committed suicide. He was so terrified that he gave up and he said, I'm just going to end my life And Paul's saying, listen, don't ever be terrified by the adversity that comes your way, by the suffering that the Lord might put upon you. And he gives us here, and we'll do this. Very quickly in closing, four reasons to be to be courageous. The first one is this our boldness is a sign that we're on the winning side. Look at verse 20 twenty eight, and nothing terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God. Paul said, Look, your boldness in the face of adversity Adversity and in the face of suffering is a message to those that are outside of Christ, to those who are the enemies of the church and the cross. And you know what it is? It's a total Token of their defeat. The word evident token here is one word in the Greek, and again it's it's talking about uh this is by the scholar Lightfoot. He says this. This word was used To talk about when two gladiators were in the arena, and one gladiator had so overcome his opponent that he rendered him helpless, and this helpless opponent It was at the point where this winning gladiator e could either put him to death or let him live. And at that point of the struggle, the gladiator would look to the crowd, and normally the crowd Would give a token of whether they wanted that man to die or they wanted him to live. And you know what the token was? If the man if the gladiator looked to the crowd and they gave him a thumbs up That meant let this guy live. If they gave him a thumbs down, that meant finish him off. And that's the word here. And Paul is basically saying That your boldness in the face of great adversity is a token to the world who doesn't know Christ and have rejected Christ and are mockers and scorners of the gospel You know what it is? It's a token to them that their defeat is coming. It's a thumbs down sign that we are on the winning side, and they're not. Reveals we're on the winning side, but also our boldness reveals that we're truly saved. Look again in verse twenty-nine. For unto you it is given on behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to Suffer for his sake. It's an assurance that God has given you the real thing. Now, friend, mark it down. True believers persevere through adversity. You know why we God's grace will uphold us, God's grace will bring us through. But someone who's not truly saved, they don't have the faith of price they run when persecution comes. Uh they get the idea, they say, well, you know, wait a minute, I didn't sign up for this. They hear the gospel message and they think, oh, it's gonna be all roses and no thorns. I'm gonna live, you know, a wonderful ease, a life of ease, no problems, and then when problems come, they say, This is not what I thought. And they leave They forgot that Jesus said, Pick up your cross and follow me. You see, the church and the gospel is not a cruise ship, it's a battleship. Cruise ship you get waited on. On a battleship, you get trained and you go to your battle station and you fight the Lord's battles. And so the Lord gives us this Faith to believe. And that's why we know that our boldness in the midst of adversity is a token that our faith is real. But here's the third thing that Paul says here Look at look again in verse twenty-nine, for unto you is given on behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. That we count it a privilege to suffer for the sake of Christ. And by the way, the word given there is the word graciously given. It's the Greek word charisomai, where we get the word charismatic Charismatic in the sense of a giving of a gift. That's what the word means when God gives us a gift. And what we see in this verse here, there are two gifts that God gives us. First of all, He gives us the faith of Believe because without God I wouldn't even have that faith. He gives me the ability to believe. But here's the second thing He gives me: He gives me suffering. You know what But I like the first gift. I'm not so crazy about the second gift. And yet God says it's a gift. When He entrusts unto His people Suffering when he entrusts unto you adversity. God says, That's a gift that I'm giving you. You say, Why? How can we think of that as a gift The apostle Paul said it later in Philippians. He said that I might know him and the fellowship of his suffering. You know why? Because for a true child of God, when you You go through suffering and adversity, it's the Lord in a way drawing you close. There's a new intimacy that you have with Christ. Friend, that's a gift. The ability to be close to our Lord, that God entrusts to us. He entrusts suffering. But let me give you the last thing quickly. Look in verse 30, having the same conflict which he saw in me, and now here to be in me. And Paul is basically saying to the Philippians, Oh, you have adversity, you have suffering Join the club. Welcome to the club. You saw this in me. You certainly didn't see a life of ease coming from me. You saw my struggle Surely you didn't forget what happened to me when I came to you, when I was beaten and thrown in jail. You didn't forget about the sufferings that I had. My my illness, Paul, I think had a a a perennial cont a continual illness that plagued him. And Paul said, Look, you saw my struggle. Join the club. You know, if you're suffering from For the Lord, you're going through adversity. Don't think that you're alone in this. You're in line, and the line is very long. It stretches all the way back through Christian history. It's Stretches through the uh the Reformation Age, it stretches back into the Middle Ages, back into the patristic age, all the way back to the early church. It goes all the way back to To the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. You're in the same line of people who had gone through adversity and who have suffered, and Paul is saying, Look, join the club You've seen it in me, and the line goes all the way back to Calvary. And so you're in good company. Now, here's the point. Just remain faithful Stay faithful. Look, you're citizens of heaven. You are athletes in a contest. Work together. You are soldiers in a conflict. Be courageous Stay faithful because the Lord is with you. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we again thank you. For your truth. Thank you for your word. The encouragement that we receive from it. I pray, Lord, for many here today that are going through struggles and adverse Lord, may they be encouraged by your word, by the words of the apostle here. Given to him by way of the Holy Spirit, the inspired word, Lord. May it speak to our hearts. May it grant courage. There may be, Lord, some here who are tempted to quit. They've been going through so many adversities. One thing after another has piled on them And Lord, they need your grace. They've been tempted to quit. Lord, may they remain faithful. May they determine by your grace to live a life worthy of And how many people here will say that's my prayer today? Would you pray for me? That I would be a life, that I would live a life, that I would be the kind I'm not going to quit. I need the grace of God. Would you lift your hand? Let me pray for you. I need this grace in my own life to help me Through my adversities. Father, you see these hands, and I pray for great grace for these your people, great strength. Help them, Lord. Again, with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you're here today and you've never placed your faith in Christ. Friend, we encourage at every opportunity for people to Come to know Christ as their Savior. We encourage you to turn to the cross. Repent of your sin. Turn to Christ in salvation. You say, what is the gospel? The gospel is Christ dying for For your sins, being buried, and after three days rising again, and now he's seated in heaven, and he's reaching out to you, and he's offering you the gift of salvation And if you've never trusted him, I encourage you to do so today, friend. Do so today. Would you be willing to pray? Just say these words, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Please save me, Lord Jesus. Jesus. I know that I need to be saved. I'm turning from my sin today. I'm turning to you. Help me. Save me. Friend, if you just pray that. Reach out and Faith. And you don't have to be here in church to do it. You can do it anywhere. Reach out in faith to Christ and He will save you. But, friend, if you have prayed, please let us know. We want to pray with you We want to encourage you in the things of God. So, Father, take these words to hearing hearts and seal them, I pray, in Jesus' precious name. Amen.