I encourage you to take your Bibles tonight and open to the book of Colossians, chapter three. On Wednesday nights we've been doing a series and at least when um uh before I was gone for a while. It seems like I've been gone for a while on Wednesday nights and I want to pick up where I left off on a series on family matters We've been talking about family and what the Bible has to say about issues of the home and we want to certainly turn to Scripture because Scripture is our guide. It helps us to be all that God wants us to be. And tonight I want to talk about resolving family conflicts God's way. In Colossians chapter three, I want you to look in s verse number eighteen. Read a few verses here. Colossians 3. 18. Why submit yourselves unto your own husbands as it is fit in the Lord? Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. Fathers, provoke not your children to anger lest they be discouraged. You know, life is all about relationships. In the beginning God put Adam in the garden and he surrounded him with animals and God said, you know, it's not good that man be alone. So he created Eve and um she gave him children and now Adam has new relationships in life. Relationships are one of the biggest blessings that God has ever given us. And in the beginning, all was wonderful there in the Garden of Eden. Adam's relationship to God was right, his relationship to Eve was right. And you know the story, something entered into the garden that marred all that. It was sin. Sin marred the the the bliss and the joy that was a part of God's original creation. And when man sinned, something terrible took place in his heart. There was the fall of man, and there was this inordinate self-love and selfishness that became deeply ingrained in the nature of man. And with that, man has struggled in his relationships ever since. W what was a blessing now had the potential to become a great curse. And so selfishness and this self-love and might I also go so far as to say self-worship, which is really a a form of selfishness, or selfishness really going to its extent, logical extent, is is really all a part of the human nature. If you don't think that selfishness is part of our nature from the very beginning, just try this little experiment. Put five toddlers in a room and put one toy in the middle of that room. See what the response you're going to get from that. We all know it's all part of our nature. And as children progress to adulthood, this selfishness is something that becomes even more and more evident. You pick up the paper and you'll read and find stories, terrible things that take place in homes, a place that's supposed to be a haven. Terrible things are taking place because of things that are happening in homes. Husbands abusing wives, fathers and adults abusing children, children abusing parents. And so on. And you don't need me to go through all of the statistics. We hear about this all the time. I have some statistics here, but I don't really want to read it because they're so depressing. We know that there's a problem in our world today. We know that there's a problem in our relationships, in our homes. And this should be something that's different in the life of God's people, in the life of Christians. But tragically, there's still in Christian homes even it seems like there's difficulty, there's problems. But again, it's all part because of this selfishness that is innate in us, in man. Now when people start going through problems, they uh you know inevitably they'll go to counseling, and there's nothing wrong with that as long as the counseling that you get is biblical counseling. There's a lot of counseling out there that calls itself Christian, it comes under the guise of Christian, but it's not biblical at all In fact, there will be counselors that will try to pull you away from Scripture. They'll say something like, Well, the Bible's a good book, but unfortunately your problem, it's too complex for Scripture. You need more than Scripture. By the way, that's the very idea that Paul was battling in the in the in the church at Colossae. That's what they were dealing with. Uh the the people at Colossi were told, you know, Jesus is good and he's got wisdom, but you need something more than Jesus. You're not you don't have enough in Christ. You don't have enough in God's word. You need the you need that extra. You need to find extra knowledge. And Paul writes to the Colossians to tell them that's a heresy, that's wrong. Because did you know that in Christ you are complete? The Bible says you are complete in him, and that Christ is sufficient. In fact, look in chapter 3, verse 10 again. and have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. Once you're a Christian, you are being renewed into the image of the Creator That image that was lost, that image that was covered by sin. Now you're being renewed into that image. And Jesus Christ is the one who's doing that. You're complete in him. You don't need to go elsewhere to search for things that Christ Can't provide because all that you need to live a godly life, to to have a peaceful life, to be all that God wants you to be is in Jesus Christ. He's sufficient for all of that And the answer for the problems that you might be having in any relationship, we just read in these verses here. You want to read them again? Look again in verse number 18. Here are some principles on how a Christian home is supposed to be run. Verse 18, wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as it is fit in the Lord. Wives, your major role is to try to submit to your husband as unto the Lord. Husbands You have an even bigger role. Love your wives and be not bitter against them. Your job, your main duty is to love your wife. Children, I don't think we have any children in here, but you can tell them I said this, all right? Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. And then fathers, we could just say parents altogether, don't provoke your children to la to wrath. That is, don't exasperate them. Don't don't bring them to the point to where they feel like they can never satisfy you or please you lest they be discouraged. Those are the principles of a Christian home. Easy, right? All right, go do it. Go do it. And all the conflicts and all that will go away. Easier said than done, right? You know, a lot of times we'll hear preachers preach on these things and we'll go over these basic rules here. It's not rocket science. It's pretty clear this is what we're supposed to do. The problem is how do we do that? The problem is where do we get the grace and the strength and the ability to do all these things because the biggest problems that we have are ourselves. The biggest problem that Jerry Harmon has is the guy he looks at in the mirror every morning. The biggest challenge that he faces is dealing with that person. And so the Bible before it lays down these basic principles of living uh in a Christian home and peace in the Christian home. It gives you a whole lot of other stuff here in chapter 3. And that's why this is so vital that we understand these things before we get to verse 18. There's some other principles and things you need to learn so that you can apply these basic rules of what God has for the family. So what I want to give you are four basic principles that will help you resolve conflicts. And really the major conflict that you need to resolve is the conflict with yourself. The conflict that you have with self. So let me give you these principles. Number one, the principle of mortification Go back to chapter five three verse five. Verse five and chapter three. Notice what he says here. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. What is mortification? And how does one mortify? The word simply means put to death. And what Paul's referring to there is the old sin nature, the old man that lives inside of us. And notice he says, mortify your members. What does he mean by members? Paul's talking about the members of our body, the physical members of our body, our eyes, our ears, our tongue, our hands, and so on. And why does Paul talk about the members? Well, because the sin nature works through our physical body. This is our flesh. And we still have in us this sin nature. And when the sin nature wants something done, what is he going to use? He's going to use the members of our bodies to do it. And so Paul is saying, don't allow your body parts to be used To support what that sin nature inside you wants to do. That old sin nature that's in you Even though you're a Christian, even though you're saved, you still have that old Adamic nature in you. You realize that, right? That old heart that is still there. Even though you have a new nature We are still under sin in the sense that we have this sin nature. And the sin nature is our old master. He's a tyrant. He was the one who put us in bondage before Christ. And ever since we have been saved, he's seeking to bring us back into bondage. He wants to pull us back in to sin. And so Paul is saying, look, don't let your members be used for that old sin nature. Write down in your margin Romans 6, 12, and 13. Listen to these verses. Let not sin therefore rain in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lust thereof. And verse 13, neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourself unto God and those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. And so what is Paul telling us there? That these members, look, you have the ability to yield your members to whatever master you want to. If you want to continue to m yield your members to the old sin nature. If you want to yield your members to unrighteousness unto sin, you can certainly do that. That's not the way you're supposed to live as a Christian. You have a new master now. You have a new Lord, and you're to yield your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. You are a servant to whomever you yield yourself to or you listen to. Now that you're a Christian, now that you're a believer, you have within you the power to say no to your sin nature. And to yield your members unto God. You understand that? Now, how do we do this? There's a few hints here. Focus on Christ. Look again in verse number five where it says, Mortify therefore. You see the word therefore? Therefore points back to the previous Four verses. We have to look back to that. What is Paul talking about? He's talking about our union with Christ. You see, the moment you get saved, you're one with Christ. And there's a sense in the mind of God, you're identified with Christ, you're one with Him. Wherever Jesus is, that's where you are Where is Jesus now? He's seated in heaven. Look at verse one. If ye then be risen with Christ, we could say like this Since you're risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Set your attention or your affections on things which are above You know now that you're a Christian and already in God's mind you're you're one with Christ. Christ is seated in heaven and that's where you are. You say I'm right here in church. I know that. But spiritually, your identification is you're so one with Christ, you're so connected with Him that in the mind of God you're right there with Him. We're one with Him. And that's the whole point there. I know that's kind of a hard thing to understand. It's what theologians call the mystical union of the believer. You're so one with Jesus that you are identified with him, and that's where you get your authority from. You know where you get your authority from? You know how you can say no to sin and the sin nature? You know how you can say no to the corruption of this world? Because you've got authority from Christ. You're seated with Him You're seated in the position of authority. In the House of Representatives, all the Democrats sit on one side of the aisle and all the Republicans sit on the other side. I heard a congressman say one time in the House of Representatives, where we sit determines how we stand. And there's a sense in which that's true in the Christian life. The fact that you're seated with Christ in heaven should determine how you stand here on earth. You should stand in victory. you have the ability to say no to sin. And sin is mortified as long as we understand that and we keep our affections on things above where Christ is. That's the whole point that Paul's making there. So focus on Christ and put to death your desires. Look again at verse 5. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. And then he he he mentions some other desires Fornication, uncleanness, in order affection, evil concupiscence and covetousness, which is idolatry. Paul is saying, look, you need to realize that that you you don't have to do that. You're dead to that now. And you need to put those desires to death. Paul said it like this in Romans 6. 11. Reckon yourselves to be dead unto sin. Or we could say to the sin nature, but alive unto God. The word reckon means the counter is true. Don't try to just figure it out. Just believe it is true. So when the sin nature comes to me and starts to tempt me or place desires in me, what I have to say to the sin nature is, look, you're dead to me. I don't have to listen to you You ever hear someone say that? You're dead to me. That's meant as a mi a mean thing. You know, m maybe a m a a family member or a friend does something that offends you And you're so offended by that that you sever that relationship total. And when they try to speak to you, you say, You're dead to me. Or you hear someone say that. Hopefully you're not there doing that. But you hear someone say, You're dead to me That's a bad thing to do with our relationship. I don't want you to do that, but it's a good thing to do with your sin nature. That's the point. When the sin nature comes Trying to pull you down back into those desires, back into those ungodly things. What you say to the sin nature is, you are dead to me. We no longer have a relationship So when the sin nature comes to me and says, Excuse me, Jerry, I would like to use your tongue to say something, I say, no, you can't have my tongue Well why not? I always could before I know but I have a new master now. I have a new savior and I've yielded my tongue to Christ. You can't use it anymore. And he will say, well, what gives you the authority to say no to me? Well, because I'm seated with Christ in heavenly places. I'm one with Christ. I don't have to listen to you. I don't have to yield to you anymore. Well the sin nature says, Well, what can I use? You can't use anything on me, because I've yielded all of my members as instruments of righteousness unto God. You can't have any part of me. I die to you. Why are you even talking to me? I'm dead to you and you're dead to me. So get lost. I have the authority to say no because of my oneness with Christ. And that's what we're to do. And that's what it means to mortify your members. Which are upon the earth. I am not going to use my members to gratify any ungodly, sinful lust that the sin nature may try to resurrect in me. I put all of that to death. And by the way, when you learn to go through this process of mortifying your sin nature, of putting all these things to death, you know what happens? Temptation weakens in you every time The next time the sin nature comes back it's it it's it's a little weaker. And the next time it's even weaker, but the opposite is also true When you yield yourself to ungodliness, when you yield your members to sin, the next time the temptation is always stronger. And it's always harder to say no. And so mortification is a process where we weaken the sin nature and we kill and we put to death those desires that are in us. This mortification process must be done daily. The word mortify is present, tense, continual. It's an imperative. It's a command. It must be done diligently. When you're dealing with sin in your life, you can't be passive, beloved. When you're dealing with this selfish, sinful nature, you can't be passive. Because if you're passive, you're going to lose We have to do it daily, diligently, decisively. It doesn't happen automatically. You have to make it a decision. You have to do it defiantly. You have to purpose in your heart You have to declare war against your sin nature and against this selfishness that is in all of us. So focus on Christ. Put to death your desires. Remember God's wrath. Look at verse 6. For which things sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience. And Paul gives a strong motivation here. You know why you need to put to death sin in your life? Because God hates it, that's why. The wrath of God is upon it. God hates sin. God's wrath is on those who practice such things. And then also another motivation is remember your past. Look at verse 7. In the which ye also walked sometime when you lived in them. This is what you were before. This is how you walked before. This was a pattern of your life before. But now that you know Christ, now that you're a new creature in Christ That's not you anymore. That's how you once lived. That's that's your past. And by the way, if you're still living in a pattern of sin with no repentance, you need to di uh You need to evaluate your own salvation and make sure it's real. And so there's the principle of mortification. That's one. And number two, there's a principle of modification. Look at verse number eight. But now ye also have put off all these. Look at verse number nine. Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off The old man. I want you to see this phrase put off. And then also put on. Look at verse 10. And yeah, put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge, after the image of him that created him. And then in verse number 12, and put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, and long-suffering. And so we see this contrast between putting off and putting on. Look at verse 14 again, and above all these things, put on charity which is the bond of perfectness. So you see this contrast? And the picture that he's giving here is a very simple one. It's a picture of Changing your clothes. You know, when your clothes are filthy, your garments are rotten and dirty and corrupt. You take those garments off and you put on new garments. You know, that's what happens at salvation. We when we were saved, we had on us the garments of our past life. And you know what sanctification is now that you're a new creature? It's taking off all of those old rotten clothes from the past life, and you're putting on new clothes. The illustration that I love to use on this is when Jesus resurrected Lazarus, remember that story in John 11? He stood before the tomb of Lazarus. And he said, Lazarus come forth, and you know the story. He came out of that grave, bound up in the old grave clothes. He had had those grave clothes wrapped around him for three days, over three days. And what did Jesus say? Loosen. Take off the grave clothes. That's what happens to salvation. Jesus calls us forth. We are saved, but we still have on us the grave clothes of our old dead life. And now sanctification is taking those clothes off one piece at a time and replacing them with the new clothes of the new man now that you are in Christ. That's the whole picture that Paul is giving here. That's what sanctification is. You replacing your Old clothes with your new clothes. And all these are behaviors. What are they? Look at verse 8. But now you put off all these. What's the first one on there? Anger. You guys with me? You're making me angry. No, I'm just kidding. Anger. Just kidding. Anger and then wrath. This is a a a burning resentment. This is a it's like an acid that that is stored up inside someone wrath is thumos of burning anger A violent temper. And then there's malice, which is a mean-spirited, vicious attitude or disposition Um this is Lightfoot defines this as the vicious nature which is bent on doing harm to others. And then there's blasphemy there, which is Defaming, belittling, damaging another person's reputation, uh trying to tear another person down, and then filthy communication, which is just improper, filthy speech. And then in verse nine, lying. Uh lie not one to another. We know what lying is. Paul said, these are all the grave clothes of the old life. And by the way, all of this is based on our own selfishness. This is why we do these things. We're angry because we think we deserve better than what we're getting. Whether it's treatment from someone else or whatever. We get angry because that comes from our selfish nature. We think we deserve better. And that leads to wrath, which leads to malice, which leads to blaspheming, defaming someone else, which leads to filthy communication, which leads to lying. It's all based on this this inner man, this selfishness that needs to be put to death in our life. And then we replace it with this, putting on the Grace clothes in verse ten, and having put on the new man, which is renewed in the knowledge after the image of him that created him, where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian synthie and bond or free, but Christ is all and in all. And what is he saying there? That when you are being renewed in the image of the new man, God is doing an inner work in your heart, and what he has done is he's torn down all of the man-made barriers in your life And we learn to love others the way we should. As we're being renewed in the new man, all those racial barriers are torn down. In Christ, we love one another. All the racial barriers are gone, the religious barriers are gone, the cultural barriers, the social barriers, all these things are torn down, and Christ is all in all, and we are all in Christ, and we're all one in Christ And we learn how to love one another because of that. And then he says this, look at verse 12, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved. Bows of mercies, that's just a word that means a compassion, a deep, deep compassion for others, a sympathy and a love for others. And then he says, kindness and humbleness of mind, meekness and long-suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel, even as Christ forgave you. So what you're doing is, this is replacement, right? You're replacing lying with telling the truth. You're replacing anger with forgiveness. You're replacing malice with kindness. And love and forbearance and short-temperedness you're replacing with long suffering. And notice verse number 14, and above all things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. The word bond means belt. Or it's the belt that holds all these clothes together. What is it? It's love. And so we're modifying our behavior because we've been given all of this In Christ. We are a new creature in Christ. We're a new person in Christ. And we now have these new clothes that we put on, and we're replacing the old clothes. That's the principle of modification. But there's a third principle. I call this the principle of mediation. Look at verse 15. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts. To the which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts. What does this mean? the word rule here. This is the only time this word is used in the New Testament, and it means it means to be a mediator, to be an arbitrator. The great New Testament scholar Bruce said this word carried the idea of an arbitrator, or we would call it a referee or an umpire. It's an athletic term. And it refers to you know games. You know, even in this time where there were the Olympic Games, they had umpires, they had judges, they had referees. We know this today. We we see this all the time. We watch sports. You know, what what's people watching out? What is it, just World Cup? I haven't watched it, but maybe you have, you know, I can't get into soccer Whatever. But those guys are really great actors, those soccer players. You ever notice that? I mean they know how to fly on the f on the field like I I watched a little bit of it and I I saw that I thought I can't I can't watch this man You know, I need some I think some good old American football, you know, um where when a guy uh gets hit then you know that that's real. But anyway. Um But we know we watch sports, right? There's a referee, he throws a yellow flag on the on the on the field when a player has violated a rule. There's a penalty that's in every sport. That's what he's talking about right here. The peace of God is that referee That governs your heart. Just like a referee governs the athletic field, Paul is saying, let the peace of God be the governor, the referee, the mediator of your heart. Let the peace of God guide you. Let it help you. How does this work? I like what one commentator said. He said this. When faced with a choice, the believers should consider two factors. First, is it consistent with the fact that he and Christ are now at peace and thus on the same side? And does it perpetuate that oneness with the Lord that is the believer's possession? If you're faced with a decision, the first thing you should ask yourself is, is this going to enhance my peace with Christ or is it going to violate it? Is it going to enhance my oneness with Christ? Is this consistent with my new position in Christ? Will this increase my peace and my fellowship with Him? Or will this take away from it? That's a good guide. Second, we'll it leave him with a deep abiding peace in his heart. He said these two factors are the greatest deterrence. to sin in a believer's life. And notice the role of this piece. Look again at verse 15. To the which ye also ye're called in one body, and be ye thankful. You know what he's saying there? You are now called to peace. Now that you're saved, the default mode of your life should be one of peace. If you're not experiencing peace in your life, then you need to really take a really serious examination because as a believer, your heart and life should be one of peace. This is what you're called to. Jesus says, or Paul says, I've called you to peace. That's the normal part of the Christian life. Peace with God and peace with others, specifically others in our realm of relationships. God has called us to peace. And if we're not living in that peace, we are not fulfilling the calling that God has placed upon us. We walk in peace every day. So we don't allow anything in our life that disturbs this peace. We let the peace of God be the referee of our life. So that we'll be where God wants us to be. Let me give you the final principle. The principle of mortification. We have to put Sin to death. The principle of modification, we have to put off the old clothes, put on the new clothes. The principle of mediation, we have to let the peace of God be the referee, the arbitrator of our life. But then here's number four. I call this the principle of meditation. Look at verse 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. Teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And so we let the word of God, the peace of Christ, reside. The word here means to live at or be at home. Paul's saying, let the word of God take up residence in your heart. We're to dwell in God's word and God's word dwell in us. Richly, he says. This is extravagantly. In other words, we have to allow God's word to permeate our life. All the time. And this battle that we're against in the sin nature, against the world, we have to have the strength of the word of God. It's got to permeate us. The key here is getting God's word in you. And how do we do that? By meditating in Scripture, by allowing it to fill our heart and fill our mind. That's why it's good that you're here on Wednesday night. I believe that God's people should be in God's house every worship service. I'm fanatical like that. I believe that you should be reading Scripture every day of your life. I believe you should be meditating on Scripture. I believe you should be listening to the Word of God. Fill your home with scriptural songs. Let God's word get into your heart and into your mind, into the minds of all of your children. Let God's word take up residence in your life. Be obsessed with Scripture. Let the word of Christ dwell in you. That's what Paul's saying. And think about it. That's what it means. Think about it. What digestion is to the body, meditation is to the soul. That's where you begin to get strength and energy from thinking about God's Word again and again. Get it in your mind. Because the principle is you become what you think about. You understand that? Whatever you think about, the Bible says, as a man thinketh in his heart, what? So is he. You become what you obsess over. What you think about. And so Paul is saying, let the word of God dwell in you. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. And how do we know when that's going to happen? Well Teaching one another and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. There'll be a joy in your life And whatsoever you do, do in word or indeed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks. There'll be a thankfulness. You'll do what you do for Christ, in the name of Christ. You'll have a joy, a gratitude in your heart, that's how you know when the peace of God, or excuse me, when the word of God is dwelling in you richly. And so after all of that After applying these principles here, then we come to verse 18, 19, and 20. Wives submit yourselves and your own husbands. Husbands love your wives. Children obey your parents. Fathers provoke not your children. You see, we can't do those things until first we get these other things right Until first you deal with yourself, the conflict in you, and you practice these principles, you put to death Sinful desires and selfishness. You you put off the old clothes and you put on the new clothes. You let the peace of God rule You let the word of Christ dwell in you. And when you do all that, you'll have the strength to obey these other basic principles that God gives you. And you know what? You'll have a home where Christ will be preeminent. Which is the whole theme of the book of Colossians, the preeminence of Jesus Christ. And so the question is, are you doing these things? Is this what you want? for your heart and for your life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I'm just going to ask you just to do a little self-evaluation. If there's conflict in your home, examine yourself, not your mate, not your children. Examine your own heart And ask yourself, are you putting to death sinful, selfish desires? And are you yielding your members as instruments of righteousness unto God? Are you putting off the clothes of the old self, the filthy, rotten grave clothes? And are you being renewed in the new man, putting on the new man and all that God has given us in Christ? Are you allowing your life to be ruled by the peace of God? And is the Word of God dwelling in you richly? If we can just do those things, you know what? The rest of this will be something that will come easy. We'll be able to love our wives, and wives will be able to submit, and children will be able to obey, and we'll be all that God wants us to be And just right now, just take a moment quietly there. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand or do anything. I want you to do business with the Lord and just ask God to do these things in you. Just tell the Lord we're not even strong enough to do these things. Lord, we need you to do it. Father, help us to put to death the old tyrant of sin. And Lord, that's something that we have to do daily. And yield ourselves, our members, as instruments of righteousness unto God. Just tear away toward these old corrupt clothes and be renewed in a new man And let the peace of Christ rule in us. That we will live a life that's in harmony with the peace of Christ. And may our hearts and our homes be filled with your word. Father, help us in this. Give us Godly homes, give us godly Christian homes that will glorify you, that will make Christ preeminent, and that will make a difference in the lives of other people And Lord, we don't ask this for ourselves, although we desire it. Our ultimate desire, our ultimate goal is for your glory. So Lord, do these things for your glory's sake in our hearts. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.