Well it's good to be in God's house, isn't it? And I want you to take your Bibles and open to 2 Samuel. We're kind of coming to the end of the life of David, but there's a few key chapters I want to just uh deal with before we close out this series on the life of David. And so go to 2 Samuel chapter 21. And while you're finding that, you know, some Christians treat the Bible kind of like a smorgesborg. Did I say that right? You know, you go along with your plate and you uh fill up We like to fill up on God's mercy. We we like to fill up on God's love and God's forgiveness and his patience. But sometimes when we get to the uh the justice part or the wrath of God, or even the holiness of God, sometimes people skip over those things. We don't want to be reminded of God's wrath. Those are uh truths that we would just as soon forget But if we do that, if we focus only on the attributes of God that we like and we forget about the ones that we don't like, we end up with a distorted view of God. And really, that's the essence of idolatry. Idolatry is creating a God in your own mind that doesn't match the God of the Bible. The way God has revealed Himself He has revealed himself in Scripture. He's revealed himself in his Son, but He's revealed Himself in the written Word of God. And this is what we learn of God, what we know in the Scripture, how God has chosen You remember in Exodus chapter 34, this is one of the great self-revelations of God in the Old Testament. And you remember that in that story, Moses was praying and he said, Lord, show me your glory. In other words, Lord, God, show me who you are in your innermost being. I want to know who you are. And this was right on the heels of that monstrous sin when they committed idolatry with a golden calf. And God had said to Moses, I'm going to destroy them and make of you a great nation. And Moses intercedes for them. And now Moses wants to know if God is the kind of God that could forgive such sin and restore Israel back to that original place. And so he's saying, God, show me who you are. I want to know who you are in your innermost being. And God, in Exodus 34 If you remember that passage, comes down in a cloud of glory, and the Bible says God declared himself to Moses. And it and he says this in Exodus 34, 6. And the Lord passed by before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful, gracious, long suffering, abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving and Iniquity and transgression and sin. That's all the good part. But notice what also it says. Visiting the iniquity. Well let me back up, and that will by no mines no means clear the Guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and upon the children's children under the third and the fourth generation. Great self-revelation is a balance of himself, of his attributes, we could say. He's gracious, he's long suffering, praise the Lord, right? That he's all of those things on one hand, but on the other hand, he doesn't clear And so w what you see there is a balance. He is a God of forgiveness. He is a God of love and mercy. But he He's also a God of justice. He's a God of wrath. This is a perfect balance that God presents. In fact, my PhD dissertation was on these two verses, and I found that there are exactly 16 Hebrew words that describe the love of God, the forgiveness of God, the mercy of God. And there are exactly sixteen Hebrew words that describe the wrath of God, the justice of God. And so this is a perfect balance. And when we look at God in the Bible, we have to understand He is indeed a God of love. But there's the other part of God, and that is He's a God of justice. He's a God of wrath. And if we don't understand these two things, we'll have a distorted view of God. We live in a generation and a society today that wants to think all about the love of God. But I would say suggest to you that people that think only about the love of God and not about the wrath of God, they they have a a a late view of God. They don't have they don't have a correct fear of the Lord Because lost people today they have the attitude as if to say, Well, God owes it to love me. After all, he's a God of love. And so they think lightly about God because all they think about is This God who's merciful and loving, he's gonna have to forgive my sin when I'm ready. When I need him, I'll call upon him. Other than that, I don't want to be bothered by him. But what they forget is that he's also a God of wrath And I think sometimes what we lack today is a fear of the Lord. We don't fear the Lord the way we should. I know we don't do it in our society. Today, out here in a community in America. We don't fear God the way we should. And sometimes I wonder if we fear God the way we should in the church. Now all that leads up to 2 Samuel chapter 21, because this story here really is a story about the wrath of God. It's not really a story about God's love, although we will see glimpses of mercy. In fact, I would say at the end of chapter 21, we see seeds of redemption. We see seeds of grace. But it's really a story about God's wrath. And if you're taking Notes, I want you to notice three things in our chapter here in chapter 21. First of all, number one, I want you to write down the revelation of God's wrath. Because God's going to reveal his wrath Against Israel. Look in chapter 21, verse 1. Then there was a famine in the days of David, three years, year after year. The word for famine here is a word that's used to express extreme hunger and starvation, sometimes that leads to death Sometimes God, when he reveals his wrath, he'll do it through famine. He'll do it through things of nature. The Bible says in Romans 1, 18, that the wrath of God is constantly being revealed from heaven. Present tense. It's constantly being revealed from heaven. We may not see it sometimes. We may not recognize it. The word revealed there in Romans is the word apocalypto. The veil is being pulled away, and God reveals his wrath. And here God reveals a divine punishment against Israel. There's a sense in which God now is revealing his wrath towards his people. Walter Chantry, who has an excellent commentary on the life of David talked about this. He said, famine is not a consequence of material forces alone. He says, even these come by the will of God, as through floods. Hurricanes, volcanic eruptions, and all destructive forces. Being a God of infinite power as well as infinite wisdom, he has Reasons why nations are sometimes afflicted with these calamities. I think he's right. God many times reveals his wrath in different ways throughout the Scripture. We don't have time to give a whole theology of the wrath of God here. But there's eschatological wrath. That's the wrath that we see in Revelation at the end days. God's going to pour out wrath upon this earth There's eternal wrath, which is the fullest expression of God's wrath, and it's the the doctrine of eternal punishment in hell. And we pray and we plead that no sinner And experiences the wrath of God, the eternal wrath of God. Then there's consequential wrath. That's sowing and reaping. And we understand that principle. We've seen it in the life of David. But then there's cataclysmic wrath, and that's where God will use natural uh forces or we could say nature, floods, drought, hurricane, or And notice where it says this famine was year after year. This is three years of continual famine. Now in Palestine they were dependent upon rainfall or dew for the crops for the same thing. But to have it year after year after year, three successive years, now that is different. And here David senses that the In fact, the Bible says in Leviticus 2620 that if you offend the Lord, if you disobey his law, you do something to incur His anger. He says, For your land will not yield her increase, neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruits. God will bring famine. And David senses that this is what's happening here. And it may be that the people are blaming David. Notice it says in verse 1, it's during the days of David. It's during his reign. And it may be that people are blaming him. They have a tendency to blame leadership when things don't go right. But I want you to see number two. We see the revelation of God's wrath. But the reasons for God's wrath. Now, this is not because of anything that David did. How do we know that? And David inquires of the Lord in verse one. And it says and David inquired of the Lord Now literally in the Hebrews uh in the Hebrew he sought his face. David prays, he seeks the face of God. This may have been in his personal prayer, or it could have been But either way, David saw this famine as the hand And he sought the Lord to find out why God was sending the famine. By the way, there's something practical for us to learn here. When God is not blessing us, we should ask why. Why? Because God's people are a blessed people. God's people are a victorious people. And when we're not experiencing the blessing of God, we should And here is David, the leader of a nation, and he notice this nation is not being blessed, so he seeks the face of God. government that would do that. When economic famine hits, the first response is to blame someone else, blame others. They call the next works to try to figure out But what would happen if our leaders got together and sought the face of God the way David did? This is what David does, and God gives them the answer. The problem, God tells him in verse 1, and the Lord answered, he said, It is for Saul and for his bloody house, because he slew the Gibeonites. But the answer was clear. The famine was because of Saul. The problem was Saul. He had committed a terrible sin in the eyes of God. The Bible says he slew the Gibeonites. And verse 2 explains it more, and the king called the Gibeonites Gibeonites and said unto them, uh and now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but of the remnant of the Amorites, and the children of Israel had sworn unto them, and Saul sought to slay them And so these were not Israelites. Well who were the Gibeonites? And why did this invoke God's anger so much? Well hold your place here in chapter twenty-one. We'll take a quick look back in history, and you probably know this because we dealt with this in Joshua. But go to Joshua chapter 9. Just go back there and let's just look at What what would the issue here? Now you remember that Joshua and Israel were systematically conquering the cities of Canaan, and the Gibeonites knew that they were next on the list. The Gibeonites were Canaanites. They were Amorites more specifically. And they were to be conquered and exterminated by Joshua and Israel because they lived in the land of Canaan. But The Bible says they did something very subtle. When they knew that they were to be conquered, look in verse 3. And when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard that what Joshua had done unto Jericho and unto Ai They did work wily and went and made as if they had been ambassadors, and took old sacks upon their asses, and wine bottles old and ran and bound up, and old shoes and clouded upon their feet, and old gold garments upon them, and all the bread of their provision was dry and moldy. So they lived just twenty five miles from Gilgal where Joshua had made camp with Israel. But they also knew somehow that there's a stipulation in the law of God in Deuteronomy. You could make a peace treaty with nations that are just outside the border of Israel. So they would use this flaw to their advantage. They would go to Joshua and Israel and pretend to be from a long way off, as if they were on the outer fringes of the land. Joshua and Israel were kind of preoccupied with a large confederation of enemy armies that were coming together, so this was the perfect time for them to go and pull off this little And they made themselves look as if they were come from a long country. When you keep wine in that bottle, it expands and expands, and finally after it loses its its flexibility, it'll it'll rip. And that happens over a period of time. And their shoes looked old and worn. They got them from the second hand store before they started off on their journey. And so they made as if they were from a A long way. They used dry and moldy bread. All this to give this appearance as if they were a long way off. And then they began to lie. Look in verse 6. And they went to Joshua on the camp of Gilgal, said unto him and to the men of Israel, We become from a far country. Tree. Now therefore make ye a league with us. We're from a long way off, Joshua. That was the first lie. They were just twenty-five miles away. We're your neighbors And we are your servants in verse eight, they said. That's another lie. They weren't they were their actually their enemies. And in verse nine it says, and we come because of the name of the Lord God. Again, they weren't coming to worship God, they were coming to save their own skin. And they very carefully don't mention Jericho and Ai because that news wouldn't have traveled that fast. They mentioned And so they said to him, just look at us, look at look at how we look, look at how we dress, we're from a long way off. We want to make a a peace treaty with you We want you to listen to us and and make a treaty with us. And the Bible says that the Israel got together. The elders, look at verse 14. And the men took of their victuals and asked not counsel at the mouth of the Lord. There's a mistake. This was a very prompt decision. It was very presumptuous. They didn't pray about it. They didn't ask the Lord about it. They believed everything they saw. And this by the way was a permanent decision because look at verse sifteen. Congregation swear unto them. That's key there. They made a covenant. They swear that they would live peacefully with them. Later on, they find out that guess what? Surprise, we're not from a long way off. They find out that they're just around the corner In verse 16, after three days, after they had made a league with them, they heard that they were their neighbors, that they dwelt among them. Now this made the people of Of Israel angry that Joshua and the elders of Israel made this decision to make peace with the Canaanites. And so they said in verse 18, let's just kill them anyway. In verse 18, the children of Israel And the children of Israel smote them not, because the princes of the congregation had sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel, and all the congregation murmured against The princes. They wanted to kill him. But you have to admire Joshua and the elders. Verse 19. Therefore we may not what? Touch them. We made a vow. We swore unto the Lord. And when you make a vow before God, guess what? God expects you to keep it He will hold you to it. And so they said, we can't kill them. We can't do that. There's no way out of this oath. So look at verse 20. This we will do to them. We will even let them live, lest wrath, get that, lest wrath be on us. Man, if we violate this oath, this will bring down God's wrath on us. We don't want to do that And so in verse 21 the princess said unto them, Let them live, but let them be hewers of wood and drawers of water unto all the congregation as the princes And so here is the solution. We're going to let 'em live, but they're going to be servants at the Lord's house. The house of the Lord the tabernacle is constantly making sacrifices, and if you have sacrifices constantly being made, you need a lot of fire. And if you have fire, you gotta have wood. Someone's gotta go chop down the tree and and and um and then hew the wood and divide it up and bring it back. Someone's gotta you also need a lot of water. And so the Gibeonites then became these servants at the house of the Lord where they constantly And if you trace them through the history of Israel, you're going to find out that they dropped All of their false religion. They learned the ways of God. They learned to fear God. They learned to reverence God. They were no longer an idolatrous people. Again, if you look in Israel's history, they were faithful to Israel throughout all of Israel's war. Later they were called the Nethanim, which means the given ones, because they were given So much of the responsibility in the house of the Lord to assist the priests that were there. And as you fast forward 400 years later, you come to the time of David. And you know what David does when David gets the tabernacle? Guess where he takes the tabernacle and sets it up? Shiloh had been destroyed, and so he sets up the tabernacle. In Gibeon, the city of these Gibeonites. Why? Because David knew that they were faithful and that they were servants there at the house of the Lord. So this place is Gibeon became a very important place. In fact, later on Solomon will go there and he'll lay before the altar all night and he'll ask God to speak to him, and this is where God says, What do you want Solomon? And Solomon's Says, you know, Lord, I'm just a child. I don't know how to go out and come in. Teach me how to lead. And this is where the Lord vows to give uh Solomon wisdom, and indeed He does make him wise. It's there at Gibeon. Hundreds of years later, the Gibeonites were still there among the people of God. They helped build the wall of Nehemiah. They even replaced the priests for a certain time in the book of Ezra. So what could have been a curse? What does God do? God does this all the time, doesn't he? He turns it around and he makes it a blessing. Now enter Saul. In fact, go back to Second Samuel chapter twenty one now. Saul comes into the picture. Again, this is four hundred years later. The Gibeonites have been doing a great service to the house of the Lord. And Saul Saul doesn't like the oath made under Joshua. And here's something to keep in mind. Gibeon was close to Saul's city of Gibeah. Don't get the two mixed up. Gibeon and Is where the Gibeonites lived. Gibeah is where Saul grew up and lived. That was his city. And he resented these foreigners serving at the altar of God And since they were Amorites listed to be exterminated, he decided he would finish the job. So what does Saul do? He totally ignores The previous covenant. By the way, 400 years earlier, time does not nullify the covenant that was made. But Saul, he, in his reckless zeal He forgets it. He wants to rid the Gibeonites out and again this is in the tribe of Benjamin. This is the tribe where he's from. He wants to reward faithful, loyal followers. From the tribe of Benjamin, and the way he does this is by giving them houses and giving them lands. And and Gibeon was a good place to do that. So he decides he's gonna exterminate So his reckless Zeal, what does he do? He slaughters innocent Gibeonites. He didn't get them all. That was his intention. But this is something that was characteristic We saw this with the priest at Nob. He slaughtered all of them. He ordered the death of David. And let me tell you something. God hates the slaughtering of innocent people. Just in case you think that he might overlook that, he does not. And he will Will not. And murder left unpunished pollutes the land. The Bible says that right down Numbers thirty-five, thirty-three. So sh shall ye not pollute the land wherein ye are, for blood it defileth The land. And the land cannot be cleansed of the blood that is shed therein, but the blood of him that sheds it. Innocent blood shed defiles The land, the Bible says. And this left Saul with blood on his hands. Not only Saul, but also on the nation of Israel God holds all of Israel accountable. Why? They let him do it. They had no restraints on Saul. They knew that this was a violation of the Torah, but nothing w happened to make him accountable. And so these actions, the actions of Saul where he sinned was also where Israel sinned, and the wrath of God then comes down upon Israel for the shedding of this innocent blood. For violating the covenant agreement and shedding innocent blood, God's wrath falls upon Israel during this time. And again, when I read this, I can't help but think of our country. Can't help but think about America. We've had leaders who've allowed the slaughter of innocents for years. For years. Leaders who've turned their head to innocent blood being shed, and don't think that God will let that go unpunished. So we see the revelation of God's wrath. Number two, we see the reasons for God's wrath. But I want you to look at number three, the removal of God's wrath. The removal. How is it removed? Now, David David is the man after God's own heart. David doesn't ignore this. If he were like some leaders today, he would sweep it under the rug, blame it on someone else. But David wants to To honor God. And David knew that God's holiness and righteousness were offended, and David knew that God's honor was at stake. God doesn't just pour out wrath arbitrarily for no reason. And David wanted to show that this is there's a reason for this. He wanted to uphold the honor of God. God's wrath is not an emotional outburst. God's wrath is not having him His feelings hurt like some theologians like to say, you know, these open theists that are out there and say, Oh, you know, God's wrath is a form of his love. He loves and when you don't return to love, you hear you hurt his feelings And that is an attempt to make God look more human like to bring God down. Those are distorted views of God that bring God Down. What is God's wrath? Listen, God's wrath is an expression of his holiness. It's an expression of his righteousness. It's an expression of his glory. A. W. Pink wrote this, it is as much a divine perfection as is his faithfulness, as is his power, or his mercy. And that is so true. David wants to vindicate God. David wants to bring God's blessing back on Israel. You know, there are some people that are very apt They don't really realize that they're already under condemnation. They don't or some may realize it and they're apathetic about it. It's a very dangerous place to be. The wrath, the righteous wrath of God should lead people to repent. It should lead people to restitution. And David wants to make things right. And And by the way, that's a lot of what David has done all during his reign is to make right the wrong Saul had committed. He's had to deal with it constantly, and here again he's dealing with a wrong that Saul committed. And by the way, again, this narrative is again designed to present a contrast between Saul and David. Remember he's done this, the writer of Samuel has done this throughout the out first and second Samuel to show the difference between Saul and David. And here he's doing it again. He's he's showing David's superiority He is going to absolve the wrongdoing. And as we we see, he's going to do it in a way that it honors the Lord. And not only that, in a way that also honors Saul. Which is an incredible thing. Saul violates a covenant, David will keep a covenant with Saul's sons. Saul sheds innocent blood, David will give justice to those to whom It is owed. Saul brings down God's wrath on a nation. David intercedes and removes God's wrath from a nation. So notice in verse 3. Wherefore David said unto the Gibeonites, what shall I do for you? And wherewith shall I make the atonement that ye may bless the inheritance of the Lord? Now look at the The key word there in verse three is atonement. Kapar. It's the normal word used for atonement in the old testament. It means to cover the idea of pay a ransom. David says, How can we make atonement? How can we pay the ransom for this? How can we make restitution for the injustice that is done? How can we cover this? Also, I think what he means by this is how can we appease or satisfy And the outcome of this would be that that God would bless the inheritance again, that you would bless the inheritance of the Lord, that is to say, the promised land That they receive from God. And notice what their response is. It's very interesting. Look in verse 4. And the Gibbonites said unto him, we will have no silver or no Nor gold of Saul, nor of his house, neither for us shalt thou kill any man in Israel. As he said, What shall what shall say then what I do for you? What ye say shall uh excuse me, what ye s shall say, what that will I do for you. Get that right. And basically David says, look, if it's not going to be money, then what do I do? And this implies that maybe David offered that. Look, we'll give you souls housing. We'll give you out his treasury. We'll give money. They said, no, that's not going to do it. The problem can't be solved with money. We don't want silver. Or gold. Money's not going to remove that injustice. And by the way, it is there's a there's a point here, and that is the Gibeonites actually understand the Jewish law even better than David. Because they understood that Jewish law forbids receiving money to expiate blood. They understand that. Again, Numbers 35, 31 says the only Only way that you can expiate blood is by the shedding of blood that would atone for murder. The murderer shall be put to death. So look at verse five. And they answered the king, the man that consumed us. Notice they don't even mention Saul's name. The man that consumed us That devised against us, that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the coasts of Israel. And again, that shows you what Saul's purpose was. He wanted to exterminate them from off all the coasts. That man, look at verse six, let seven men of his sons be delivered unto us, and we will hang them up unto the Lord and Gibeah of Saul, whom the Lord did choose. And the king said So notice their solution. They asked for seven sons of Saul to be executed. This is where God visits the iniquity of the Of the fathers unto the children in the third and fourth generation. Some sins a person commits bear consequences even after death. And this is the thing that she calls us to fear. Saul's sin was reaping consequences on his family years after he had died. And so these seven sons would be hung, and notice the expression before the Lord. They would be hung before the Lord. And some think that this was even done in the worship area where people would come and see that. Word hang here means to possibly to hang on a tree. Some think it might speak mean to be impaled on a stake. One writer wrote that thinking they would be run through with a stake and then they would be impaled, they would be hung I think it's more or less they would be hung on a tree. The Bible says in Deuteronomy, that was the way the Jews did it. In Deuteronomy, cursed is those who what? Hang on a tree. Why seven? Why seven? I mean, Saul slew many more Gibeonites than seven. I think this was merciful on the part of the the Gibeonites. But I also think that seven has a great symbolic significance through the ancient Near Eastern world. Seven stood for completion Seven stood for perfection, it stood for fullness, and so the number seven to them meant completion. I don't know about you, but I see seeds of redemption here. I see the cross in this. You know what, in order for God's wrath to be satisfied for sin, it wouldn't Be accomplished with silver or gold, would it? Would it Peter say? For as much as you know, you were not redeemed with corruptible things. It wouldn't take silver or gold. The Bible says without the shedding of blood, there's no what? No remission. So we see seeds of the gospel here. It would take the shedding of blood to satisfy God's wrath for sin. This whole concept is at the center of These men would not just hang, but they would ha be be hung before the Lord, before God. Jesus, the Son of God, hung on a cross before God, before the Lord. He would be fastened to a cross. He would shed his blood Blood to satisfy God's wrath. Just as David would choose seven sons, seven being the number of perfection, God would choose his perfect son, Jesus. He represents completion because he would be the complete sacrifice for sin. He represents fullness because he would pay the full penalty for sin by shedding his Blood. He would be the one who would completely and fully remove God's wrath for sin for all. He would be the one to do that. Just as seven sons of Saul bore Saul's gift. Guilt, Jesus bore our guilt. I see a little bit of the doctrine, the seeds of imputation here. Saul's sins would be imputed to his seven sons. Who really didn't do it, but his sin would be imputed to them, even so, our sins were placed on Jesus. You know there are three imputations in the Bible. Adam's sin was imputed to us. You say I wasn't there in the garden, yeah, but you were in Adam. And in Adam Fall, we sin all. All of Adam's sin and guilt was imputed to us. All of our sins were imputed to Christ. All of his righteousness was imputed to us. Three imputations in the Bible. But we see here in C form this whole idea of imputing guilt and imputing uh righteousness. We also see the principle of substitution here in this story in seed form if you ask me because in verse seven what does david do? He agrees to choose seven of the sons. This had to be a difficult task for David, but he'll choose seven. Others will be sp And notice there's some names that are given. Look at verse seven. But the king spared who? Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the Lord's oath that was between them, between David and Jonathan, the son of So there's Mephiboshev. We know of him. But notice in verse 8 there are two other names that are given. Seven sons were chosen in all. Verse 8, but the king took two sons of Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah, whom she bare unto Saul, Armani, and who Mephiboshef, the five sons of Michael, the daughter of Saul, and it goes on to name those five. So it gives two other names. Who are they? These are two sons from Saul's wife, Rizpah. Notice the names Armani and Mephiboshev. Now there are two Mephiboshefs here in the story. And they're different. They're not the same. Did you know there are two Mephiboshevs in the Bible? So I thought one was another But there are two. One is the son of Rispa, one is the son of Jonathan. One will suffer the penalty of death One will be spared. One will bear for the sins, bear all the sin of his father. One is Set free from judgment. One receives judgment, one receives mercy, one is condemned, one is chosen to be saved, one will be the scapegoat. I see here the principle here. And by the way, who's the Mephiboshev here in the story? The one that's spared? That's all of us, the ones we were spared. Another die. In our place. And the Bible makes very clear why. Why did one Mephibosheth live and the other die? Because it says in verse number seven. The king spared Mephiboshev the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the Lord's oath that was between them. And I think he makes a point to emphasize the oath. Saul violated an oath and brought down Judgment. David will keep an oath, even to Saul's family. It was because of the oath between David and Jonathan, the son of Saul. Now we remember that story, right? David and Jonathan loved each other. They made a covenant. There was the shedding of blood where they held their wrists together. The blood mingled. And David said that he would watch over Jonathan's family And when Jonathan passed away, David took Mephiboshef, this crippled young man, brought him into his family, and David showed Mephiboshef, what's the key word that we looked at? Kesed. The Old Testament word for grace. Mephibosheth is the recipient of grace because of the covenant, the blood covenant that was made between David and Jonathan, Nephibishef, who was deformed by a fall, who was dethroned, who was dead, had the sentence of death on him. He becomes now part of David's family. And receives all these blessings. David is not about to let that Mephiboshef receive judgment. You would also see here a little foreshadowing of eternal Security. Once Mephiboshev entered into that covenant relationship with David, there's nothing going to separate him from his love. Nothing. David would never do that. Why? Because Let me tell you something. You'll never lose your salvation. Why? Because of the covenant of redemption purchased by Jesus, his own blood. You cost him too much. He will never cut you loose. And so the decision is made. Seven sons will be He executed verse nine, and he delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them in the hill before the Lord. And they fell all seven together and were put to death in the days of the harvest. So here were these seven sons. Now there's a little there's a story in verses ten and eleven. Rizpah, the mother of the two, and Ant to the other nephew. She stays out there on the threshing floor with on sackcloth and she fights away the animals while they're hanging there, and they stay there for many months. Comes, which is a sign that God's famine, God's wrath is no longer there. The rain begins to come in the rainy season. And when that happens, David takes them down And he he basically in verses twelve to verse fourteen takes the bodies of Jonathan and Saul and other family members of Saul and he puts them all together in a family tomb. This is a way One of the greatest things the Israelites wanted was a decent, honorable burial. And David did that. family and and but by doing so he exonerates himself to f against any accusation against hostility that David had had against the And so we have to give him credit for dealing drastically for sin, but also showing honor to the house of Saul. Of the wrath of God. The wrath of God against sin. But also we see, even in this story, throughout seeds of redemption, these principles will come to full fruition in the life and death of our Lord Jesus Christ on the cross. And really the key phrase in the whole story, look in verse 14. Look at the last line in verse 14. And after that, God Was entreated for the land. That is to say, God once again heard their prayers. God once again took pity. He granted relief. to the land, or we could say God's wrath was satisfied. He was satisfied for that. And that's what we want, beloved. We want the only way you're going to survive God's wrath is for it to be satisfied and we can't satisfy it. The only way it can be is through a sacrifice, and that was the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. This whole story to me points to Calvary. It points to the cross. You know, in the days of the pioneers when a man saw a prairie fire was coming, what would they do? The horses We're not fast enough to outrun those fires when these prairie fires would sweep across the plain. You know what they would do? They would burn an area around them They would burn a huge schwarf around them and then they would stand in that burnt area. Why? Because the fire wouldn't burn where it has already burned The only safe spot to stand was in a place where the fire had already passed over. And you know, the Bible says our God is a consuming fire. Did you know that? He's a consuming fire. And when judgment comes to those who have not repented, God will sweep many into eternal punishment. When judgment comes, there's only one safe spot. You know what it is? The place where God's wrath already fell. And where did it already fall? It already fell on the cross. It already fell at Calvary. The only safe spot is to stand in Christ. To stand in the The cross of Christ. That's the only safe place for time and for eternity. Let's let's bow for prayer together. And so Lord, we are Thankful for this beautiful story, although it's a very heart-wrenching story. And Lord, we fear your wrath. And knowing the terror of the Lord, we persuade men On one hand, Lord, it's a story that invokes fear. On the other hand, Lord, we see glimpses of the cross And that's what's beautiful to us. We see glimpses of your mercy. Even in wrath, even in pouring out wrath, Lord, you show mercy. And we thank you, Lord, that it points us to again our Savior. It points us to the cross. And it shows us how beautiful the cross is, how valuable it is to us. And we again we say let's Like the Apostle Paul, God forbid that I should glory except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so again, we thank you that on the cross our Savior, our perfect Savior purchased our salvation, he fulfilled and satisfied your wrath completely and fully for sin. And may we stand in The cross. May we reaffirm that in our own life. And Lord, may this a story such as this cause fear and may it also motivate us. Lord, we need to tell the story of the cross. to people Lord who are still under condemnation. So Lord, may that motivate us to share Christ, to share the story of the cross. And we thank you Thank you and we praise you in Jesus' precious name, Amen