I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the book of First Timothy. It's been our joy to study First Timothy, and we are tonight going to be looking at chapter 6. And I want to look at two verses in particular tonight of 1 Timothy 6, verse 11 and verse 12. of 1 Timothy 6. But thou, O man of God, flee these things and follow after righteousness and godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast profess a good profession before many witnesses. The call to uh ministry is a solemn venture. It's not an easy task, and it carries with it a lot of responsibility. And we see this when we study This first letter of Paul to his young son in the faith, Timothy. This letter is filled with imperatives. If you go through actually 1 Timothy and 2 Timothy, there are so many imperatives. That is to say, there's so many commands that Tim that Paul gives to Timothy that he's supposed to do. For example, just in chapter 4, Paul says, Timothy had nothing to do with the reverent miss, that's verse 7 Train yourself in godliness, again, verse seven. Command and teach these things, verse eleven. Let no man despise thy youth, verse twelve Devote yourself to public reading of Scripture, verse thirteen. Do not neglect the gift that you have, verse fourteen. Practice these things, verse fifteen. Immerse yourself in them again, verse fifteen. Keep a close watch on yourself, verse sixteen. And persist in this. Again, verse 16. And that's just chapter 4. Those are all commands, imperatives that Paul gives to Timothy. Chapter 5, don't be hasty to lay hands on another, honor widows. Don't don't uh be a partaker of another sins. Keep yourself pure. And then you get here to chapter six, and what we're going to see here are just another list of things that responsibilities that Paul gives to Timothy that are so very important. And tonight we're just going to focus on four of them, but they're in verse eleven and verse twelve. There are two imperatives in verse eleven. There are two in verse number twelve. And verse 11, flee these things. That's one. And then what's the other? Follow after righteousness. And then another imperative in verse 12, fight the good fight of faith. And then finally lay hold on eternal life. Now, Paul is going to, I think, try to inspire Timothy in doing these things. And I think that the way that he does it is by using a term The term O man of God. In verse eleven, we see that, but thou, O man of God. That is a very sacred term. It's not used a lot in the New Testament. In fact, this is the only place in the whole New Testament that it's ever used. However, it's used a lot Even though it's only used one place in the New Testament, it's used a lot in the Old Testament. In fact, it's a common term to speak about those who are divinely called to speak for God. And so the fact that Paul would take this one term and apply it to Timothy is a very special thing here. And Paul was saying to Timothy, Timothy, you are a man of God. You are God's spokesman to speak divine truth. And also, not only does Paul use this term to bring inspiration to Timothy's heart, but also to remind him of the very great responsibility that he had. Again, it's an uncommon term in the New Testament, but it's used a lot in the old It first appears in the Old Testament to designate Moses, the great prophet of God. It's used in Deuteronomy 33. 1 to call Moses a man of God. It calls him again a man of God in 1 Chronicles 23, 14. In 1 Samuel 2. 27, it's used to describe a prophet who God sent to speak and bring judgment against the house of Eli because of their sins. It's used in 1 Samuel 9. 6 to speak of Samuel himself as a man of God, God's prophet. It's use of David. It's use of Elijah. It's use of Elisha. It's used of a prophet who confronted Amaziah in 2 Chronicles 25, 7. All the uses of this in the Old Testament reflect someone who uniquely represents God and who speaks for God. The sum of all this is to tell us that it's a reference to a messenger, a very special messenger. And Paul uses this term to speak about Timothy, thou O man of God. In other words, he's saying, Timothy, you have a big responsibility because you are called to be God's spokesman to speak divine truth. And so therefore Here are some things that you are responsible to do. We could say that these are things that mark a man of God. These are things that are to be characteristic of a man of God. And what are they? First of all, number one Here's the first responsibility. Flee from the love of money. Again, look in verse 11. But thou, O man of God, flee these things. The word flee here is a present imperative that is to say keep on continuing to flee. Keep on running from these things. It's the word for wego where we get the word fugitive from. It's someone who is running to escape a pursuer. It pictures one who runs from a a plague or one who runs from a poisonous snake or one who runs from an attacking enemy. The man of God is constantly running. He's running all of his life. So you could say that a true man of God is known by what he flees from, what he's running from. In 1 Corinthians 6. 18, the Apostle Paul said, flee, sexual sin. In 1 Corinthians 10. 14, again he writes, flee idolatry. In 2 Timothy 2. 22, Paul writes to Timothy, and he says, Timothy, flee youthful lust. So we are fleeing constantly. We are to run from anything that in any way could corrupt our life. We are to constantly flee these things. And what does Paul mean when he says here in verse 11, flee these things? Well, that these things in verse eleven is what he just got done talking about. And in the context of the passage, what was Paul talking about? He was talking about the love of money, right? Go back to verse number nine But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in perdition, in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil, while which some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows, but thou, O man of God, flee from these things You're to run from the love of money. A man of God is not to attach himself with the love of money He does not have an affection for material things. He's to flee greed with all of his vices. That is the sin of false teachers. It is the sin of lying hypocrites who pervert the truth for personal gain, who make merchandise of people who really are just in it to pursue filthy lucre, and people are only a means to an end These are men who preach for money, from the prophet Balaam, who was who was bought by the highest bidder, all the way to the New Testament to Judas, who sold the Lord Jesus for 30 pieces of silver Isaiah said Israel had false prophets who were greedy dogs, who never had enough, and were concerned everyone for his own gain. In Jeremiah's time there were covetous prophets and priests, and the prophets of Ezekiel's time could be bought by handfuls of barley and pieces of bread. And Micah speaks of those prophets who divine for money. And also in New Testament times there were false teachers who spoke good words and gave their speeches to the Romans. to deceive the innocent for the satisfaction of their own bellies. And on we could go. But it has no place for one who is truly a man of God. The love of money has twisted and perverted many. And Paul was so careful to avoid this in his own life. He said to the Ephesian elders, In Acts twenty, I've coveted no man's silver, no man's gold, and no man's clothing. And I have labored with my own hands to provide my own living So that no one else will get the impression that the gospel is chargeable. Paul could say, you know, I've gone the second mile to make sure that I'm not accused of doing this for money. You remember he wrote to the Corinthians And say, you know, I have the right, if I want to, to get paid from you. I have the right to take a wife or a sister. I have the right to eat of the gospel that is to get paid from you Those that preach the gospel should live of the gospel. But Paul weighed that right because he did not in any way, shape, or form want to be accused of presenting the gospel for money. A man may call himself a preacher, but if he's in it for money, he's not a man of God. You've prostituted the call of God for personal gain. And we see that all around us today, unfortunately. But a man of God is known by what he f flees from. He flees from the love of money. But secondly, notice what he says, follow after godly virtues. That's the second thing. We flee from the love of money. We follow after godly virtues. Look at verse eleven again. But thou, men of God, flee these things and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, and meekness. There are six virtues mentioned here And so while the man of God is continually running from things, he's also running to things. Um he wants some things he wants to run from, he wants to avoid, some things are ahead of him, and he wants to catch them. Follow after here is a word that means pursue. Again, it's present tense imperative. Keep on continually pursuing these things. Keep on running after these things. He's always fleeing, that's the negative, but he's also always running after, that's the positive. You see, the Christian life is not just constantly running from the wrong things, it's running to the right things. It's pursuing what is right. And there's a sense in which as long as we are in this this body, as long as we're in this flesh and on this earth, we are victims of our own fallenness and we can't stop running from What is evil. If we stop running from those things, you know what? It'll catch us. So we've got to constantly run from what is evil. We have to run towards what is good. If we stop pursuing righteousness, it will elude us. And so we'll never be at a point where we have to we have to just relax relax and coast. Let me tell you something. If you're coasting in your Christian life, you're not making any progress. You need to run from evil. You need to run towards righteousness. We'll never be at the point where we've fully captured what is right. So we'll always be running to righteousness. So our whole life is a pursuit of what is right. Proverbs 159 says this the Lord loves him who pursues righteousness. Ask yourself tonight, what are you pursuing? What is the thing that you are going after? What are you living for? What are your goals? What is the thing that motivates you and gives you energy? What occupies your mind? What do you want to attain? Is it success? Is it fame? Is it esteem or money? Is it possessions or a house or a car or whatever? What you really are is what you are running after. And the mark of a man of God is that he runs after righteousness and godliness and faith, love, endurance. and meekness. Let's look at each of these righteousness. What does the word righteous here here mean? This word refers refers to the conformity to the standards of God's Word. Once we trust Jesus as our Savior, we are given the righteousness of Christ. That's our position as a believer. We have the righteousness of Christ But now, as a Christian, we are to practice righteousness. We positionally we're righteous, but now we have to bring our practice up to that. God has declared us completely righteous in Christ. That's you and your position. But practically we have to match that. And so our pursuit is towards a practical righteousness. In fact, that is the proof that you are saved, that you have positional righteousness, because you are then pursuing Practical righteousness in your life. As John says it like this, little children children, let no one deceive you. He who practices righteousness is righteous, just as he is righteous. Now, obviously, Christians sin, and we struggle against sin, but the pursuit of the Christian life is not towards sin. Again, it is towards righteousness. Uh during a Monday night football game, I probably shouldn't talk about football tonight, but during a Monday night football game, an announcer observed that the Chicago Bears running back, Walter Payton Had accumulated over nine miles in his career in rushing yards. And the other announcer said, yeah, and that's with somebody knocking him down every four to five yards. The Christian might get knocked down every so often, but they keep getting back up. And they keep pursuing the same direction. We keep pursuing righteousness. But then also godliness. This is closely related to righteousness. It has the nuance of a reverence or an awe In God's presence. A godly person lives with an awareness of God's holy presence in their life. And so he fears the Lord. And so then he will flee from sin. John Flavil, the Puritan, said, It is easier to cry against a thousand sins in others than to mortify one sin in ourselves. And that's so true. It's the duty of the man of God, of course, to cry out against a thousand sins in the lives of others, but it's more important that he deal with sin in himself. And pursue godliness. But then also faith. Now, what does faith here mean? Some commentators understand this to mean faithfulness, that dependability, which is a fruit of the Spirit, that should be present in every believer. faithfulness, but it can also be used to talk about trust in God, a trust that consciously relies on God in every situation in life. That should mark us, faithfulness and faith, but also love. We pursue love. Now we often have the mistaken notion that love is, you know, it should just flow effortlessly You know, if we have to work at it, you know, maybe it's not love. Why would the Bible so often command us, however, to love one another If we're just to you know not to make an effort just to let it flow. No, the Bible makes it clear that we are to give forth diligent effort in this thing of love. And in this day of self-focused Christianity, we're being told that we must learn to love ourselves before we can love God and love others. With all due respect, I don't think any of us have any problem loving ourselves In fact, the Bible assumes that. It says that you are to love your neighbor as you love yourself. And so it assumes already that we already have an issue with self-love, but we are to love others. And we're to pursue that. But then also patience. The word here patience is not a word that means putting up with other people, but actually it's the idea of perseverance or steadfastness Or it has the idea of bearing up under difficult circumstances. That's the idea. We can only pursue perseverance by Daily trusting in God as we hope in the promise of His coming. And so we are to pr uh practice and pursue perseverance we could say, but then meekness the word meekness here Doesn't mean weakness. You know, Timothy was already timid. He wouldn't have to pursue that quality. He had plenty of it already. Rather, what this means is strength under control It's a strength, and yet it's brought under the supervision of the Holy Spirit. And so it's kind of a submission to God. So that's what a man of God follows after constantly, always in their life. These kind of godly virtues. So number one, flee from the love of money. Number two, follow after godly virtues. But then here's number three: fight for the faith. Look at verse 12. Fight the good fight of faith. The word fight here, agonizumai, where we get the word agonize, and it means to strive to do something with great agony. It's referred to sometimes when wrestlers are in a competition wrestling with all their might, straining with every fiber of their being. So it's an athletic term used a lot of times in Paul's day to speak about different types of athletic competition where the athlete is using every bit of his strength, agonizing for victory And here it could even be used, I think, maybe more in a military sense, especially since it echoes a similar command from the beginning of the letter where Paul again told him to war a good warfare in 1 Timothy 118. And what this really means is that there are times when Christians, especially Christian ministers, will have to fight In the faith. And when we say fight, I'm not talking about a literal physical fight, but we're talking about an intellectual battle, a battle against falsehood, a battle against lies, a battle against error. Men of God are to be fighters, they're to be contenders, they're to be battlers, they're to be soldiers in that fight. We have to understand that ministry is war And we're warring always against error, and we're warring for the truth. We are called to be soldiers. And notice how Paul phrases it here. He says, fight the good fight. of faith. Good here is the word kalos. We could translate it excellent or noble. Fight the excellent battle. Fight the noble fight. This is the battle for truth. This is the battle for the faith. And the faith here, and the Greek actually reads the faith, talking about the revealed truth of God. What is the faith? It is what is taught in the 66 books of the Bible, what the Bible teaches, the collective form of all the Word of God taught correctly. That is the faith And that's what we are to constantly fight for. Now we've already seen as we study 1 Timothy that sound doctrine is absolutely essential in Christian living. That's why Satan attacks it so much. That's why with subtlety he tries to bring in little bits of error. So the Christian has to contend earnestly for the faith, as Jude says in Jude 3. The history of the Christian church consists of repeated battles. Where the enemy constantly brings in destructive heresies into the body of Christ. And those heresies, if you look throughout church history, they are confronted and then um w i the truth is clarified. Actually we could say that really heresies coming up in the church has really done the church a favor because what it's forced the church to do is to confront those errors and to clarify. with greater skill exactly what we believe in our doctrine. That's why Paul wrote to the Corinthians and said, look, there must be heresies among you. Why, Paul? So that they that are approved of God will be made manifest, so that those who are truly of God will come to the surface They'll fight against the error. They will give truth in clear forms, and the truth will actually be served by these heresies. And so the the church has had, throughout its history, councils and creeds and confessions, all of that to clarify truth against the backdrop of error that has risen up throughout the history of the church. Of course we know the Reformation consisted of godly men like Luther Who battled the corruption of the of the false teaching of the Roman Catholic Church. And other heresies have arisen throughout the time of the church age. It seems like in every age There are errors that have to be confronted, and along with that, there's always these peace lovers who promote unity and love and tolerance as the chief of Christian virtues. You always have people in every area saying, oh, we shouldn't fight. We just have to get along. We just have to love one another. They say we shouldn't attack false teachers or expose their errors. If you dare to say you're right or someone else is wrong, you're accused of pride. So, in the name of humility, some of these people say we're supposed to tolerate every kind of error. Thank God we had men in church history who did not live that way. who fought for truth, who stood for orthodoxy. One of those men was Jay Gresham Machin. You may not uh know that name, but um he stood at the early part of the 20th century He stood for truth when liberalism was springing up and and coming into the church. Liberalism had its Uh really its its foundation, its head in Germany. All these liberal scholars, American s uh denominations were sending preachers over to Germany and they were learning liberalism under these liberal scholars, supposedly great men, great intellect, great professors, but they were teaching um unorthodox heresy They were teaching truth by subjective feelings. Men like Friedrich Schleiermacher and Kierkegaard, Sarn Kierkegaard, that was saying that doctrine doesn't matter. All that matters is that you have an encounter with Christ. Well, how do you have an encounter of Christ without any doctrine? You know, what you think doesn't really matter. It's how you feel. And they take Christianity out of the intellectual realm and want to put it in the subjective realm where it's all about feelings. And it doesn't matter what you believe as long as you're sincere. That kind of theology, that liberal theology, was invading the church. And men like Jay Gresham Machin had to stand up and say no. Christianity begins with a set of doctrinal propositions based on the Word of God. It starts with what the Bible says. And so God has used great men down through the centuries. Tertillian fought, Marcion the the the heretic, Anthonasius fought. The Arians, Augustus fought Pelagius, Luther and Calvin fought the Popes, and so It's impossible to be a true soldier of Jesus Christ and not fight. We have to fight the fight of faith. I was in London last week at the Museum of the Book doing a seminar on apologetics. And apologetics is just simply It doesn't it's from that Greek word apologia. It's where we get our word apology, but it doesn't mean that we're supposed to apologize for our faith. That's not what the word means. Apologia actually is a technical term that means to defend Paul used it when he talked about his defense. I'm set for the defense and confirmation of the gospel. When he was going to appear before Caesar in Rome, Paul had to give his defense of the gospel, his apologia. And that's what it means. We are to give an answer to the world with regard to the gospel and Christianity. But I want you to know that it's not just an a defensive posture. A lot of times people think that the church is on the defensive, we're constantly being attacked, and we have to defend ourselves. Look, if that's all we're doing, we're not making much progress in the world We have to be on the offensive. We have to be taking the truth to a world that's filled with error. That's part of fighting the good fight of faith We don't stand back and just wait for the attacks. We take the battle to the enemy. And when I say enemy, I'm talking about the lies, the heresies. The world, those that are lost are not our enemies. Those are the ones we want to win to the Lord Jesus Christ. Those are the ones that we want to rescue from the fortresses of error that they are That's the imagery that Paul uses in 2 Corinthians chapter 10, when he said, The weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. The whole idea is there are fortresses of air out there, and there are prisoners locked in those fortresses, and we have to attack them And the way we attack them is not through our own wisdom and reason and philosophy. We don't use cardinal weapons. The one weapon that we use is what? The truth of God's Word. That's the only thing that can tear down those fortresses. We are to be on the offensive for the Lord. In uh Mount Hermon, in the foothills of Mount Hermon, just thirty miles north of the Sea of Galilee, there is the Greco-Roman city, Caesarea Philippi. You may have heard me talk about this city before. It was a city named after Philip, the son of Herod the Great And Jesus' day it was a it was a a gathering place that where people would come from all over the world to worship numerous gods. It was a center of false worship. And one of the main gods of worship there at Caesarea Philippi was the fertility god named Pan. He was a half human, half-goat. um kind of creature, maybe you've seen him. You can still visit that city today and you can go there and look and located right beneath the cliff in that city is a cave. where a spring of w of water used to run under that cave, and that cave there was called by the people in the city the gates of hell. The gates of Hades. Why did they call it that? Well, because in their mind, that's where the gods, the fertility gods, would come. From the spring, they would come out of that cave from the underground or the underworld, and they would come and they would, you know, make their crops do well. And then during the winter they would return back through that gate back into the underworld. And so to the people of that city That was literally the gates of hell. Now, right there in that city, Herod built a big temple right at the mouth of that cave to honor Caesar Augustus. If you were there in Jesus' day, you would have seen a big temple that was built over that cave and there were five courtyards that were there and all kind of bizarre Evil rituals took place there. It was a cesspool of evil. It was a cesspool of iniquity. Some of the it represented Represented some of the worst that Satan could offer, and some of the most sinful things done by humanity was done there. A devout Jew would avoid Caesarea Philippi at all costs. They would not want to go there. And this begs the question: why would Jesus bring his disciples there? Because that's where Jesus purposely took his disciples. And it provided the backdrop. For one of the greatest challenges that Jesus gave to the church. Remember what happened there when Jesus came to that district? He asked a question to his disciples. Remember the question? Who do people say that the Son of Man is? Oh, some say you're Elias, some say you're Jeremiah. And then Jesus got more specific, but who do you say the Son of Man is? And of course, Peter, this was one of his finest moments, thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. In contrast to all of the false Beings that are worshipped at this site, Christ established through his one apostle Peter that he was the true and the living God, the only one who should be worshipped. Is Jesus Christ. And Peter's confession was a result of divine revelation. Remember, he said, Peter, flesh and blood did not reveal this to you. God revealed this to you. My Father revealed this to you. And then you remember what Jesus said? And thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. In other words, upon that confession that Christ is the Son of the living God, that would be the foundation upon which the church would be built. And Jesus said the gates of hell would not prevail against it. Now, Jesus was using the metaphor of siege warfare. Gates were defensive If if if you were, you know, if an enemy, if you wanted to attack a city, the first thing you would do is you would begin to attack the gates. You would lay siege against the gates And so what I want you to see in your mind here is that the church is not supposed to be in a defensive posture. We are the ones storming the gates of hell. We're the ones going to the worst places with the truth. We're going to the places where evil and falsehood and false worship and error abound, and there is where we are supposed to take the truth. That is storming the gates of hell. That was the very place where Jesus wanted to give the challenge to his disciples and to his church That we are to carry the truth. And what did Jesus say? The gates of hell will not prevail. When we speak the truth, when we go on the offensive with truth Satan and his kingdom will not be able to prevail. They'll not be able to withstand it. Jesus doesn't want his people hiding from evil. He wants them storming the gates of hell. And the church is the pillar and the ground of the truth. It's the only institution that has the message of the gospel that can change lives. And so that's why we are to be warriors. We are to go on the offensive. We are to carry the truth. Flee from the love of money. Follow after godly virtues. Fight the good fight. Fight for the faith. But here's the last one, number four. Focus on eternal life. Look again in verse 12. Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life. Now you might be saying, Well, I thought Timothy already had eternal life. Why does Paul tell him to lay hold of it? Well what Paul is saying here is that first God calls us to salvation. He gives us the call of salvation. Salvation never begins with man. It begins with God. We are all recipients of God's mercy in the call of salvation. If you have eternal life today, it's because God issued the call of salvation to you He brought the gospel to you. He opened your eyes to see the beauty of Jesus Christ. We secondly, when He issues a call, we respond to that call and he imparts to us Eternal life by faith. When we put our faith in what Christ has done, we have eternal life. But then thirdly, we are to take hold of eternal life that God's given us That means we we are to take what God has given us and we are to lay hold of it and we are to focus on it All of our life should now be about this wonderful salvation that God has given us. I think a good parallel passage would be where the Bible says, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. In other words, when God works salvation in us, now that we have this wonderful salvation, we are to work it out We are to learn all that we have in this eternal life, in this wonderful salvation that God has given us. That's all part of the sanctification process. And we are to hold on to it with an eternal perspective. We now our whole perspective has changed now that we're saved. Whereas before we were living for the things of this earth, temporal things, now we lay hold on eternal life As we have this salvation now, we have an eternal focus, and now that becomes our consuming passion. It's all about what we have in Christ. God has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places, but we have to take hold of those blessings. And we do this by discovering them in God's Word. And then by implementing them daily in our life. That's working out the salvation that God has given us. To put it another way, Colossians 3, set your affections on what? Things above, not on things on the earth. Recognize your citizenship. That's Philippians 3. 20. Not as on the earth. Our citizenship is where? In heaven. We are citizens of heaven. And that's the thing that we should be consumed with. That's the thing that we should be bragging about. You ever notice sometimes there's a little bit of pride that comes with your place of residence, you know? Of course we're not so proud tonight are we as being Baltimore Raven fans. But we still we still have that you know love for our team We we love the place we we we live in, you know. We sometimes wear shirts or things to talk about our citizenship. And that's all good and fine. But friend, that is much less important than your eternal citizenship. Your focus should be on the fact that you are a citizen of heaven. And you need to lay hold on those things. And so Paul's admonishing Timothy to get a grip on the reality of eternal life. So that you'll live and minister in the light of eternity. You know, things this wor things of this world, the the kind of entertainment that I just mentioned, that's really so small in comparison to the things of the kingdom of God. And eternal life. That's what we live for. And Paul's saying, Timothy, get a grip on those things. The man of God sets his mind on things above, not on the things that are on the earth The world is constantly trying to get our affection or gain our affection. That's why Paul uses this term, lay hold. This is a strong Greek word. Lambano means to grab hold of. To grasp. Then there's a prefix that intensifies at epilombano. Grab hold and don't let it go Something that you do yourself, middle voice verb here. You grab hold of the eternal, don't let it go. Maintain an eternal focus. It is something that we have to purpose to do every day because This world is constantly trying to distract us and get our mind on the things of the world instead of on the things of eternal life. And so that's what a man of God is to pursue. They flee from the love of money. They follow after godly virtues. They fight for the faith. They focus on eternal life. So this is a straightforward charge to the pastor to be a man of God. But let me just say this This is so that he can exemplify to everyone else in the church what God expects. That means God not only expects this of me, but he expects it of you as well, every one of us. These are the things that are to mark us. This is the challenge that God gives all of us to be people of God, men and women of God. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Just take a moment, think about God's word and the challenge that these verses lay before us? Are you fleeing from things, from corrupt things, evil things? Are you following after righteousness and godliness and faith? Is that your pursuit? Are you fighting the good fight of faith? Are you focusing on eternal life? What is eternal? That is to mark us every day of our life. That's how we're to live. And we can't do this on our own. We need God's grace to help us. So why don't you just pray and just say, Lord, help me? To live this. Help me, Lord, to be someone who constantly is running from sin and evil. And the lures of this world, and following after running towards godly virtues. And help me to be a good soldier. And keep my eternal focus. Father, may this be so of all of us. It's indeed a challenge, Lord. But God, I I want to be a man of God. And I can't do that without your help. So Lord, help me in all these things. Let these things mark my life. And I pray that, Lord, this will be true of all these that are here tonight. Every person that loves Christ That wants to be faithful, Lord, let these things mark us. For your honor and for your glory, Lord, we ask this in Jesus' name.