Good evening. Good to see you here tonight. Would you take your Bibles and open to guessware? Psalm 119, if you've been with us on Wednesday night we've been going through this and we are now in verse 153 down to verse number 160. This is the Third from the last stanza in Psalm 119. So we're making progress. We're almost done. We have after tonight two more. We've been through this whole great chapter of the Bible Psalm 119, and we're going to look at verse 153 down to verse 160. Several years ago, the Associated Press released a story about a man who was 20 years old, a man by the name of Gene Tipps from Texas. And on May 21, 1967, Mr. Tips was involved in a serious automobile accident where he had a severe head injury. He was in a coma for three weeks, after which he remained in a state of unconsciousness for about eight years Eight years, can you imagine that? What an incredible story. And so during that extended period of time, this was his daily routine. His parents would prop him up in bed. move him to a chair, brace him up by putting pillows around him, and then feed him. And usually they would have to open his mouth and help it help his jaws to move to to chew the food and he would swallow and then finish eating the after they he would finish eating they would comb his hair and talk to him for a while and then they would put him in bed. And so for eight long years that was his daily routine, if you can imagine that. Then one day after all those years of slumber, Gene Tipps woke up. His nurses were startled because the nurse was trying to give him medicine at the time and he just woke up And she ran out of the room and she uh went to the doctors and the doctors came in. They also called the parents and the parents came and they shouted for joy. Just it was a thrill just to see this man wake up after eight years of being unconscious and asleep. And then someone later asked him, what was it like to be asleep for eight years? Some of you look so tired tonight. I know it lo that sounds good to you, doesn't it? What was it like to be asleep for eight years? He said this. He said it was all very strange. He said my girlfriend is now married and has three and has children He said, the war in Vietnam is over. To everyone else, I'm 28, but in my mind, I'm 20 years old. He slept from 1967 to 1975. When he went to sleep, Lyndon Johnson was the president. When he woke up, Jimmy Carter was smiling in the White House. So he slept through the whole Nixon administration. I mean if you're gonna sleep through a presidency, I guess that would be the one to do it, right? But anyway, can you imagine being asleep for eight long years? That's an incredible story. When I thought about that, I thought, you know, spiritually speaking, there are some Christians that have been asleep longer than that and need to be revived, need to be awakened desperately. Well, the phrase that is key in this section of Psalm 119 is the phrase quicken me, or we could translate it, revive me Because he uses it three times here in this section. Verse 154, plead my cause and deliver me. Quicken me according to thy word. And then we see it again in verse one fifty-six. Greater thy tender mercies, O Lord, quicken me according to thy judgments. And then we see it again in verse one fifty-nine. Consider how I love thy precepts. Quicken me, O Lord. according to thy loving kindness. Three times. Quicken me, Lord. Quicken me. Now the word again the word means to give life. Or we could say, wake me up, revive me, would be another good way to uh to uh translate this word, revive me, O Lord. Wake me up. Now the psalmist, if you've been with us in our study, you notice that he has prayed this uh this expression several times in the chapter in verse 25, 37, 40, 88, 107, and then um We see also in verse 149, before we get to this section, he's said this, but here it's kind of concentrated in this one section here where he's really praying for God to give him an awakening. And uh it seems like that uh the closer he gets to the end of the Hebrew alphabet as he writes these stanzas, the more urgent he becomes in drawing near to the Lord and asking for God's help, asking for God's spiritual guidance. And so while the alphabet is about to end, however, his trials are not ending. And so that's why he's praying all the more for God to strengthen him, to awaken him, to give him life. So what I want you to see here from this stanza are what I want to call three reasons why he prayed for God to revive him. Where he prayed, Revive me, O Lord. Three reasons. Here's the first one. Revive me because my afflictions are great. He was going through a a really tough time, and it's times like that when we really need the Lord to give us strength and to give us Life. And this stanza here tells us, and really the whole chapter for that matter, that God's people are not exempt from affliction We all go through trials. And God uses affliction. It has its sanctifying purpose in all of our lives. It drives us to the Word of God. It drives us to prayer. Spurgeon once said, I've have kissed I have learned to kiss the wave that throws me against the rock of ages. And that's a beautiful expression, so very true. In a way we ought to be thankful for the trials that force us to Run to God and to depend upon him all the more. And God uses trials to get us to pray more urgently. Prayers like, Revive me, O Lord, wake me up, make me a better person, a greater Christian. Now, he talks about his afflictions, but notice his trials are heavy. In verse 153, again, he says, consider mine affliction. and deliver me. He he really is asking for two things. First of all, consider my circumstances, God, and deliver me. Look upon me, consider my circumstances. The word for affliction here means suffering. It's a word for misery or wretchedness. And the word consider is the word ra'a, which means to Lord, see me. Just focus on me. Think about me. One translation translates it like this: see my misery And when the psalmist is praying this prayer, consider my affliction, he's asking God to look upon him as a father, a compassionate father, would look upon a hurting child, to give attention, to give compassion. You know, trials seem to be easier to bear when we know that God is watching us, when we know that He is considering us and He knows our sorrows. And we see his personal suffering here. Notice where he says mine affliction. I like the way he says that. These trials were unique to him. They're personal. He doesn't say our affliction or the afflictions of men. He says, Lord, mine affliction. God, I want you to see mine affliction. The psalmist is not speaking in the abstract. He's speaking personally. And that God has given him a trial for him personally. And do you know what? The same is true of you. The trial or the suffering or the affliction that you go through is something that God has given you specifically. He's assigned it for you. Every believer has their own particular trial that they have to bear It's personal. That trial was not random. It was weighed. It was measured. It was permitted by the wisdom of God. God knows exactly what you need. And so he'll take you through a trial because he wants you to learn to call upon him. He has designed that furnace of suffering just for you. It's personal. But trials are also They're providential. That is, they're not an accident. Again, God is the one behind it all It's all God, and He again has designed it just for you. Write down a few verses here. James 1 2. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into divers temptation. The word divers there in in the Greek uh is a word that actually has the idea of multicolored um different types. God will test on different days in different ways, but it's all from Him. God has designed it for you. Just like a blacksmith shapes iron and places it in the fire as long as he knows how to uh as long as he needs to, he knows how long to place it in there And he hammers it just exactly the way he wants to hammer it, to shape it the way he wants to shape it. Even so God, he will fashion our trials like a like a f uh a doctor will give a prescription. He knows exactly what we need. But they're also purposeful. None of the trials that we go through are wasted. God again has a purpose in all all of them. So he says, you know, Lord, just consider my personal suffering, but also look again in verse 153, the last part of it. For I do not forget thy word. He wants God to see not only his personal suffering, but he wants God to see that he has been faithful despite that suffering. In the Old Testament, remembrance of God's law was a mark of loyalty to God, while forgetfulness was equated with rebellion. And so he's saying, God, I want you to see that even though I'm going through misery and suffering, I have not forgotten your word. I'm remaining faithful through this trial. What you do in a time of suffering, in a time of trials, reveals whether your faith is genuine faith or not, whether it's the real deal. So the psalmist here says, Lord, I'm going through affliction, but I'm clinging to your law. I remember you. I'm not forgetting you, Lord. I'm not walking away. You know, uh I sometimes people who claim to be a believer will go through a severe trial and after that they'll walk away from God, they'll walk away from Christianity. When someone asks them about it, they'll say, Well, I tried God and it doesn't work I tried Christianity, it doesn't work. But what's the problem with that? The problem with that is that their faith was not genuine to begin with. Because what did Job say when he went through the the hardest trial that I could ever think of anyone going through, Job, in the Old Testament? And he said this: that though he slay me, yet will I trust him. And when uh Job said, I shall come forth as gold, when he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold. Faith, genuine faith, will persevere no matter how severe the trial that you must endure. You know, a a jewel a jeweler gives what is called the water test to find out whether a diamond is a real diamond or not. And you know what? If they if someone gives them a diamond and it looks real but it could be fake, this is what they do. They put it under water. Because the jeweler knows that if it's a real diamond when you put it underwater, it'll sparkle brighter when it's underwater. But if it's a fake diamond, when you put it underwater, all the shine vanishes. It's gone And so it is with true faith. When a true believer goes through the furnace of affliction or is put under water in affliction, you know what? That faith will shine brighter than before. But if that faith is not a real faith, it will be extinguished. And so here the psalmist is saying, You know, consider, Lord, that I do not forget thy law. I'm being faithful despite the trial that I'm going through. God's word continually calls for our faith to be tested to show whether or not it's valid. Write down Psalm 173, David declared the results of God's testing. He said You have tried my heart. You have visited me by night. You have tested me and you find nothing. God, you've gone take me through all these tests, and you find that uh I've haven't sinned. I've maintained my integrity In Psalm 26, verse 1 and 2, the psalmist said, Vindicate me, O Lord, for I have walked in mine integrity. I have trusted in the Lord without wavering. Examine me, O Lord, and try me. Test my mind and my heart. And here the psalmist is making the same claim of integrity and genuineness of faith when he went through that trial. So the psalmist says, Father, consider my circumstances and deliver me. And then specifically he also says, plead my case and deliver me. Look at verse 154. Plead my cause and deliver me. Quicken me according to thy word. And here he pictures God as his advocate in court. The believer can rest knowing that Christ Himself intercedes for us. He's the one who is our advocate. Think of a defense lawyer who steps into the courtroom and takes up the the cause of the case for a poor or guilty client. That's what Christ does for us. He is our advocate. He pleads our cause. 1 John 2 1, my little children, these things write unto you that you sin not. If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. So he pleads our cause. But his trials are heavy, but also his tormentors are hostile. That's another reason why his afflictions are Are great. Look at verse 155. Salvation is far from the wicked, for they seek not thy statutes. And so the psalmist is identifying one of the problems is the enemies that are all around them. And if you've been with us in this study, you know that I think the writer of the psalmist was a man who was going through the Babylonian exile. He was taken captive in Jerusalem. He's forced to march the long march, 500 miles to the Euphrates River, um through the desert, surrounded by hostile enemies. This is a very difficult time. And the Babylonians demanded that you have loyalty to their gods. But this psalmist has maintained loyalty to his God. And to get the word the word of God. And because of that, their hostility flows towards them. Their hostility is based on their rejection of his God and the word of God. So they're not neutral. They're not saying, you know, do whatever you want, worship whoever you want. Their hearts are against God. And so therefore their hearts are against him They oppose him. And again, this reminds us of the words of Jesus. Jesus said, if the world hates you, just know that it hated me before it hated you. That's the hostility of the world. John 7 7, the world cannot hate you, but it hateth because it uh because I testify it that the works thereof are evil. So Jesus says it's the hatred is not necessarily towards you, it's towards me. I'm the one that they hate. And if you reflect Christ in any way in your life, that hatred will be directed towards you. But ultimately that hatred is directed towards Christ. Write down Proverbs twenty-nine twenty-seven where it says, He that is upright in the way is an abomination to the wicked That is to say, wicked men count righteousness itself as hateful. If you walk a righteous life or you speak truth in righteousness, Or they see again any measure of morality and righteousness and truth in you according to the Word of God, they look at that the uh the uh this proverb tells us, wicked men look at that as being hateful They look at you as a hate monger just because you are upright in the way. And so that's the nature of his enemies, but also the number of his enemies in verse 157 Many are my persecutors and mine enemies. Many, numerous, or the that's the word great. He says, you know, they're all around me. My enemies are great, Lord. But here's the beautiful thing. Look at verse 156. Great are thy tender mercies. That's the same word used as in 157 about The word many. The word many is the same w Hebrew word as great in verse 156. So while the enemies are many are great, God's mercies are greater still. The psalmist may be outnumbered, but he's never overpowered. What did Paul later write, if God be for us, who could be against us? And as great as our enemies may be, God's mercies are yet greater. You might feel surrounded sometimes by the opposition of the world for you living as a Christian. But just remember, God's mercies are great. And that leads us to the second point. Revive me because my mine afflictions are great. But number two, revive me because your mercies are great. Again, we see this in verse 156. Great are thy tender mercies, O Lord. Now, his whole prayer that he prays is based upon the mercy of God, not merit. When we pray, we don't approach God based on our own merits. I don't ever come into the throne room of God and say, God, you know, I've been a good person, so now you've got to listen to me. I'm going to lose on that. I'm nothing but a sinner. I don't deserve to be in God's presence. The only way that we can approach a holy God is through Jesus Christ, right? And based on His mercy, not our merits, it's only the mercy of God in Christ that allows us to approach Him. To even come before his throne. And the psalmist knows that he has to come to God based on his mercy. God's mercies. Think about first of all the greatness of God's mercies. The psalmist is overwhelmed by the sheer abundance of the mercy of God. God's mercies are not like a trickle, it's like a flood. They're so abundant. And Scripture tells us about it again and again. Psalm 103, verse 12: For as far as the east is from the west, so far hath God removed our transgressions from us, because his mercy is so great. God removes our transgressions. Micah 7. 18, he delighteth in mercy. In Psalm 103, verse 11, David says, As the heavens is high above the earth, so great is his mercy towards them that fear him. Mercy is not a small drop in God's character. It's like an ocean without a bottom or without a shore. There's just no end to it. God's mercies are so abundant. But then think about the tenderness of God's mercy. Again in verse 156. Great are thy tender mercies. He doesn't just say mercies, but tender mercies. And the word here carries the idea of compassion that flows from the deepest affections, like a mother towards a child. God's mercies are tender. You know, when we fail at times in our Christian life and we fall, and all of us will, then remember that God is tender in His mercies. And the reason I say that is because When you stumble, Satan will whisper to you, you don't deserve to go back to ask God for forgiveness. He wants you to feel like you can't ask God. Surely God's got to be angry with me after I failed again in this same area. But that's not how God is presented in Scripture. When we fall, God is there like a compassionate father, ready to give us his mercy. That's the time when we should run to God. Because not only are his mercies great, but they are so very tender. When we fall, God doesn't deal with us harshly He he stoops, he lifts us up, he rejoices over us that we are willing to come to him. His mercies are tender. Like the hymn writer wrote, Thy mercies how tender, how firm to the end. Indeed, that's the way God's mercies are. So he says, Lord, in verse 156, quicken me according to thy judgments. He wants new life, not mere forgiveness, but revival. And mercy was the foundation of that whole prayer there. And so revive me because my afflictions are great. Revive me because your mercy is great. Great. But here's the third reason. Revive me because your word is great. Because your word is great. Look at down in verse 158. I beheld the transgressors and was grieved because they kept not thy word. Consider how I love thy precepts. Quicken me, O Lord, according to thy loving kindness. Thy word is truth from the beginning, and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth forever. And so the next prayer that he prays for reviving is based on the Word of God. And really the psalmist is making a contrast between his enemies and himself. between how he treats God's word and but and between how they treat God's word. And again he uses the word consider in verse 150. 59, same word. He asked God to consider the contrast. Consider how Lord they they do not love your word. They uh basically do they do not follow your testimonies, your precepts. They do not keep your word, verse 158, but consider how I love thy precepts. And what we see here, first of all, from the psalmist, is a hatred for sin. A hatred for sin. Again, verse 158, I beheld the transgressors and was grieved because they kept not thy word. Beheld, again, this is the same Hebrew word as consider. Now, he's asking God to consider some things, but now he personally is considering. And what he looks at and what he sees is he sees wickedness and he sees transgressors doing their things. And what is his response to it? He's grieved. He's grieved. The psalmist's heart is broken because he sees the rebellion of sinners. He sees God's word being cast aside. And he's not entertained by their sin. He's not indifferent to what's going on. He was grieved. And that grief comes from a love for God's word And a love for God Himself. And I I I think of just our world today, when evil happens, those who are truly the people of God, they grieve over that. They grieve over it, not because it inconveniences them, but because it's shame to the name of God, because God's word is violent. Because God's truth is cast aside. When Lot lived in Sodom, Scripture says he vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. The Bible says he was a righteous man. He shouldn't have been there in Sodom, but when he was there, he was constantly vexed. over all the sin that he saw all around. True believers grieve over sin. They have a hatred for Sin. In fact, when God revives us, when He does do His work in our heart through the Spirit, that's one of the signs. There'll be a great sensitivity to sin. First in ourselves. We'll judge sin in our own life But then we'll also be grieved over the sin that we see all around us. That is a mark of the work of the Spirit of God in someone Remember in Ezekiel chapter 9 when God gave Ezekiel a vision how he was going to judge Jerusalem and God sent some angels, judge judging angels, to go and slaughter and to judge. But first there was an angel that had a an ink pen or an ink horn. And he would and God said to that angel, I want you to first, before judgment begins, I want you to go And I want you to go out through all the city of Jerusalem and anyone that is grieving, that is weeping over the sins that are taking place, put a mark on their forehead. What's interesting is the Hebrew word there is Tav, which is the last letter in the Hebrew alphabet. And in Paleo-Hebrew, you know what the shape of the Tav was? It was a cross. It was a cross. So think about that. Everyone that's weeping and sighing over the sin, put a little tav, a little cross on their forehead. And anyone that does not have that mark, then you utterly judge them. You slaughter them and do not spare. That's an amazing story when you think about it. And you know what, then you know what God said? And when you begin this judgment, here's where you start. Start at my sanctuary. First start at my house, and then work your way out. That's why Peter would later write and say, judgment must begin first at the house of God. When God starts to judge, the first place he starts is in his own sanctuary, in his own church. And he beholds those who truly grieve over sin, over their own sin, and over the sin of the world. Those are truly his And those who don't grieve, well they are not his, and therefore they are subject to God's severe judgment. And like Peter says, if if God starts in his house first and he works his way out If he first he judges his own, what's it going to be like by the time he gets far away from God's house? In other words, the idea is the farther away from the house he judges, the more severe the judgment grows. But the point is that the mark of a true believer is they grieve over sin. And then the other thing is his love for Scripture. Look what he says. Consider how I love thy precepts. And quicken me, O Lord, according to thy loving kindness. Revival starts when we recover a love for God's word God's word is the foundation of bringing revival. We see this all through Scripture. Remember the story of King Josiah? Just a young king. He wants to uh he he's interested in the things of God, he has a tender heart towards God, he sees the temple that it's not in use. that it needs to be refurbished. So he he has a remodeling project, and as they remodel the temple, guess what they find in God's house? They find the law of God. Interesting. Every king, according to if every king in Israel or Judah f followed what Deuteronomy said, they were required to write out their own copy of the Bible and have it with them. They had to handwrite their own copy of the law. Obviously, none of the kings were doing that. By the way, that would be a good practice, parents, for your children. I want a Bible, Mom. Good. Start writing. Write, copy your own. Write it down. You say you can't be serious. Well, God was. God said, handwrite it. There's something about writing something down with your hand that causes it to stick here in your mind And God wanted every king to write down their own copy of the law. But you know what? Obviously the kings had not done that because one king after another did not have God's word. And by the time Josiah got to the throne, nobody could find the law of God. And when they did the remodeling project in the temple, guess what? They found a copy of the law of God right there in the temple, right where it should be And what does the Bible say? Josiah read it and he wept because he saw how far The people had been uh disobeying God's word and ignoring it, but what happened as a result of his heart was that revival happened in Judah. It didn't last long. And and judgment would later come. Nevertheless, for that time, God honored Josiah's heart and revival began with a renewed love and reverence for the Word of God. uh pattern has been played out also throughout history. We uh had a Bible display this last week and we saw some of the uh early copies of God's word that and and the men that God used to bring revival to countries and peoples because they gave people the word of God God. The Word of God is the foundation for true revival. And a love for God's Word. And why do we love it? Well we love it because it reveals God's love to us. Again, in verse 159, consider how I love thy precepts. Quicken me, O Lord, according to thy loving kindness. And this the psalmist l knows about God's loving kindness because the word of God tells him about it. This is the Hebrew word kessid. And I think I told you about it before. It's one of those Old Testament words that really it's it's notoriously difficult to translate with one single English word. There's no single English word. That can really capture the Hebrew word Kesed and all that it means. It means loyal love, it means kindness, it means devotion, it means faithfulness, it means steadfast mercy and love. All of that and more And there's no real real single English word that can capture the depth of the meaning of this word. And so what uh What Coverdale did, Miles Coverdale, he coined a new word. I think he followed Tyndale in this. May have been Tyndale that did it, but we give Coverdale the credit. But what he did was he came up with a new English word. You know, a a a word that, you know, he made up and put together. Sometimes I do that in sermons. I don't mean to do it, but I do it anyway. My wife says, I don't what was that word you said? Well I just made it up. It's a new word. We're coining it now. Put it in the dictionary. I do that out of my own foolishness mistakes, but Coverdale was trying to capture the nuance of the Hebrew word Kesed. And so he put the word loving, which expresses God's affection and kindness, which expresses God's active goodness and benevolence to his people. And he said, you know what? I'm just going to combine those two words. And that's the word loving kindness. But even that word doesn't really fully capture the meaning of this word Kessid. It really is speaking about God's unspeakable love, his immeasurable love to all of his people. That's why we love God's word because it reveals to us God's love And then God's word is the source of truth. Look at verse 160. Thy word is true from the beginning. So the psalmist Doesn't say that God, your word contains the truth, or that is mostly true, but your word is truth itself. From the very beginning, your word is the truth. Man's wisdom is constantly changing. Yesterday's scientific facts are discarded by today's discoveries. Philosophies rise and fall with the ages, but God's word never changes. God's word is true from the very beginning. But another reason we love it is because God's word is eternal. Look at how He ends it. And every one of thy righteous judgments endureth forever. Again, it's God's word is eternal. So in a culture grounding in lies, we have to anchor ourselves to God's word A revived church is a scripture-loving church. And a revived believer is one whose heart beats with the rhythm with tr uh and rhythm with the truth of God's eternal. Word. So his prayer is, Revive me, O Lord, because my afflictions are great. And revive me because your mercy is great. And revive me because your word is great. Let that be our heartbeat. Let that be our prayer. For God to revive us, to give us life, to awaken us. Let's bow for prayer tonight. God revives his people through affliction, through mercy, through his word. And tonight you may be feel like your heart has been cold or dying. But you know what? We have an advocate called Christ who's willing to plead our cause. And he is the fountain of mercy, and his compassions never fail. He's the living word that restores and revives. So cry out with the psalmist: revive me, O Lord. Revive me according to your word. And may we look to Christ. He's the one who was afflicted for you and me. He's the one who poured out mercy on the cross. And he is the living word who endures forever. Look to Christ. In him, true revival is found. Take a moment and ask God, just pray a prayer of revival in your own heart. Father, may we like the psalmist pray out with all our heart, Revive Me. Revive me. Every once in a while, Lord, just uh the sin of our heart, the the flesh, makes us cold and pulls us away. And Lord, we need to be revived. We need to be renewed. So Father, do that for our hearts. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful and maxless name. Amen.