Well, I invite you tonight to take your Bibles and open please to the book of Colossians, chapter three. We are doing a topical study on Wednesday nights called Family Matters and dealing with issues of the home and family. And I want us to look tonight at Colossians chapter 3 and we're going to look at verses 18 down to verse 21. And I'll read these verses to you. Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands as it is fit in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. And fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged. You know, life is all about relationships. In the beginning, when Adam was in the garden surrounded by animals, God said to man, you know, it's not good that man be alone. And so you know the story he created Eve, and now all of a sudden he has a help meet, and now he has a new relationship in life. And of course later on they have children, and that adds more relationships in life. Relationships are one of the great blessings that God has given us. It's really when you think about it, what else do you have in this life? We have our faith and we have our family. And we have our friends. We have the people around us. And so it's a blessing to have relationships. And in the beginning it was wonderful. Adam's relationship to God was right. His relationship to Eve was wonderful. But something entered in to destroy all that marital bliss that they enjoyed, and we know what that was. That was sin. And with the fall of man came this inordinate Self-love and selfishness that is now deeply ingrained in all of humanity. And with that, man has struggled in his relationships ever since. What was a blessing has now the potential to become a curse. And we know this. We don't have to really look into it, but we know if you just pick up the paper today and read it, you'll find stories of abuse all over. Husbands abusing wives. uh fathers abusing children, children abusing their parents, all kind of abuse and hatred that we see in the world that just grace on our soul James wrote in James chapter four verse one, what causes quarrels and fights among you? Is it not that that uh that your passions or that is your your lust, we could say, or your selfishness, that wars deep Within you, you desire and you do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask And there James kind of gives us the pathology of man's selfishness and what it leads to and why it causes so many problems in the relationships that are happening all around us. Now what is the answer to all of this What's the answer to the this problem that man has? Well, the answer is making Christ preeminent in all of those relationships. It is can't find in Christ. And you're saved by this esoteric secret added knowledge that you can't find in Christ. And so this was a dangerous teaching that was going around there in that region of the churches. and Colossae and a church at Laodicea and other places. And so in response to that, the Apostle Paul writes this letter and he hammers home the truth that Christ is sufficient. Christ is sufficient. As a believer, you are complete in Christ. You don't need to go elsewhere to search for things that Christ can't provide. He is sufficient for all things that pertain unto life and godliness. All that you need for spiritual blessing and harmony in your own home and wholeness in your life. is found in the Lord Jesus Christ. And what Christians need to do is to recognize this and to make Christ preeminent in their lives. That again is just putting Christ first. Now the book of Colossians is just filled with great Christological teachings about this whole thing. But really what happens here in the book of Colossians is in the first two chapters, he lays the foundation of theology, and then in the last two chapters of the book, he helps us to apply what we've learned. And Colossians chapter one, we could say this is about the preeminence of Christ declared, Christ's preeminence in the in the gospel, in redemption, in creation, in the ministry of reconciliation. In chapter two, Christ's preeminence is defended. Paul shows how that the preeminence of Christ is superior to all of the isms out there. I like what R. G. Lee said, isms that ought to be wasms. Things that people believe that are empty. Christ is preeminent against this intellectualism, legalism, asceticism, and all these other isms You don't need that because you have Christ. And then in the third part of the book is Christ's preeminence is demonstrated in chapter three and four. And what he does in chapter three is he gives us principles for holy living. He tells us to put to death sinful desires that are left in us, even though we're saved, we still have these Desires that need to be put to death. We need to take off the grave clothes of the old life and put on the grace clothes of the new life. We need to let the Word of Christ dwell in us. We need to let the peace of Christ rule in our heart. All these things. And then when you get to the end of chapter three, he begins to give principles in our day-to-day life on how we apply the preeminence of Jesus Christ in all the relationships that we have in our life. And basically what he does is he gives us general guidelines on how to do this. And by the way, we don't do it of ourselves. We have the strength of Christ in us to do it. If you depend upon your own strength, you're going to fail. You need to have the strength of Christ. But you have that. If you are a child of God, you know Jesus Christ by faith, then you have the power. by the Lord Jesus Christ in you to do these things. But you know, it's sad to say that Christians when they begin to experience problems in our relationships in life I find that the first thing that they do is they seek for counsel. And there's nothing wrong with that, as long as the counsel that you're seeking is biblical counsel. But the problem is that the majority of the counseling that is out there in the world today, even though it might go under the guise of Christian counseling, it has nothing to do with the Bible They might try to sanctify it and throw the word Christian in there, but if you really trace the whole philosophy, the whole basis of their counseling, it's all man's wisdom rather than the word of God. And that's the thing that you have to be careful of. It is worldly, secular wisdom that ultimately leads you away from the Scripture and away from God instead of more dependence on Him. Which is what biblical wisdom does. You know, you grow spiritually as you come to depend upon the Lord. That's spiritual growth It's opposite of physical growth. You know, our children, we we train them and we teach them to the point to where they grow independent of us. But spiritual growth is the exact opposite, is growing from independence to full dependence on God. And I want to tell you today that I'm more dependent on God in my life than I ever have been. I need the Lord every day, and so do you. And so Paul uh is trying to prevent that there's this very thing of depending on man's wisdom, of thinking that you need something other than Christ To help you in your relationships in life. Now let me just say this by way of introduction. Most counseling today is based on one of four sources. And I just want you to know this. One is it's Freudian. A lot of a lot of psych a lot of counseling today is psychoanalytical psychology that is basically Freudian. in its beginning. Sigmund Freud rejected the truth that man was a sinner and that sin was at the root of man's problems. And as a result of that, he developed his own theory called psycho psychoanalytical theory, he said that man's problems stem from repressed desires. And he was a he supposed that The unconscious part was a vast reservoir of forgotten experiences and repressed desires. And in light of this, people are not responsible for their actions. You're not responsible for your actions because of all of your repressed desires And those who follow Freud say the only way to resolve our problem is to go on to a you have to go on kind of an archaeological dig of your subconscious mind and see what you can dredge up in the reservoir of your unconsciousness and try to shift the blame off to someone else for your behavior. That's his whole approach. And so that's that's that's it right there. Here, lay down on the couch, let's let's find out, you know, what did your mother tell you when you were growing up? It's probably her fault. Or, you know, let's find out who's who's making you act this way. It's just a a shifting of the guilt to somebody else. And some part of the way he brings up this repressed information is through hypnosis. Or psychoanalysis, he calls it. And then there's another approach to counseling out there. And by the way, there's a lot of so-called Christian counselors that use Freudian psychology in their counseling. And it has nothing to do with the Bible. And then there's B. F. Skinner. He had a behavioristic approach. And this theory w was developed by him and Skinner looked at man from the evolutionary point of view. Man was just an animal, and the way to solve man's problem was behavior modification, he called it. You know, a system of rewards and punishment. This would enable man to be better fit to enter the social order. designed by the intellectually elite. Man is a victim of his environment, and so basically um you have to change the environment. And then there was Carl Rogers His whole approach is called humanistic psychology. And he says that man's problem is he needs encouragement and motivation. In this view, the problems stem from our conscience and our guilt. And these two things need to be done away with. You need to ignore your conscience and you need to get away from that negative emotion of guilt That all needs to be uh to be you know get rid of in your life, and you need to enjoy life. We need to love ourselves as if man had a problem with loving himself. Accept ourselves. Self-love and self-acceptance is the key to solving your problems. By the way, Carl Rogers was a seminary student for ministry. He rebelled and renounced the Bible and all that he was taught in his conservative upbringing. He rejected the biblical view of man and he offered this second-rate substitution. It's little wonder that later in his life, when he came face to face with eternity, that he started going to seances, trying to figure out what was out there. And he looked to Ouija boards for the answer totally apostate at the end of his life. And then there's another view is uh Abraham Maslow his existential or what is called transpersonal psychology. And in Maslow's view, there are there are no absolutes. And you basically determine your own reality. The answer to your problems is self-actualization, discovering that you are God. You just need to accept that fact and live accordingly. Man's problem is that he's given absolutes, and the solution is, he says, is you must determine your own reality. You make the rules. You are your own God. I reject all of these doctrines of demons, these worldly wisdom of man that goes Totally against what scripture says. I take the fifth view, and the fifth view is God, and God says your problem is you are a sinner And you need a Savior called Jesus Christ. And when you turn to Jesus and you repent of your sin and put your faith in him, he then gives you his spirit and all the inward resources you need to become the person God wants you to be You're complete in Christ if you depend upon him. In fact, look in Colossians chapter 3 and look at verse number 10 and notice what it says there. and hath put on the new man which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him You are being renewed into the image of the Creator, the image that was lost and covered up by sin. The more you're sanctified in Christ Jesus, the more you are renewed into that image, the image of God. Realize you're complete in Him. You know, counselors today say, well, the Bible's a good book, but unfortunately your problem is too complex for the scripture. We just need something more. That is the very argument that Paul is writing against this Colossian heresy that says that Christ and the Word is not enough. The answer for relationship problems that you're having is simply to follow what the scripture says. Mortify your own selfish, sinful desires. and be fully dependent on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's it. And you have that ability because He's given you that ability. Remember, you're one with Christ. Remember, you are united to Christ when you got saved. And it's through his strength and his power that we have the ability to say no to those dark inclinations that might rise up from our old sin nature. We can put to death selfish desires. We can do what God wants us to do. And the Bible is so practical on this. It is so relevant in this. And so what I want you to do then, what I want to do here, and want you to do as a result, is just to apply these principles that God gives us here. for these relationships and most specifically we're talking about relationships in the home. So with that in mind, this is the context of Colossians, and we have to see chapter 3, verses 18 to 21, in that fuller context of the whole book. You now having Christ in your life, you make him preeminent, you're one with him, you now have the ability to follow what he will tell you with regard to all of these relationships that you have in life And there are simple rules for this relationship. And here they are. First of all, wives, one word, submit. I know that's a dirty word today. It's a word we don't like to hear. If the word is hoop hoopotasso, it means to be in rank or under rank here. And uh it basically has the idea of putting yourself in the right place. And here's what it and uh here's what this is what makes for meaningful relationships. We are to be submissive. And by the way, this is for all of us. Submission is a key in relationships. This principle is all over in the New Testament. In 1 Corinthians 16, 16, it says, submit yourselves to everyone. In Hebrews 13, 17, submit yourselves to the leaders of the church. In 1 Peter 2. 15, submit yourselves to the law of the land, where should be submitted to government authorities. In 1 Peter 5, 5, submit yourselves to those that are older than you. In James 4. 7, submit yourselves to God. And so it's all over in Scripture. And this is the pillar of a happy home. How much fighting is there going to be in a home where everyone is being submissive to one another? It's just not going to be there. And this is the evidence of being filled with the Holy Spirit. The parallel passages in Ephesians chapter 5. where it talks about being spirit-filled, and what will happen is the automatic result of that is we will submit ourselves one to another. And this is so very important that we learn to do this. Why? Because it's a part of the fabric of daily life. I mean, think about it. We all Are to be submissive to someone or something all the time. From the moment God created man and woman in the garden, he asked them to submit. It was a lack of submission to God that brought on the fall of man. And because man from the very beginning refused to submit, it brought a world of trouble on all of us. Again, every day in your life you're called on to be submissive to someone or something. You go to work, you have to submit to the traffic laws At least I hope you do. As a citizen, you submit to the government. As an employee, you submit yourself to your employer. As a student, you submit yourself to your teacher. As a Christian, you submit yourself to all the authorities that God put over your life. If you don't learn to be submissive, you're going to have a pretty hard life. You're going to be constantly hitting a wall. You're going to have a lot of difficulty. The Bible calls a fool in the book of Proverbs. You know what a fool is? A fool is someone who refuses to be submissive to anything. And and the Bible says that um you know that the reproofs of life are hard on a person like that. That is, you're gonna have a lot of trouble in life if you don't learn to be submissive. People think leaders don't have to submit, but a leader is someone who is an example of submission in their life. You don't get to be over until you learn how to be under. And here's a second reason why a submission is important. It is the most Christ-like thing you can do Let me remind you that the most submissive person ever to walk this earth was Jesus Christ. He was more submissive than anyone. He's the ultimate example of it. He submitted himself to the will of his Father, being the second person of the Trinity. He came to this earth. He obeyed all the laws of God. He was completely without sin. He did completely the will of God. He submitted himself to man. He became a servant of men. He submitted himself even to the the suffering and the torment of people that were sinful that placed him on the cross. Listen to what first Peter 2 21 said. For he even hereunto are you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in his steps Who did no sin, neither was God found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. But when he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously. Jesus submitted himself even to the point of death Absolutely, totally submissive to all that the Father wanted him to do. Now again, this goes against the society today, the current trend is is pride, having your rights, you know, um the emphasis on individualism uh liberty, self-esteem, all of that. It goes against the grain to speak about submission, but this is a principle of scripture. And God says here that the role of the wife is to be submitted to the husband. That's not inferiority. It's simply part of God's structure. And that means that the husband has to give good spiritual leadership. And we'll get to the husbands in a minute here, but God has placed authority in the family. He's placed roles in the family. In 1 Corinthians 11, 3, it kind of gives you an idea of God's order. He said, But I would have you know that the head of every man is Christ. And the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. So you see there God structure. You have God, then you have Christ, then you have man, then you have woman. This is not inferiority. It's simply God's plan. It's simply God's rule. Is woman inferior to man because she's under his rule? No. Let me ask you a question. Is Christ inferior to God the Father because he submitted and under his rule? Absolutely not. He's co-equal with the Father. And it's the same with man and woman. They are co-equal in the home. In God's plan, man is the president of the home. We could say woman is the vice president. And there's only one guideline, just be submissive. It says in verse 13, watch this as it is fitting in the Lord. She does it unto the Lord as being obedient unto the Lord. Is there a time when the wife doesn't have to submit to her husband? Yes. When is that? If her husband asks her to do something that violates the word of God, then she submitted to the Lord. It was over him. She submits to the word of God. And then she's not rebelling against her husband. She's submitting to a higher authority, and that is the authority of the Lord. You are to love your husband, but you're to love the Lord more. And that's what it means to have Christ as preeminent in your home. But then here's the second thing. Husbands. Wise it says simply just be submissive. Husbands, love. Look at verse 19. Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them. And so here's a two-part command. Love And again, we see this uh in the parallel passage in Ephesians 5. We're to love our wives as Christ loved the church, Paul said. That's an incredible responsibility, because how has Christ loved the church? Wow, think about that. Christ has loved the church steadfastly. There was never a time when Christ didn't love the church. He continues to love the church. And the church at times can be unlovely But that doesn't hinder Christ from loving the church. He loved the church sacrificially. He gave himself for it. That's what God is calling upon husbands to do, to live sacrificially for your wife. and even be willing to die for her if that occasion ever presents itself. And then sanctifyingly, the Bible says in Ephesians 5 26 and 27, that that as a result of your relationship with your wife, your wife should be more sanctified. She should be more godly. She should be closer to the Lord as a result of you, husbands, because you sanctify that wife with your godly walk in your love for her. You teach her the word of God and you learn it together. And then selflessly you love her as you love yourself, the Bible says. So love your wife And then the next part is this is don't be harsh in verse 19. Be not bitter against them. We could actually, that's what the word here has the idea of to make bitter. Husbands can make their wives bitter against them. How? By being too harsh, by being a dictator. One person said, don't call your wife honey and then act like vinegar. They're not to display harshness of temper, resentment towards their wives. Don't exasperate them, but rather provide loving leadership in the home. And so, by the way, this is all a part of the curse that came upon man and woman with the fall in the Garden of Eden. You remember that passage in Genesis 16 when God was pronouncing curses on as a result of the fall and sin. One thing God said in Genesis 3. 16, and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. Here God is speaking to man and woman. He says to the woman, your desire will be to your husband. What is the desire here? The desire is the idea of getting her way. In other words, to to rule over or or actually to lead over him or to get her way in what she wants, to usurp authority. That's the whole idea here. But then what's the man's part of this curse? And he will rule over thee. The Hebrew word here for rule means to dominate, to reign. As a woman may tend toward rebellion, that is part of the curse of the fall. A man tends toward towards, we could say, despotism, or to be a tyrant. And right there you have the battle of the sexes. The husband, he can become an abusive tyrant, an authoritarian. And he can micromanage every second of her life so as to exasperate her. I've counseled some married couples where the husband has been so abusive in the leadership. And the wife is so exasperated from him that she no longer wants to be in that relationship. But if you put Christ first in your marriage, Then the wives will submit to the husband as to the Lord. Husbands will love their wives as Christ loved the church, and they will not act harshly against them. Don't be a dictator. Don't be a little Napoleon. Give love, loving, gentle, wise leadership, the kind of leadership that will be respected. And so that's the that's the simple command there. But then let me give you the third rule. Wives submit. Husbands love your wife and don't be harsh Children obey. Look in chapter 3, verse 20. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. If we're to put Christ first in the home, then we have to teach our children to obey. If children are not taught to obey, then they're going to have trouble all their life. How many of you know that our children don't come to you saying, here I am, and I'm ready to obey you in all things? That just doesn't happen. They have to be taught. In fact, children are born with the same sin nature that you and I are. And there's born with they're born with rebellion in their hearts. And they have to be taught to respect authority. And as parents, we are responsible to do that. And how do we do that? We do it with loving. wise discipline clear lines need to be made when children step over those lines there needs to be a fair measure of discipline given to that child when they step over the lines. But here's the thing, parents, be very careful to make clear lines and to draw those lines and to make sure that those children understand those lines. When you punish a child for something that they don't know that they've done wrong, you're not doing them any good. If you spank them without giving them a reason why, then you're you're not doing them any good. If you're spanking them just because you're angry, you're not doing them any good. You have to teach them discipline. And in order to do that, they have to know where the guidelines are, where the steps are, and how they are not to step over a certain area. Certain rules that they have to go by. And then if and when they do, give them a fair measure of discipline. Don't over-discipline them. The Bible says this foolishness is found in the heart of the child, but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. And the word for rod here is just simply a word that means the end of a branch, and it's talking about a twig or a switch. I thought my mother invented the switch. But it's here in Scripture, it's like a magic wand. The Bible says, He that spareth his rod hateth his son. He that loveth him chasteth him betimes. So I've heard some parents say, you know, I don't spank my children because I love them. Well scripture says the opposite. If you don't discipline your children at times, it's because you love yourself. You don't want you don't want uh to to have to do that. And by the way, I know in our world today it's you know this is considered abuse and we're not talking about child abuse. I'm talking about a loving parent dedicated to the Lord that gives measured discipline to a child in love So that they can learn to respect authority, so that ultimately they will submit themselves to the authority of God, so that ultimately they will confess Jesus Christ as their Savior and Lord, and they become a child of God. And ultimately what you want to do is you want them to learn to discipline themselves so that you don't have to discipline anymore. The Bible says, chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying. In Proverbs 22, 13, withhold not correction from the child, for if thou beatest him with a rod, he shall not die. You know, children, they're pretty good actors. They can make you think that they're dying. I'm gonna die if you spank me. No. If it's a loving measured Wise discipline. They're not going to die. Listen to what it says in verse 14. Thou shalt beat him with a rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell. What the point here is, is you want to break their spirit. So that they'll submit to authority. You don't want to you don't want to excuse me, you want to break their will, not their spirit, I should say. Let me correct that. You break their will Not their spirit. If you over discipline you break their spirit, you don't want to do that. You just want to break their will so that they submit to authority lovingly. Parents, teach your children to listen to what you say the first time you say it. You shouldn't have to repeat it fifty times. Let them submit their will to yours. The Bible says in Proverbs twenty-nine fifteen the rod of reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. Proverbs twenty-seven seventeen 2917, correct thy son, he shall give thee rest, yea, he shall give the light unto thy soul. And so we teach children. To obey through discipline. We teach them to obey through the scripture. Teach them the Word of God. Teach them what the Bible says about it. It's important that we do that. And we also teach them with our example when they see our submission to authority. When they see how we conduct our life in submission. They learn from that. Proverbs 23, 26, My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways. With discipline, with the word of God, with our own example, we teach them to be obedient. That's plain and simple. Now let me give you the last one here. Let me move on for a time. Wives submit, God says. Husbands, love your wife, don't be harsh. Children, obey your parents. And then here's this: parents provoke not. Look at verse 21. Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged. And I think the word fathers here could be translated parents here. Parents provoke not. What it means is you know you don't want to uh to provoke them, to stir them up. And really, this is the idea of what I was talking about before, breaking their spirit, and they become discouraged. In verse 21, lest they be discouraged. Completely frustrated. Or we could say this, you cause them to lose heart. Parents, we if we're not careful, even well-meaning parents. We can do this if we're not wise to what we're doing and say how do we how can we frustrate our children? How can we cause them to lose heart? Well, excessive discipline is one way. When you over-correct for an infraction, that causes them to lose heart. You want to discipline, but not overdo it. And this is again, it requires wisdom. You have to know your child and know the circumstance. But if you over-discipline, they will ultimately resent you. I remember, you know, I had one of my children, I won't mention um my first child's name. Um Abby was a challenge. Um Just make sure she doesn't hear this, Carolyn, on the thing here. She was always she had a very strong will and uh she was real challenged uh at times. And uh I remembered that I was I was I had a tendency to be a little more harsh with her than I was with the others. So I had other children that they would just listen the first time I'd say something. Abby, she was like No. Why? Why should I do that? You know, explain it to me. And uh so I had a little bit of a challenge with Abby. And I remember that uh what I did in my own foolishness is I began to be a little bit overly excessive in my discipline with with her. And uh I think what it what it caused was it was she got to the point where she wouldn't tell me the truth on anything. Because if I told her the tr if she told me the truth, I would become overbearing, I would over discipline. So she thought it was just easier for me, for her, to just not tell me the truth. So she didn't have to deal with me. And I remember one time I sat her down frustrated, I said, Abby, why why do you never tell me the truth? And she said, Dad, because it's easier to lie to you. She said, because if I tell you the truth, you become overbearing and I can't deal with you. You overdo it. And I was convicted by that. I said, okay, I tell you what. I will promise not to get angry when you tell me the truth, if you promise to always tell me the truth. And she said, I agree. And you know what? She never lied to me ever again. That was the last time she ever lied. And even when she would tell me creep, she would say, Dad, I'm gonna tell you something, but you have a tendency to get mad, and I said, I won't get mad. Just tell me the truth. And uh I didn't say I wouldn't discipline her. I just said I wouldn't get angry. And you know what? We worked it out. And I got to tell you that from that moment on we bonded so close. I got to be so intensely close with her because we were able to come to an understanding. I'm just saying that sometimes when we have to know our children, if we over-discipline, we're not really getting the goal accomplished. And I explained to her why. I told her, I said, Abby, the reason I overdisciplined, that's really a that's really my fault. I'm afraid that you're not going to turn out right And I shouldn't be that way. This is my own insecurity, so I'm gonna give this to the Lord. And it was something in my own heart. It was my own fear that I had to get right with the Lord. Sometimes the The way in which we discipline our s our children might be wrong because of some of the inward fears that we have. We have to be careful in our own life to trust to do the right thing and trust the Lord. Here's another way we exasperate our children is by being overly critical. Some parents are are perfectionists and they want their children to be perfect. It doesn't matter what their children do, they just are they're critical of it. And that discourages a child If a child can never live up to your standards, then they will get discouraged. And so we need to praise our children for the right things that they do. to help them along. For example, Proverbs 27, 21 says, As the finding pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, so is a man to his praise. In other words, praise is a character builder. When you praise a child for doing good, for some character trait that is good, it encourages them to continue on that. And it purifies the of the Bad behavior just like a furnace purifies gold. Here's another way we can exasperate our children by forcing them to be someone that they're not. You know, sometimes parents want to relive their life through their children, and they want their children to fulfill their goals instead of their children's goals. And if we try to make our children something that they're not, we can frustrate them If we want our children to be a, you know, an A student when really that might not be what they are at that moment, we can frustrate them If we want them, you know, if you want a child to be a a musical genius when that's not their gift, they can be frustrated trying to learn music. Because that's what you want for them. What we have to do is we have to understand what God has given us, what are the gifts and the bends that they're created with. I think this is what Proverbs 22, 6 means. Train up a child in the way he should go. And when he's old, he will not depart from it. I think in the way you should go there simply means in the giftings and the personality and the way God has made that child, you figure out what they're gifted towards and you train them up in that way. And so you don't frustrate them, you know. I I you know my I have a son, Josiah, he's a wonderful son. And uh he's kind of a shy kid. He doesn't like making speeches. If I demanded that he'd be a preacher because I'm one, I would really frustrate him That's just not the way he's wired. Well, son, I'm a preacher, so therefore you've got to be a preacher. And here you go, I'm gonna send you off to seminary and I'm gonna look that's just not the way God made him. God made him to do something else and be something else, and guess what? I'm happy with that. I rejoice in that. We can't make our children to be something that we want them to be. We have to learn how God made them. And then another This goes along with the next thing, unrealistic goals. We can't set unrealistic goals for our children because again that might exasperate them. And then uh we're out of time here, so let me just go over these last ones real quickly. We can also discourage them by failing to show affection You know, children never grow it grow needing of affection by their parents. They're always going to need their parents' love. I don't care how old they are. They're always going to need your love and your affirmation. And when we refuse to show the affection that we should as parents, it might discourage them. There's a book out years ago written by John Trent called The Blessing. And in it he just gives practical ways that parents bless their children. And one of the things he said in the book was a meaningful touch. He kind of went through the Old Testament and showed how it happened with fathers blessing children. And there was always a meaningful touch. Give them a hug. A kiss on the head, an embrace, all of that kind of fills their emotional tank and shows them your love and affirmation. Um and then there's also uh speaking words of blessing to them. We gotta be careful to to to give words of blessing. Our words matter. And so they have the power to encourage and to lift the spirit and the power to destroy their spirit. So we need to give spoken words of blessing, picturing a special future for them, and so on, actively being committed to them, spending time with them. All that is important. If we don't do those things, we can discourage. our children. And then another thing here is lack of standards. And I kind of already m went over this. Make sure that when you discipline, you give clear lines. If they don't know where the lines are drawn, then they can be discouraged very easily. And then again, just neglect. We don't want to neglect our children. We want to spend real quality time with them. And if you're too busy to spend time with them, then you're too busy. You need to cut back on something. But make sure you're spending time with them. And that old thing, you know, well it's quality time, not quantity time. No. How do you explain that to a little child? They want time with their parents. And then f and then finally favoritism. Favoring one child above the other. We don't want to do that. That was a mistake that was made by Jacob And all the brothers despise Joseph in the Old Testament for that. We love our children equally. We recognize the differences. We embrace what those differences are, and we love them all equally before God. And we express that love to them. And and if we don't do these things, then what we could do is we could basically uh discourage them. So again, let me go over these rules in closing, summarize. How do we make Christ preeminent in our relationships through his power, through the spirit that he's put in us, through his help, when we put him first in our life, He'll help us to obey these rules. Wives, you submit. Husbands, you love your wife. You don't be harsh. Children, you obey and teach them to obey parents. And then parents also provoke not your children to wrath. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, we are just a people that are constantly in need of you to help us. And Lord, I just pray for every family here represented. I want their homes to be blessed. I want their homes to be a place that's a little bit of a colony of heaven on earth where Christ is reigning and preeminent in every relationship. Father, we as sinful people, we know that this is a battle that we face every day. Our own fallen nature is what trips us up. And Lord, sometimes we can get discouraged in this. But Lord, may we remember the oneness that we have with you, and the strength comes from you. And may we remember, Lord, that you are able to do abundantly above all that we ask or think. And I just pray, Lord, for this, for every person here, that we would with the strength and help of God Be able to apply all of these principles in our life. And what this requires is that, Lord, we are fully dependent upon you every day. That we Make a decision to make you preeminent in our life every day. That we yield to the Spirit of God that is in us. And through the strength of the Holy Spirit, we're able to do these things that you want us to do. Father, bless every home. Bless our church. Help us to be all that you called us to be. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name, Amen