Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Hebrews? We've been in Hebrews chapter eleven for many weeks and tonight we're going to continue into chapter twelve because really this is a part of it and really to wrap up chapter eleven you have to see what is being said in Hebrews chapter twelve. And so tonight we're going to be we're going to be doing just that, uh, looking at this this wonderful passage of Scripture. Um Hebrews chapter 12. Look at verse number one. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight. and the sin which doth so easily beset us. And let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross despising the shame, and is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Now we are such a sports-minded generation. There are some people tonight home worshiping at the at the altar. This this is Super Bale Sunday. So they're worshiping bail tonight. But anyway I heard of one husband who said to his wife, Now honey, is there anything you want to say to me before football season starts? But that's not only true of of this generation, but it's also true of when the New Testament was written. They were also very sports-minded generation. During Paul's day, athletics and sporting competition was huge, even I would say bigger than even today. Uh they had three great games. That everyone really loved to see. There was the Olympic Games, and that was held at Mount Olympus, and then there was the Pythian Games at Delphi, and then there was the Isthmian Games at Corinth And these games were staggered so that all of the wealthy and the elite could make sure to attend these games. They had all kind of events that you could play. There was wrestling, there was boxing, there was chariot racing, there was jabelin throw, leaping, running. You could run short distances or the or the marathon, the long distance run. And the heroes, the popular figures of that day were the athletes who competed and won. Back Cicero complained that the athletes are ascribed more praise and more fame than a conquering general coming back from war. And every city had its theater, or we could say its Coliseum. Um you think our stadiums are big today. They were they were every bit as big back then. They were sometimes uh six times the length of a football field as far as size. They were always jam-packed with thousands upon thousands of people. Now in the New Testament, obviously the Apostle Paul was uh was a sports fan because he uses a lot of uh sports metaphors in the New Testament. In fact, he uses athletics kind of as a as a metaphor for the Christian life. Many times we see this. For example, in Ephesians 6, he said, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. Talking about wrestling there. He used the metaphor boxing in 1 Corinthians 9, verses 26 and 27. He said, So fight I, not as one who beats the air. I'm not shadow boxing. I'm landing real blows out there. And of course boxing in our day is guys with some puffy bags on the end of their hand hitting each other. But back in Paul's day, they had their hands were were were wrapped with leather straps and um and they had metal sewn in the straps. And so the loser had his eyes gouged out. So that was a serious, serious competition, I'd say There was also team sports. Philippians 1. 27, Paul uses the phrase, striving together for the faith of the gospel. The word striving together is from two Greek words soon with athleto, with athletes. It's the idea of teamwork. A team working together. And running, of course, was one of the most popular of the Olympic Games. And they would normally take place in a stadium. It was the the stadium normally had tiered seats like we see today and the starting place was at the entrance uh and the and uh uh and so basically the uh idea was to run to the opposite end of the stadium. There was always a goal there that they would keep their eyes on as they were running. We had this idea in Hebrews 12, let us, you know, fix our eyes upon Jesus. Also, in Philippians chapter 3, verse 14, Paul says this: I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Now the competitors in this competition had to trick had to train. They had to put themselves under rigid discipline and training. And uh it called for all kinds of self-denial, uh laying aside things that people would normally do in daily life they couldn't do because they were training for a specific goal. Now, here in the passage that we just read, here in Hebrews, the writer is comparing, again, the Christian life to athletics. He's comparing it to a race. All of us are in this race of life. It's a big event, an Olympic event. Each of us has our own course that we have to run, the course that God has laid out for us at the end of his life. Paul said, I'm now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I fought a good fight. I have finished my what? My course. Paul said I ran the course that God had for me. And so the writer of Hebrews here is encouraging us to run a good race. You have a race that God's given you. You have to run that race. Don't drop out of the race. Stay in the race. It may be at times discouraging to be in the race, but you don't want to drop out. You don't want to give up And so he's exhorting us to run this race of faith, we could say, live this life of faith. That's the way to lit to win your race. If you want to win your race, you have to continue on, and you have to live by faith, and you have to run that race, and you'll be a winner. That's the whole point that the writer's making here. He's trying to exhort us, he's trying to encourage us. In fact, that's one of the major themes of the whole book of Hebrews, making progress in the Christian life. Because it was written to Jewish believers, many who had embraced Christ, and because they had, they were paying a price for it. Many were uh losing their jobs. Many were disowned by family members. Some were robbed of their possessions. It talks about that in Hebrews 1034. As a result, some were thinking about dropping out. Many had quit because things got tough. Many wanted to turn back into their old religion, which we had seen already, the writer is saying, look, don't turn back. There's no salvation in a works system religion. They weren't making progress. Maybe they were just kind of uh hindered or they stagnated or they were not moving forward in their Christian life. And so these believers needed encouragement They needed motivation. And so the writer is trying to motivate them. Again, you can divide the whole book of Hebrews up into making progress, chapters 1 through 6, the motivation for progress. He talks about the person of Christ. Jesus is better. Coming to Christ is better than anything you can have in Judaism. We have better things in Christ. Chapter 7, verse 7, Christ offers a better priesthood. And chapter 7, verse 19, Christ gives a better hope. In chapter 7, verse 22, Christ offers a better covenant. We have a better covenant based upon better promises. Hebrews 8. 6. Christ is a better sacrifice. Jesus is better than all this. The writer is saying, focus on Christ. But then also, there's the ministry for progress, the priesthood of Christ. The reason we can make progress in the Christian life is because Jesus now is our high priest, and guess what he's doing? He's praying for us. Especially when things get difficult for us. But then there's also the means for progress. And this is what we've been looking at the last few weeks on Sunday night. What's the means for progress? It's the principle of faith. We live by faith. We run this race by faith. And so the writer is saying, look, stay in the race, live by faith, don't drop out. Run until your course is done, and you know what? You'll be a winner. And so there are three things in this passage that he gives to us as incentives for running a good race and not dropping out. First of all, there's what I want to call the encouragement for the race. Look at verse one. Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which thus so easily beset us And let us run with patience the race that is set before us. He talks about these cloud of witnesses. Now, who are these cloud of witnesses that surround us and are watching us? Well, the word wherefore in verse 1 points back, right? It's a transitional word. The cloud of witnesses in Hebrews twelve are the characters that he had just listed in Hebrews chapter eleven. We just studied all of them. We just went through the list. These great saints, these heroes of yesteryear, all these that were mentioned, they ran a good race. They weren't perfect in the race, as we saw. They had failures, they had faults, but you know what? They stayed in the race. And we can be winners just like they were. We look to them for encouragement. And so he says to these people, look at these witnesses. Focus on these witnesses. They were winners. They lived by faith. And they died for their faith. It's as if the writer is pointing to the seats in the stadium. uh saying, you know, these were they who had already run the race and their race is over, and we need to be as faithful as they were. We also need to understand that they look at us. You say, now wait a minute, do you really believe that there are saints in heaven that see us on earth and watch us? I know this has been a point that some people ask about from time to time. I've heard preachers take different interpretations on it. I even heard preachers and scholars make fun of the interpretation that believers in heaven know you know, watch some of the saints on earth and some of the things that are going on on earth. But I believe we have scriptural warrant to believe that they are watching the kind of race that we run. I don't think I'm stepping out uh too far when I say that. You say why? Well, because of what the Bible says. In Revelation chapter 6, the saints came to Jesus and said, Lord, how long, holy and just, wilt thou not judge our enemies that are on the earth? They were watching what was going on on earth. They came to Jesus and said, Look, Lord, you haven't judged our enemies yet. When's that going to happen? How did they know they asked that question if they were totally unaware of things on earth? They asked that question because they knew the events taking place on earth. Much of the book of Revelation is about saints in heaven beholding the unfolding of God's plan, redemptive plan on earth. In Revelation 19, the saints celebrate in heaven as a result of Babylon on earth being destroyed And so that's why I say I think I have a little bit of biblical warrant to say I do believe that saints in heaven are aware of the race that we're running here on earth. I don't know to what extent for the detail because the Bible doesn't say that, but I think that they they know some of what's going on here. But really the whole point of this passage is not that they look at us, but how we are to look to them. That's the whole point of the passage. We don't worry about them looking at us. We're more concerned about looking at them and looking at them for encouragement and following their example of faith. This is, as I said, is the Hall of Fame of faith that we draw encouragement from. Uh you know, there's a Hall of Hall of Fame for baseball players. If you like baseball, you can go there and go down the Hall of Fame. I've been there There is a Hall of Fame for football. You know, football players love to go and walk through the Hall of Fame there. Again, is there a Hall of Fame for Christians where we can look to to get encouragement for us? Yes. And we just studied it here, Hebrews chapter 11. We need to look at the lives of these people. We need to admire how that their faith Persevered even through difficult times. They opposed Pharaoh. They forsook the pleasures and the prerogatives of his court. They passed through the Red Sea. They shouted down the walls of Jericho. They conquered kingdoms. They shut the mouths of lions. They quenched the power of fire. They received back their dead by resurrection. They were tortured, they were mocked, they were scourged, they were imprisoned, they were sold asunder, and you know what? They didn't quit. They maintained, they kept on. And the writer is saying, look, look at them, remember them. Draw encouragement from them. Every one of them had less truth and less knowledge than we have. We have more of God's revelation than they had If they ran a good race according to the truth that they had, shouldn't we run a good race, knowing that God has given us his full revelation in Jesus Christ? They all ran well. They were all winners. In fact, God said of them, they turned the world what? They turned the world upside down because of the way that they lived by faith. And so we need to follow that same pattern. We need to follow that same example. Look to them and draw encouragement for the race of life. One of my favorite uh genres of read is Christian biographies. And I would encourage you if you don't do that, pick up a good Christian biography of a believer that lived long ago and just read that life and let it encourage you. They were sinners just like we are, and yet they were able to live a godly life, and you know what we can too. So look at their lives and be encouraged by that. But then here's the second thing. Not only the encouragement of life's race, but number two, the entanglement of life's race. Because he says again in verse 1, let us lay aside the weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. Now there are things in this life that can encumber us or hinder us from running a good race. And the writer is saying, look, you want to lay those things aside. There's what I call the impediments. These are things that get in the way. Every weight and sin which so eat which does so easily beset us. Weights slow us down. Sins trip us up. I'm sure I don't have to take time to tell you the devastating effect that sin will have on your life. Suffice to say that you need to be thorough with your sins and dealing with sins in your life, or they will deal thoroughly with you. Be merciless with your sins, or your sins will be merciless with you. Wastes are not sins, but they are things that hinder us. One of the greatest problems that runners face is weight. A runner who won a gold medal, considered to be one of the fastest men in the world, came to the U. S. competition, the invitational track meet, and he didn't even qualify. And the interviewer asked me, they said, hey, what happened? And and the runner said, well, I gained two pounds. Just two pounds. And because of that, it slowed him down. He wasn't able to qualify. In the Christian life, weight will hinder us from running Well. So anything that slows you down, anything that takes away your passion for God, anything that dampens your love for Christ, Anything that saps your energy, that diverts your attention from Christ, those things we have to take out of our life if we run it want to run a good race. We don't want those things to weigh us down. Now the the problem is not in the weights itself, because again we're not talking about things that we would designate as things that are sinful, but in the in what it's in what the weight does, not in what the weight is But in what the weight does. Again, anything that takes away your love and your passion and your devotion for Jesus Christ, we have to lay that aside. Suppose one morning we go to a race and we see the runners come up to the starting line. And most runners nowadays, you know, they're pretty much stripped down to just the bare essentials, right? When they run, especially if you're going to run a long marathon. But let's just suppose there's one runner, he comes up to the starting line, and he's fully dressed. In fact he has on a an overcoat. He's got hip boots on. He has a lunch basket with him. He's got an umbrella. He's got a first aid kit with all kind of medicine in it. And someone says to him, Why you got all this? Well he said, you know, I got my overcoat because it you know, it's cold. It's going to be cold out there and I don't want to get too cold. And he said, you know, I also got my boots because it's it's raining. It's it's going to be muddy. And uh I brought a lunch with me because I know I'm gonna get hungry on this And I brought this first aid kit because I don't want to get sick on the journey, or if I fall, I I want to be able to, you know, have a bandage for that. Now, is there anything wrong with an overcoat? No. Anything wrong with an umbrella? He brought an umbrella in case it rained. No, nothing wrong with an umbrella. Anything wrong with uh with boots? No. Anything wrong with bringing a picnic basket lunch along with you No, there's nothing wrong with that. Nothing wrong with bringing a first aid kid. Nothing wrong with any of these things. But let me ask you a question. Is he gonna win the race? No, he's not gonna win the race. Uh he doesn't have the right mindset. I'm not even sure why he's in the race. But you understand the again, the problem is not in what the weight is, but in what the weight does. The question is, what do you want in your Christian life? What do you want to see accomplished in your life? Second Timothy 2. 4, Paul said this, no man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who has chosen him to be a soldier. If you're going to be a soldier in God's army, you don't entangle yourself with the affairs of life. And again, we're not talking about sinful things. We're just talking about things that would keep us from being a good soldier or in this case a good athlete that can run the race. There is the impediments, then there's the impatience. Look again at what it says in verse 1. And let us run with patience, the race that is set before us. The race again that the writer is referring to here is not a hundred-yard dash. It is a marathon. It is a long race. And every good runner knows that you must pace yourself in a marathon and you must persevere. The race is not won in the first mile. It's won over time. The key to winning is not sprinting until you can't run. But the key in a marathon is to run patiently, to run continually. Um You may have heard the story of of a man by the name of John Stephen Ashwari, the marathon runner from Tanzania who finished last in the nineteen sixty eight Olympics in Mexico City. No last place finisher in the marathon ever uh quit. And so what happened was he wa he was injured along the way. And he hobbled to the stadium with his leg bloodied and bandaged. And it was more than an hour after the race of the runners had completed the race. Only a few spectators were left in the stands when finally he crossed The line, he did not quit. No one runner had ever quit so he didn't want to quit. And there was only a f again, just a s He flipped a small handful of people that watched him cross the line and he did in great pain cross the line And when asked about it, he said this, my country did not send me to Mexico City to start the race. They sent me here to finish the race. God sent us here to finish this race. He called us in Christ to run the race that is before us and to finish the race. And it takes patience. It takes perseverance. We have to continue on, especially during the difficult times. And so there's the encouragement for life's race. Then secondly, there is the entanglement of life's race. But number three, write down the enablement of life's race. We see this in verse number two. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. As Christians, we have a divine enabler, and we're to keep our eyes on him. The Christian life is all about keeping our eyes on Jesus. The Christian life begins when we look to Jesus. That's how it begins. Isaiah 45, 22. Look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God and there is none else. In January of 1850, a young 15-year-old boy was making his way to church. It was in the middle of a fierce snowstorm. And uh He didn't wasn't able to go to the church that he was trying to go to because of the storm, so he turned aside into a small Methodist church It was closer. And when he got there there was a small handful of people there. Only a dozen people were there that morning. And he sat near the back. And the regular minister at that church didn't even show up that day because of the snow. And so another man got up and spoke. It was a deacon that was there in the church. And he took as his text, Isaiah 45, 22, Look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth. And he began preaching. Look to Jesus. Look at him on the cross. Look at his wounds. He was pointing people at Jesus Christ. And at one point he pointed down to that fifteen-year-old boy and he said, Young man, you look very miserable this morning. You need to look to Jesus. You may hope I never do that to any of you, right? By the way, some of you, no, I'm just kidding. He said, Young man, you look very miserable. You need to look to the Lord Jesus. This young man wasn't offended. In fact, he was greatly taken by that, and he was Thankful because the thing that kept going over and over in his mind is look to Jesus, look to Jesus. And what that man didn't realize is that that young fifteen-year-old boy was under conviction about his sin. And by telling him to look to Jesus, he was pointing to the solution. And this young man did look to Jesus, and he did get saved, and that young man's name was Charles Spurgeon. The great Prince of Preachers. And he remembers that day when he was told how to come to Christ. Look to Jesus. That's how we begin the Christian life. And the Christian life also ends with us looking to Jesus. Look in Titus chapter 2, verse 13, just jot it down. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. We begin our Christian life by looking to Jesus. We end by looking to Jesus. And one day we'll all end by going to heaven and standing before Jesus. and looking to him. But the key to the in-between is constantly looking to Jesus. Again in verse 2, looking unto Jesus. The Greek tense here, continually looking, keep looking to him. Looking the wrong way can have serious consequences in our life. We have to keep our eyes focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh Corey Tinboom lived through a hellish life in the Nazi concentration camps. That was a place where hope was lost for many people. But she survived to tell her story of being there and how that her faith continued on even through those difficult circumstances. She saw evil close up. She saw it personally. And she saw some of the most inhumane acts that could ever be done by people. And when she came out of it, she said this. She said, if you look to the world, you'll be distressed. But if you look to Christ, you'll be at rest. That's good that's a good word. We need to look to Christ. So the way that we endure this race is not to wallow in past failures, but to fix our eyes on Jesus Christ. Look what it says in verse 3. For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against themselves, lest ye be wearied and faint in your mind. The word consider here analogomai, which means to, where we get the word analyze, by the way. And it just means to uh to focus on, to uh concentrate on. If you want to know how to run a good race, then analyze Jesus. Analyze his life. First of all, consider who he is. What does the Bible say? He's the author and the finisher of our faith. Jesus began the race of life and he perfected it. He was the greatest winner of all. He was the champion of champions. You talk about someone who lived by faith. Jesus perfected how to do that. When our Lord was here on earth, he lived by faith. The writer of Hebrews quoted Alert saying, I must trust, I must put my trust in him. This is Jesus talking about the Father. The fact that Jesus prayed so much was evidence that he lived by faith in the words of his father. Consider who he is, but also consider what he did. Again, we see this who endured the cross, the Bible says, in verse number two. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. Then it says in verse 3, he endured such contradiction of sinners against himself. Contradiction here means opposition. Christ endured a lot of opposition in his life. And by the way, again, these people that the writer was writing to, they were in the midst of enduring all types of opposition against them in their faith. And but Jesus had to go through that. His endurance included suffering shame, who endured where it says again Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. You say, what shame? Well, the shame of just bearing the sins of the whole world. He bore the sin and shame of the world. upon himself at that time. And he suffered in such a humiliating way with people scoffing at him. And so he endured all of that. He finished the work that the Father gave him to do. But then consider how he did it. Notice it says, for the joy that was set before him. What was it that enabled our Lord to endure the cross? It was he kept his eye on the future. He saw the future joy. He saw what was going to take place as a result of what he was going to do. His joy would be having victory over death, having victory over hell in the grave. Seeing many people come to salvation and have their sins forgiven. Seeing heaven populated. That was all the joy that Jesus had. That's why he endured. Jesus didn't run the race for himself. He ran it for us. He endured all that for us. Now he's exalted in heaven. Now he's at the right hand of the Father there in heaven. And the people the writer of Hebrews addressed were people who had the tendency to look back and want to go back, but the writer is pointing to Jesus and say, look, don't look back, look ahead. Look to Christ. Keep your eyes on Christ. Don't quit the race. Stay focused on the Lord Jesus. If you want to run a good race and not quit, then remember these three things. Remember the encouragement for life's race. Remember the entanglement of life's race. Remember the enablement of life's race. That's what will help you to run well and to finish the race that God has for you. A World War II soldier wrote his mother of a letter telling her a story of God's miraculous protection in an event that happened. He had a Christian sergeant leading his platoon, and they were advancing on German lines. They had to go through a minefield. It wasn't hard to go through that minefield because a day earlier a man went through with a mine detector and he he he he painted a red axe on all the places where the mines were. And so the sergeant simply led his men around the red axes to the a advanced onto the enemy lines. But after they got through the minefield, that platoon came under heavy German fire. And the sergeant commanded all of his men in the platoon to get down, take cover. And they all laid low and waited. The sergeant wanted them to wait it out, wait out the heavy fire. But the problem was it began to snow. And soon it snowed so hard that soon the whole field was covered over. That meant all of the red X's were covered over. And the sergeant was thinking, how are we going to retreat out? If all of those X's are covered up. But then he started to think, well, you know what? I remember where they were. So I could, you know, I can I can get my men to follow me. But it was getting late. It was getting dark. And he knew under darkness some of the men wouldn't be able to follow him out, and he would perhaps lose some men if darkness came. And so he prayed. He asked God to intervene. And miraculously a heavy fog settled in between them and the enemy line. And the sergeant thought, here's my chance So he moved quickly. He lined up his men at the edge of the minefield before crossing. He looked at his men and he said, Make sure you follow my steps. Put your steps in my footprints. And they followed him out, every man, down to the last man, not one man was lost. The next day the commander came to report on the previous day's events. And he was amazed at what he saw, because as he looked out over that snow-covered minefield, he knew that many men had retreated through that field the previous day. But as he looked out over that snowfield, all he saw was one set of footprints. Just one set of footprints. You see, the secret to walking in the Christian life is really not a secret. We simply follow in the footsteps of those who went before us. And they follow in the footsteps of those who went before them. And it all leads back to one set of footprints that was made by the author, by the pioneer of our faith, that is the Lord Jesus Christ. There are many people mentioned in Hebrews 11, but there's really only one set of footprints. And those are the footprints that were made by the Lord Jesus Christ. We simply follow in the path that was made by Jesus. Jesus said this, I'm the way. I'm the truth, I'm the life. Our desire is simply to follow in those footsteps. And others have gone before us. They've put their feet in those same footsteps. You know what? We just need to follow after them. And that's how we're winners. In this race of life. That's how we run well in the race that God has given us. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So, Father, thank you for this wonderful passage of Scripture and the reminder, Lord, that it gives all of us of how we are to run in the race of life. And Lord, really it's not hard, and yet it is. It's simple in that we need to follow Christ, and yet it's hard in that, Lord, a lot of times things get so difficult we don't have the strength. And Lord, that's where we need you to help us So Lord, would you please give us your grace and strength just to just to follow in the footprints of those that have gone before us? Help us to follow them as they followed you, Lord Jesus. And help us to run with patience the race that is set before us, looking under Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith And we pray all this in Jesus wonderful. Maxwell's day with heads bowed and eyes closed. I want you to just take a moment tonight and evaluate your own heart and ask yourself the question, what kind of race am I running? What kind of race am I running for the Lord? Are you persevering through the difficult times that come for all of us? We all face them. Ask God to give you the grace to run with patience the race that is set before us. To be faithful. It doesn't matter what people around us are doing, it only matters what we do as believers. What kind of race are we running as believers? That's the question Father, again, we thank you for your word. Lord, I pray that you'll help us as your people to apply the truth to life. Help us, Lord, to run with patience the race that you set before us. We pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.