Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Philippians, chapter four? I know many are think thinking, I thought we were done this book. Well, there's actually a few verses here we haven't touched on, and I want to make sure I touch one of them. And that's the very last verses of chapter four, verse twenty, on down to verse number twenty-three. So I want to talk about tonight. The title of the sermon is Saints in Caesar's Household. Saints in Caesar's Household. Chuck Colson told a story of a frustrated prison psychiatrist who said that I can cure a person's bet a madness, but not his badness. The only way to make bad people good is through the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Even Charles Darwin, the man who contributed so much to evolutionary thinking, uh admitted this. He wrote to a minister one time and said, quote, Your services have done more for our village in a few months than all our efforts for many years. We have never been able to reclaim a single drunkard, but through your services, I do not know that there is a drunkard left in the village. Later Charles Darwin would visit a island of Tierra del Fuego at the southern tip of South America Where he found among the people there just horrifying savagery from the people that lived on that island, just uh uh depravity beyond description. And when he came back later He had returned years after a missionary had worked among the people, and he was amazed to see the change that had taken place on that island. And he acknowledged that the gospel transforms lives. Only the gospel can transform lives. In fact, he was so moved by what he saw that he contributed money to that mission until he died. That's an unknown story about Charles Darwin. The gospel is the greatest message that there ever was. The greatest message there ever was. It is the only message that can transform lives. The gospel tells rebellious men that they can be reconciled to God. that justice is satisfied, that sin has been atoned for, that the judgment of the guilty can be revoked, that the condemnation of the sinner can be canceled The curse of the law blotted out that the gates of heaven can be opened because of what Jesus Christ did on the cross. And we as Christians, you know, we are privileged to have this message. This is the greatest message that's been entrusted to us. Part of our responsibility is to tell that message and let God do his work. There are some people that can preach the gospel better than me, but there's no one that has a better gospel. Because I preach the same gospel by the grace of God that is given us here in Scripture. Now in Paul's final farewell to the Philippians, the beauty of the gospel kind of seeps through these final words that Paul gives, these comments that he gives in closing out this letter. And what I want us to see from these Words are seven lessons about the gospel from this farewell that Paul gives. Look in verse number 20 of Philippians chapter 4. Now unto God and our Father. Be glory forever and ever. Amen. We see, first of all, the purpose of the gospel. The gospel is all about the glory of God, it is all about giving God glory. This is the ultimate purpose for all things. It's all about God's glory, that he might receive the glory that is due unto him. In verse 19, Paul uses the same word glory, but he has a different meaning in mind. Back up to verse 19, where he talks about God will supply all your need according to his riches and glory. Riches and glory we could translate like this glorious Riches. And Paul really there is referring to God's character. Paul is saying that God shall continue to supply the needs of his people because of his character. This is a a reference simply to the glorious attributes of God. His grace, his love, his wisdom, his goodness, his holiness, all those other perfections that are a part of who God is. That's what Paul is referring to here. And uh however when Paul uses the word glory in verse 20, it means something totally different. And the word glory in verse 2 means praise. Now into unto God and our Father be glory forever and ever. That is to say, praise. Paul is looking forward to the time when God shall be praised and honored as he should be God is worthy of all praise. And this is the whole purpose of the gospel. This is the reason for it, for God to give praise and glory. And in fact, Paul starts out the letter this way and he closes it emphasizing this one thing. Go back to chapter one and look at verse number 11. Notice what Paul said at Philippians 1. 11. being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God. That is, you're saved now, and you're filled with the fruits of righteousness. Why? Well, that's by Jesus Christ and He will get what? All the glory and the praise for that So Paul opens up the letter talking about God's glory, God's praise. Paul closes the letter talking about God's glory and God's praise. So the argument goes like this. God is worthy of all honor and praise. You agree with that? He's worthy of all honor and praise. Psalm 72, verse 9. Blessed be his glorious name forever. May the whole earth be filled with his glory. And then in Psalm 115, verse 1, not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto your name give glory for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness. Praise in Scripture is mentioned 250 times in reference to God. 250 times. That's just the one word praise. That doesn't include the word honor. or glory or or to exalt. If you add up all those words, the idea of giving God praise and honor is just about on every other page of Scripture. But here's the problem. Sinful men cannot give God the honor and the praise that is due to his name. Lost sinful men can't do that Unregenerate man cares nothing about the glory of God or the praise of God. They have no desire to praise him In fact, the Bible characterizes a natural man as what? As unthankful. Sinful, redeemed man does not want to acknowledge God in any way. Uh Romans one twenty-one. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither were they what? Neither were they thankful, but became vain in their imaginations. And so the unredeemed lost man cares nothing about the glory of God. So, the gospel redeems man so that God the Father and God the Son and God the Holy Spirit may be praised and honored as God rightly deserves. God deserves praise. He deserves honor. Lost man can't do it. The only people that can really praise and give God glory and honor the way God deserves and is due is the only way that can happen is through being saved. And that is what the gospel is all about. We see people come to Christ. Our desire is to see people come to Christ. Why? So that God can get the praise and the honor and the glory that He rightfully deserves You see, Paul understood this principle. This is what motivated Paul all throughout his ministry. Hold your place here. Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Let me just show you show this to you. 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse number 7. And Paul was writing about all the trials and hardships in ministry. His life was constantly in danger. Again, look in verse four, verse seven rather, chapter four. But we have this treasure and earthen vessels. What treasure? The treasure of the gospel. God's entrusted that to us. That the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. God gets all the glory because we're just simply clay pots. The flower and the beauty of the gospel is planted in us. But notice what he says in verse 8. We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed. We are persecuted, but not in despair. Or perplexed, excuse me, but not in despair. Persecuted but not forsaken, cast down but not destroyed. Always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body. He's saying, you know, we're troubled all the time. When Paul uses the word we there, it's kind of the editorial we, he's really talking about himself, but he doesn't like to brag, so he's going to kind of humble down by saying we. Remember, Paul's defending himself against all of his critics who say he's not really an apostle, and Paul's saying, You really want to know whether or not I'm an apostle? Just look at all the trouble I've gone through. Look at all the trials. He he's doing something he didn't like to do, and that's defend himself. So he uses the word we. And Paul talks about all the trouble that he's had to go through, all of the persecution, all of the distress, all the demands of ministry. And uh he's showing how physically exhausting it was when he says trouble, that's hard press, pressure, hardship. The word perplex and despair render two similar words in degree. Totally despairing. Totally depressed. You think godly people don't get depressed sometimes? You think godly ministers don't get in despair at times? Paul went through all of that. He went through all the darkness, all the difficulties. Without God's intervention, these troubles would have broken in. And then in verses 10 and 11, he talked about in his own body he carried around the death of Jesus. That is, he suffered intensely for Jesus. He bore physical scars resulting from the wounds that were inflicted upon him by his enemies and those who were enemies of the gospel in that day. And why did he do this? He did it all for the testimony of Jesus' sake. He was always being given over to death. That is to say, he was always in the threat of death. There was always some someone or something that was threatening his life. As he was getting out the gospel in that time. So the question we have to ask is, Paul, why do you go through all that? Why all the despair? Why the hunger? Why the distress? Why the depression? Why why go through that? Why endure all that? Well, here's the motive. Look at verse number 15 of chapter 4. For all things are for Your sakes. Listen to this. That the abundant grace might through the thanksgiving of many redound to the what? To the glory of God. What he means is that as people receive the grace of God in salvation, what happens is it leaves these people to give glory and praise to God for his grace. These were unredeemed people that could not give praise and honor to God, but now that they are redeemed, now that they have embraced the gospel and are saved, now they join the chorus of people who give praise and honor and glory to God. And Paul's saying, I just want to keep adding people to that to that group. I mean, Carolyn, Paul was building the choir there. He was trying to add voices to the choir. He was trying to give more people involved in giving praise and glory and honor. And Paul says it's worth it. I'm willing to go through all of this. I'm willing to bear about in my body the dying of the Lord Jesus Christ. If that means one more person gets saved. And they're added to the voice of people, giving God the praise and the glory that He rightly deserves. It's worth it all. It's worth all the scars. Because God deserves praise. And so praise and honor to the name of God is the very thing that motivated Paul. It's the thing that kept him persevering through all the trials. That he had to endure. I remember one time I read a book by a nationally known pastor about evangelism And the chapter was titled Hindrances to Soul Winning. It's talking about evangelism, of course. And he wrote that, quote, worship was a hindrance to soul winning. And I remember being shocked by that. Worship is a hindrance to evangelism, to soul winning. That's one of the most ridiculous things I've ever read. It's the exact opposite. Worship is the greatest aid to evangelism that there is If you want to worship God and you want God to be worshipped, that is the aid to evangelism. Worship drives missions. Just in contrast to that, there's another book by John Pfeiffer who called Let the Nations Be Glad, and he wrote this quote, missions exist because worship doesn't. Worship is ultimate, not missions, because God is ultimate, not man. And when this age is over and the countless millions of the redeemed fall on their faces before the throne of God, missions will be no more. And that is so true. Paul is looking forward to the day when all the redeemed of all the ages gather around the throne of God and they give God the honor and the praise and the glory that is due unto his name. And that is why we do what we do. And the book of Revelation speaks about this. In Revelation chapter 4, there is the song of creation, but then in chapter 5, there's the song of redemption. In fact, uh go to Revelation real quick. Let me just kind of give you a glimpse of what Paul really is referring to, what he's hoping for. Revelation chapter 7. Look down at verse number 9. And notice what Paul says here, or excuse me, what John writes here, Revelation 7. 9. And after this I beheld and law a great multitude. which no man could number, of all nations and kindreds and people and tongues, stood before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes. and palms in their hands, and cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God, which sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb and all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the elders and the four beasts, and they fell before the throne on their faces And they worship God, saying, Amen, blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be unto our God forever and ever. Amen. And that's what it's all about. It's all about giving God that glory. Look in Revelation chapter 19 and look at verse number 1. Revelation 19, look at verse number 1. Notice what it says there. And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven saying, Hallelujah, salvation, and glory, and honor, and power unto the Lord our God. Drop down to verse number five. And a voice came out of the throne saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, ye that fear him, both small and great. And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of ma uh many thundering, saying, Hallelujah, for the Lord our God omnipotent reigneth I can't wait to be in that choir one day when all of heaven will erupt with praise to God. And that's what Paul is anticipating. That's what that's what Paul means when he says here, now unto our and our God and our Father be glory for ever and That is the purpose of the gospel. We are recruiting for heaven's choir. We are adding voices to the multitude that will give God glory and praise, the glory and praise that He rightfully deserves. The purpose of the gospel. But then number two, I want you to see the profitation of the gospel. Look at verse number 21. Paul says this: salute every saint in Christ Jesus. Salute every saint. Or we could say greet every saint. Now the NIV, I think, mistranslate this when they translate it, greet all saints, as if it were a blanket greeting. The Paul doesn't use the word all here. I think the Greek sense here is the word every. You say, well now wait a minute, what's the difference? Well all speaks of the group collectively, every speaks specifically of the individual. And Paul uses the singular meaning. We could say it like this, greet each one individually. Greet each saint. It's not generic. Paul doesn't want anyone to be excluded. He wants to greet everyone. He wants to greet uh Yodia, that one woman that was mentioned here in the letter. And those who may have sided with her, remember the little division brew brewing, and greet her and all those that are with her and send it she and all those that are with her. Those that may have sided with her. He wants to greet each of the church leaders individually. He wants to greet also those who maybe were in that Roman world, Greco-Roman world, where slavery was still a part of the fabric of the society, greet each slave that has come to know Christ. In other words, every person counts individually. None are to be excluded. I think it's worded this way on purpose. Paul wants each individual believer to know that they are important. And so this is the way the gospel spreads. It goes to person to person, each individual person. Sinners are not saved in mass. They're saved one at a time, individually, each person putting their faith in Christ. You know, I I can uh I can purchase a health insurance program for my whole family. But I can't purchase heaven assurance for my whole family. I can make my children a part of my group plan insurance-wise, but I can't make them a part of my group plan salvation-wise, right? Each person has to embrace the gospel individually on their own. And that's the whole point here. The faith of my father must become my own faith, and each of my children must embrace that faith for themselves A temple is built one stone at a time. We are God's temple, the living stones, and each stone must be placed in there one at a time. One soul at a time. That's how the gospel gets out. One soul at a time. It matters wherever you go and who you speak to. that you give them when opportunity opens the door, you give them the gospel because that's the way the gospel spreads. I know there's some people who say, well, you know, well once I get a big crowd, I'll I'll preach the gospel to them. That's not how the New Testament church spread. It was one person at a time, one individual at a time, giving out the gospel, the propagation of the gospel. Then in number three, the product of the gospel. Again we see in verse number 21, salute every saint. And again, I think this is worded purposefully. Saint Hagias, Holy One, are set apart. And Scripture teaches the moment that you are saved, you are set apart. God makes you a saint. Those who are set apart for God. You're set apart for His glory. And that means God wants you to be different. You're no longer like the world. God has set you apart. You are counted already in God's sight, holy. That's why the word saint is used. It means literally holy ones. And that's the whole purpose of the gospel. It is to take a sinner, a dirty sinner, and wash their sins and make them holy, and set them apart unto God does it set us apart unto himself. Why? Because again, we become then a trophy of grace. And again, part of the glory that God gets is when he takes a person, changes their life, sets them apart up unto himself. And so this word saint is such an important word. It's used 96 times in the Bible. Half of the time it's used by Paul. It was really a favorite word of the Apostle Paul. Twice in this short epistle here he uses this word and he emphasizes it and I think again it's purposeful on Paul's part. Because he wants to remind them in closing out this letter that they are saints and they need to pursue holiness in their life And that's true for all of us. We need to be reminded of this very thing, that we are called by God to be his saints, and we are to live in that manner. Now I think the concept of holiness, when you mention that word, it seems kind of archaic to uh to our generation. Uh you know, when you mention being holy, you know, some people have images of holier than thou. Some people think of uh the Puritans dressed in all black. you know, sitting around worrying that somebody out there is having a good time. That's that's not the idea here. All right But the easiest way to put this is holiness is simply being like Jesus. Again, the word holy is used six hundred times in the Bible in various forms. The one entire book of the Bible in the Old Testament, Leviticus, is devoted to this one theme, this one idea. So it's woven throughout the fabric of Scripture. I think this idea of being holy has suffered a lot of false concepts. I want to read you a portion of a book that I read that was so helpful. If you ever want to read a good book on this, it would be The Pursuit of Holiness by Jerry Bridges. Who wrote several good books? But he gave an insight about how to pursue a holy life. And I want you to listen to what he says here. He says, Our first problem is that our attitude towards sin is more self-centered than God-centered. We are more concerned about our own victory, quote-unquote, over sin than we are about the fact that our sins grieve the heart of God. We cannot tolerate failure in our struggle with sin chiefly because we are success-oriented, not because we know it is offensive to God. I think he has a really good point there. You know, we want to have victory, we've got to have our success, but we should be more concerned about how it affects God, how God sees our sin, and how it grieves God. Then he goes on to say, God wants us to walk in obedience, not victory. Obedience is oriented towards God. Victory is oriented towards self. This may seem to be merely splitting hairs over semantics, but there is a subtle self-centered attitude at the root of our of many of our difficulties with sin. Until we face this attitude and deal with it, we will not consistently walk in holiness. I think that's an excellent insight. We should be more God-centered and God-focused in this thing of walking in holiness and living a holy life. So we see the purpose of the gospel, the propagation of the gospel, the product of the gospel, which is to make us holy. We see then the person of the gospel. Look at verse number 21. Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The gospel is all about Christ. The gospel is the message centered around Christ, his sinless life, his substitutionary death, his bodily resurrection The church is to be Christ-centered. Our doctrine, our theology is to be Christ-centered Now the reason I bring this up and I think it's important is because I think there are a lot of gospels and a lot of churches that are not Christ-centered It's not centered around Christ. It's not centered around the gospel, the life-changing message of the gospel. I think this is a big problem in American religion. There's all kind of sermons that are preached across the country that focus on moralistic concerns. A lot of them may even be more political in their nature and their agenda. But they do not focus on the gospel. They do not focus on Christ. We have a Christeless Christianity in America where the sermons are more like self-help type talks. People want to know how to deal with all these surface issues in their life. How to get victory over this or how to be motivated over this and you know these little easy formulas to live a better life and to be more happy here. And they really don't get to the depth of man's sin and the problem of that and what the gospel does for a person. And again the the chief message of the gospel is not To give you the American and the dream and to make you successful in the eyes of the world. That has nothing to do with the gospel. It's all about you being reconciled to a holy God and then you living a Christ-like life. So the way it's packaged is all it's packaged in a cloak of Christianity, but Christ is not at the center. So the good news is turned into good advice. Giving out all kinds of good advice the church, but they're not giving the gospel. Isn't that what characterized the church at Laodicea? What do we see about uh the church at Laodicea? Jesus is on the outside of the church and what's he doing? He's knocking on the door. He wants in. And the church of Laodicea said, we, you know, we're rich, we're increased with goods. We have need of nothing. Hey, we're doing really good here. Everything's going along just fine. A lot of churches are going along fine. Their budget's up. Everything's great. People are comfortable. The only problem is Christ isn't there. And the gospel is not central. Christ is not central. I like what A. W. Tozer wrote. He said, we do not preach Christ with a comma after his name, as though waiting for something else. Or Christ with a dash after his name as though leading to something else. We preach Christ, period. We preach Christ's period. And this has been the focus of Paul's letter here to the Philippians. More than forty times Paul mentions Jesus and Christ. in the four chapters of this book. It's all about knowing Jesus. What did Paul say that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering? He is our Lord, our everything Our all-in-all is Christ. Everything we do must be centered around the Lord Jesus Christ. So the local church is not a social club. When we come to converse and sort out things about worldly things of this world, our supreme desire is to know Jesus Christ more, to obey him better To be committed to one another as we pursue his will for our life. But then here's number five. We see the purpose, the propagation, the product, the person, but then also the partnership. of the gospel. Look in verse 21. Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren which are with me greet you. So notice where he says with me. That's interesting. Now Paul is giving his final greeting in this letter, and there are other Christians that are with him. Now, do you remember where Paul is when he wrote this? He's in prison, right? He's under house arrest. Not the best place to hang out at times. in that prison, yet here he was with other Christians. And Acts 28 tells us that while Paul was there in Rome, other Christians could come and visit him in that prison. And so believers would come and they would spend time with Paul there as he was under house arrest. Why would they go there? Why would they spend time with Paul? Well, first of all, they were helping him. They were encouraging him. They were supporting him. Paul is not a very popular person at this time. We look at him now, we we look back on Paul, we say, wow, what a what a hero of the faith, what a great man. But at the time, Paul had a lot of enemies. He was not popular. He was criticized. In fact, we we saw this in chapter one where while Paul was in prison, Some were preaching Christ on one hand, but they were criticizing Paul on the other. They were taking shots at him like, oh, he deserves that prison, or God's putting him on the shelf, or he did something to offend God. There were his detractors out there. And by the way, they were true believers and true Christians. Paul calls them brethren. There were preachers that were preaching Christ, however, they were doing it out of an unworthy motive. You can preach Christ out of a wrong motive. And they were doing that Paul said they were doing it out of envy. That is, they were jealous. They were jealous of Paul. They were jealous of his giftedness. He was a brilliant man of the word. He had seen the resurrected Christ. They were jealous of his standing in that sense. And so they were really preaching, hoping to make things more difficult for Paul. While he was there in prison, if you can imagine the at imagine that hoping to add affliction to his his bonds That's why Paul had to write Timothy had to say this, 2 Timothy 1. 8. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, or of me as prisoner. You know why Paul said that? Because there are some people at that time that didn't want to associate with him. They didn't want to be around him. Because Paul brought controversy wherever he went. He brought trouble. He brought the government down upon him. And so a lot of people disassociated with Paul. And Paul says to Timothy, Timothy, don't be ashamed. Don't be ashamed of me. To be with Paul in his imprisonment meant to expose yourself to the criticism of others. And so Paul was not very popular at that time. In 2 Timothy 4. 16, he said this: At my first answer, no man stood with me. That is the first time he he s he uh was there at Rome, he had to give an account for the gospel. That's what's happening right here. Paul said at that time, how many were with him? No one. When it got right down to it, when the pressure was on, everybody walked away. And it was just Paul, no man stood with me, but all men forsook me. He was by himself. And so here in the midst of all of that are a group of people that are coming together and they are encouraging Paul They're helping Paul through this difficult time, while all the other preachers, quote-unquote preachers and ministers at that time uh disassociated with Paul. He was a small group of people that just came around Paul and they were there. They didn't mind going to the prison and being there with them in prison and and helping him out. In fact, in 2 Timothy 1, Paul said this, The Lord grant mercy to the house of one Siferus, for he all refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains. But when he was in Rome, he eagerly searched for me and found me. The Lord grant to him mercy on that day. And so here's one hand Paul mentions. Said, you know, while I was there in that prison, he was not ashamed of me. He came to me, he sought me out, he was there to help me, he was there to encourage me. And then you also had Epaphroditus who was sent by the church at Philippi, and he was the one actually writing this letter as Paul dictated it. So we know that he had at least those two there, and there were probably a handful more. Other courageous believers who were there with Paul while the others just kind of walked away for and from Paul. They were there. And why were they there? They were there to encourage him. They were there to help him. And that is the partnership of the gospel. And again, I just want to emphasize to you the w how meaningful it is that you come together in the Lord's house to encourage one another because you never know what someone's going through here tonight. You never know the difficulty, the trial, the suffering, of physical suffering, emotional suffering, depression, and maybe one word, one little sentence, one little pat on the back, or Or or gracious hug that will lift a person and help them, encourage them on in the faith. That's why we come together in the church, and that's what the gospel does. The gospel unifies us in the Lord. So we see the partnership of the gospel. Then here's the next thing, number six, the penetration of the gospel. Look at verse number twenty-two. All the saints salute you chiefly. They are of They that are of Caesar's household. All the saints salute you. Notice how he mentions Caesar's household here. And I think Paul seems to be emphasizing these saints. They're a trophy of God's grace. And they demonstrate the power of the gospel to transcend and penetrate any barrier that man might set up. What does Paul mean when he says they that are of Caesar's household? It refers to those who got saved as a result of Paul being arrested and being put in that house arrest. God was using Paul right there. A lot of people were wondering how come Paul's not out there on the missionary trips? Well, God had Paul there in that prison because Paul was sharing the gospel with people, and the gospel was making a pioneer advance. Remember that's the po the word Paul used in chapter one. Paul said, The things that have happened to me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. I'm here in this prison, but I want you to know that the gospel is really penetrating all kind of barriers, it's transcending all kinds of obstacles, and it's getting out. And now Paul mentions saints that are in Caesar's household. So Paul says, you know, these saints that are here, they salute you. They've never met you, but they salute you. That's what happens when you come to know Jesus Christ. You know what happens? You beg begin to love Christians all over the world, even though you may have never met them personally. And so Paul says, these saints, they salute you. What saints was he talking about? I think he was talking about Roman soldiers. Roman soldiers that were saved. Remember we saw this already that Paul in that prison he was chained constantly to a Roman soldier of six hour shifts where they all had to come in and spend that time chained to Paul. And you can imagine Paul giving them the gospel and these guys embracing the gospel and going back and telling their friends and others coming. And so there were some elite Praetorian guards, these Roman soldiers that were so very powerful They had a lot of power in Rome. They had political power, not just military power. Sometimes they were called the kingmakers because they had the the ability to uh hand pick Sometimes leaders over them, the next Caesar, they would be uh instrumental in uh in uh choosing who that person would be. Choosing the next emperors according to one historian, they were so influential. And they were chained to Paul and they were getting saved, and the gospel was spreading throughout the Roman soldiers, but then also Roman politicians Because Paul was there to defend the gospel. And the word defense in chapter 1, we saw this already, but I'm reminding you again. Chapter 1, verse 7, defense and confirmation, those are legal terms, official language of the court. So basically Paul was going to have to appear in a Roman court to give a defense of the gospel, which meant that the opposing side had to prepare their case. And in order for lawyers to be able to prepare their case, they had to understand Paul's message. They had to understand the gospel. So I can just imagine in my mind some of these guys from Rome coming into Paul's house arrest situation in St. Paul. Let us ask you a few questions about this gospel of yours. We want to talk to you about what went on with you. And I can just picture Paul giving his whole testimony, meeting Jesus on the road to Damascus. Telling them all about what the gospel means. And there are some, I believe, that came to know Jesus Christ as a result. And then there's another group that we can also say, and that's Caesar's relatives itself. It could mean Caesar's relatives. Family members in Caesar's house. Who was the Caesar at that time? Nero. Remember how cruel he was? He poisoned his own brother and watched him die with no emotion. And then he uh tried to have his own mother drown in the sea, but she managed to escape. But later he uh had a servant finish the job with a sword, so he had his own mother killed. He was just a a a cruel tyrant. But did you know that the New Testament scholar J. B. Lightfoot did an extensive study of the names listed in Romans chapter 16? There's a lot of names there. and the names of the members of Caesar's household during the dating of Paul's time. So he he built these two lists, one from secular Roman history and one from Romans chapter 16, and he began to compare the names And he found some of the names listed in Romans 16 are the names of people, relatives, and the household of Caesar at that time. And some of them then obviously had come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. For example, while Nero was out of town, his wife listened to the Christian gospel message. And she was converted and turned her life over to Christ. When Nero returned home and found that his wife had become a Christian, it enraged him. I mean his anger was just, it knew no bounds. And being filled with rage, he ordered her to be beheaded. The gospel knows no boundaries. It can overcome any barrier. It can shatter the greatest darkness. The darker The the the night, the greater the light of the gospel shines and overcomes and shatters that darkness. It spreads, and you can't keep it from spreading. That's the power of the gospel. That's the beauty of the gospel. Let me give you this one thing. Then the provision of the gospel. Look at verse twenty-three the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. And the gospel is the gospel of God Grace, God's favor, God's love. It's all about the grace that is given to us through our Lord Jesus Christ. That's the beauty of the gospel. So let me close with this. When George Bush was Vice President of the United States, he went to the funeral service of the Soviet leader at that time, Leonid Brezhnev. And Bush was while he was at their funeral service, he was deeply moved by something that he saw. It was a silent protest carried out by Brezhnev's widow. She stood motionless at the coffin. And right before it was closed, right before the soldiers reached their hands up to close the lid on the coffin of her husband, she went close to the body and she made a little cross sign. over the body of her husband, the sign of the cross. And Bush remembered thinking that that gesture was one of the most profound acts of civil disobedience he had ever seen She reached down and made that cross sign on her husband's chest. There in that citadel of atheism, the wife of the man who had run it all was a person who believed in Jesus Christ. Christ and in the power of the cross and in the power of the resurrection. You see, the gospel can go anywhere. It has the power to change anyone. It is not limited by man whatsoever And that is the message that we get to preach and share. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this beautiful gospel that you've given us. This incredible message. Father, help us to be faithful to it all the days of our life, to share it whenever you give us opportunity, to never be ashamed of the gospel of Christ. And we We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.