Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, the book of Ephesians, chapter number one. And would you please stand for the reading of God's word? We're going to read a few verses, verses thirteen and verse fourteen. We'll read that. Follow along as I read. Verse 13. In whom ye also trusted After that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also after that ye believed, ye were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession unto the praise of his glory. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me today? Father, thank you for the rich truth of Scripture, and thank you, Lord, for this wonderful epistle of Ephesians that reminds us of the riches we have in Christ. Lord, please enlighten us and help us to understand these things that it may change how we walk as Christians. So bless the word to our hearts, Father. Use it for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So we've been studying the book of Ephesians, and we, as I told you before, the theme of the book of Ephesians is our riches in Christ. When we open up the letter to the Ephesians, We see the treasure chest of all the blessings that God has given to God's people in this letter, especially here in chapter number one. And one of the great blessings of salvation, one of the treasures that we find in the treasure chest of salvation, is that of security. It is knowing that you are saved. It is knowing that you are secure. Many Christians struggle, seem to struggle with this whole issue. A man was flying as a passenger on a four-engine plane. The pilot came over to the speaker and he said, ladies and gentlemen, Uh I'm sorry to tell you that we lost one of our engines, but don't worry, we can still fly with three. We'll just be fifteen minutes late. Then he came over to the speaker about a few minutes later and said, ladies and gentlemen, I'm regret to inform you that we lost another engine on our plane. But that's okay. We can fly with two engines, but we're going to be a half hour late. And then later he came over the speaker again. He said, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very sorry, but we lost engine number three. That's okay, we can fly with one engine, but we're gonna be 45 minutes late. And then the passenger looked to the guy next to me and said, Man, I hope we don't lose that fourth engine. We could be up here all night That's called a false security. If you're saved and you're in Christ, your salvation is secure. And you're being carried to heaven not by a four engine plane, but by three persons of the Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit In this matter of salvation, Paul is showing us how the Trinity is involved in our salvation. In verses three to six of chapter one, we see the role of the Father. He adopted us. He chose us as his spiritual children. He accepted us in the beloved. In verses 7 to 12, Paul emphasizes the work of the Son. He redeemed us with his precious blood. He forgave us. He enlightens us to know his will. And then also he has given us an inheritance. And now in verses 13 and 14, we see the work of the Holy Spirit in our salvation. And what he does to secure us. One of the great works of the Holy Spirit is securing our salvation. This is why, as a believer, you will never lose it. But in the role of salvation and the gospel, I want you to see three areas that Paul mentions here in these verses. First of all, the Spirit works in the gospel of our salvation. Notice again verse 13. In whom Ye also trusted after ye heard the word of truth. The word of truth is the message of the gospel of salvation. And beloved, this is man's greatest need today. Make no mistake about it. Well a lot of people have theories and ideas on what the greatest need of man is. The intellectualist says man needs education The socialist says man needs social reform. The activist says, you know, we just need to get busy and do a whole lot more things. The politician says it's better government. But none of these things deals with the core issue. Philosophy has no answer to man's greatest need. Someone said a philosopher is a blind man in a dark room looking for a black cat that doesn't exist. And the problem is he finds it. Sigmund Freud said the greatest need of man is that his standards are too high. And the answer, the solution, is just lower the standards. That's why man has guilty trying to follow these high standards. And then a man came behind him and said, No, the problem of man is that he's a victim of his environment. Uh we have to change the environment. That's the solution. And then a man came behind him called Rogers and said, No, the problem with man is that he needs encouragement and motivation. If man was just more motivated and encouraged, that's the solution. But that's all man's wisdom and it fails really to deal with the core issue that man has. The answer is not in man's wisdom. Man's wisdom is empty. There's only one book that tells us the problem of man, and that's the Bible It diagnoses man correctly. And as I look into the book of Genesis, I find out that the problem with man is not that his standards are too high because God only gave him one standard in the beginning. He said to Adam, Don't eat fruit off that one tree And the problem with man was not he was a victim of his environment because he had a perfect environment when God created him. And the problem with man was not that he lacked encouragement or motivation because God walked with Adam and Eve every day. I can't think of a better encouragement or motivation than that. What was man's problem? Man's problem was that he sinned against God. That's the problem with man. It is the sin problem. That's the whole issue. Once the great preacher Adrian Rogers was uh flying on a plane, he sat next to a Washington lawyer. They struck up a conversation. The Lord said, Hey, what do you do for a living? He said, Oh, I'm a minister, I'm a preacher. He said, Oh, wow. You get to address all the problems of man. And Adrian Roger said, Man only has three problems, sin, sorrow, and death. And the lawyer said, Oh no, he's got a lot more problems than that. And Adrian Rogers said, I tell you what, you think about it, if you can think of another problem that doesn't come under one of those three headings, let me know. And the lawyer put his analytical mind to it and after a few minutes he looked at Adrian Rogers and said, Manna has only three problems, sin, sorrow, and death. But I would like to even reduce it more. Man's one problem is sin because sorrow and death comes from sin. And that's the whole issue with man. It is the problem of sin. And the answer to that sin problem is salvation through Jesus Christ. And the Spirit, his work is to bring the wonderful message of salvation to lost men. to give you the gospel of salvation. And he aids in three areas. Three areas. First of all, hearing, in whom you also trusted after you heard the word of truth. This is what the Holy Spirit does first is he exposes the sinner to the message of the gospel. And he could use a Christian to witness, he could use a preacher, but he will expose that person to the message of the gospel. And then he will open the sinner's ears to hear the truth of the gospel. That's what Paul said about a woman named Lydia. Actually it was Luke in the book of Acts who wrote and talked about how that they went to Philippi, Paul, and Silas and Luke and this woman, her heart was open and she heard the message of the gospel. And that's what the Holy Spirit does You have to hear. But then also there is conviction. Conviction. Write down John 16, 8. And when he has come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness. and of judgment. He said that the work of the Holy Spirit is to convict us in three areas. Number one, of sin. First of all, he convicts the sinner of his sin. That's where it begins. Most people don't get saved because they don't think they need salvation. They don't realize what a sinner they are And so the Holy Spirit does the work of confronting the sinner with his sin, with his unbelief. That's the work of the Spirit. And then of righteousness. That is to say, he convicts the sinner of his lack of righteousness. Everybody likes to think that they're good enough for God. They like to rehearse their works before God. But the work of the Holy Spirit is to rip back the facade of self righteousness and expose the sinner to his true condition uh condition, which is he has fallen short of God's righteousness. And then he convicts of judgment. He convicts the sinner that there's a judgment that is going to come. And that he has to stand before a holy God. And he brings a holy fear into the sinner's heart of standing there before the Lord. And so he the sinner wants to run to the gospel for help because of the convicting work of the Holy Spirit. And then there's believing. We are given the ability to believe by the work of the Spirit of God in our heart. And believing these two to make a full uh confession that is to br to to put our full faith and trust in Jesus Christ And his finished work. Uh the missionary John Payton went to the South Sea Islands. He went to a people that had no written language. And first of all, he had to learn the language, and then he had to reduce their language to writing, and then he had to translate the scriptures into that language, and then he had to teach the people how to read their own language. So they could read the scriptures. And while he was translating the Bible into their language, he was trying to find a word for believe. Came across this word about believing in the gospel, believing in the Lord Jesus. For whosoever believeth on him shall not perish and he was looking for the native word for believe and he was struggling with finding it and while he was doing the translation one of the natives ran into a study and just threw himself down on the chair completely rested on that chair out of breath And John Payton said, what is the word for what you're doing? What is the word for what you're doing? Because that the weight of that person was completely on that chair, his feet was even off the ground. He was fully dependent on that chair. And that is the word that John Payton used to translate the word believe. And that's really what the word believe is. It is putting our full faith and trust in what Jesus Christ did. But that is the work of the Holy Spirit And the hearing, and the convicting, and the believing, that is what the Holy Spirit helps the sinner to do. But here's the second work. Not only the gospel of our salvation, but also number two, the guarantee. of our salvation. Look again in verse number 13. In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also after that ye believed Here's the next part. You were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. And this is one of the great works of the Holy Spirit, is sealing us or securing us in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, sadly, there are many believers and many denominations today that teach the erroneous message that a believer can lose their salvation Rather than resting in the security of the Spirit, they teach that believers can't be sure that they're going to go to heaven. That they can lose their salvation, and the result of that is that people live in constant fear of an uncertain future. But let me tell you something: securing our salvation, that is not the believer's work, that's the Holy Spirit's work. That's why I know I can't lose my salvation. It's not really my work that's keeping me saved. It is the security of the Holy Spirit. That is what He is doing in me. You see, I wouldn't trust the best fifteen minutes of my life to keep me saved. I cannot hold on to in my own strength what I could never attain in my own strength to begin with. That is all the work of the Holy Spirit. And so Paul uses two illustrations to explain this, how that as a believer, once you're saved, you are secure. And he uses the illustration of a seal. First of all, the seal. Again, he says in verse number 13, ye were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. So it's very clear you are sealed in Christ. Remember the key phrase in Philippi in Ephesians. Is that you are in Christ. Once you come to him, you're a savior in him. And when you're in Christ, you're sealed in Christ. That is to say, you can't fall out of Christ. The illustration I love to use is Noah and the Ark. When Noah and his family got on board that Ark, what does the Bible say? God shut the door. And when God shuts the door, beloved, a man can't open it. And the only other opening in that ark was the windows at the top for ventilation. So Noah and his family couldn't fall up. They couldn't get out those windows. They were sealed inside of that ark. Now, Noah, he could fall down in the ark, but he could not fall out of the ark. And beloved, you could fall down in Christ, but you can't fall out of Christ. And the reason is that is because you are sealed by the Holy Spirit. Jesus said it like this My sheep hear my voice, I know them, they follow me, I give them eternal life, they shall never perish. Neither shall anyone pluck them out of my father's hand. You are in better hands than all state Because you are in God the Father's hands. No one can pluck you out of the Father's hands. No person can take you out. No force can take you out. Because you are in the hand of God the Father. And so Paul uses this illustration of a seal. Now the seal that Paul is alluding to here in Ephesians is a um what they would use to seal documents. What they would do is they would take hot wax. And they would melt it onto a document or a scroll, and then they would seal that hot wax with an official seal, maybe it was from the government of Rome. a Roman seal. You remember that the tomb of Jesus was sealed with a government seal from Rome. They would seal letters or maybe a a king would use a signet ring or a government official would use a signet ring. that basically uh describe the fact that this was an official seal and only the right person can open it. So the seal then is what Paul's referring to. And Paul is saying, look, when you were placed in Christ, you were sealed by the Holy Spirit in Christ. Now, what did the seal convey? The Roman seal conveyed four things. First of all, they sealed something to guarantee the genuine character of it The genuine character of the document. Even in our day, a notary public uses a seal to guarantee the genuineness of the signature. That's what the Holy Spirit does. He comes into our lives. He lives in us, and he gives us the evidence that we are genuine Christians. And what is the evidence of that? What is the evidence that the Holy Spirit has worked in you and that you are genuinely a believer? Well, you know, there are again there are different denominations that they're t teaching different ideas about this. But Paul's very clear here. The seal is that you heard the gospel, you heard the salvation, you recognize it. And also you believed, not believed past tense, but believing present tense. Right now, you are believing and trusting in Jesus and Him alone as your source of salvation. Amen? Is that where you are? That's the work of the Holy Spirit. And then he replaces our despair with the hope of the promise of the gospel. And we can begin to enjoy all of the riches that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the Holy Spirit does his work of producing fruit in us. All of those are genuine evidences that you belong to God. But then also a seal was used to mark ownership. Stealing would show who the owner was, who this person or thing belonged to Now in Ephesus, this was very familiar because it was at Ephesus that crates were sealed with the imprints of merchants before they were sent out over the Aegean Sea onto the market. And so the Ephesians would understand this. We still mark things today to show ownership. You know, people sometimes ask me to borrow a book out of my library. I've lost more books that way. So now when people ask me for a book I just kiss it goodbye, I say I'll nice having you. But I b I bought this little seal With the ink pad, you know, I can just take this field, put it on the ink pad, and then stamp it on the front page of the book. Property of Jerry R. Harmon. If you have a book in your library, I want you to open it up and look at the front page of it. And if my name is on that book, I want you to bring it back to me. That seal shows ownership. And by the way, I'll give you back your books that I stole from you too. But that's what the Holy Spirit does with the believer. The moment that you come to know Jesus Christ You are sealed. And God is saying, this person belongs to me. You are mine. It marks ownership. But also, a seal is used to protect against tampering or harm. We put locks on boxes to keep people from tampering from the d with the documents that are on the inside. That's what the Holy Spirit does. He comes into our lives. He lives. He keeps us from being tampered with by the uh by Satan or things like that. Spirit world. He protects us. Sometimes people ask me, you know, can a believer be demon-possessed? And my answer is always emphatically, no. Because you're sealed with the Holy Spirit. And a demon's not going to come to live in you if the Holy Spirit lives inside of you. And John said this in 1 John 5 8 Whosoever is born of God, that wicked one that is Satan touches him not. Now don't get me wrong, Satan can do a lot of things. He can get you to believe lies, he can work wiles in your life, but he can't uh move in. He can't God will not allow that because you're sealed with the Holy Spirit. But also, a seal is used to indicate that the transaction was complete. Today when we complete an uh an agreement, what do we do? We put our signature on a document to show that that it's final, it's complete In the same way in the ancient world, when a deal was done, they would put a seal indicating the completion. And again, that's what the Holy Spirit does for us. That seal means that our salvation is final. And he gives us the inner assurance that we belong to God. That's why Paul wrote in Romans 8:16: the spirit bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. And so, Paul, to demonstrate this wonderful work of securing us in Christ, he uses the illustration of a seal. You are sealed by the Spirit of God until the day of redemption. But then he uses another illustration, a down payment. Look at verse 14. Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of our of the purchased possession. Under the praise of his glory. When it says the earnest of our inheritance, the word earnest here is a word that means a down payment or a deposit. Or we could say a first installment. You see, the Holy Spirit serves as a pledge or the down payment on our inheritance. On the fact that we have an inheritance in Christ. I've told you before, you have a rich inheritance waiting for you as a child of God. And you say, well, how do I know that I have that inheritance? Well, because the down payment's already been made. Where's the down payment? Well, it's the Holy Spirit living in you. That's the guarantee of your future glory. Of your the ultimate completion of your salvation and you receiving that eternal inheritance that God has laid up for you in heaven. That's you've the down payment's already been made, beloved. You say, what's the inheritance? Well I don't have time to tell you all about it, but I can tell you one thing. Your brand new resurrection body is part of it. You have a brand new b you're gonna get a brand new body. The Bible says this, 2 Corinthians 5. 1. For we know that if our earthly house or this tabernacle were dissolved, that is this tent right here, if we fold this tent. We have a building of God not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. That is, Paul is saying that, you know, this outward man is perishing, but don't worry about that. Because we have another house that's God's going to make for us. That's what it means, eternal in the heavens. Not made with human hands. It is a work of Almighty God. We're living in this house right now, but we're going to move out and move into another house. I read about John Quincy Adams, the former president. He was eighty years of age and someone said, How is John Quincy Adams doing today? And John Quincy Adams says, Oh well John Quincy Adams is doing well. He said, but the house that he's living in is not doing so well He knew the Bible. He knew that the Bible calls this body here a home, a house. And John Quincy said, You know, very soon I think I'm going to be moving out. And getting a new house, and that's true. We have a building of God not made with hands. Listen to what 2 Corinthians 5 goes on to say Verse 5. Now he that has wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, who has given us the earnest of the Spirit. Same exact word there in 2 Corinthians 5. The earnest, the down payment. How do I know that I'm going to have a new house, a brand new resurrected body? Well, because the down payment's already been made on that house. And the down payment is the Holy Spirit. The earnest of this thing, Paul said. It is the Spirit of God that lives in you. That's part of your inheritance. That's part of your future glory. Another part of it is uh your mansion in heaven. You know, Jesus is preparing a place for you in heaven. That is literal You will have a place in heaven. It's yours. It's guaranteed. The down payment has been made. That's why, that's how I know I can't lose my salvation. You'll never get to heaven and go down the street in heaven and see all these empty mansions with a sign on the front that says vacant. You say, well, what happened? Well, you know, they they lost their salvation. We were preparing this mansion for them, but they weren't able to hold on to their salvation, so now it's vacant. You know. You'll never see that in heaven. Because it's God who is securing you. And the down payment has already been made. It's a guarantee. That's part of your future inheritance there in heaven. And so the Holy Spirit works in the gospel of our salvation, helping us to believe, to hear the word of God, to be convicted. And then he works in the guarantee of our salvation. He seals us. He is the down payment of our future glory, our future inheritance. That's why I know I can't lose my salvation. But then finally the the last thing is the goal of our salvation. What's the goal of it? And this is a again a work of the Spirit. Look at verse 14, the last latter part. Unto the praise of his glory. Unto the praise of his glory. This is an even greater work of the Spirit. Not only to provide assurance to the believer but also to provide praise to the Father. Our salvation should result in our worship and praise of His glory. That's what we do. That's why we're here. Even on a cloudy Sunday, it shouldn't diminish our praise. of what God has done for us. And we see a pattern here in Ephesians, don't we? Remember I said verses 3 down to verse 14 is just one long sentence? And there's a pattern here in this sentence. In verses 3 to 6, Paul talks about the riches which are ours that come from God the Father. But verse 6 ends like this: to the praise of the glory of his grace. And then in verses 7 to 12, Paul talks about the riches that are ours from Christ. And then he concluded in verse 12 to the phrase of his glory. And then in verses 13 and 14, Paul is talking about the riches which come from the Holy Spirit, which is our security, sealing us in Christ. He secures us in Christ. And what's the result of that, verse 14, to the praise of his glory? All of it leads to the praise of the glory of God. When we're looking at these treasures in the treasure chest, all of them should lead us to say, praise God. Praise God for His grace. Thank God for His grace. Praise to the Father. Praise to the Son. Praise to the Holy Spirit. It is the Father who selected us, it is the Son who saved us, it is the Holy Spirit that sealed us. And all these things are part of the treasure that we have as believers in Christ. And so we, because of that, we we get give God praise. That is the work of God in salvation. That is part of us discovering the treasure that you and I have in the Lord Jesus Christ. So now you're not going to praise God unless you understand these things. And that's why Paul's showing this. Paul's saying, look, I want you to realize this. Because believers they don't get it. And again, there's some believers out there wondering about their security. Listen, that's part of the treasure. You know, some of these denominations that say you can lose your salvation, you just need to read Ephesians 1. And study it. That's part of my treasure. Don't take away my treasure. I am secure by the Holy Spirit. My inheritance is guaranteed. My future glory is guaranteed. My resurrection body is guaranteed. And it's not because of me holding on to it, it's because Christ is holding on to me. The Spirit of God has sealed me in Jesus Christ I am sealed until the day of redemption. And again in verse 14, the redemption of the purchased possession unto the praise of his glory. So look into your treasure chest and take out this treasure of the Holy Spirit and praise God for His grace, the grace that He's working in your life, sealing you. So Do you understand that? And do you get that? And are you in Christ? Are you certain of that? Because if you are, friend. You are blessed. You are blessed. And again, that's the whole point of what Paul is saying here in this whole long, the longest sentence in the Bible. Verses 3 down to verse 14. How blessed you are if you are in Him. Let's bow for prayer together this morning. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want you just to ask yourself, am I in Christ? Am I in Him? Has the Holy Spirit convicted me of my sin, of my self-righteousness, that is to say, my lack of righteousness, that I have nothing to offer? Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. The Holy Spirit convicts us of our sin, of our self-righteousness. strips away all the pretense, shows us that we are nothing, that we can bring nothing. He convicts us of judgment that is to come, that we have to stand before God. And and in that condition we are in danger 'cause We're sinners. But it's the Holy Spirit that points us to Christ as our only refuge. Our only resource is Christ Have you run to Him? Have you put your full faith in Christ? Are you fully resting in what Jesus did for you on the cross? If you could say yes to that, guess what? You're sealed. That's it. You're in him, and you won't lose it. That's part of the treasure. And what should the result be, you should give him praise and honor and glory. Thank him for this wonderful treasure of security Your salvation is secure. If you're here today and you say, I'm not, I can't honestly say with full assurance that I'm in Christ, well then I'm giving you the opportunity right now to reach out in faith. Reach out right now. Right where you are. God can hear your thoughts. And if you just reach out and say, Jesus, I am a sinner. I have no righteousness of my own. There's nothing I can offer. No way I can pay for my own salvation. Jesus, save me. Save me. Forgive me. I put my full faith in what you did for me on the cross. That's the gospel. Christ died for our sins. He rose again the third day. Which shows that the price for sin was satisfied. God the Father was satisfied with the sacrifice of Christ. Your sins have been paid for by Jesus. Put your faith in his finished work. Father, thank you again for your word and the sealing work of the Holy Spirit of God. What a treasure that is. To know that I'm safe in Christ. Once I put my faith in Him, I can't ever lose that. Because the grace that saves me is the grace that seals me. And Lord, give everyone this wonderful assurance that it would lead to the praise and worship from our hearts to you. Each day of our life, and we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name, Amen