Would you take your Bibles please open to the book of Revelation? We now come to Revelation chapter three. As you know on Sunday nights we're going through this wonderful letter. And it is a book that has so much in it. And um we're just going to go through it uh paragraph by paragraph and and see what we can learn. And we're in the section of Revelation where Jesus is speaking to the seven churches of Asia Minor. Now if you haven't been with us in our study, uh just let me uh give you a little bit of a background. The book of Revelation was written By John, the John the Beloved, John the Apostle, while he was in on a penal colony, a island called Patmas And uh he was there, the Bible says, for the testimony of the Lord. Um in fact in chapter one, verse number nine, John says I I John, who am also your brother and companion in tribulation and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the Isle that is called Patmas for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. John was there because He w refused to compromise the word of God, and uh he was there as a prisoner under the reign of Domitian And so it was during this time when John was on this aisle that he received a vision from the Lord. And he tells us in verse 10 he was in the spirit on the Lord's day. That would be On a Sunday. Perhaps he was meditating by himself there. And while he was there, he got a vision of the Lord. Now before he got a vision, he heard a voice. He says in verse number 10, as a great trumpet, as a great voice of a trumpet, I should say in verse 11, I am the Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, and what thou seest, write in a book. And send it to the seven churches which are in Asia, under Ephesus, under Smyrna, under Pergamus, under Thyatira, under Sardis, under Philadelphia, and under Laothesia. And so this is the first part where Jesus has a message for each of these seven churches. And the message that Jesus gives to these churches are things that we need to look at and apply to our own life, not only as a church congregationally, but also as Christians individually, we need to look at and examine what the Lord says there. and look at our own life and see if some of the words that Jesus gave to these churches can apply to us. Sometimes the Lord Does nothing but commend the church. We looked at the church at Smyrna. It was a church that was going through much persecution, and Jesus had nothing but words of comfort and commendation for them. But then we looked at the church at Ephesus. That was actually the first church, and a church like that, the Lord commends their works, but also he saw something that he said he had against them. That was they left their first love. And we learn from that that there's no replacement for loving Christ preeminently in our life. And then we also looked at the church at Pergamus, and we found that this was a church that had compromised and had married the world, we could say, and were not standing firm. They were holding to the doctrine of Balaam And they were also holding to the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, and the Lord tells them to repent quickly and to get their heart right. And then we looked at the church at Fayatira. And uh this is a church that was corrupted by a woman, and Jesus named her Jezebel. That wasn't her real name, but it was a woman who claimed to be a prophetess. who was speaking to the people in the church saying, look, you know what, it's okay to go into those pagan temples and eat meat and do the other things in there. The Lord told me it was okay for you to do that. And Jesus said that you suffer this woman Jezebel to teach and to teach others to commit adultery and to eat meat, sacrifice to idols in the Lord uh rebuked this church for allowing that to go on and also called them to repent. Now we come to the church at Sardis. Look in chapter three, look in verse one. Under the angel of the church in Sardis, right These things saith he that hath the seven spirits of God and the seven stars, I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest and art dead. And so our Lord starts off saying about this church, you're dead. I hope that the I never hear those words from the Lord. about me personally in my own spiritual life or about the church or any ministry that you are dead. You have a name that lives, but you are dead. Those are terrible words to hear from our Lord. Now, why did Jesus say this? And that's what we're going to look at here tonight. And so I've titled the Sermon Tonight, The Autopsy of a Dead Church. Let me talk to you a little bit about Sardis, the city, because it matters that we understand the city. Sardis was the capital of Lydia. It was founded in 1200 BC. The original city sat on top of a a of a plateau, a high plateau, about fifteen hundred feet high. There was only one narrow road that you could use to get into the city there. On the other side of that road were steep cliffs on each side. And because it was situated that way, the people in the city felt safe. They felt that the city was invincible. They felt that there was no real enemy that could come and could overtake them because they had that one entrance, that one gate to guard, and they could do that very well. And so For most of the life of this of that city and the citizens in it, they felt pretty secure with their location there Uh just a little trivia here in case you're ever on Jeopardy. Um Sardis was the home of ASAP, or ASAP's fables. Am I saying that right? Uh did your mom read you those when you were little? Uh my mother never read them to me, but I heard that they're pretty good. And so this was the home of that man who wrote all those fables for children. Also another thing here about Sardis was that this was the place where gold and silver coins were first minted. It was Very famous for that. In fact, the city of Sardis was very wealthy under a king by the name of Croatius. Um you maybe have heard of as wealthy as Croatius. It comes from this city here. Now by the time John comes along, in John's day, the city, however, had the declined, and it was a shell of what it once was. In fact, by the time of John's day, the people in the city had grown pretty apathetic. They were very affluent, and if you're not carrying careful excuse me, affluence can affect you, and you can become pretty indifferent about things. pretty complacent and the city went into a decline and so really the city uh was proud of its past but It was in a time of decline. Now, apparently the the church and Sardis had adopted that kind of atmosphere, the atmosphere of the city. where it was really living on its past days, on its past glory, because seemingly that's what's going on here with this church. Because notice again what Jesus said in verse number one in the last phrase. I know thy works that thou hast a name that livest And are dead. You might have a name that is alive. You might have a reputation of being alive, but actually you're not alive. You're dead. You might look alive. But you're not. You're dead. When I was over in London, uh we took my two grandsons, Theo's four and um Owen is two, and we went to this museum where they had all these animals that were stuffed. uh wild animals that have been captured and stuffed and put in a uh uh a display where they looked like they were in their natural habitat And uh they looked incredibly real. And after going through there for a while, Theo said, Paul, Paul, I want to go somewhere where they're alive. I want to see animals that are alive. There's a sense in which the church at Sardis looked alive. It had all the outward appearance of being alive, but it was not alive. It was dead. And why? So I want you to consider the words of our Lord. Number one, think about the great physician's pronouncement. Think about that with me. Notice how Jesus comes and he introduces himself to this church. He comes To this church as the one who has the seven spirits of God in verse number one, these things saith he that hath the seven spirits Now we know that there's symbolism in the book of Revelation, but these symbols have a literal truth. The number seven in the Bible is a number that always seems to indicate completion or fullness or perfection. And the fact that Jesus mentions the seven spirits of God. Oh, and also, by the way, whenever you're in the book of Revelation and you see a symbol, you can almost always go right back to the Old Testament and see that symbol somewhere in the Old Testament. There's a sense in which the book of Revelation is almost a puzzle in that way because when you see the symbol What you automatically ought to do is think, hey, where do I see this in the Old Testament? Because John will bring things out of the Old Testament and use them as symbols here. Our Lord does that here. where he says the seven spirits. Well in Isaiah 11. 2 there is a verse there that speaks about the sevenfold ministry of the Holy Spirit And all that the Holy Spirit is able to do. And so this is speaking real really about the power of the Holy Spirit and the fullness of the Holy Spirit. And this is a reminder that the churches were to operate not under the power of human skill or human leadership or organization. All those things are important, but that's not the thing that drives the church. What drives the church? is a church that ministers dependent upon the power of the Holy Spirit. Friend, if we ever stop depending upon the Holy Spirit, we're in trouble. If we start depending upon ourselves, our own ingenuity, our own skills, then we might have a name that lives, but we will die. And so this is a reminder that we are dependent upon that Holy Spirit. And so Jesus says He is the one that hath the seven spirits of God. And notice the next phrase, and the seven stars. Now you remember the seven stars represent the, I think, the pastors of these churches, or the leadership in these churches. They are the messengers to whom the people uh who who actually bring to people the word of God, I should say. And so there's a sense then in which there is a uh a relationship here between the seven spirits and the seven stars. God wants his church to function through the power of the Holy Spirit, but he expects the leadership of the church to walk in that power of the Spirit, to be dependent upon the Holy Spirit, like Zechariah 4. 6 says, not by might, not by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord It seems to be implying here that perhaps the Church at Tardis may be operating without depending upon the Holy Spirit of God This is a message that we need to remind ourselves about over and over again. We need to constantly pray for the fullness of the Holy Spirit. We need to be yielding ourselves to the Holy Spirit. On Wednesday night when we pray together as a church, you know what we should be praying for? For the power of the Holy Spirit to do the work, to convict hearts, to save the lost, to bless all of our ministries. We can do all these things that we do. We can put in all these programs and things like that. And these things are wonderful. But friends, if we depend on those things, we're in trouble. We need to depend upon the power of the Holy Spirit to do the work. And so here Jesus comes then and he proclaims here his deity. But then also we see him proclaiming his discernment, where he says, I know thy works. Now this is familiar to us because This is normally the way Jesus introduces himself to these churches. He reminds the people in the church that he is the one who sees all and knows all. And he sees the works that are done. And our Lord Jesus looks below the surface of just the outward works. He looks at the heart He knows our heart. He sees us as individuals and he discerns what we do. It's not enough that we do the right thing. We should be doing it for the right reason. And let me remind you that we do what we do for the glory of God and the glory of Christ. Because we'll have the Lord watching us and he knows our heart. But then also I say he comes proclaiming his diagnosis here. Again he says, I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest. And are dead. Again, the the they're busy, they're working. From all outward appearances everything looks as as if it ought to. It seemed things were good But the great physician placed his finger on the pulse of the church and he pronounces them dead. He says, you're dead And so again, this is very troubling. Very troubling. You know, I was reading where about the polar star. Astronomers tell us that it takes 33 years from light, from that star to reach Earth. Thirty-three years for that light to reach here. And for all we know, that star could have burnt out about twenty years ago. And it could be dead. And yet we're still seeing the light from that star. We look up in the sky and see the light and think it's alive, but actually that star is dead. And that might be an apt analogy for this church. They seemed like they were alive, but they were not. It reminds me of the Old Testament character Samson. You remember his story? He was a man who was a judge of Israel. God raised up judges during a certain time when Israel disobeyed. God punished them through another nation. When they repented, God would raise up a judge that would deliver them. And we know the story of Samson. God raised him up to uh basically deliver the people of Israel from the Philistines and he was a champion, he was filled with the Holy Spirit, he was incredibly strong, physically strong. And while he was walking in obedience and keeping his Nazarite vows, he was a powerful force that the Philistines couldn't overcome. But when he began to compromise, and when he basically uh lost touch with the source of his strength And allowed himself to be tempted and seduced by Delilah. And she cut his hair. You remember that story how that she got him to tell her the secret of his strength And he said, you know, if you cut my hair, I'll be like any other man. And sh and indeed she did do that, and indeed he did lose his strength, but it wasn't because his hair was cut, it was actually a symbolic of the fact that Samson, by compromising and sinning against God, had cut himself off from the very source of strength from God And the sad part of that story was where it said Samson got up, he heard the Philistines come, Samson, the Philistines are on thee. He got up, and he thought he would go out and conquer them just like other times. But the Bible says he wished not that the Lord had departed from him. He had lost all of his power, he lost all of his strength, and he didn't even realize it. We should uh be careful that similar things don't happen in our life. That we're walking in the fullness of the Spirit, we're yielded to God. We've we're obeying the Lord and very insidiously, very subtly, we begin to compromise our principles. We begin to allow sin to enter into our heart, and before we know it, we're weak, and we're just like anyone else. because we're not walking in obedience to the Lord. And so here's this church, kind of like Samson. They did not know that the Spirit of God was no longer empowering them for their work. They were living on past victories. But let me give you the second thing. We see the great physician's pronouncement. But then number two, the great physician's prescription. Look in verse number two. He says to them, be watchful. And strengthen the things which remain, that are ready to die. For I have not found thy works perfect before God. Now the Church of Sardis is in sad shape, but all is not lost. It appears that there is still some hope for them. If they make some changes, they can get back to what they once were. That's the thing about God. He's such a merciful God. He's always a God of the second chance. He always gives us opportunity to repent. And it's and a turn. And besides that, there were also some in Sardis that did not defile their garments, it says, Look at verse 4. Thou hast a few names, even in Sardis, which have not defiled their garments. And they shall walk with me in way, for they are worthy. Now, whatever the problem is, there were some that didn't succumb to that problem. There were some that didn't compromise, there were some that didn't defile their garments, and the Lord points them out What does that mean? Well the garment here in the Bible, again, I think it's symbolic in it often in the Bible, a garment refers to a person's spiritual character. We see that analogy in the Bible often. For example, listen to Isaiah 64 6. All our righteousness are as what Filthy rags, right? Speaking about the spiritual character of a person. And Judah says we are too speaking of the world and things of the world. Hate the garment spotted by the flesh. You know what's interesting to me as you study the life of Saul, the King Saul in the Old Testament, you can almost trace his life in the story of the Old Testament, and I think the writer is even doing this some. You can see his spiritual condition based on his clothing. I know that sounds crazy, but think about this. When Saul was humble and God chose him to be king, he was given the royal garments and he wore them. And that was a symbol of God choosing him to be the king. But later on, he kind of gives up his responsibility. Remember when Goliath came out challenging the armies of Israel? And he was such a big guy. No one wanted to face him on the battlefield. And here came David, and David said, Look, I'll go take him. You know, is there not a cause? And what does Saul do? Saul says, Oh no, David, this is my responsibility. Let me take care of this No, he doesn't do that. What does he do? He says, Here David, here's my armor. Here, you wear it. The fact that he's willing to take off his royal armor And put it on this little boy here, let him go out and face the giant. And by the way, it didn't fit David. He took a few steps and the armor didn't move. It was too big for him. So he said, I'll just go out there with my sling and my stones. But the very fact that Saul took off his armor and gave it up is symbolic of him passing off responsibility that was his. That was his responsibility. That was his role. And he gave it up. And David, of course, had a great victory. But then later on we find after Saul disobeys the Lord, And there's that little scene there where Saul grabs Samuel's robe and Samuel walks away and it he he he rents the garment and God says, God's rent the kingdom from you. And then later on The Bible says the Spirit of the Lord comes upon Saul and he does something very, very unusual. The Bible says that he stripped off his royal garments. And he lay all night in Ramah naked, and naked might not be completely naked. It just means that he took off all his royal garments and he was just laying there with just his undergarments, but he had stripped them all off. All the way, and that was under the control of the Holy Spirit. What does that symbolize? That God had completely rejected him from being the king. Under the Holy Spirit those garments were stripped off. And then of course later we see while Saul is in a cave and David's hiding there, Saul comes into uh to relieve himself there from the hot sun and so on. And while he's in there, what does David do? He cuts off just a little bit of the robe, which again is symbolic. That the kingdom is being taken away. So to me it's it's it's interesting how that there's that dynamic going on there, and it goes back to this idea of uh one's garments speaking about their spiritual character And here Jesus uses that when he talks about this church, and he says, you know, there are some in this church who have not defiled their garments, which implies that there were some in the church that had. There were some in the church that had defiled their garments. And the Lord is speaking to them. How do believers do that? You know, I'm the classic person for getting food on me when I eat. I've run more ties going out to eat after church. I I I I don't know why, but I just every time my wife almost times it. The time I start eating. In about ten minutes he's gonna ruin his shirt or his tie, you know. Um I remember when uh the day I got married, I was wearing a white tuxedo on my wedding day. Completely white. I looked good. I did. And here I was in this white tuxedo and uh it was right before the wedding, and I someone asked for help to get something out of a car and I went to get it out of the car and when I did, my knees scraped against the side of the car. And when I did that, there was a big black soiled spot there. That just stood out. It was terrible. And here I was getting ready to go get married and I had this white tuxedo that is now defiled. with this big black mark on it. It was terrible. I panicked. Thank God there was a woman there in the church that knew exactly what to do. Calm down, calm down. She got some spot remover and she removed that defiled tuxedo and she made it white again And she saved the day there. I think about that when I think about what the Lord says here to this church, that there are some in this church how they defiled their garments. They defiled their garments. Now, how did they do that? Let me tell you, I think, exactly how they did it here in this church. You remember Jesus in his ministry, he said, I am the way, the truth. and the life. Nobody comes under the Father except through me, right? You know what we call that? We call that the exclusive nature of the gospel. There's only one way to heaven. It is through Jesus Christ. He is the only way. He is not a way. He is the way. He is the only way. Amen? And the Bible makes that very, very clear. And we saw how it that in the church uh and in the church of Pergamus and at Thyatira, believers were constantly under pressure to compromise Christ. Remember the Roman Empire would allow people to believe in their religion. They didn't mind you worshiping your own God. They just didn't want you worshiping your God exclusively. They wanted you to include others or just make your God one of many. And so you could worship Jesus as long as you didn't believe he was the only way. And as long as you burned incense in the imperial temple to Caesar every once in a while, you could go ahead and worship Jesus. And as long as you say that Jesus is just one of many, we will allow you to worship Jesus with no problem. And so what happened was we saw in the churches at Pergamus and at the church at Thyatira where there were believers that went ahead and compromised And they went ahead and went into those pagan temples on some of those festivals, and they participated in some of the things that went on there, eating meat sacrificed to idols. And there was all kind of immorality that went on in those places under the name of those uh Greco-Roman religions, those mystery religions that were part of the world in that day. And that's how they released the pressure Because after all, if they didn't compromise a little bit, they would lose their job, they wouldn't be able to function in the city, there would be all this hostility against them, and that's where Jezebel came in in the church at Ayatira She's the one who gave a word from the Lord and said, You know what, God said it's okay to go ahead and go into those temples when your trade union has a big festival And they want you to go in and worship the God Apollos, it's okay. Jesus said it's okay. Just go ahead and do that. That way you can get along with everyone. You can just get along and go along. That's what the Lord wants you to do. After all, we have to live in this city And we have to be at peace. And so she was teaching him to go ahead and compromise. Go ahead and go to those festivals and eat the meat and do the other things. And that's why the Lord was angry with the church at Pergamos and He was angry with the church at Thyratyra. But the believers at Sardis They had a different approach on how to relieve the pressure that was on them. And their approach was they just became inclusive. They simply included other religions in the way. They would just say, yeah, Jesus, we worship Jesus. Jesus is a way, but he's not the only way. And so they made the gospel inclusive. Instead of exclusive. And by doing that, you know what they did? They killed the power of the gospel. And they no longer had life. And the word that they preached no longer had life. And you think about that. When you do that to the gospel, when you water down the message of the gospel, you know what happens? Then you begin to attract people into your church that are not really saved, they have not been converted by the gospel of Jesus Christ. And you know what? We this is a real temptation in our day-to-day because you know what the world doesn't want to hear? They don't want to hear what I just said, that Jesus Christ is the only way. They say, Oh, you're so narrow-minded, you're so exclusive. And that's why the popular preachers that seem to be are those that go on these talk shows and say, oh, you know, they're asked questions. You know, I think I'm thinking about one preacher that was asked a question, you know, do you think that Jesus is the only way? Are there other ways to heaven? He goes, well, I can just tell you that for me, Jesus is the way, but there might be ways for other people. That's a terrible compromise. That's a horrible compromise. Jesus said, I am the way. There is no other way, other than Christ. And the moment you begin to, you know, get along and compromise that and go along. Then what you've done is you've killed the message of the gospel. When you remove the distinctives of the gospel, and you say, Well, I'm just trying to make the gospel non-offensive, let me tell you something. The gospel was designed to be offensive The gospel tells us, it starts out by telling us that we are all sinners. There is absolutely nothing we can do that can contribute to our salvation. The way that we get into heaven is by humbling ourselves, becoming poor in spirit. Realizing that we're wholly given over to sin, and the only way that we can have forgiveness is to turn to Jesus Christ who died for our sins on the cross. It was his finished work. That gave us salvation. Put our faith in Christ, in Christ alone. He is the only way. And the moment you remove that offense, then you've basically made the gospel weak And it has no more power. And I think that was what was going on here in this church. To deal with the pressure, they just simply No longer claimed the exclusive nature of the gospel. And what happened was after that there were others that got into the church that were not saved by the power of the gospel. And you know what? A dead church is a dead church is filled with people that are unregenerate. They're not saved. You might have a lot of activity. You might have a lot of things that are going on. The church can be busy. It can be like a merry-go-round. But you're not going anywhere. You're not really accomplishing anything. You got a lot of busyness, you got a lot of motion, got a lot of music going on, all this stuff, but Are the people there truly regenerated by the power of the gospel and the Holy Spirit of God? And I think this is what was happening there. There are some people that had defiled their garments by doing that. And yet Jesus says to them, however, there are some, however, that have not defiled themselves. But what does he tell this church to do? He commands them to watch. Look at verse 2: be watchful. Be watchful, don't get complacent. Wake up, is what we could say, wake up. Now, the people in Sardis would understand exactly what Jesus was talking about here. Because let me tell you what happened in the history of the city. And I think Jesus is alluding to this in the church, and everyone would understand when Jesus said, be watchful. In fact, he says 3. Remember therefore how thou hast received what thou hast received, heard and hold fast, repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come on thee as a thief Thou shalt not know the hour I will come upon thee. Again, what's the Lord referring to there? Watch. If you're not watchful, I'll come upon you unexpectedly as a thief. Did you know that again, remember Sardis is this city located on this high plateau uh about fifteen hundred feet high? There was a cliff on each side, there was one single road that went into the city. The people there felt that the city could not be penetrated by a a enemy army. And so therefore they they dwelt securely. But did you know that? That in this in the history of this city, there were two times when an enemy army was able to get in and destroy the city and take it over. You know why? Because on each of those occasions, the sentries at the gate fell asleep. Let me give you one occasion. This is when Cyrus the Persian was attacking the city The people again were not too concerned because of their situation. But one night one of the Persian soldiers was looking up At the gate of the city, and he happened to see one of the soldiers there at Sardis. He dropped his helmet over the wall. down into uh the ravine below, and he watched the soldier as he took a hidden path down the side of the mountain. to retrieve his helmet and then he watched the soldiers he went back up this hidden path into that entrance of the city And what happened was when nightfall came, Cyrus and his troops followed that hidden path up the side of the mountain. They entered into the city, because you know why? Again, the guards that were at the gate, they were asleep. because they thought no one would ever make it in. And so Sardis was conquered. Well, it happened again. Now after that, Sardis regained his former wealth under the reign of Alexander the Great. But then again in 1218 BC, Antiochus the Great this time was attacking the city. And uh He had some uh soldiers there that were trying to besiege the city, and they noticed that some vultures were camping around the wall, and they never flew away. And then they noticed some soldiers that were throwing dead bodies over the wall for the vultures to eat. And then they noticed that part of the wall was unprotected, that very part where they were throwing over the corpses. was unprotected. And so the Persians took the gate and went in and they took that s that city again through that part. that was basically unguarded, unprotected. And what Jesus does here is he reaches back into their history to remind them of that. And he makes a spiritual application. He says to the church, be watchful and don't be complacent. Don't fall asleep spiritually. Because if you do, if you do remain complacent, then I'm going to come like a thief. And so what's the message to us? We need as Christians to number one guard the gospel. We need to make sure that we never compromise the message of the gospel, that we never compromise the message of the Word of God And we need to be watchful in our own individual spiritual lives that we do not compromise in any way. And so the Lord commands them to watch and then notice what he tells them, they're commanded to work He says, Be watchful, strengthen the things which have remained, that are ready to die, for I have not found thy works perfect before God. He's asking them to revive these things, to strengthen the things that are about them, that is to hold on to the message that you have. And also he says to remember that is remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, he says in verse number three. And hold fast, he tells them to resolve. Hold on to the things that are alive. Hold on. And anytime you see that word hold fast in the Bible, it's Normally referring to sound doctrine. Hold on to what you first learned. Hold on to that gospel that you first received. Don't compromise it. In fact, hold on to it tightly. Strengthen the things that remain. And then he tells them to repent. Repent of what you have done. Repent of the sins wherever you sinned against God. Where you have allowed yourself your garments to be defiled. Repent. And then they're told to wait. He says, For I'll come on thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come. And so here's a war a warning to this church that the Lord gives. Now let me give you the third and final thing. We see the great physician's pronouncement. We see the great physician's prescription, but notice number three, finally, the great physician's promises. What does he say to them in verse 4? Thou hast a few names, even in Sardis, which have not defiled their garments, and they shall walk With me in wife, for they are worthy. Again, as bad as things were, there were some who were all there's always seems to be a remnant that are there, that they walk with the Lord. They do not defile themselves And the Lord says to them that they shall walk with me in white, and there he's speaking about their eternal reward, for they are worthy. He says, verse 5, He that overcometh the same shall be clothed in white raiment. This is a promise of eternal reward to those who are faithful to the Lord here. And notice what he says again in verse 5, and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my father and before his angels. What does the Lord mean by that? Now here he's referring to the remnant there and the promise to them as those who have not defiled their garments. Wait till you get to heaven, you'll walk with me and wife. You have affirmed that your faith is real. And you know what? We were talking about this during our Bible study uh uh a minute ago, but When you are tested in this way and you stay faithful to the Lord, that affirms that your faith is a real faith. And here the Lord is confirming, you will walk with me in way in heaven because you are worthy. You have held fast And then he says, Those that overcome, that is, the ones who repent, the same shall be clothed in white raiment, and I will not blot his name out of the book of life. Now what does the Lord mean here when he says, I will not blot his name out of the book of life? You know, often this verse is used by some to say that you can lose your salvation. That when the Lord blots your name out of the book of life, that you're no longer his, you're no longer God's. And so they use this verse, and just let me just say, I don't have time to get into this, but let me just say very clearly that as a believer in Christ, you can never lose your salvation. Because it's not you holding on to God, it's God holding on to you. You can fall down in Christ, but you can't fall out of Christ. If you doubt that friend, read Romans chapter 8. What can separate you from the love of Christ? And if you can get through studying Romans chapter 8 and still believe you can lose your salvation, well then I have no hope for you. If you can study that. This is not talking about losing your salvation. The book of life here, I don't think this is referring to the Lamb's book of life that the Lord speaks about. When a person is saved, their name is written down in the Lamb's book of life. Once your name is written down in the Lamb's book of life, there's no eraser for that book You're never going to be erased out of it. The book of life here, I think, again, remember I told you that John is often referring to things in the Old Testament? Did you know that there's a book of life in Exodus 32, 32? And this appears that this book of life contains all the names of those that are living. That are alive. So what does it mean when the Lord says that if you overcome, I will not blot out his name out of the book of life? This is just simply means death. You won't die. You'll continue to live. This is talking about physical death. Because let me remind you, it is possible for a believer to disobey the Lord in such a stubborn fashion that Finally, God will call a believer home. They'll lose their physical life, not their spiritual life, but they'll lose their physical life And there and there we saw another time where the Lord had made uh this an issue to some of the other churches about um God would not bring death upon them if they disobey the Lord. And so it is possible for a believer to sin stubbornly and not repent. And for the Lord, after chastisement, after chastisement, if they still don't repent, that the Lord can Allow the uh take their life physically, but it's not talking about losing your salvation. So I think that that is what the Lord is saying here. This is a very serious issue with the Lord Jesus. And so he says to those who overcome I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my father and before his angels to those who have defiled their garments, if they repent, if they get back on the right road and do what's right before God, not only will I not not blot their name out of the book of life, but I will confess them before my Father. And so you see, it's possible for a believer that has made some mistakes to get back on the right road, so much so. That the Lord will commend you for your faith and commend you for your repentance and overcoming And God Jesus said, I will confess his name before my Father. This is a word that Jesus has, a promise to those who repent. He makes a promise to the remnant of those who have not defiled themselves. He makes a promise to those who repent and will get back on the right way. The Lord says that he will bless them. So again, we have to look at our own life. Is there something here that can apply to us individually? Is there any way in which we are defiling our garments, not obeying the Lord, not protecting and guarding the message of the gospel, not standing firm in obedience to our Lord. Again, what we see here is what we see in some of these other churches we study that what the Lord expects of us is Our absolute total loyalty and obedience to Jesus Christ. Absolutely as his children. Let's bow for prayer tonight And so, Father, again, we uh we thank you for the Word of God. And we thank you for the message of it. And Lord, I pray that you'll help us to examine our hearts tonight. And look at our own spiritual life and ask ourselves some hard questions. Have I compromised the gospel? Have I begun to just, because of the pressure of the world that's constantly on me, have I begun to compromise? And allow the pressure of the world to weaken my resolve. And Adopt the spirit of just get along and go along and not stand firm for the gospel in Christ. And friend, if that's your condition, would you just take a moment now and just tell the Lord about it? The Lord promises, you know, look, if you repent, to those that overcome, Lord gives a wonderful promise. I will confess you before my Father. Our Lord understands that living in this world is a challenge. We're gonna get challenged from all sides. And we need the strength of God to remain faithful Take a moment and just right where you are, just ask God, Lord, would you please help me to never compromise the gospel of my life. But always to stand firm. And always to represent my Savior the way I should as a Christian. Remove any deadness in my spiritual life. Just take it away. And right now I consciously claim the fullness of the Holy Spirit. To absolutely take control of my life so that I can walk in the power of the Spirit. Let it never be said that you have a name that lives, but you're dead. Father, may that never happen to us. And we pray in Jesus' name, amen