And we're going to be talking about the millennium tonight. Look at Revelation chapter 20. We're going to kind of pick up. It's been two weeks since we were in chapter 20. And this is a challenging chapter of the book of Revelation, admittedly, to to look at and to understand. And uh we've we've called this, and this is really the second part of the sermon that we started last time, Satan's Chain in the Believer's Reign. This is a a look at uh what's going to take place in the future during the last days. Um we talked about this. The Bible speaks so much about the coming millennium. the when Christ will reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords over all of his creation. This is the great theme of Revelation 20, and you could argue it's the great theme of all through the scripture, all through the Bible And um we see so many passages of scripture that refer to this one event in Scripture. It's a dominant theme throughout the Word of God. And in order to understand this, you know, we have to kind of look at the book of Revelation chronologically, which is what we said, that there's the rapture in Revelation chapter four, John is caught up There's no church after Revelation chapter 4 on earth. Now the church is in heaven. And the tribulation starts on earth from chapters 5, and it doesn't end until chapter 19. And lends with the return of Christ to the earth to judge the ungodly that are there. And then you come to chapter 20 which is the kingdom of the the Christ, the millennial reign, a thousand-year reign. It's been called in Scripture several things. It's been called the regeneration. It's been called the times of refreshing or the times of restitution. In Ephesians 1, it's called the dispensation of the fullness of time. And again, there's much about this in Scripture. Again, a key theme throughout the Old Testament, so many Old Testament passages that deal with this. The uh the Jewish writers called this the Malkuth Shemayam or the Kingdom of Heaven And so they would pray, Come, come, bring your Messiah and set up your kingdom. And Revelation 20 is the fulfillment of that prayer and all the promises that are in the Old Testament. Now we told you the last time, and we'll just review a little bit as we get into the chapter, that there are basically three views with reference to the millennial reign of Christ. There's the premillennial view, and this is the view that takes uh uh a chronological uh the chronology of Revelation literally. We we follow the chronology of Revelation and we interpret the book of Revelation literally and it's the view that says that Christ will come publicly, visibly at the end of pouring out his wrath and judgment on the earth, and he will set up his kingdom. This kingdom we set up on earth, in Jerusalem, on the throne of David. Again, all of this is based upon a literal interpretation of Scripture. Um and basically this view says that things will get worse and worse, that um Christ will come back and judge the ungodly and he will set up his kingdom and we will be victorious in the end with the coming of Jesus Christ. But then there's the post millennial view and the prefix post gives you an idea that this means that Christ will come after the millennium. And this view basically says things are going to get better and better. They're going to get continually better until uh the the the kingdom of God is ushered in and Christ isn't going to come until the end of that kingdom. And who will set up the kingdom on earth? Well, we will. The church will. And this is the view that basically um you know the church will uh triumph over the world with with the gospel and that we we will basically take uh ownership of this world and that uh Christ will come after we set up the kingdom there. And so that's the post-millennial view. And we said that post-millennialism really we see in the world today takes many shapes. It shows up in a war a spiritual warfare. mentality, you know, conquering demons, conquering Satan, binding Satan and so on. And you know, we're gonna take author authority over Satan and push uh him and his kingdom down, and so on. Another name for this is Dominion Theology or Christian Reconstructionism or Theonomy and so on. And then there's another view, and that is the A millennial view. And the A millennial view, if you take the alpha, the A, the Alpha negative, and you put it in front of millennium, it basically says there is no millennium. Or that is to say, all the kingdom that there is is right here and right now. And things are going to pretty much stay the same The kingdom is now. The kingdom is the church age. Christ is ruling now. Christ is here. And the passage in Revelation 20 describes right now the present church age. We're in the millennium right now. And so uh they interpret the book of Revelation then um uh figuratively they either uh describe this destruction of uh everything in Revelation is the destruction of uh Jerusalem in seventy AD or it's all figurative. They say all the promises to Israel in the Old Testament Um those promises now are given to the church which is the new Israel, even though all the curses came upon literal Israel. They don't seem to get all the promises. That is for the church. So those who hold to this normally teach a replacement theology that the church has replaced Israel. And so these are the different views here, and we kind of went over those the last time that we were here. And obviously we we're we look at the book of Revelation as literal. We take a literal premillennial view because that is the plain meaning of the scripture. And we talked about that the last time. And as we get into this, we'll see this more, but We talked about also last time several events that are listed here in Revelation twenty, one of which is the removal of Satan We see this in verses one and two. Look at verse one and I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit, and a great chain in his hand. And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, and cast him into the bottomless plate and shut him up. And set a seal upon him that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled, and after that he must be loose a little seasoned. And what we see here is the priority of Satan's removal. This is the first thing that Jesus does when he sets up his kingdom is to deal with the chief rebel. And notice that it gives the name Zed Dragon in verse number one. That speaks of Satan's savagery. The serpent, that speaks of his subtlety, the devil, that speaks of his slander, and then the name Satan, that is, Satan is our adversary, our enemy. There's no doubt as to who this is This is Satan, and he will be cast into the Bible says bound and cast into the bottomless pit, verse number three, and he'll be there for a thousand years. This will be the prison of Satan's removal. We see the priority of it. This is what happens first. And then there's the prison of it. The Bible calls it the bottomless pit here. It's not hell or the lake of fire. But the bottomless pit. This may be the same as in Luke 831, what's called the D, the writers speak of that place. In Jude 6 it talks about angels who were put in chains of darkness. It's possible that that might be the same place here. In 2 Peter 2 4, the word for hell is Tartarus, a place where God placed rebellious demon spirits. Again, it could be the same place here, but one thing we know for sure is that Satan will be put in that prison and he will be there, the Bible says, for a thousand years. That's the next thing, the period of Satan's removal in verse number three It says that in the latter part that he should deceive the nations no more till the thousand years should be fulfilled. And that after that he must be loose the little season. The Bible says a thousand years. Now again, I believe this is literal. Because if it isn't a thousand years, when will he be loosed? There's no way of knowing when exactly he will be loosed if if the thousand years is not literal. Satan will be changed. Jesus will reign. And after that thousand years, he will be let loose for a little season. And we see also what I want to call the protection of Satan's removal in verse number three, where it says a seal was put on that prison. There's no chance for him to leave or to escape Because a seal is put there. He will be chained, he will be fettered, he will be sealed in that prison for that time. And consider with me another thought the purpose of Satan's removal. It says in verse 3 Don't get the idea that this is Satan's punishment. That's going to come later. This again, this is not the lake of fire. This is Satan's banishment, not his punishment. God wants to remove him for a certain time. To get him off the world scene. In verse three it says that he should deceive the nations no more. Satan will not be behind the scenes masterminding plots to overthrow the righteous and work against God's plan, to hinder God's work. God will be reminding the world of what Eden was like before Satan came slithering into the garden. All of the pre-fall conditions will return to the earth that time before Satan caused the fall. And so he'll be bound there for that time. Now, as I said last time, one of the big problems with omillennialism and post millennialism is That you have to believe that Satan is bound. If you are a non-millennialist or a post-millennialist, you have to believe, and if if this is the kingdom right now, that means that Satan is bound right now. That that that's a hard sell, if you ask me. That Satan is bound right now, seriously. Now according to Revelation 20, he's bound and will be released after a thousand years. And um and so uh you know that th they hold this view that he's bound right now because the the kingdom of God is spreading. And what they do is they use Matthew twelve, the binding of the strongman, to kind of support this view. Last time we looked at that, we can't go back there and do it again for time, but if you look at that passage very carefully What you'll see is that Jesus was referring to that generation when he came to minister and he brought miracles and he showed the power of the Messiah. He was cleaning up the house and binding the strong man at that time Because if the people would have received him as their Messiah, he would have sat upon the throne. But what did they do? They rejected him. And so later on, Jesus says that the house was swept and clean, but seven more spirits came in worse than before. And so Israel missed their opportunity. That's all that parable was meant to say. There was a sense that where Satan's ministry was hindered and bound during the earthly ministry of Jesus, but that was temporary. Because the people rejected their Messiah. So you can't really use that to talk about this here in Revelation 20. This binding that we see here is totally different than what we see in that passage. And what we see in the New Testament is that Satan still entices men to lie. In Acts chapter 5, verse 3, Peter said to Ananias, Why has Satan filled your heart that you should lie to the Holy Spirit? And Ananias said, wait a minute, Peter, Satan's bound. He can't do that. That's not how that passage goes. No, Satan was doing that work. Second Corinthians 4 4, in whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them that believe not. He's still doing that. He still disguises himself as an angel of light, 2 Corinthians 11, 2 and 3. He's still um You know, his false apostles and deceitful workers still transform themselves into angels of light. The devil hinders the ministry of the gospel according to 1 Thessalonians 2-8, Paul said, I would have come to you once and again, but Satan hindered us. Satan hindered us. Wait a minute, Paul. That wasn't Satan. We don't know what happened, but Satan's bound. No. Satan is still working in the world. He roams about as a roaring lion, seeking the whom he may what? Devour. He's still out there. He's still working around. So Revelation 20 could not be referring to the present time in light of those New Testament passages. This is simply not the same thing. This is so much more than that. Besides that, Jesus taught us to pray. What did he say? In the Lord's Prayer, deliver us from evil or literally that reason to Greek the evil one. Lord give me victory over Satan. Why will we need to pray that prayer of prayer, excuse me, if Satan is bound And so uh that again that's a hard sell. But also we see here that he was in the bottomless pit for a thousand years. And let me speak to you here. This is again very uh necessary to understand how we interpret this and that is how do you understand the numbers that is are that are given uh here, a thousand years. Are we to take that literally because if you take the on millennial or post-millennial view Uh you you would say that these are not literal numbers here. That's the debate. Is the thousand years to be interpreted literally or is it figurative? What does that mean? Let me just quote Richard Mayhew, who said this. It is commonly understood as a basic rule of hermeneutics that numbers should be accepted at face value. That is, if you're reading a passage of scripture and it gives a number, we should accept that number at face value unless there's something in the passage that would clearly indicate to us that it's symbolic. That's normally a hermeneutical principle. He goes on to say this dictum for interpreting biblical numbers is generally accepted as the starting point. And we see John using numbers in Revelation before. And all the times that he used those numbers, we we take it at face value. Those numbers are literal. He talks about twelve tribes. Literally twelve tribes, the twelve apostles. He talks about ten days in Revelation 2, 10, 5 months, one third of mankind, two witnesses, 42 months. All of this is in Revelation 11. 100 Excuse me, 1,260 days, that's literal. 12 stars, 10 horns, 200 miles, three demons, five fallen kings. These are all verses in Revelation that give us an example that the numbers that are used there are all used in a normal, literal sense. The only time that numbers are used figuratively is in Revelation 1. 4, referring to the seven spirits of God. Anyone who would read that would know obviously there are not seven spirits of God. But that that is a reference to a uh Isaiah chapter eleven, verse one, where Isaiah talks about uh the seven attributes of the Spirit of God there. And John is referring to that. And so again, we when we approach numbers in the Bible, we take it literally unless there's something there that clearly indicates to us that it's symbolic. Now, the term 1,000 years is used six times here in the text, and I would ask, where is there in the passage anything that would indicate to us that we should take this symbolically? Where is it? I mean what am I missing here? Never in scripture is the word year used with a number When it's not literal. Every time a number is attributed to a year, every time that's done in Scripture, that's always to be taken literally. And the number 1000 in Scripture, unless there's something I'm missing, is never used in a symbolic way But there's also another argument I would give to the literal view here, and that is the testimony of history. The post-apostolic era, the church at that time understood the millennium in Revelation 20 as a literal 1,000 years. I mean you go back and you read some of the early church fathers, Tapias, Barnabas, Justin Martyr, Irenaeus, Tertilius. They all gave evidence of this fact in their writings that when they looked at this number, they took it as a literal number. The church taught nothing else up until the fourth century. You say, what happened in the fourth century? Well, theologians in that time, and let me just quote you Richard Mahew here again, uh, when theologians began to go beyond what the Bible taught about the millennium, they began to make it a period of time that would be more for the enjoyment of man than for the glory of God Some reacted to correct this excess by interpreting this time as something less than an actual historical period. And again, back in that time, there was this emphasis on the allegorical interpretation of Scripture where that you go beneath the literal interpretation. And you find a spiritual meaning beneath the literal, uh uh a allegorical interpretation, and that was dominant in a certain era of the church. So in the fifth century, Augustine, who used some of this allegorizing in his interpretation, basically popularized Um uh this whole approach to it perhaps is not literal. He kind of hinted at that, and let me just say, and in all fairness to him, that when he first read Revelation twenty He understood it as a literal one thousand year period. Even though he's called the father of millennialism, he first understood this as a literal one thousand years. And that's understandable because if you read the Bible At face value, that's what you're going to come away with. It's only when you are influenced by other ideas that you begin to maybe think it could be something else. And so even though he was the father of millennialism, it was others that came along later and they began to even systematize origin, one of the early church fathers. So look at this as being non-literal. But you know, even to this day, there are some non-liter pre-millennialists that look at Revelation 20 and they look at the 1,000 years and they say, you know, this is an actual 1,000 years. Well of course. What is there in the text that would cause you to look at it differently? So for these reasons, I look at this as being a literal 1,000 years. It's not right now, it's a future time. When the Lord Jesus Christ will reign from the throne of David, fulfilling all the promises that God gave to David, that he will reign on the throne in Jerusalem for 1,000 years. And that will be the millennial reign. All of the prefall conditions will return, and there will be righteousness and peace and joy in the world during that time. Now there's another event, not only the removal of Satan, but next there's the reign of the saints that's very important. Look in verse number four. And I saw thrones. And they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them. And I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus and for the word of God. which had not worshipped the beast nor his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, and in their hands, and they lived and reigned with Christ what? So in this vision, John sees thrones, and he sees people sitting on the thrones, and judgment is given to these people. They're given the authority and the ability to judge. Now the question we have to ask ourselves when we come to this are who are these people? And the answer is these are the glorified saints, those who God will give positions of authority. They will enforce God's will. They will settle disputes during this time. And the Bible, again, refers to many promises where it talks about the saints that are going to reign with Christ. This goes all the way back to the Old Testament and Daniel God promised. that the Old Testament saints would reign during the millennium. Write down Daniel seven verse twenty-seven. And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the most high, and their kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom, and all dominion shall serve and obey them. And Jesus promised his disciples that they would reign. Write down Matthew nineteen, verse twenty-eight. And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that ye which have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon the twelve thrones, judging. the twelve tribes of Israel. And in Luke chapter 22, at the Last Supper, Jesus said, That ye may eat and drink at my table in the kingdom and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Paul was writing to the Corinthians, and uh you might remember that in the Corinthian church they had all kinds of problems, and one of the problems was they loved taking people to court. They loved suing one another. And Paul said, Look, when there's a dispute in the church and people are willing to submit to the authority of the church, you should settle that matter within the church. Because don't you understand that you have been given wisdom from God? And don't you understand? Listen to this what he says in 1 Corinthians 6 2. Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world And if the world shall be judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Don't you know that one day you're gonna you're gonna reign in judgment over the world as saints of God? And if that's true, how is it that you can't settle these disputes right now? And so that's the argument that Paul used. In 2 Timothy 2. 12, he said, If we suffer, we also shall reign with him. If we deny him, he will also deny us. And we saw in Revelation 5, 10, where it says, And thou hast made us under our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. We will reign on the earth. Now, let me just show you one other passage here. Go back to Matthew chapter 20. Let me just show you this here. Um this is this I I love referring to this passage. To me it's kind of a funny story, but it illustrates the point here. Remember the disciples were constantly uh bickering? Um you know, back in that day, you know, some of the believers couldn't get along. That never happens today, however, we know that. But back in that day the disciples were just kind of always bickering, going back and forth. They argued a lot about who will be the greatest in the kingdom. They argued about that in chapter 18. Jesus pulled a little child among them and said, Look, see this child, you need to adopt the attitude of this little child. They're humble and they serve. They're not worried about who is the greatest. But this but yet despite that they continued with this quest. Why? Because they wanted to have positions of authority and greatness in the kingdom of God. They were thinking that there was going to be a literal kingdom. And so look in chapter twenty, look at verse number twenty. Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children with her sons, worshipping him, and desired a certain thing of him. This is the mother of Zebedee's children, that's who, that's James and John, right? So the mother of James and John comes to Jesus, she worships him, and she asks him for something. Verse 21, and he said unto her, What wilt thou? What would you like? And she said unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit the one on thy right hand and the other on the left in thy kingdom. Wow, big request. You know, think about that request. Now, they're not thinking that the kingdom is right now. They're not thinking that there's it's not a literal kingdom, it's a spiritual kingdom. They're thinking literally about the kingdom, not spiritfully. And so what did Jesus say in verse 22? And Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask. Are you able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I will be baptized with? And of course Jesus there was talking about suffering. The greater the suffering, the greater the glory, the greater the position of authority in the kingdom of God. If you suffered greatly It's like I said before, the greater the groans here, the greater the gro the glory later. The greater the future glory. And so he's saying, you know, what you're asking, you want them to have these high positions of authority, but the only ones that are going to get that are those who have suffered greatly. You're asking for a baptism of suffering. Are they going to be able to be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with? And Jesus meant I'm going to be, baptism means immersed, I'm going to be immersed in suffering. Are your sons willing to go through that? And they said unto him, We are able. They had no idea what they were talking about. Aren't you glad for some of the prayers that God didn't answer that you asked? Because you don't know what you're asking. You have no idea what you're asking. They had no idea what they were saying. And he said to them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup. And be baptized with the baptism I am baptized with, but to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give, but it shall be given to him to whom it is prepared of my Father. And Jesus basically said, yeah, look, you guys are going to be baptized, all right. You're going to suffer some. You will suffer. There's no question. If you're going to follow me, You will, in a sense, be baptized. Now they would not to the same degree that Jesus would, but they will be baptized in suffering. And so he said, you know, that's going to happen. But to give out those assigned seats, that's not mine. That'll be done by my to whom it's prepared of my Father. My father will do that. Now the other ten disciples, it says in verse 24, when the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren. They were mad How dare them do that? Some of them were mad probably because they didn't think of doing that themselves. Let's send mom to do our our workforce, you know, let's send mom to ask this request to sit on these chief seats here in heaven. But now it's interesting to me that Jesus doesn't correct their thinking. He doesn't say, look guys, come here. That's not what the kingdom is going to h that's not what's going to happen in the kingdom. It's not literal, guys. You're missing my point here. It's not going to be a literal reign. You're not literally going to sit on thrones. That's all spiritual. In fact, it's all right now You're missing it. You don't get it? He doesn't correct them, does he? He doesn't correct their thinking about the kingdom. Because that's, and by the way, Jesus, if you'll notice in the New Testament, whenever the disciples were thinking wrong about something, he did not hesitate to correct them. He would say something like, You do err, not knowing the scripture. He would always correct misunderstood theology or doctrine, but here he doesn't correct them. He just says, yeah, that's not mine to give. That's going to be done by my Father, which is in heaven. And so all of that, again, leads me to believe. That this is all literal. David Levy wrote this, like Israel, the church is a kingdom of priests, and will be given authority to reign with Christ. Most likely serving him among the nations. Christians will be given positions of leadership in the kingdom, will direct civil rule, provide spiritual direction over Gentile cities, and so on. In other words, when the millennium comes You know, uh let me back up. Post millennials say all the church now we're gonna dominate the culture, we're gonna take over all these different areas of the culture, and we're gonna we're gonna have all these things, we're gonna rule over government and TV and education and all these other social things and yada yada yada. Again, that's a hard sell because I'm looking around, I don't see that happening. I mean I'm looking around at the government right now. I don't think the government of our country is getting better. I think that when we first started out, when the Congress voted to give away Bibles to all the people in America, that was a good start. Present that bill in Congress right now, see what kind of response you get. I don't think it's gotten better. I don't think we have people that fear the Lord, and I say that with a burdened heart. And by the way, I'm not taking up any political position here when I say that. I'm simply refuting this idea that, you know, everything is going to get better and better and better. I mean I'm looking around now and you know we have an education system that they can't even tell our children what their gender is They're real gender. They try to make it something different. And now they're doing without the permission of parents. That doesn't appear to me to be a culture that's getting better. I mean, call me crazy. It doesn't seem like that to me. But I got good news. There is going to come a time when believers will dominate all of these positions. And you know when that's going to be? That's going to be during the millennial reign of Christ. That's when that's going to all happen. And uh again, you're in Matthew. Look in Luke here real quick in Luke chapter 19. And Jesus is giving this parable the nobleman's ten pounds, and again, we don't have time to expound all of this. But at the end Jesus says something very interesting, and he said unto them, In other words, he gives ten pounds to some of the the stewards, this noblemen, and and when he comes back they they they're w they are wise with their ten pounds in verse sixteen Then came the first saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds. He gave him a pound, and Lord, I use it, I invested wisely, and I got ten pounds. And look what he said, and he said unto them, Well thou Um he said unto them, Well, thou good servant, because thou hast been faithful in very little, thou shalt have authority over what? Ten cities. That's a little bit of an indication there. Verse 20, another came and said, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up. Let me act actually let me back up to verse 19. And he said likewise to him, here's another that came, uh excuse me, verse 18, and the second came saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds, and he said likewise to him Be thou also over five cities. In other words, if you're faithful here over the things that God has given you, even though they may not be big things, they may be little things, and you're faithful here, that's going to determine your position of authority later on. You've got ten pounds, you've got ten cities now. You've been faithful with the five pounds, I'm going to give you five cities. And again, all that implies to me there's going to come a time when God's people, the saints of God, will reign with Christ during that time. Again, David Levy writes, they will exercise varied political function functions under Christ's supreme command throughout the millennial in accordance with their faithfulness of their service in this present life Some will be given greater authority than others as a reward for their faithfulness, having jurisdiction over either five or ten cities. Now I don't know what the Lord is going to do for me. I'm just hoping, Lord, just give me Baltimore. Let me take care of Baltimore alone. I don't know if that's gonna happen, but who knows? But the Lord will will give rewards and responsibilities according to our faithfulness here on earth during that time. Now there's another thing that we see here. We see the the the reign of the saints and we see um Also the first resurrection here. We see the future reign where believers will reign with the Lord, but we also see what we can call the first resurrection. Look in verse number five. of Revelation chapter twenty. Go back there and notice what it says in verse five. But the rest of the dead live not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. And here John adds a parenthetical footnote in this verse. The rest of the dead didn't come to life until the thousand years were complete. And this refers to the resurrection of the wicked dead. That'll be mentioned later on again down in verse number eleven, down to verse fifteen, when they are resurrected, those who who rejected Christ, who were Unrepentant, they will be resurrected to stand before God at the great white throne judgment. That's what John's referring to here. This that's the resurrection of the wicked. When John says this is the first resurrection, he's not referring to what he had just said regarding the rest of the dead. You see, how do we know that? Because in the next verse, look what John says. In the next verse, verse number six, blessed and holy is he that takes part in the what? In the first resurrection. Now you'll notice in the resurrection, it's mentioned in verses 11 down on the verse 15. Those who are in that group, it's not blessed. Why? Because they're going to be judged and they're going to be cast into the lake of fire. So when John refers to the first resurrection, he's referring to the resurrection of saints, the resurrection of believers. And he calls this, this resurrection of saints of all the ages, the first resurrection. This is also called in Scripture the resurrection of the righteous. In Luke chapter 14, verse 14, the resurrection of life. In John chapter 5, verse 29, the resurrection of those who are at Christ who are Christ at his coming, that's 1 Corinthians 15, 23, and the better resurrection. Hebrews 11:35. All those are synonymous with this first resurrection. There are some people that have this idea that there's one general resurrection of all people lost and saved. But the very idea that John expresses this phrase, first resurrection, what does that imply? That there's another one. If there's a first one, there has to be another one, a second one, right? Or a last one, we could say. And when John uses the word first, it's not necessarily chronological. What he's saying here is I think he's contrasting that with the last resurrection that would happen, but maybe uh as a uh he's using this expression uh as a idea of priority. And so John says in verse 6, blessed and holy is he that takes part in the first resurrection. What a wonderful time that would be. And again, these will be people that will be a part of this millennial reign. They'll have glorified bodies during that time. You heard me speak about that this morning. Uh the world will have um nations at that time. Uh the world will be populated during that time. During the millennium, there will be a population explosion. The Bible says in Isaiah 65, 23, women will not bring forth for trouble. That is, they won't have labor pains. And in Isaiah again, 64-23, they shall not labor in vain or bear children for calamity. For they are the offspring of those blessed by the Lord and their descendants with them. And so during that time You know, no babies will die at childbirth. Childbearing will be painless. It'll be easy. People will be blessed with longevity. A hundred-year-old will look like someone who's at the peak of their youth. The earth will be beautiful. The Bible says the desolate places of the earth, they will blossom like a rose. And the earth will become like one big Eden paradise. Again, all of the pre-fall conditions will return, and it'll be a wonderful time, and the entire earth will be productive as never before. And it'll be a perfect economy, and everything will be administered by the Lord. It'll be a time of joy and and happiness. And Jesus will minister, and there will be no more curse, no more prisons, no hospitals, no saloons. Roses will have no thorns, and the lion will lay down with the lamb. That's going to be a wonderful time in that that day that is to come. Now there will be a rebellion that will take place after this. Satan will be loose. You say, why does God allow that? I think God has a purpose in that, uh the rebellion of society. And I think God is going to teach one final Uh several things finally I should say. He'll demonstrate the wickedness of Satan. Satan will again be released. Again he will he will deceive the wicked and there will be a rebellion again There'll be a group of people that will rebel. God will put down that final rebellion during that time. And look in verse number uh seven and when the thousand years are expired Satan shall be loosed out of his prison. There shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, God, and may God to gather them together to battle, the number of whom has the sand of the sea And there went up on the breath of the earth and encompassed the city of the saints about, the beloved city, and fire came from God out of heaven, and devoured them. And the devil that was that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, there shall be torment day and night for ever and ever And God will see here again, he'll demonstrate again the wickedness of Satan, the sinfulness of man. It's amazing that at the end of this time people will rebel against Christ. How can that happen? Because there there will still be people in the millennium that came out of the tribulation that will still have that sin nature. That will still, even though the environment is perfect and wonderful and the prefall conditions are there, they will still in their heart rebel against God, and it's as if God is teaching the world again this one thing, the sinfulness of the heart of men. There's some people out there that believe if, you know, if only man had the perfect environment, everything would be all right. The problem is not the environment. The problem is the heart of man. The environment doesn't make the man, the man makes the environment. And God will put down this final rebellion and he'll get glory unto himself. And the best news that I've heard all day is that Satan will be cast into the lake of fire. And he'll be gone. The first two chapters and the last two chapters of the Bible don't have Satan in it. He'll be gone. And after that, the Lord He'll judge the wicked at the great white throne judgment. And in chapter 21, there'll be a new heaven and a new earth. And this will be again a time of great joy, and we'll get to that as we get really to the last two chapters of this wonderful book of Revelation. But you know, uh I guess I would w leave you with a message tonight that you know what? Uh we're gonna win this thing. Sin will not win. Faith will not fail. Christ will be victorious, and he will lead, Christ our conqueror, will lead us into victory And again, as I said this morning, Christ makes all the difference. Knowing Jesus Christ. Aren't you glad you know the Lord Jesus? That you're a part of his eternal kingdom. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I would just again challenge you to examine your heart and make sure that you know Jesus. My greatest desire for you is that you're absolutely certain about your soul salvation. Don't take it for granted. Peter said this: give all diligence to make your calling and election sure. Paul said this: examine yourselves to see whether you're in the faith. Make sure. And if you're sure, would you just take a moment and say thank you, God? Praise you, Lord, for this wonderful salvation that you've given me Father, thank you for the encouragement of your word. Thank you, Lord, that we know how this is all going to end. And this is what gives us hope. This is how we can endure the present groans when we consider the future glory And so, Lord, again, we just thank you. We thank you for the wonderful hope that you've given us in Jesus Christ. And we pray that everyone here, under the sound of my voice, Has this blessed hope. And if not, Lord, please show them how this is the most important issue. Where you'll spend eternity Convict every heart. And Lord help us as your people to be passionate about sharing Jesus Christ. We pray in his name.