Take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of uh Psalms, chapter 38. We've been studying the Psalms on Wednesday night, and I hope that these are a help to you as they are to me. It's wonderful to study these Psalms because We seem to relate so well to some of the things that the psalmist writes, some of the emotions that they that the psalmist goes through We have go through in our own uh Christian life as we struggle to be all that God wants us to be. The burdens that the psalmist carry seem to have parallel the burdens that we carry. And tonight we're going to be dealing with an issue that all of us deal with, and it's the issue of guilt. You ever feel guilty about something? You ever carry the burden or the load of guilt? I want to talk tonight about saying goodbye to guilt. Because a lot of times people don't know how to properly deal with guilt when it comes. And let's face it, all of us have had to wrestle. With guilt in our life. The story is told of a time when Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the writer of Sherlock Holmes, played a joke on his friends. He sent out a message to twelve friends that said the same thing. Flee at once, all is discovered. And within twenty-four hours he said all twelve had left the country. What does the Bible say? The wicked flee when no man pursues. Well, guilt is something that's very real, and uh we need to learn what the Bible tells us and teaches us about guilt. Now, when we talk about guilt, let's be very specific about what we mean. There's two real ways that we can look at guilt. Number one is to look at it objectively, and the other way is to look at it subjectively. There's an objective side to guilt, and that what I mean by that is that it is a moral concept and it is basically the violation of a law. If a person is told that they're guilty of violating a legal or moral law, then they are they bear guilt because of that. That's an objective way of looking at guilt But then there's also a subjective way, and subjectively guilt as an an an emotion or as a feeling comes from within. The declaration of guilt comes from without when you're declared guilty or you know that you violated a law, but The emotional guilt comes from within. And it is the feeling of shame, perhaps, is one way that we could say it. the emotion that comes from understanding that you have violated some moral principle or some law. And so these two things are really inseparably linked. The feeling of shame comes with the actual action. And just to give you the simple dictionary definition of guilt. It says an awareness of having done wrong or committed a crime accompanied by feelings of shame and regret. And so you say, well, why do you make that so specific? Well, because it's important to understand and distinguish between the objective understanding of being declared guilty or or or guilt and these subjective emotions or shame or feelings of guilt because the problem today is in modern psychology and psychiatry is that uh they try to deal with the subjective side of guilt without dealing with the objective side In other words, the guilt that we feel comes from a real genuine wrong that we've committed, a sin that has been committed. But again, psychology tries to just not really deal with the sin, the cause of guilt. It just simply deals with the emotions or feelings of guilt. And guilt is looked at as something that is very negative, something that is very destructive and damaging. It's a damaging emotion, a negative emotion, and you should get rid of it at all costs. And our secular world today views guilt that way, and they want you to get rid of that emotion, but there's no real thought about the cause and dealing with guilt at its root. Let me just give you a quote from a book. uh written called The Vanishing Conscience, and this is what the writer says, and he's so right. He said, our culture has declared war on guilt The very concept is considered midieval, obsolete, unproductive. People who trouble themselves with feelings of personal guilt are usually referred to therapists. Whose task is to boost their self-image. No one, after all, is supposed to feel guilty. Guilt is not conducive to dignity and self-esteem. Society encourages sin, but it will not tolerate the guilt sin produces. Did you hear that? Society encourages sin. But it will not tolerate the guilt that sin produces. There was a best-selling book written on this issue by a man by the name of Dr. Wayne Dyer. The name of the book was Your Erroneous Zones. And he named guilt as the most useless of all what he called erroneous zone behaviors. Listen to this. According to Dr. Dyer, guilt is nothing but a neuroses. Guilt zones, he wrote, must be exterminated and sprayed clean and sterilized forever. He said you got to get rid of that guilt. Well how does how do we spray clean the guilt zone or sterilize it? Uh do we do that by renouncing, by dealing with the sin or dealing with the wrong, not according to Dr. Dyer It's not repenting or seeking forgiveness. Here's his advice on how to deal with those who suffer with guilt. This is what he says. Quote, do something which you know is bound to result in feelings of guilt. Take a week to be alone, if you've always wanted to do so, despite the guilt engendering protestations from other members of your family. Don't do this guys. All right. Try to be alone by yourself, you know. When your wife says no, you better stay home. Anyway. These kinds of behaviors is what he says, you know, just go get away, even if people don't like it, just go do something that's gonna cause guilt. These kinds of behavior will help you to tackle that omnipresent guilt. So it says, go and do something that will make you feel guilty. Defy your guilt, is what he's really saying here. And he says this, if necessary, spurn your own spouse and children. Attack that sense of self-disapproval head on. So in other words, do something that's going to make you feel guilty and then refuse to heed the cries of your conscience or refuse to heed the duties. of your family responsibilities or even the approval of your loved ones, he says. He goes on to say, you know what, you owe this to yourself. That's what he says to deal with guilt. He says, justify it. Just stand up against it. You see, most Uh psychiatrists today and other so-called experts, they characterize guilt as this groundless emotion emotion That has the potential of taking all the fun out of life. Now, is this what the Bible says that we're to do with guilt? Is this how God wants us to deal with it? Psalm 38 is a psalm written by David at a time in his life when he was wrestling with this emotion of guilt. And if you read the psalm very closely, you're going to find that he was he was very, very stressed. He was very burdened down with feelings of guilt in his life. For example, look at verse number four of chapter 38. For mine iniquities are gone over my head. As a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me. The Hebrew word for iniquity here is avone. That's the word for guilt. Hebrew. We could say it like this. This burden of guilt has caused great distress. And so he's wrestling with this huge load of guilt in his life. And by the time he gets to the end of the psalm, Uh that that kind of burden is removed. And the question that we need to ask ourselves as we examine this is that what did he do to overcome this guilt? What did he do to say goodbye to the guilt that he was wrestling with in his life. And so what I want you to see from this psalm tonight is just two important factors that we need to understand about overcoming the guilt in our life. And here's the first one. And by the way, this psalm really divides into two sections. So I just have two main points in the sermon tonight, but don't get excited. I'm not going to let you out early. Because I have a lot of subpoints under those main points. But it really divides into two sections. And the first thing that stands out to me in studying this is number one, don't ignore the pain of guilt. Because in the first section of this psalm, he's wrestling with all the pain of the guilt that he's dealing with. And I think that this psalm is perhaps the most descriptive portrayal of guilt in all of the Bible and and what it produces and and the emotions that we wrestle with when we're wrestling with guilt So notice some of the things that guilt produces, some of the feelings. There's first of all the sense of God's displeasure. Look again in verse number one. O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath. Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. That is, he is saying, Lord, stop speaking, God. You've rebuking me in your wrath And I want to tell you, if you're saved and you're a child of God, that when you do wrong, God is going to speak to you. He's going to speak to you through the Holy Spirit. He's going to speak to you through Scripture. He'll speak to you through maybe providential things. in your life, but he will rebuke you. That's always the the way of God. He'll rebuke us when we do wrong. And David sensed this displeasure from God. because of his sin. Uh I was reading about Eric uh Little, who was the great Olympic runner in nineteen twenty four. He competed in the And the Olympic Games as a runner. You probably saw the movie Chariots of Fire, and he's famous for that one line that says, when I run, I feel the pleasure of God. Well, I think that as a believer, there's a sense in which we can feel the pleasure of God when we do well. But I think the opposite is also true: that when we do wrong, we can feel the displeasure of God. And this is what David is talking about here. But then not only that, but also conviction. Look in verse 2. For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presses me He compares conviction to God's arrows, metaphorically. It's as if God had pulled back the bow and released an arrow into his heart. His heart was pierced with such conviction. And I'm going to tell you again, if you're a child of God and there's a continual sin in your life, there's going to be that heart-piercing conviction as if an arrow was shot from God. to your heart. And David is experiencing that, that conviction. But then there's another thing. There's restlessness. Look at verse number three. There's no soundness in my flesh. Behold, but because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. David was restless. He had trouble sleeping. Uh it kind of sapped his strength and he and he c and he just couldn't seem to to to be at peace. Drop down to verse eight. It talks about the same thing in verse eight. I am feeble and sore broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart He just can't rest. Where it says, I have roared, one Hebrew scholar translates it like this, I have roared beyond the roaring of a lion. He's speaking of the inward restlessness, this inward anxiety. And he says in his heart, and really he's talking about in his mind. His mind can't rest. There's just this constant thinking about this thing in his mind where there is no rest. According to psychology today, guilt feelings make it difficult to think straight. When guilty feelings compete for your attention with the demands of work, school, and life in general, the study says guilt usually wins. And so this is what David's dealing with here. There's no peace, no rest in his mind. In another place in Psalm 51, David said, My sin is ever before me. He may not consciously think about it, but subconsciously it's always there. And so there's this restlessness that comes. But then also, along with that emotional turmoil, look at verse number four. For mine iniquities are gone over mine head as a heavy burden. They are too heavy for me. When he says gone over my head, he's kind of using the figurative language of drowning beneath waves. These are waves of sorrow from Perhaps the sin or the guilt that he's feeling. It's just a heavy burden. You know, we we use the expression, God doesn't give us more than we can bear. And I think there's a sense in which that's true, but I think sometimes we might forgive ourselves more than we can bear by the things that we do, the guilt that we feel. And so David is so distressed. He's so emotionally in turmoil. But then along with that, there's also he he's wrestling with physical illness in verse 5, my wounds stink and are corrupt. Because of my foolishness, he says, and drop down to verse 7, for my loins are filled with a loathsome disease. There is no soundness in my flesh. And I think that David there is describing physical illness. Now I've read some commentators that say that he's still there using metaphorical or figurative language to talk about some emotional pain. But I really think that what David is talking about here is real physical sickness. Whatever the sin that he committed, it brought on him a physical sickness. Um some scholars feel like this may have been some kind of a sexually transmitted disease because of David's uh life and his his immorality. And uh that that could be true what he's talking about here. Whatever it is, it's some And I would also say along with that has come to him because of his sin. And I would also say along with that that guilt feelings can affect you physically. There is such a thing as psychosomatic illness from the word psycho-soul soma body, where the sins of the soul can affect the body. Again, quoting from uh a doctor, uh he said, if you're guilty you're probably getting stressed. If your body releases stress chemicals, it puts you at risk for and he began to list all types of different illnesses. Including cardiovascular disease and other things. And so it can sometimes bring on physical illness. But then also depression. Look at verse 6. I'm troubled. I bow down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. There's no joy in his heart now. And joy is to be the default mode of the Christian. This is the way we live our life. We live our life with joy, and there's really nothing that can take away our joy other than our own sin. You know there's a difference, as I said before, between happiness and joy. Happiness is superficial, it's kinda depends on your happenings. You know, you can't always be happy, but you can always have joy, because joy is is inward, it goes down deep into our heart. But the only thing that can take our joy is our s is sin. And here he has no joy. He's depressed. He says, I am bowed down greatly. That is, he's brought very low. There's depression. And then there's feelings of hopelessness. Look at verse 9. Lord, all my desires before thee. My groaning is not hid from thee. My heart panteth. My strength faileth. Me, as for the light of mine eyes, it is also gone from me. And so David is mourning, he's sighing, he's weeping When he says he has no light in his eyes, that's a figurative way to describe a feeling of hopelessness. There's nothing for him to look forward to. There's no spring in his step. You know, when the alarm clock goes off, he has to drag himself out of bed because there's really nothing to look forward to, because there's this dread. Nothing really excites him. All the enthusiasm for life is gone. And then there's paranoia. Verse 11. My lovers and my friends stand aloft. from me sore, my kinsmen stand afar off. They also that seek after my life lay snares for me. They that seek my hurt speak mischievous things and imagine deceits all day long. And here he's insecure about the people all around him, about his friends and his family, and certainly his enemies. He's starting to think about everyone who's out to get him. They want to see him fall. You see some someone who is wrestling with guilt, they have a paranoia about them. You ever notice that? When you go up to them and say, hey, how are you doing? They say, What do you mean by that? What do you what what do you what do you what do you want? You want a full report on my life? No, I'm just trying to figure out if you're having a good day. Again, that verse, the wicked flee when no man pursues. All these things that David is describing here are the painful results of wrestling with this emotion. Of guilt in his life. A leading psychiatrist said this. It's amazing to me. He said almost 100% of people who are in mental institutions. Are there because they have not learned to cope with guilt. That's amazing that he would say that. Almost 100%. He didn't say 100%. But he said almost 100% of people who are in mental institutions are there because they haven't learned to cope with guilt. Well, how did David cope with it? So let's go into the second part of this psalm. First, don't ignore the pain of guilt. It is there. God put it there. There's a reason that it's there. And here's the second part, and a very important part in dealing with guilt is number two, understand the purpose of guilt. First of all, don't ignore the pain of it. That's the world's advice. Oh just ignore it, defy your guilt, just you know, drowned it out. Don't listen to the noise inside of you. Don't ignore that. But secondly, along with that, understand the purpose of guilt. You see, the second part of this psalm tells us what David did. And let me just give you the big picture here. Very simply put, David went to God about his guilt. Now, I know that sounds overly simplistic, but I think it's very important to understand that one thing. Because listen to me, that is the whole purpose and design of guilt That's what it's designed to do. We have to understand that guilt is a God-given emotion It is given to us by Almighty God. We could even look at it as a gift from God. I know, you know, God forbid that you say that in a psychiatrist's office. Or to the secular world today, who are experts on this type of thing, to say that guilt is a gift, but it really is a gift from God. Um, in fact, guilt has everything to do with your relationship to God. It directly ties you to God. And that's so very important to understand that. You see, the wisdom of the world, they give people strategies to deal with guilt that excludes God from the picture. And that's why those solutions are very short-term, they're very superficial, they don't last, and the person will ultimately end up worse When you heed that kind of advice, any solution to try to deal with guilt that does not deal with a person's relationship with God is self-defeating. It's not going to fulfill the purpose for which God gave us this emotion of guilt And there's several strategies that that the world likes to give. Let me just give you some of the mistaken uh uh ways to deal with guilt, several wrong ways. Number one, just deny that you're really guilty. That's what some would say The reasoning goes like this. I only feel guilty because I'm living under the standard someone passed down to me, the older generation. That's where this guilt came from. That's Freudian, right? Sigmund Freud saying, Who gave you these high standards? You know, your id is that thing in you that wants to do what's natural, your superego comes along and crushes that id, and whoever gave That superego is controlled by the standards that the other generation gave you. Someone gave you all these high standards and now because you can't do what you want, you have these Guilty feelings. You're really not guilty at all, so stop feeling guilty. Throw off those antiquated standards is the advice. And this approach denies any relationship to God whatsoever. In fact, Freudian psychology is atheistic. It doesn't even acknowledge that there is a God. That's why it's dangerous for you better watch out when you go to s hear Christian counselors, quote unquote Christian counselors that link you into that type type of psychology, which is really atheistic in its in its basis, in its root. Here's another piece of advice. Just try to be a better person. When the guilt comes, just tell yourself you're going to do better. I call this the New Year's resolution approach to guilt. You know, I'm gonna do better. I know I'm gonna do better on this. In fact, you make all these resolutions. You're you're being downloaded with all this guilt because of something, and you think, you know what, I'm just gonna do better. You never really deal with the cause You never really deal with the issue. You just tell yourself you're going to do better. And then you come up with all these resolutions. And what happens is that might help up for the short term, but you forget all of that and the guilt comes back. And another piece of advice is, oh, just compare yourself to others. I like this one. When you feel guilty, just remember there's always someone worse than you And so just compare yourself to somebody worse. If you've done something bad, pick out someone else who's done something worse. Oh, there you are. You're worse than me. That makes me feel better And so we deal with our guilt by being self-righteous and critical of others. Again, this might give you a temporary relief, but ultimately it again is self-defeating. You end up worse because gossip is a sin. And being critical of others is a sin. And looking down on others is a sin. So the guilt simply is compiled. It's not in any way relieved or goes away. But this is some of the advice that you get from man's wisdom. None of that deals with the root issue, and none of it deals with your relationship to Almighty God. So what is guilt designed to do in relationship to you and the Lord? Number one, it's designed, guilt is designed to humble you. You say, I feel bad. Good. That's what guilt is designed to do. Guilt is designed to make you feel bad. Guilt is designed to humble you. It reminds you that you have violated a law. And if there's a law, that means there's a what? There's a lawgiver, a judge. And you're accountable to him. And so you should feel bad. And in this psalm here, you'll notice the second part, David is describing a very humble posture. Verse thirteen, but I as a deaf man heard not. I was as a dumb man that opened not his mouth. Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in those in whose mouth are no reproofs David is kind of describing a humble posture here. He sees his foolishness. He was like a deaf and dumb man. He understands that he is suffering for his own foolish mistakes, and he sounds as if he's at the end of his rope He's through with the arguments. He's through with the excuses. He's through with blaming others. Guilt is supposed to bring you there. It's supposed to humble you. It's supposed to bring you to the end of your rope. But a lot of times people don't get there, and you know why? Because again we have this idea out there that you're not to be responsible for the what you do and who you are. It's called victimization. You're a victim of something someone and somebody or something. It's not your fault. In fact, that's the mantra of the world today, right? It's not your fault. It's somebody else's fault. It's society's fault. It's the world's fault. It's the culture's fault. It's my parents' fault. We just shift the blame onto someone else, and if that's what you do, then you are short circuiting the work that God designed. For guilt to do in your heart. And one of those things is for guilt to bring you to yourself, to show you who you are, to humble you. before God. And this is the second thing. Guilt is designed to drive us to God. That's what it's there for. It's to drive you to the Lord. Look at verse 15. For in thee, O Lord, do I hope. Thou wilt hear, O Lord, my God. Look down at verse number 21. Forsake me not, O Lord, O my God. Be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. Again, guilt has everything to do with your relationship. To God. And David does what we're supposed to do when we're weighed down by guilt. He goes to God. That emotion, that feeling of guilt drives him to the Lord. In fact, the very idea that you're wrestling with guilt, you understand that's a good thing Because what does that reveal about you? It reveals several things. First of all, it reveals that your conscience is working. Praise the Lord for that. And secondly, it reveals that God is working in your life. That God is trying to get your attention. Again, guilt is a gift from God. And in a way, guilt is God crying out to you. And you know what he's saying? Come to me. Bring that issue to me. Let me take care of that thing for you. Let me forgive you. Because there's no one that can relieve you of guilt except God. Modern psychology can't take away your guilt. It can hide it, it can push it around, it can shift it onto someone else, it can tell you lies to try to bury it. But it can't relieve you of guilt. The only person who can relieve you of guilt is Almighty God. And so guilt is designed to drive you to the Lord. In fact, in the New Testament, Jesus used this emotion of guilt, this burden of guilt, and people who are wrestling with guilt, he used that as an invitation. To tell people to come to him. Remember? Remember what Jesus said? Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden with what? Heavy laden with guilt. You see that was the work of the law. You can also argue that. That's one of the reasons why God gave us the law The law was to show us how that we can't live up to God's perfect standards, that we are sinners, that we are guilty before Him. It's designed to beat us down so that we will run to the Lord And Jesus was saying that to the first century Jews who had been burdened down because they were unable to live up to the demands of the law. And he's saying if this guilt that you're feeling because you can't live that standard, if it's so heavy, if it so burned you down, good, then come to me. Let it drive you to me. And again, that's exactly what guilt is designed to do. It's good if it gets you looking In the right direction. If it gets you to do the right thing. Carl Menninger, the famous psychiatrist, said this: that if he could convince patients in his psychiatric hospitals that their sins are forgiven. He said 75% of them would walk out the next day. 75% he said would walk out if he could just convince them that their sins are forgiven. But again, I tell you, friend, there's only one who can forgive your sins. There's only one that can relieve that guilt. And that's Almighty God. And if you don't if your guilt doesn't drive you to the Lord for That forgiveness. If your guilt causes you to do something else, if it drives you away, it can crush you. That's why, again, modern psychology to me is dangerous because it's atheistic. It doesn't acknowledge God. It doesn't drive people The the the guilt is not something that's used to drive people to God. In fact, they use it to drive people away from God with all these other techniques and things that they come up with. That doesn't help. Let me give you the last thing. Guilt is designed to develop repentance in us. Look at verse number 18. He kind of sums it up here. For I Will declare mine iniquity, I will be sorry for my sin And that's what guilt is designed to do to develop a true repentance in us that brings us to the point of saying, I have sinned against God. And that's the surest sign of God's work in a person's heart when a person is willing to go before God and declare their sin. Because again, there are so many techniques out there in the world today that's designed to, you know, not really show you who you are, but it it's they're so evasive. And they're not designed for you to see yourself as you are before a holy God. It does quite the opposite. But what guilt is designed to do is to is like a mirror that shows you who you are So that you will come to a place of true repentance and cry out to God, I have sinned. I will declare my sin. I will be sorry for my sin. It's kind of like the prodigal son, where it says that he came to himself. He saw himself for what he really is. You know, sin in this world is so insidious, it doesn't tell you what you really are. It kind of hides what you really are. And a lot of people they live their life in a way where they don't really want to take a good look at who they are. They they don't want to see themselves for what they are. And so they they live with all these different masks that they wear, but none of them really shows you what you really are. But the word of God And guilt is designed so you'll come to yourself and so that you'll realize that you are a sinner before God, so that you will cast yourself on the Lord, so that you will be sorry for sin. And friend, when that happens, there's divine forgiveness. There's divine cleansing. The sin is removed. The guilt is removed. There's renewal in your heart. And the joy comes back. The happiness comes back. The zest for life comes back. All those negative emotions that come with the feelings of guilt, they're all gone. And there's nothing between your soul and the Lord, and it's wonderful. But that's what guilt must do. It must drive you to the Lord in true repentance. You'll get to the point that you'll say, like the psalmist, I will be sorry for my sin. Let me just read you this last thing and we'll be done. I read of a man by the name of Ron Blank, who is a pastor in Phoenix. And he was called to visit a 14-year-old boy. This 14-year-old boy was in a catatonic state in the psychiatric ward of a hospital. The boy was lying on his bed. He was as stiff as a board, he says in his report. He said nothing had helped for this young boy. The nurse who saw Ron come in through the room thought he was a doctor And so she said to him, I think the boy is suffering from too much religion. And Ron let her get both feet into her mouth before he revealed that he was the boy's pastor. He went in, he began to talk to the boy. Finally, the young man opened up and he revealed that he was under a pile of guilt. And Ron shared the forgiveness that Christ offers. And before he can invite the boy to pray, he said the boy began to pray on his own. Ron bowed his head. The boy asked Jesus to come into his life and forgive his sins. And when he was finished, Ron looked up to find the boy sitting on the edge of the bed, freely swinging his legs. And Ron asked, What is this? And the boy said, I'm free, man. I'm free. Jesus has forgiven me. He says they walked out to the patio area to chat some more. And he said he got real delight from looking at the expression on the faces of the nurses. As they came by to look at this young man who was not the same person anymore, because he had been forgiven. All the guilt was gone. He was brand new. That's the blessing of forgiveness. And do you understand that's available to you? God makes that available to you. That's why David said in Psalm 32: Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin when his sins are forgiven. and taken away. You see, that's what we should do. That's why, that's how you say goodbye to guilt. You let it drive you to the Lord. You let it humble you. You let it do its work of bringing repentance into your heart. You take it to God and you plead for forgiveness from a merciful God. Because of Jesus Christ, for him to forgive that sin. And you know what? Our merciful God will cleanse you and he will renew you and he will take that guilt away. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, thank you for the joy of sins forgiven. Thank you for your mercy, your love to us. Thank you for the emotion of guilt that's designed to drive us. In humility to you, to see us as we really are, so that we will indeed run to you and get cleansing and get forgiveness. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I I just want you right there where you are. I'm not going to ask anyone to raise your hand or anything. I just want you to deal with the Lord right there quietly where you sit. Maybe that there's an issue in your life that's been weighing you down. It's a heavy burden. You don't have to carry that. In fact, the very guilt that you feel is the Lord crying out to you and saying, Bring it to me. Just bring it to me. It's wonderful that we have a God that will just take it off of us, that will cleanse us and forgive us. So as you run to the Lord, run to Him, and be free to say goodbye to guilt. Thank you, Father, for your work in our heart and our in our life, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.