All right, good to see you all here tonight. In you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the book of 2 Kings, uh 2 Kings chapter 20. Tonight, we're going to look at a event in the life of King Hezekiah in the Old Testament, 2 Kings chapter 20. Did you ever hear the expression the repentance that is born in the storm often dies in the comb? And that expression simply describes times when a person might face a crisis in their life, perhaps a life or death crisis. It might be a crisis brought about by a person's sin or their own foolishness. And when they're in the midst of this personal crisis, they cry out to God, you know, for for help. And God in his mercy hears their cry and is gracious. He intervenes to uh spare their life And rather than responding appropriately with gratitude and devotion, they kind of go back to behaving just like they did before the crisis I've seen this happen again and again as pastor. People get a terrible report from the doctor. They start coming to church. They start asking God for help. And they plead with God, they beg God for His mercy, they make all kinds of promises, all kinds of vows of things they're going to do if God will just simply spare them. And God graciously answers their prayer. And God does more than uh actually they ask, and the crisis is over. God was merciful, he was kind, and how do they respond? Well eventually when the when the crisis ends, they go back to living just like they did before the crisis started. There's no real devotion to the Lord because of that. They forget all the promises. They forget all the vows they made to God. Perhaps God even intervened and added years to their life. Rather than giving those added years to God, they just selfishly live for whatever they want to do. What a sad testimony that is. And this is really what we learn from this narrative here in 2 Kings chapter 20. And the the message I want you to get from this whole story is that when God graciously gives a second chance to undeserving sinners, we should respond appropriately. We should respond with gratitude. We should respond with obedience. We should respond with devotion and worship. We should respond like the Apostle Paul said in Romans 12. 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the what? By the mercies of God Based on the mercies that God has shown us, what should we do? Present our body as a living sacrifice. God, I give myself to you. I'm yours. That's the response of someone who is truly grateful for the mercies of God. This is a story, an example of God's marvelous grace, and yet how God's grace is taken for granted But because this man responds inappropriately to God's grace. And I hope that this story will serve as a warning to all of us that when God shows grace to us that when God brings us through a personal crisis that we would respond in the right way Now I want you to see five key elements here in this story, in this narrative. First of all, what I want to call the sickness. Now all of this is about the life of a king Hezekiah, the king of Judah. And first of all, there's the sickness. Look in verse number one. In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death, and the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amos, came to him and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, set thine house in order, for thou shalt die and not live. When a preacher comes to make a visit to the hospital room, it's not always a good thing. I remember when I was visiting down and I was in a church down south visiting at one time I went to a hospital. visit and I passed the information desk and the lady behind the desk recognized me as being the senior pastor of you know church in that area and she said, Oh no, someone's gonna die. The big guy's here. It's not a really good response. I'll never forget that. You know, the senior pastors here, someone must be dying, or something like that. Well, the fact that Isaiah the prophet himself goes to visit King Hezekiah was not a good sign in this case. Hezekiah had been sick. He was hoping to get well, but Isaiah had a message from God. to the king. And the message is this look, set your house in order. You're not going to recover. You will die. Hezekiah's sickbed would become his deathbed. And like Ahaziah and Asa and Uzziah, the kings that were before him, Hezekiah had no chance of recovery. Set your house in order simply means get things ready for your departure. You're going to die. This is practical advice from Isaiah. Be ready for death. If you got that report, would you be ready to die? And basically what he's saying is make sure your soul is right. Make sure you've repented and you're trusting in God alone, not your works. Reconcile broken relationships in your life. Make financial provision for your family. Write out your will. Make sure you're ready. Anything you need to say, you should say it to your family. I remember when I went up to see Dr. Bill Shade on his last days, one of the things he said was he was asking the Lord to extend his time until he could write a letter to every one of his grandchildren. And just expressing what he would desire for them. Before we die, we should take advantage of those opportunities if God is so gracious to let us know when that might come. And we should uh do what is necessary, do what is right. But Hezekiah notice his response, not only the sickness, but notice secondly the supplication. Look in verse 2. Then he turned his face to the wall and prayed on the Lord, saying, I beseech thee, O Lord, remember now how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore. Hezekiah was not ready to die at that moment. There were things yet that he wanted to do. At this time he was only thirty-nine years old in his life, a relatively young man. And why did God announce his death through the prophet Isaiah? Well, this was really a punishment to And the book of Chronicles makes it crystal clear why God was punishing King Hezekiah. The record is in 2 Chronicles 32, 24. This is what it says. In those days King Hezekiah was sick unto death and prayed to the Lord. And he spake unto him, and he gave him a sign, but Hezekiah, render not again according to the benefit done unto him, for his heart was lifted up. Therefore was wrath upon him. Why was God doing this to him? This was a punishment because Hezekiah's heart was lifted up in pride, and God hates the sin of pride. Pride is a sin where you push God off the throne and you put yourself on the throne and you take the glory that rightfully belongs only to God and you claim that glory for yourself. Pride is self-worship. It is self-idolatry. It is bowing to the idol of self, that form of self-worship, taking credit for what God alone had done. There was another king in the Old Testament that had pride, and God punished him. His name was King Nebuchadnezzar. The Bible says that he he he walked in pride, his heart was lifted up. And you remember in that story that God warned Nebuchadnezzar through a dream that Daniel interpreted to give glory to God. And that's it just didn't register with him because a year later the Bible says He was walking out of the palace, perhaps he was walking on the porch of his palace, and he and he made this boast. Is not this the great Babylon that I have built by my power, my might, and for my majesty? Talk about an ego trip And what did God do? The Bible says a voice fell from heaven and said, O King to thee it is spoken. The kingdom is departed from you. And God judged him immediately at that time, and he struck him with insanity. And he ate grass like a cow for years. Why? Because God hates pride. This is the first thing committed by Satan, who said, I would be like the Most High. God proclaimed through Isaiah, my glory I will not give to another. God does not tolerate pride in his leaders. Listen to what the book of Proverbs says, how God feels about pride. Proverbs 21:4, a high look and a proud heart are sin. Proverbs 6. 17, the Lord hates a proud look. Proverbs 16, 5. Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. Proverbs 8 13, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride and arrogance do I hate. And on we could go Pride is a serious sin condemned all throughout Scripture. It's an abomination to God. The Bible says God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Now this story is going to illustrate that very thing. God said to Hezekiah, set your house in order, because you're going to die. But when Hezekiah hears this, he humbles himself. I want you to notice his response. Again, in verse 2 He turns his face to the wall and he prayed to the Lord. So first of all, he turns to the Lord He turns his face away from the numerous attendants that are there in his bedchamber. Isaiah was also there in his bedchamber And he doesn't talk to Isaiah. He doesn't talk to any of the attendants. He's not asking for help from the medical field or anyone else. He turns his face to the wall to focus on seeking only God. It's as if he's turning to God alone, who was his only helper, and Hezekiah realized that. God is his only help Seeking God was the right thing to do. It always is. The king's prognosis, we could say, was a spiritual test to see what he would do when there was nowhere else to turn. It was a test that really other kings had failed. You might remember in 2 Kings 1, verse 2, King Ahaziah, the Bible says, fell through the lattice in his upper chamber And he landed on his deathbed, the Bible says basically. He uh he he was going to die. Uh uh he was given that news. And what does he do? He sends some messengers to go and consult with Beelzebub That was his response. He didn't go to God, he went to the devil for help. But not Hezekiah. Hezekiah fervently prays to the Lord, and in this Hezekiah passes the test. In fact, he's the only king in 1st and 2nd Kings who ever prays for healing. His prayer might not have been a perfect prayer, but it was a genuine prayer, and God was listening. This prayer marks the turning point turning point in this whole narrative. And when we are sick, beloved, we should pray for healing. When there's no way out, we should pray for deliverance. When we're content to die, we should pray for God's salvation. And when we pray like this, God will answer. Notice He turns to the Lord, but also he humbles himself. Again in verse number three. Look at the end of verse three where it says, He wept, and Hezekiah wept sore. If pride was the reason for his punishment, then humility is the proper response. And here he's broken, he's contrite before the Lord. The best prayers are those that are filled with tears. Tears are prayers also, they travel to God when we can't speak And in Psalm 34, 18, the Bible says this, the Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit. The Bible says in Psalm 51, verse 17, the sacrifices of God are a broken heart. A broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. The Bible says in Isaiah 57, verse 15, To this one will I look, to the one who is humble and who trembles at my word. And that was the condition of Isaiah at this, or excuse me, of Hezekiah at this point. He prays in humility. Humble prayer gets the attention of God. But another thing he does, I notice here, is that he claims God's promises. Again, look at verse three, where he says, I beseech thee, O Lord, remember now how I have walked before thee in truth, and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. Now, on the surface, when you read this verse, it might seem like that Hezekiah is bragging here, and he's going to God based on his own righteousness and merit, but this was not presumptuous self-righteousness. Hezekiah understood that under the old covenant, length of days was promised to those who sought to obey the Lord and sought to be righteous. The Bible says in Proverbs 3. 2, for length of days and long life, and peace shall be added to thee. Proverbs 9. 11, For by me thy days shall be multiplied, and the years of thy life shall increase. Proverbs 1027, the fear of the Lord prolongeth days, but the years of the wicked shall be shortened. And so Hezekiah is praying based on what God has promised. in the old covenant that if you live a righteous life, if you seek to do what is right before God, that God will lengthen your days. It really reads more like a a a prayer of David in the Psalms Where David asked the Lord, Lord, reward me according to my walk. Reward me according to my uprightness. According to my rightness, the things that I've done before you. And so Hezekiah, basically what he's doing is he's trying to lay hold of divine promises from God, who said that he would lengthen your days if you do what is right in his sight. So notice not only the sickness, and we see the supplication, but then I want you to notice number three the salvation. Look down at verse number four. And it came to pass before Isaiah was going out of the middle court that the word of the Lord came to him, saying, Now God will answer I mean this what's amazing about this is that God answered immediately. And God will often answer us the way he answered Hezekiah. And he'll give us more than we ask. He'll overlook perhaps our prayers that are the deficiency of our prayers, none of our prayers are perfect, but he'll he'll he'll act simply on the basis of his own mercy and grace. And so this this answer was immediate. I mean, Isaiah was leaving, he was going out, there were three basic three courtyards leading out of the palace, and by the time Isaiah got to the middle courtyard. God had already spoken to Isaiah and said, look, turn around and go back. Look at verse number five. Turn again and tell Hezekiah. Here's the message. The captain of my people, thus saith the Lord the God of David, thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears. Behold, I will heal thee. On the third day thou shalt go up unto the house of the Lord. And I will add unto thy days fifteen years. And I will deliver thee in this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria. And I will defend this city for my own sake. And for the sake of David, my servant. Hezekiah's fervent prayer was heard, and God answers in such a wonderful and gracious way. Hezekiah only asked God to spare his life. But God does more than that. Notice what God said he would do. He said, Hezekiah, in three days, you're going to get up out of that bed and you're going to go and you're going to be able to worship in the temple. In three days. Now, obviously he had been there for a while. So in three days, he would be well enough to get off that bed. And then secondly, God granted him 15 additional years to his life. This would more than double the length of his reign, according to the Bible. And then number three, God promised to defend Jerusalem from among the Assyrians and the heathen for the sake of David, because of David's commitment to God. Because of the promises God made to David, God pledged that he would be Jerusalem's defender. Now just a note here on the chronology of this event. This event is not in chronological order in the book of 2 Kings. Because if you read 2 Kings chapter 18 and chapter 19, what you read about is the invasion of Sennacheria, the king of Assyria. And now we're having this personal crisis that Isaiah had in his life. But the events are really not in order. Because this event in I in in Hezekiah's life actually happened before the Assyria the Assyrian invasion. The Assyrians invasion. This is really the chapter twenty is really a flashback. of something that happened earlier in the life of Hezekiah. And so this is common kind of a literary technique. A story might be placed in a certain place, just to make a point. You say, how do we know that this story happened earlier on? Well, in 2 Kings chapter 20, Hezekiah still had possession of the treasury. Look in chapter 20, verse 13. And look down at verse 17. Oh, from verse 13 to verse 17, excuse me, Hezekiah is showing off the temple treasure to some visitors that came. And so he still had possession of the temple and the treasury there. Which was not true under the Assyrian invasion. But under that invasion, the king was forced to drain the treasury to pay tribute to Sennacherib. And so we know that this story happened earlier on. But there's another theological question to answer here. That is, if I if Isaiah told Hezekiah in no uncertain terms that he would never recover, And then he then after that told him he would live for fifteen more years. Someone might ask, doesn't that make Isaiah a false prophet Because here Isaiah gives this prophecy, you'll never recover, and then he goes back and says, you know, you're going to live fifteen more years. What does this mean? Now we kind of talked about this before. Does God change his mind? From our perspective, it looks like he does. But from his divine perspective, God never really changes his mind. Um and uh besides that, you know, just to be up front, there's really no way sometimes to to take all the mystery out of the things that God does. Let me just say it like this. God is sovereign. He can do whatever he wants. Alright, everybody okay with that? God can do whatever he wants. If God says I'm going to take your life and then suddenly changes his mind because the conditions change, because Hezekiah humbles himself. And he prays. The condition is totally changing. God says, You know what? Based on that, I will give you fifteen more years. We know that God in his perfection never really changes because he knows all things. Yet from our perspective, God is sovereign, and God will do whatever is pleasing to him. But you know the hope that I get from this is that, you know, it's never too late to pray for someone. Even though it might look like it's complete, you know, it's it's done. Whatever's gonna happen is gonna happen. With God there is always hope. That's why you never give up praying for someone. Recently someone asked me that question about a person that looks like they had completely walked away from the Lord. They completely committed total apostasy from God. And the question was, should we just continue to pray for this person or should we just give up and let them go, knowing that their fate is sealed? And my response is, as long as they breathe, their fate is not sealed. There's always hope with God. And so you continue to pray. Desperate times call for fervent prayers, and who knows what God in his mercy will do. God may answer with sudden grace. There's always hope with God. But also I can't help but notice the third this third day thing. God said on the third day, you're gonna get out of that bed. Now I think that the third day is a motif that we often see in the Old Testament, and I think prophetically it points to Jesus Christ. You know, when Abraham and Isaac went to Mount Moriah, they came down out of the mountain on the third day. That's not an accident that they they came out of the mountain on the third day. The Bible says in Hosea 6 2 that there's deliverance with God on the third. day. And so I think that e uh even though this is not a prophecy about the resurrection, it's a motif that we find Often in the Old Testament, I think that points to the fact that on the third day Jesus Christ would come out of that grave, that he rose again from the grave. And so I I I see I see that shadows of that in this passage here. But then notice what happens in verse number seven. Notice verse seven, what it says. And Isaiah said, take a lump of figs, and they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered. Now this you know this was obviously not the reason for his recovery, but this was this was not magic. This was not really the uh a medical remedy, uh the the uh the poultice of figs that was placed on uh Hezekiah was really kind of just a a symbol, a tangible instrument of God's divine healing that would take place with him So let me move on to the fourth thing. We see the sickness, we see the supplication, we see the salvation, but then number four, there's the sign. Look at verse eight. And Hezekiah said unto Isaiah, What shall be the sign that the Lord will heal me? And that I shall go up into the house of the Lord on the third day. Now, this symbolic act of the poultice of figs didn't set the mind of Hezekiah at ease. So Hezekiah asked for a sign to bolster his faith. He wanted additional confirmation that the Lord was going to heal him. Now, some people might criticize Hezekiah for this, but again, under the old covenant, God frequently offered miraculous sign to substantiate his promises to people that were in desperate situations. And you remember that to King Ahaz, who was in a desperate situation, God said, Ask me a sign. And King Ahaz said, Oh, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna do that. You act at all spiritual. And God said, look, when I ask you to ask me for a sign, go ahead and ask me, you know, for a sign. And here Hezekiah is kind of anticipating the same thing. Is there going to be some sign about this? And God's not angry with him about it. The prophet Isaiah is not angry with him about this sign. This would be Not a out of the out of the ordinary type request in this condition. And in his mercy, God gave an incredible sign. Look in verse number nine. And notice what he says. And Isaiah said, This sign shalt thou have, O the Lord, that the Lord will do this thing that he has spoken. Shall the shadow go forward ten degrees or back ten degrees? Now in his mercy, this is just an incredible thing that God does for Hezekiah. Not only will he give him a sign, but he'll allow Hezekiah to even help in asking what the sign should be. Evidently, there was a sundial close by. If the king was laying in his bedchamber, he could probably look and see this sundial to know what time of the day it was, kind of like our alarm clock close to our bed, right? Our digital alarm clock, we can see what time it is. He had this sundial And Isaiah says, you know, would you like for the shadow to advance quickly forward as a sign? Or would you like the shadow on the sundial to go backward? as a sign. I mean he leaves the option open to King Hezekiah. And look in verse 10. And Hezekiah answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to go down ten degrees, nay, but let the shadow return backward ten degrees. And so Hezekiah is asking for the more difficult thing here. You know, it's not it's you know, it'd be easy for it to advance forward, but The fact that the shadow on the sundial would go backward 10 degrees, now that is a sign. Because essentially what he's asking to happen here is that God would turn back the clock. That's kind of an amazing thing here. Um and of course this is how a sundial works, you know According to where the sun is in the sky, it'll cast a cer a shirt a certain shadow on the dial, and you can know what time of the day it is by asking it to go backward. Um this would be this would be an incredible miracle. It would be like asking for the rotation of the earth to go in the wrong direction. I mean if we're going by literal science, if you take this to be literal And so what happens here? Does Isaiah say, oh, that's a little too much for God? No, what happens? Look at verse 11. And Isaiah the prophet cried unto the Lord. And he brought the shadow ten degrees backward by which it had gone down in the dial of Ahaz. This is amazing. Amazing that this would happen. God answered and brought the shadow on the sundial back 10 degrees. Now this would be a fitting symbol because God is actually adding years to the life of Hezekiah, and the symbol of that would be that he's kind of turning back time here on the sundial Now, when I was reading and studying this, you can imagine there's all kind of different spins on this. What really happened, some will say. You know, was this a mirage? Was this something that just happened right there on the sundial where God made it appear as if the shadow moved back 10 degrees? Or was this a miracle? Mirage or miracle? And I've heard uh read different interpretations on this, and some say, well, you know, this is what happened. They try to explain it scientifically. And they say, you know, this is this couldn't have happened. This had to be the thing. I'm not going to waste all your time by giving you all the different responses to this. I would just simply say, you know what? It was a miracle. And you know something about miracles? You can't explain them. That's why they're called miracles. Because it's something that happens that defies description There's no natural explanation for it. It is something that God did. I don't think that this was a mirage Because the Bible says it was a sign. The Hebrew word for sign is oat. A sign in the heavens, a great sign. Same word used. when God said, I'm, you know, I'm going to give you a sign, a virgin shall conceive. That's a great sign, something that doesn't happen naturally. And we know that this was a was a miracle because you know what the Bible says in 2 Chronicles 32, 31, that ambassadors from Babylon came to see Hezekiah, and you know what they did? They asked about the wonder in the land. It didn't happen. So it wasn't a mirage. That just didn't happen right there at the sundial. This was something that was noticed over the land. This was something that the Babylonians noticed, those who were uh pay s uh fastidious attention to what takes place in the heavens. They saw this and they wanted an explanation for this. But again, the Bible doesn't go into any explanation. It just says that God did it. God did it. And again, it's a miracle and an incredible miracle that God did. God answered yet another prayer, and by doing this, he strengthened the faith of Hezekiah. And Hezekiah was healed just like God said. Just let me tell you about this. There was a recent discovery made uh that bears witness to this event. uh a team of archaeologists from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. They unearthed a two a 2700-year-old Bullah. A bulla is a clay document used as a seal. They unearthed it at the site of Solomon's temple. And this seal, this bullah, bears an inscription. This is what the inscriptions they found on it said, belonging to Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz, king of Judah. And you know what archaeologists found? They found an image on this dial. It was a sun spreading downward wings as if to provide protection for Hezekiah. And those who discovered it believe that that picture that is there on that seal points to this very event in the life of Hezekiah. What God was doing in his life. So let me show you the final thing here tonight. We saw the sickness, the supplication, the salvation, the sign. But then this story doesn't end on a positive note. There's the sin. After everything that God did for Hezekiah, you would expect that he would walk in God's ways all the rest of his life. Total devotion to God. Yet you know what we find about Hezekiah? That he had the same struggle that many of us have. We all struggle to stay faithful to God, who is so faithful to us. And despite the fact that God forgave Hezekiah and gave him a second chance, healed him, gave him such a wondrous sign. Hezekiah grows complacent and he reverts back to that sin of pride at the end of his life. Has that happened to you? Has God given you a second chance, blessed you, brought you through a personal crisis, took care of whatever needs that you have? And at first you're grateful, you're thankful, man, you're ready to go for God. And then in time, you just revert right back to the old pattern of life. Where you're no longer faithful, you're complacent, you're apathetic, you don't give God the glory, you're not determined to be faithful to Him for His goodness This is what happened to Hezekiah when the storm was past. He grew back into being half-hearted. And he reverts back to his old pride. See, how do we know that? Well, look in verse 12, because he receives a visit from some Babylonians. We don't have time to go over all of it, we just have a few minutes left. But they heard that he was sick, and the Babylonians come and they visit. And look at verse 13. Hezekiah hearkened unto them and showed them all the house. Of his precious things, the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious ointment. Now wait a minute. These are all your things, Hezekiah? Oh, let me show you my temple. Let me show you my treasury. He shows again all the house of his armor, all that was found in his treasures. Notice the emphasis on his. There was nothing in his house Nor in all his dominion that Hezekiah showed them not. Nowhere here is there any pointing to God saying, This is God's temple, this is what God has done for us, this is all the work of the Lord What is Hezekiah doing? He's showing off to these Babylonians. He's basically saying, this is what I have done. And when God sends the prophet Isaiah to him after this little adventure, by the way, the Babylonians were coming because they wanted to form an alliance with Hezekiah to protect themselves against The Assyrians, why would Hezekiah need to do that when he had God on his side? Why would he need to have an alliance with a pagan nation? Why would he need to, in pride, show them all of that? And look at verse 16, Isaiah said unto Hezekiah, hear the word of the Lord. Behold, the days come that all that is in thine house That which thy fathers have laid up in store unto this day shall be carried into Babylon. Nothing shall be left, saith the Lord, of thy sons, that thou shalt issue from thee, which shall be thou shalt beget. Shall be shall they take away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon. This is a serious judgment from God Through the prophet Isaiah, God says, oh, you want to make an alliance with the Babylonians? You want to claim credit? This is your house. These are all your treasures. Well, guess what? The Babylonians are going to come in one day and they're going to take all of that out. They're going to empty this house of all these treasures You want to cozy up to the Babylonians? Well, they're going to take your offspring. They're going to take your children and grandchildren. They're going to make them eunuchs in the courts of Babylon. That's what's going to happen. And so Hezekiah is being judged again because of his pride. But notice his response. This is really bad. Look at verse 19. Then said Hezekiah unto Isaiah, Good is the word of the Lord which thou hast spoken. And he said, Is it not good if peace and truth be in my days? You know what his response was? Well, at least it's not going to happen while I'm alive. He didn't care that others were going to suffer because of his pride. He didn't care that he was bringing down consequences on the nation because of his sin. What was his response? Well at least I don't have to see it. At least I don't have to deal with this. This will be after I'm gone. There'll be peace in my days. And then in verse 20, he kind of gives the epitaph on his life about the rest of the acts that he did there. And so, because of his pride, they were seriously judged. This would be a prophetic an act of prophetic justice here that God was going to pour out upon Hezekiah because of his sin. Now, and so again, this is this is uh this is a serious judgment from God. Alec Moyner calls his attitude a wretched response, and I agree with that Here Hezekiah was given a second chance. And you know what? He didn't take advantage of it. He he fell back into pride. He squandered the opportunity that God gave him. And you know what? He did not finish well. And as a result, his family suffered for it. God's grace was taken for granted. And again, I hope that this story tonight will serve as a warning to all of us. That when God gives us a second chance. And by the way, you know what? Salvation is a second chance. That's why it's called being born again. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. When God saves us, he gives us his amazing grace. And you know what? We should never take his grace for granted. We should live in full devotion to the Lord all the days of our life. Because God has literally given us a second chance. May this story serve as a warning to all of us. The Apostle Paul said this, by the grace of God, I am what I am. And his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all. Paul understood how precious God's grace was When it was given to him in his life. And he said, because of that grace, I want to labor more abundantly than they all. And may that be our attitude tonight. Let's bow for prayer together. So Father, we uh we thank you for this word, the warning that we get sometimes when we see certain things in Scripture. And Lord, we can see that here in this story of Kings that the reason that Israel was judged so severely was because of failure of those that were in leadership, a failure, Lord, to recognize you, a failure, Lord, to give you the glory. There was a sin of pride that brought down the nation of Judah and Israel. Father, I pray that we'll be warned by this. That Lord, we would never take your grace for granted. And that Lord, when you do come and give us a second chance, that we would recognize your mercy. And because of your mercies, that Lord, we would be completely A living sacrifice unto you, Lord, giving our whole self to you, that all the rest of the days of our life that you allow us to have might be devoted to you, to worship, to service, to love To be faithful to you all of our days. Father, may it be so in our life and we pray in Jesus' name