Open to the book of Jude. The old the Old Testament. The New Testament Book of Jude. Go to the book of Revelation and make a left. And be careful because you might pass over it because it's just one little page there in your New Testament. And some call it a letter, others call it a postcard because it's so very small Well let me just tell you it is a very powerful, powerful little letter. Now one of the great blessings of salvation is the security that we receive from it. It is wonderful to know that you're saved. An even greater blessing is to know that you're saved and to know that you'll never, ever lose it. And that's the kind of security that Jude wants us to have As we study this letter here, and by the way, we're going to be going a few weeks on Sunday night, studying the message of Jude here, and he begins with a very strong message of security. And again, Jude wants you to know that you're saved. He wants you to know that you'll never lose it. He wants you to have that strong security. And more importantly, God wants you to have that kind of security And so I want to talk to you about that tonight because not everyone are have a a a true uh biblical sound security regarding their salvation. I heard about a man who was flying on a passenger plane. There was a four it was a four engine plane. And the captain came over to the loudspeaker and he said, uh ladies and gentlemen, I had some news. He said Well uh engine number one is gone. He said, but don't worry, we can fly on three engines. He said, we'll just be fifteen minutes late. And a few minutes later he came over the loudspeaker again. He said, ladies and gentlemen, engine two is no longer working. He said, but don't worry, we can fly with two engines. He said, but we're going to be a half hour late. And then again he came over to the loudspeaker. He said, ladies and gentlemen, we we lost engine three. But that's okay. We can still fly with one engine, but we're probably going to be about an hour late. About that time the passenger leaned over to the man next to him. He said, Man, I hope we don't lose engine number four. We could be up here all night. Well, that's not really a true security there. But Jude wants you to have a real security And that's what he's going to talk about here. So let's talk first of all, let me give you a little introductory word here. Who is this person of Judah? I want to talk uh but preliminary thoughts here before we get into the main body of the sermon. I want to talk about the person of Jude. Let's meet the writer. Who is this man? Look at verse number one. Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James. Now he introduces himself as Jude. Now it's interesting the Greek word is actually Judas. But the translators don't translate the word Judas, the name Judas. They shorten it to the name Jude. And by the way, many other English versions, in fact I think every other English version does the same thing. They just shorten it. Instead of calling them Judas, they call them Jude. You say, well why do they do that? Well for obvious reasons, right? The name Judas was not a very popular name. It's not a name that I would want to have. And certainly the uh not a name that was popular, especially in that day. Now in the New Testament there were actually five men we find in the New Testament that were named Judas. There was a Judas of Damascus in Acts chapter nine. There was a Judas of Barsabbas. That's Acts chapter 15. He was a leader in the early church. He accompanied Silas to Antioch. There was a Judas Iscariot, of course, we know that name, and obviously he's not the writer. of this letter. And then there was a Judas in the Bible that is called not Iscariot. He's also called Judas Thaddeus. And he's mentioned in Matthew chapter 10. And then there's another Judas that we think is the writer of this letter here, he is the brother of our Lord Jesus, or we could say half-brother of our Lord Jesus Christ. And he's also, as we see here in verse number one, he identifies himself as the brother of James. Our Lord Jesus had half-brothers and sisters. We know that. We know that Jesus was born of the Virgin Mary. But after Jesus was born, Mary had uh Mary and Joseph had natural children. And by the way, this is not a doctrine that's very popular in a lot of places because the Roman Catholic Church doesn't want you to know that because they teach the perpetual virginity of Mary. But the New Testament is very clear that Mary and Joseph had natural children. Right down Matthew 13, verse 55. We meet four of them. It says there, is not this the carpenter's son And it's not his mother called Mary and his brethren James and Joseph and Simon and Judas. There are four Brothers that are mentioned right there. Now we don't know anything about Joseph and Simon. We know a lot more about James. James became a leader in the early church there. in Jerusalem. He was the half-brother our Lord Jesus, the writer of the New Testament epistle James, and his brother Judas, or Jude is the writer of this letter right here. Now some people say, well now if he was the half brother of Jesus, why didn't he identify himself as the half-brother of Jesus? Well I think two reasons. Number one, because that relationship really didn't matter You see, it was not that relationship that was going to do him any good. It was his relationship to Jesus as Savior and Lord. He recognized Jesus as the Lord. You see, after the death and resurrection, that death and resurrection uh solidified in the mind of his brothers, half-brothers, that he was God in the flesh, that he was the Savior, and all family relationships at that point were put aside They recognize Jesus as the Redeemer, as God as Lord, as the one who rose from the dead And Jesus even said, you remember one time in Mark chapter 3, when Jesus was in a particular house that was crowded with people, and someone said, Lord, your mother and your brothers are out there, and Jesus said this. He said, Who is my mother? And who? My brethren. They looked around all those people that were listening to him, those who had really received him and were his disciples, and he said, Behold, my mother, my brother, and so on. And what Jesus was saying there at that point was that it's okay for them to look at me and a w uh for a time being, for a short temporal time, in a family relationship, but all that needs to change. Because he is Lord and God. And if you want to be really related to Jesus, it's not any physical relationship that matters. It's a spiritual relationship It's knowing him as Lord and Savior, and that's how Jude identifies himself. He calls himself the servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think also Jude was a humble man. I don't think he wanted to wear that badge. He was humble. He just says, I am a dulas, I am a slave of Jesus Christ. Now that's the person of Jude. But then I want you, another thought here in the beginning, is the purpose of Jude. Whenever we come to a letter, we want to ask this question, why is this letter written? What is the purpose of this letter? And we don't have to look far because look down in verse number three. He tells us why. Beloved, I when I gave all diligence to write unto you the common salvation It was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith that was once delivered unto the saints. Now Jude is telling us here that when he began to write, his intention was to write about the theme of salvation. He was just going to write about this common manner of salvation. You might say that he was going to write another kind of Romans-like epistle, talking about the great doctrines of justification and so on. And he said, I started to write that. But then I changed my mind. You say, who changed his mind? God did. He was under inspiration of the Holy Spirit. And the Spirit of God changed his direction. And he said, I found it needful, in verse 3, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith. Perhaps you'd have already heard in that day and age of some believers that were falling away from the faith. Or he heard of false doctrines and false teachings that began to make its way into the church, insidious doctrines. that were threatening the foundation of our precious doctrines of faith. And by the way, they're still out there. In fact, they're out there even more today than at any day. And you perhaps he heard about that. He heard perhaps about some who were already falling away from the faith, turning their back on what they had learned. And Jude then switches themes, and he says, you know, it's needful to write unto you and exhort you to contend for the faith. And so here's the theme. of Jude. He addresses the theme of apostasy. You say, what is apostasy? Apostasy is those who turn away from the faith. They seem as if at the very beginning to embrace the doctrines of the faith, but something happens in their heart. They don't receive the Lord Jesus so as to be saved, to be truly saved. They are enlightened. And yet they turn away from the truth that it looks like they had previously received. And Jude is writing to warn us about this apostasy. This apostasy that is so very, very real. And it's something that we need to hear today because I want to tell you, before our Lord Jesus Christ returns, the Bible says there is going to be a falling away from the faith. There will be many that will turn away from the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, right down Luke chapter 18, verse 8, Jesus said this. He asked this question. When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? Jesus is asking that question. When the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth? Who's going to be left? Will there be any left there? He's kind of asking. And so this we could say, this letter here, we know the Acts of the Apostles written at the beginning of the church age, written by Luke, the book of Acts. Someone has called this letter the Acts of the Apostates. written towards uh the end of the New Testament writing era. In fact, this was the last New Testament epistle written chronologically. It's not the last letter in the Bible, it's the next to the last, but chronologically Jude was the last letter written in the New Testament and he is warning us. He is calling us to be aware You might call this the Christian call to arms. He is sounding the alarm. He's saying, you better watch out. You better be discerning. You better know that there is insidious doctrines that can come in and can seep in and can steal away. There are people that may fall away from the faith. And Jude is writing this as a preventative word. He is sounding the alarm. He is saying, beware of the apostasy. And again I say, dear friend, sad to say that all around in the church in America, I that's the church I know of because I've been around in our country some, there have been people that are falling away from the faith of Jesus Christ. And there are churches that are no longer holding to the Scripture, the Word of God. There are people questioning the inspiration and the authority of Scripture. And friend, I want to tell you that's where it starts. You you show me anyone who begins to question this book, this that this is the inspired word of God, and I want to tell you something, dear friend, that's when it all unravels right there. That's when it's all going to unravel. And right after that, there's going to be other things there. Because I want to tell you something, dear friend. If you don't believe that this book is the Word of God, you have no reference point You have no sour source of authority, and so therefore everything is going to unravel, and it has for some churches and institutions. Let me give you a little quiz. What do these colleges have in common? Listen to this. Harvard, Yale, Columbia, William and Mary, Dartmouth, Princeton. What do they have in common? You say, well, they're all universities. That's right. You say, well, they're all Ivy League schools. That's right. But let me tell you another thing that they have in common. They were all founded upon the gospel of Jesus Christ. They were all built for the propagation of the gospel. These colleges were built at the very beginning to train ministers to preach the gospel. But I want to tell you something, dear friend, they're nowhere near that today. They don't even believe the Bible is the Word of God. They scoff and they laugh. at the idea that God's word, the Bible, is God's word. They have apostatized from the faith. And so, friend, we better be aware. Don't say it can't happen to me or it can't happen to this church. We better be on guard To hold tightly to the precious truths of the Word of God. You see, when Satan attacks the church, there are two ways that he does it. Number one is persecution. He'll attack it from without. And church history tells us that that's never successful because all Satan does is when he tries to stamp out the fire, he simply scatters the embers and the church just spreads. Believers may scatter, but I want to tell you wherever they go they carry the gospel. And so that's where we get the expression, the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church. But there's a second way that he attacks the church, and it's much more effective, and it's much more subtle, and it's infiltration. Satan says, if I can't beat you, then I'll just join you. And that is more effective. Look at verse number four. For there are certain men crept in unawares. who were before of old ordained to this condemnation. Look what it says, crept in unawares. Now that's uh three words here in our English, but that's just one word in the Greek, and it's a compound word And let me tell you what it means. You put these words together. It literally means to slip in the side unnoticed. And that's literally what the word means, to slip in the side unawares. And that's what Jude is talking about. Now I remember one time when I was on a mission trip over in Africa, and we were just systematically going through uh certain villages and sharing God's word and encouraging pastors and and holding pastor seminars and whatnot. And part of that was just to travel in a boat down the Nile River. We went down the Nile River, and what I noticed on the side of the river where there were crocodiles over there And I'm glad they were far away on the side, I'll tell you. But I noticed that as we passed by, those crocodiles would just slip into the water. Barely making a ripple. I mean you look over and they're gone. They had slipped into the river. You couldn't even hear a splash In fact, if I weren't looking for them, I wouldn't even see them. They just slipped in so gently, so silently. And they were there in the river. And this is exactly what the word here means that Jude is staying. Satan and his demons are like crocodiles. And they are trying to slip into the river of faith, the river of truth. And friend, I want to tell you, all around the water is filled with crocodiles, and you better be aware. And that is exactly what Jude is saying, he is saying, you better watch out for Satan because his most effective work is in the area of religion. His most effective work is in the area of spirituality. And I want to tell you something, friend. A lot of times we see sins of the flesh and we have a tendency to blame the sins of the flesh on the devil when in fact it really hasn't been a devil. It's just our old sorry flesh. I want to tell you where Satan is most at work, I believe. It's in the work of religion. It's in the work of spirituality. The Apostle Paul said, beware of doctrines of demons. And friend, you think about this in the Garden of Eden, Satan's temptation was not a temptation to be less spiritual. It was a temptation to be more spiritual. Ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. I want to give you more revelation. I want to give you more truth than God is willing to give you. You'll dwell on a higher spiritual plane. The temptation was not a temptation to fall down, it was a temptation to fall up And to know more. And so, friend, when you look for the devil, you better look in religion. And you better look when in spirituality. Not everything that is spiritual. is of God. You ever see these commercials on TV where they say, oh, we want to send you a King James Bible and then we want to send you our extra revelation. We want to send you something more. This is going to add to it. I want to tell you something, friend. There is no extra revelation. This is the faith that is complete. Notice, look in verse number three again, where he says, Beloved, I When I gave all diligence to write unto you the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith. Look at that word the faith there. That word faith there, what is he talking about here? This is the whole body of truth revealed to us in the Scripture. The faith, the complete. Notice about this faith. First of all, it's complete. Look what it says in verse 3. Once delivered unto the saints. And that one time delivered, that's completed action, already been delivered. It has already been given. And we could say it like this, it's already complete. It's not an ongoing thing. God's not giving you an extra revelation today, friend. He's already given us all the revelation that we need right here. And it's been delivered to us. It is complete. And that's what he's saying. And I want to tell you something, friend, in this day of excesses where we have people that are trying to tell us that they have extra revelation or another word from God Friend, you better stick to the completed revelation of Scripture. And whenever someone says something, you better make sure, check it in the pages of Scripture for yourself, and make sure that what they're saying is true It is complete. Look at verse number 8 where it talks about dreamers. Likewise also these filthy dreamers. And that has the idea here of giving extra revelation. New revelation. But it Jude calls it filthy dreamers. It's complete. I want to tell you something else about this revelation of God. It's correct. Not only complete, it's correct. Friend, we have a more sure word of prophecy. And I don't care who he is or where he's from or how many letters he has after his name, you can't take away from God's word. The Bible can withstand the greatest scrutiny of the most brilliant people. And it has already done that. This is a trustworthy word. It is correct. But also another thing about this, it's committed. Look again in verse 3. Once delivered unto the saints. This faith has been handed down to us. Now I want you to let that sink in for a minute. This faith has been given, has been entrusted to us. And I want you to think about this. It has been given to us on a sea of blood, of martyrs and faithful Christians who have stood for the truth through the years. We have been, it's been handed over unto us I heard about one little girl said to her mother, Mom, you remember that vase, that precious heirloom that's been handed down from generation to generation? She said, yes. She said, well, mom, this generation just dropped it I want to tell you something, friend. We dare not drop what's been entrusted to us. The Apostle Paul said to Timothy, Timothy, guard that which has been entrusted unto you. Guard it. And friend, we better guard it as well. We better be c careful that we handle it right. God's word is under attack. I call it one of the Twin Towers. You know Satan is aiming his guns at the Twin Towers of the existence of God And and at the point of creation, it's being attacked today, and also the the Word of God. Those are the twin towers that Satan is aiming his guns at. And he's telling the next generation that there those things are unreliable. We better be able to give an answer, a compelling answer, to defend the truth in this day and age. So Jude was living in days of apostasy Now, here's the thing. All that is just background. Because in this letter of Jude, what he's going to do is he's going to give a strong warning about apostasy. He's going to talk about how dangerous it is. He's going to talk about how subtle it is. And if you're not careful, if you study this book, you may get the idea, you might look around and wonder if anybody is saved or if anyone uh is uh going to lose their salvation or perhaps we could lose ours. That's why at the very beginning he gives this strong, strong message. Really it's at the beginning and the end. It's kind of Jewish security blanket. Look again in verse 1. He says, to them that are sanctified by God the Father, preserved in Jesus Christ, and called. That's a strong message of security Look in the end of Jude, look at verse number twenty-four and verse twenty-five. Look at these words of security. Look at verse twenty-four. Now to him that is able to keep you from falling And present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. To the only wise God, our Savior be glory and majesty, dominion, and power, both now and forever. So he opens with a strong message of security. He closes. With a strong message of security. Why does he do that? This is his security blanket. Because this letter is very frightening. And you need to know that if you're a true believer, if you've repented and you trust Jesus, you can never lose your salvation. Apostasy is not someone who got saved and lost their salvation. Apostasy is someone who came to the very brink of the door of salvation, but they never entered in. They were enlightened. They they heard about creeds, but they never went to Calvary. They know the plan of salvation, they just don't know the man of salvation. And it may look like they are truly saved. They may even come to church, they may even walk an aisle and cry with crocodile tears, but later on they will replace the truth and then reject the truth and ridicule the truth. And I want to tell you, a true child of God will not do that. Anyone who falls away or walks away never had the real thing to begin with, like Adrian Rogers used to say, the faith that fizzles before the finish had a flaw from the first. If it wasn't if it's if if a person falls away, then they never had the real thing to begin with. But so You then, in the very first verse, gives us a strong, strong message of why you are secure. If you're a believer. And really it's in three words in verse number one. Look at verse one. Look at the last word. Called. And then also there's the word sanctified in there to them that are sanctified. And then preserved. Those are the three words I want you to notice with me. And I want you to notice the first word at the end of verse 1, called And so I want to get, here's the first reason you are not going to lose your salvation if you know the Lord. And you can't lose your salvation. And that is because of God's sovereign purpose. Just write down God's sovereign purpose. Now the word called is mentioned mentioned last in this sentence for emphasis. You know, in English, if we want to emphasize something, we put it at the beginning of the sentence. But Greece, when they wanted to emphasize something, they put it at the end. And that's why Jude puts it at the end of this sentence here. So we're going to kind of back into this verse. You are not going to lose your salvation because you have been called, and you answered that call Now the word called here doesn't mean to yell out. It is an official summons. It is the idea of being invited to a very important event. You know what salvation is? Salvation is the outward call that God gives. It's that outward call to all. And those who answer that call Are those who are saved? They are the believers. And the scripture calls them the call. That's synonymous with being saved. That's synonymous with being a Christian. They're the called. Why? Because when God issued the call to you, you answered that call. Romans 1 7 to all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called. They're called, they're the saints of God. And so the Bible says that you answered that call. The Bible calls it a holy calling In 2 Timothy 1. 9, it's a high calling in Philippians 3. 14. It is a heavenly calling in Hebrews 3. 1. That is salvation. Your call to fellowship with Jesus. See what's this call about? It's a call to fellowship with Jesus. That's what salvation is. It's a call to inherit a blessing, 1 Peter 3:9 It's a call to freedom. It's a call to peace, 1 Corinthians 7. 15. It's a call to holiness, 1 Thessalonians 4. 7. It is a call to a worthy walk, Ephesians 4. 1. It is a call to eternal life. That is 1 Timothy 6. 12. Now, is it vital for you to understand this one thing, that it is God is the one who issued the call. That is to say, salvation didn't begin with you, it began with God. It wasn't your idea, it was God's idea. You didn't just decide one day, I think I'm just going to go and get saved. No. God issued to you a call And by the grace of God, by the power of the Holy Spirit, He even gave you the ability to answer that call. But it came with God. You say, why is that important? Here's why it's important, because if my salvation began with me, I might be able to lose it. But since it began with God, God always finished what's he always finishes what he starts. And since God is the one who began this process, God is the one who's going to bring it to completion. Because he will always finish what he starts. The same God that called you is the God who is going to complete you. Write down Philippians 1. 6, being confident of this very thing. that he which has begun a good work in you will perform it till the day of Jesus Christ. God convicted you, God called you, God converted you, God is conforming you, and God will complete you He will make sure that you're complete. That's why I can't lose my salvation. Now hold your place here. Go to Romans 8. You really can't talk about this without looking at Romans 8 for just a minute. So go to Romans chapter 8. And you know this passage, but I want you to see it again. Look at Romans chapter 8. Look down at verse number 31. We'll start there. Romans 8. 31. What shall we say then to these things? If God be for us, who could be against us? Now what are the these things that he's talking about here? The things that he mentioned in the previous verses. Look at verse 28. And we know that all things work together for good to them that are to them that love God, to them who are the what? The called according to his purpose. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. In verse 30, moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called, whom he called, them he also justified, whom he justified, them he also glorified. And one person is called what we just read here, the five golden links in the chain of salvation. Not one of these links can be broken. And this simply means this. When you answered the call, God had a predetermined purpose for you as a believer. And what is that purpose in verse 29? It's to be conformed to the image of Christ. God has predestined that you, his child, this is something that he settled in eternity, that you who are a believer, you will be like his son. You will be conformed to the image of Jesus. And I want to tell you what God has settled in eternity cannot be undone in time. And since God said that I have determined all those who have answered the call will be like my son, that's how I know I can't lose my salvation. Because that's God's purpose. You say, well what if a what if a believer says I'm not going to walk with God? Well God will punish you. Well what if they still don't turn, he'll punish you more? What if a believer still rebels against God? The Bible says there is a thing that's a sin unto death. There is such a thing as a sin unto death. And if a person gets out of line and rebels against God and won't respond to God's chastisement, God will speak to them, God will spank them, God will scourge them, and if that doesn't work, you know what God will do? God says, All right, I'm going to bring you home early Come on home early. You know what happens? That person dies, and what happens when they die? They become just like Jesus. So guess what? You're gonna be just like Jesus. It's going to happen. God has determined that. That's why I cannot and you cannot lose your salvation because part of the call is God's determination that you be conformed To the image of his son. That's God's sovereign purpose. Now, write down number two. Go back to Jude now And look at the second word. Not only God's sovereign purpose, but here's number two, God's special people. And verse one again, to them that are sanctified. Look at that word sanctified there. You might want to circle that. And also look down at verse number 3. Look at the very first word of verse 3. It's beloved. That's the same exact word in the Greek as the word sanctified in verse 1. Same word. Sanctified, beloved, same thing. And this tells us then about the nature of God's people. God's people are God's beloved. Now you know why you're not going to lose your salvation? Because you are the beloved of God. I want to tell you from something, Frank. God loves the whole world. Don't let anyone tell you that He doesn't. He loves all people. He loves all people. But God has a special love for his children. His beloved. Friend, I I love all my friends, but Carolyn's my beloved. I have a special love for Carolyn. I love all children, but my those four redheads, they're my beloved. And I treat that I have a special love for them. And I want to say, God loves the whole world, but God's children are his beloved. He has a special love. In fact, the Bible says in Ephesians 1 that we are accepted in the beloved And this verb here has the idea that God has put his love on us. It's action that's completed in the past with continuing results in the present. That is, God in the eternity past set his love on you. And and he determined that all the way back then, and that has never changed, it never will change, and we're seeing the results of it in this present day God is continuing to shed his love on you. There is nothing you can do that will cause God to love you more. He cannot love you more. He will not love you less. That's already been determined He doesn't love you because you're valuable. You're valuable because he loves you. And he has a perfect love that he has set on you and me. You say how much Does God love me? Write down John chapter 17, verse 23. That the world may know that thou hast sent me, and listen to this, and has loved them. Who's the them? That's you and me. Jesus says, you have loved them as thou hast loved me. Now I don't know about you, but that verse just blows me away. You say, what is it saying? How much does God the Father love you? He loves you the same way he loves Jesus. That's just let that sink in. No wonder John was amazed at the love of God, and he said in 1 John, Behold, what manner of love the Father. And the word there is what kind of alien out of this world, unheard of Love. Something we have never heard of before. This indescribable. What kind of indescribable love? And I think John here is fishing for an adjective to describe this love. And guess what, friends? There is none. There are none. No adjectives that can describe this love. Like the song says, Could we withhain the ocean fill, or were the sky a parchment made, or every stalk on earth of quill, and every man excribed by trade? To write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry. You just can't describe that kind of love. I heard about an Indian that was uh in the desert. And he was sending uh smoke signals to his uh girlfriend, his squaw, a little puff here. He'd hold a blanket over the flames and there'd be a little puff of smoke, and that was in New Mexico when they were testing the atom bomb And and and and in a moment in the on on the horizon he saw this huge mushroom cr cloud just swallow the sky there on the on the horizon. And he looked at that and and he just his mouth dropped open And he said, man, I wish I'd said that. I want to tell you something, dear friend. The love of God is this atomic love. And we don't have any kind of word in our English language or the Hebrew language or the Greek language or any other language to describe The love of God. You are the source of God's special love. And that's why you're never going to lose it. You just never will. One time I was trying to make this real to a person who was debating me. There are these people out here that actually believe they can lose their salvation. And I don't mean to be critical, friend, but you just need to dig a little deeper into scripture. You just need to dig into the Word of God. Look in Romans chapter 8. And if you come away from Romans 8, still believing you can lose your salvation, I have no hope for you. The Apostle Paul asks this question, what can separate us from the love of God? That's a rhetorical question. You know the answer? Nothing. Nothing. And he lists everything that you can think of under man. In fact, let me give you some homework. Go there and see if you can think of something that Paul doesn't list. Let me save you some time. You're not going to find it. Everything. Height, depth, angel, demon, nothing will separate you from the love of God. You know, I was telling this person, I said, you know, uh, do you have a son? He said, oh yes. I said, uh let me ask you a question. You love that son, oh yes. Is there anything that boy could do that would cause you to disown him And he thought about it, he said, No, never. I said, there's nothing that son will do that will ever say, You're no longer my son. He said, No, no matter what he does, he is my son. And then I said to this, well let me ask you a question. Who's a better parent? You are God. If you won't disown your children, do you think God's going to disown his children? Let me tell you something, friend. When God's children don't do right, he doesn't loosen his grip, he strengthens his grip He grabs them, he holds on to them tighter than before. Why? Because they are his beloved. They're the object of his love. Now let me give you the last thing. Here tonight. We said number one, God's sovereign purpose, you are the called. And also God's special people, you are his beloved. But then write down number three, God's strong power. God's strong power. You are preserved. Look again in verse number one. Sanctified by God the Father and preserved. The word preserved here means to be guarded, to be kept. It's the idea of a mother watching over her baby. And so saints are preserved. One preacher said, you look pickled, but you're actually preserved. You're preserved. You're watched over. You're guarded. Now I want to tell you something, friend. You're only as safe as the one who is watching over you is strong. You're only as safe as the one who is watching over you is reliable. So let me ask you a question: who's watching over you? It tells us, look again. Preserved in Jesus Christ. We could also say that verb can also be by Jesus Christ. You know who's watching you? Jesus. Now let me ask you a question. Who's stronger than him? No one. Who can take you out of his hand? No one Your only estate is the one who is guarding you as strong. And dear friend, Jesus is watching over you. And you're not holding on to God like some people would have you to believe. who believe you can lose your salvation. They think, oh, if I can just hold on to the end, friend, if you're the one doing the holding on, you're gonna lose it. I remember when my little son Jeremiah was learning how to walk, I'd put my hands down. He'd grab up, grab the my my fingers and hold on and and and he would finally slip and fall onto the carpet because he couldn't hold on. And then I began to hold on to his hand. And I want to tell you something. He never fell again. And let me tell you something, Fran. It's not you holding on to God. It's God holding on to you. He's got you in his hand. He will not let you fall or slip. You are preserved In Jesus Christ. Again, look at verse number 24. We read it a minute ago, but read it again. Now unto him that is able to keep you from what? Falling. He's the one that can keep you from falling and present you, what does that mean? Watch this, and present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. I want to tell you something, friend. Jesus, who is watching over you, and he's watching over me is going to present us one day to the Father in heaven. That's why I'm not going to lose it. Because he is watching over me and he is able to present me faultless before the throne one day and you as well. I am in his hands, you're in his hands, you're in better hands than all state, dear friend. You're in the hands of Jesus. Now, write down John chapter 10. I want you to listen to this verse. This is a parallel verse to what we're looking at here in Jude. Listen to this. My sheep hear my voice And I know them, that's John 10, 27, and they shall follow me, and I will give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of mine. Now that one verse right there ought to do it. That really ought to do it. Let me read it again. My sheep hear my voice. What is that? That's the call. The my sheep hear my voice, and I know them. That's the beloved. Right there. And watch this. And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. That's the preserved. Right there. And again, this verse right here really ought to do it. You are under God's strong power. When you got saved, you were placed into Jesus Just like Noah and his family were placed inside that ark. That ark is a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. God put Noah and his family in the ark. He shut the door. He sealed them in. Noah could fall down in that ark, but he couldn't fall out of that ark And friend, you may fall down in Christ, but you're not going to fall out of Christ. You can rest in Jesus the way Noah and his family rested in that ark. Safe from any kind of judgment. Sealed. Inside that ark, you're sealed inside the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, someone sitting here says, well, if I believe that old Baptist doctrine of one saved, always saved. I would just sin all I want to. You ever hear that argument? Oh, if I believe, well, first of all, number one, it's not a Baptist doctrine, it's a Bible doctrine And number two, that's not how Jude felt about it. Because look again in verse 1. Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ. You know what that word servant is? Dulas. You know what doulas means? Slave. You see, the fact that Jude was saved and he was secure. Didn't make him want to go out and do whatever he wanted to do, sin against God. He said, No, I'm the slave of Jesus And friend, that's going to be the attitude of a true child of God. You're not going to want to go out there and use the grace of God as a license to sin. No, you're going to have the attitude that you've had. Lord, I am your slave. I'm your servant. You tell me what you want me to do. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. I'm saved, I'm sealed, I'm secure in Christ, and I already send all I want to. You know why? Because I don't want to. I don't want to. And a true child of God is not going to want to, they're not going to want to use the grace of God as a license to sin again God. You're gonna be one you're gonna surrender to the Lord and you're gonna say, Lord, here am I. I'm your slave. That's a reasonable response to understanding the incredible almighty grace of God that is given to all of us at salvation. So friend, you're secure in Christ if you know the Lord Jesus. But I want to ask you tonight, do you know Jesus? Are you sure of that? Peter said this, brethren, give all diligence to make your calling and election sure. Make sure that you know that you know the Lord Jesus Christ. And if you do, you're secure in him. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we are so very grateful for the security that we have in Christ. We're so thankful to know that as Noah was safe in that ark, we are safe in Christ. That Lord, you sealed us. That you who convicted us and converted us, you're conforming us and you will complete us. And that you're able to keep us from falling and present us faultless. before the throne of God. Thank you for this wonderful security that we have in Christ. Lord, I pray For these who are here tonight, it may perchance be that there are some here that have never trusted the Lord Jesus. They've never entered into the ark. Or they've never come to Christ and truly repented. They've been waiting. They've been considering the claims of Christ. And I pray Lord Jesus, that the Holy Spirit would so draw them that they would realize there's no other decision that can be made but then to turn to Christ. And I pray, Lord, that you'll draw them in and that they will be secure in Jesus through faith and salvation, faith in Christ, and have eternal life. And friend, with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you're here tonight and you have any doubt in your heart, That you know the Lord Jesus. I want you right there where you are. You know something about our God. He'll meet you right where you are. His grace goes right to where you are So right there where you are, he's reaching out to you tonight. It's no accident that you're here. No accident that you're hearing the gospel No accident that you're given an opportunity this very moment to make sure of your soul's salvation. Don't pass up that opportunity. And so if you're here tonight and you're not absolutely certain, would you be willing to pray? You don't have to pray out loud. You can pray in your heart. God can hear your prayers in your heart. Would you be willing to say, Lord Jesus, I need to make sure of my soul salvation. And tonight I'm turning to you. I'm turning from sin. I'm turning from the world. And with all the faith that I have in my heart, I'm turning to you. You, the one who died for all my sins and paid my sin debt. I'm turning to you now. And I'm asking you to save me, Lord Jesus. Pray that in your heart. Just say, save me, Lord Jesus. Come into my heart, save me. And give me that assurance that I know you Friend, if you'll pray that and mean it, the Bible says, Him that comes unto me, I will in no wise cast down. Based on the authority of the Word of God, he will receive you right where you are So would you be willing to pray that prayer? And friend, if you have, after the service, tell our pastor, Pastor Johnson, tell Pastor Earl, Pastor John or myself. Let us know that you've made that decision to trust Jesus. We want to encourage you and your faith to grow in Christ. Father, take this word, use it in the hearts of your people. And Lord, save souls for your glory's sake. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.