All right. Well you take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of 1 Kings, chapter 2. We begin a study through 1 and 2 Kings here on Wednesday night. And we come tonight to chapter 2. We're going to be dealing with verses 12 down to verse 46. The title of the sermon tonight is Seeking First the Kingdom. 1 Kings 2, verses 12 down to verse 46. In the famous Sermon on the Mount, Jesus gave the well-known command to all of his followers. to seek first the kingdom of God. Now if you're truly saved, you're a citizen of the kingdom of God. And so seeking first the kingdom is really not an option for you. This is what God expects of every true child of God. This is our default mode, we could say, as kingdom citizens, as Christians, that we put his kingdom So those of you that are here tonight, or those of you that are may watch this or are listening, you know, you're in one of two categories. You're one you're someone who's seeking first the kingdom. Or someone who or you're someone who is seek putting your kingdom ahead of God's kingdom. You either say my kingdom come or you say thy kingdom come. It's just one or the other. So which category would you fit into? Seeking his kingdom first means eliminating from our lives any rival to his kingship or any threat to his kingdom. This is the big idea I want you to get in the sermon. Seeking his kingdom first means eliminating any rivals. We have to deal mercilessly with anything that rivals his kingdom And it has to be eliminated. It has to be removed. Now, here in the study of Kings, the question in chapter 1 of 1 Kings was one of succession: who will succeed David as the king? But the question in chapter two is one of security, and that is, how will Solomon secure his kingdom? It's one thing to be elevated to the throne, but it's another thing to be established on that throne. For the believer, how do we apply this to our own life? Well, we can apply this to our relationship with Jesus Christ. You see, it's one thing to elevate Jesus as king of your life, and by the way, this happens at salvation, right? What does the Bible say in Romans 10 that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, or we literally reads, Jesus as the Lord. When you come to Christ, What it is is you are realizing who Jesus is, you confess him as Lord. We recognize his Lordship. In fact, the Greek word for Lord is Kyros which is used in the Septuagint to translate the Hebrew word Yahweh, and that is the sacred name for God. So when we confess Jesus as Lord, we are confessing that He is God. He is the sovereign King. Literally. You're confessing him as as God as King. And we submit to who Jesus is. Now there are some people that say, well you receive when you're saved, you receive Jesus as your Savior. You may receive him as Lord and King later on in your life. Let me just tell you, there's no such dichotomy in Scripture. None. When you accept Jesus, you you don't divide him up and say, Well, I'll take him as Savior now, I'll take him as Lord later. You don't have that option You receive Jesus as he is. In fact, if there's no surrender or submission when you come to the Lord, I doubt your repentance was real. True repentance is a surrendered heart. True repentance is a humble heart. You don't come to the Lord negotiating your terms. You come to the Lord humbly, broken over your sin, realizing who He is, the Lord, the King. And he accepts you just as you are a unworthy, hell-bound sinner. That's the exchange that takes place at Salvation. I think of the song that we sing, Just As I Am. It was written by Charlotte Elliott, who wanted to be saved, but she didn't know how. She felt unworthy, and she heard a preacher one time say the words, Just come as you are And that's when she wrote to him, just as I am, without one plea, but that thy blood was shed for me. She came just as she is. was a sinner. And that's what happens at salvation. We come to him as we are sinners. We recognize who he is, the King and the Lord. We submit to all who he is. But now listen, it's one thing to confess Jesus as Lord It's another thing to live out that lordship in our life and to establish him as Lord of our life. Now, this is the principle that is illustrated in this Old Testament narrative that we see here in chapter 2. Solomon is enthroned as king, but he also must be established as king. And we can learn from this narrative how we establish Jesus as king in our own hearts and lives. Now this section here in chapter two has what Old Testament scholars called an inclusio. You say, what in the world is an inclusio? Well, that's just a name Really we could say it like this, it has it's an expression that marks the beginning and the end of a narrative. It's kind of like bookends. For example, look in chapter two, look at verse number twelve. Then sat Solomon upon the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was greatly established. Notice that phrase. His kingdom was greatly established. Look at the last verse in chapter 2. Look in verse number 46 So the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, which went out and fell upon him that he died. And notice the next sentence, and the kingdom was established. in the hand of Solomon. Notice the same expression. In verse 12, his kingdom was greatly established. In verse 46, the kingdom was established in his hand. So you see these bookend phrases about the kingdom being established. That is called by Old Testament scholars an inclusio. And what it reveals is the intent of the author in the narrative, and the narrative in between The theme, therefore, is establishing Solomon's kingdom, establishing him as king. This is the intent of the author, and including this section in the book. And again, it teaches us how Solomon's kingship was secured and established. And really, we can just use one word to say how it was established. It's the word elimination. Elimination. That sums it up. That is to say that Solomon's kingdom was established by eliminating all rivals to his throne. All rivals to the throne were dealt with mercilessly here in chapter 2. Solomon establishes his kingdom by eliminating all his enemies. And this was in accordance to David's advice. And according to that advice, Solomon executes Adonijah, he banishes the priest, Abby Athar, he puts Joab to death, he strikes down Shimei. This is what takes place here in chapter 2. Now most commentators are critical of the king for moving down this hit list, so to speak. And just, you know, eliminating these rivals. In fact, one commentator, let me read you what he said, Terrence Freheims calls it, quote, politics as usual, but with more than the usual complement of ruthlessness, end quote Walter Brugman said that Solomon is, quote, is guilty of quote callous systematic elimination of all threats, end quote. Well the truth of the matter is he is. He does eliminate threats. But Solomon had been properly crowned by God. Solomon was God's anointed king And it was according to the promise of God. And therefore, it was necessary, if his kingdom was going to be established, to eliminate all of these rivals. He had been properly crowned. And if these men, Solomon's rivals, if they were allowed to live, they would have been a threat to establishing Solomon on the throne. They were enemies of the crown. Adonijah and his henchmen were guilty of the sin of high treason, and according to the Old Testament, that was a capital offense that could be punishable by death. Ralph Dou uh uh excuse me, Dale Ralph Davis, another commentator, wrote this The security of the kingdom requires the elimination of its enemies. The kingdom must be preserved from those who trying to destroy and undermine it. You see, before the kingdom could be established under Solomon, many battles had to be fought. Now, again, how does this apply to us, the child of God? Well, the same is true of you and me. As children of God, we entered into the kingdom. Jesus is our King. We declared him King. But before the reign of Christ could be established, this one greater than Solomon Before we can establish his reign in our own heart, we must face many battles and all the rivals that come to our heart that challenge the Lordship of Christ. They have to be eliminated. And we have to be merciless. Just like Solomon was merciless with all rivals to his throne, even so the child of God must be merciless with any rival to the Lordship of Christ in their life. You see, one day soon we're going to see the kingdom in all its glory at the s second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm Ready for that day to come. But until that time, beloved, we're in a battle. We're in a fight. Every day we have to fight. And that fight is in our h in our own heart. The same battle was fought when Solomon established his kingdom in Israel. And if we look carefully at the choices people made, either for or against his kingship. We may be able to see ourselves in these stories, in these narratives. We might be able to see our own sins that we have to deal with. So let me just give you these four characters in our passage here tonight, four threats to the kingdom. First of all, there's Adonijah, and we could say that he represents uh we could say it's sensual gratification. Look at verse number 13 of 1 Kings chapter 2. And Adonijah, the son of Hagith, came to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon, and she said, Comeeth out peaceably, and he said, peaceably He said, Therefore I have somewhat to say to thee. And she said, Say one, verse fifteen. And he said, Thou knowest that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel set their face faces on me, that I should reign. Howbeit the kingdom is turned about, and has become my brothers. For it was his from the Lord. And now I ask one petition of thee, deny me not. And she said unto him, Stay on. And he said, Speak, I pray thee unto Solomon the king, for he will not say thee nay That he give me Abishag the Shunammite to wife. And Bathsheba said, Well, I will speak for thee unto the king. Now here's the first man that Solomon has to eliminate. His name is Adonijah. And the reason for it, well he wants sex, he wants power, he's still trying to maneuver himself to get position. He still wants the kingdom for himself. Now you might remember that Adonijah was one who uh attempted a coup against Solomon while David was still on his deathbed And he should have died, but Solomon gave him mercy. If if he was a worthy man, Solomon would have left him alone. And at first Adonai, he does honor the new and rightful king. But here he comes to the palace and he makes an ungodly request based on an unholy desire. Adonijah asks Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon, To ask King Solomon for Abishag the Shunammite to be his wife. Now, in this passage that we read, Adonijah seems to have an overly inflated opinion of himself Is it you know all Israel was looking to me to be the next king? Look, all Israel was not looking to you, Adonijah. That's in your own mind. He had this high opinion of himself. This was, you know, he had this sense of entitlement, an attitude easy for someone to have when they're disappointed And this might seem like it's a little request. I just want to marry Abishag, and that would be satisfying to him. She was a beautiful woman, but that was not the main reason he wanted to marry her. It was also a political move. It reveals that Adonijah really didn't give up trying to be king. You say, why do we say that? Did you know that in this day that because she was one of d King David's concubines, that was kind of a a second class wife a king would have uh in his harem, he would have concubines, they were wives, they're considered wives of the king, but kind of a a secondary type wife. And and she was part of David's harem. She was part of his concubines. Now let me just read to you from Kyle Dalich, two Old Testament scholars. They said this, among the Israelites, just as with the ancient Persians Taking possession of the harem of a deceased king was equivalent to establishing the claim to the throne. Again, this is a political move. He's still scheming. He thinks if he can marry one of King David's uh concubines This would give him a legitimate claim to the throne. Now, Bathsheba, when she hears this, she thinks this is an innocent request. She doesn't realize the scheming that's going on with Adonijah But Solomon, as soon as he hears it, he knows exactly what is going on. Look down at verse number 19. Bathsheba therefore went unto the King Solomon to speak unto him for Adonijah, and the king rose up to meet her and Bowed himself unto her and sat down on his throne. Cause the seat to be set for the king's mother, she sat down on his right hand. Then she said I Desire one small petition of thee, I pray thee, say me not nay. And the king said unto her, Ask on, my mother, for I will not say thee nay. And she said, Let Abishag the Shunamite be given to Adonijah thy brother to wife So here she makes the request. I love the interchange here. Solomon so respectful, so honoring to his mother. And by the way, that's a good thing we should honor our mothers. Amen. That was pretty weak, guys. Amen. Alright, that was a little better. So he he honors her, but right after that he's gonna get irritated with her. He's gonna get kind of mad after the when she makes the request. Look at verse 22. And King Solomon answered and said unto his mother, And why dost thou ask Abishag the Shudamite for Adonijah? Ask for him the kingdom also? Mom, is that all you want? Do you want him to have the whole kingdom too? You know, that sounds like a typical response from a son that's irritated with his mom. Really? Is that all you want, Mom? Would you like me to give him the whole kingdom? Now why does Solomon say that? Because he saw immediately through this plot of what Adonijah was trying to do. Notice how he answers it. He says, ask for him the kingdom also, for he is mine elder brother. He's older than me, which gives him in the minds of people a greater claim. claim to the throne. Even for him and for Abhiathar the priest and for Joab, the son of uh Zeriah. In other words, he knew that these guys were all together in this. They were all scheming. They were all trying to still take the throne. And so Solomon sees right through this. And basically, Adonai just seals his own fate. In verse 23, King Solomon makes an oath before God. saying that uh you know he spoken this word against his life and verse twenty four now therefore as the Lord liveth which has established me and set me on the throne of David my father who hath made me a an house as he promised Adonijah shall be put to death this day. And so he swears this oath to put Adonijah to death. And in doing this, he acknowledged that this kingdom is really God's kingdom. And what he was doing here is really preserving what God wanted in his own kingdom. He was preserving God's will. He had to be merciless with this threat. to his reign and the kingdom of God. So Solomon sent uh Beniah to execute him in verse number 25. That's one rival gone. Look at the next guy. Next guy is Abby Athar. We could call his a spiritual guilt. Now who is he? He's a priest. Look at verse 26. And unto Abbiathar the priest said the king, Get thee to Anathoth unto thine own fields, for thou art worthy of death But I will not at this time put thee to death because thou bearest the ark of the Lord God before David, my father, and because thou hast been afflicted in all wherein my father was afflicted. And so Solomon thrust out Abbey Athar from being priest unto the Lord, that he might fulfill the word of the Lord, which was faith concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh. So this is the next person, the priest. And it's a shame that a priest, someone who should be fully committed to the plan and purpose of God, has become an enemy to God's anointed king. But that's what happens here. Abiathar sided with Adonijah. You might remember earlier on when Adonijah tried attempted that coup, Abyathar sided with him. And he was part of the conspiracy. So because of that, Solomon points out, you know, he could be justly executed. But because Abby Athar was a priest of God who carried the ark at one time in his life and served under his father David and went through hardships with his father David. Instead of taking his life, Solomon merely banished him. to a town three miles north of Jerusalem, Anathoth, which was a town really of priests. And he basically takes away all of his spiritual privilege, all of his office And banishes him to this one place because of his conspiracy with Adonijah. And in verse 27, this brief statement in verse 27 uh is put there to show us one of the major themes in the book of first Kings, which is the faithfulness and the fulfillment of God's Word. The writer points out that this priest was thrust out of his office, but it was in fulfillment of the word of God many years ago that was prophesied against the house of Eli. You might remember that Eli had two sons, Hopni and Phineas. Who basically made themselves vile and Eli didn't restrain them. And because of that, God sent a prophet and said, Eli, I'm going to judge your whole household. I'm going to remove the privileges of priesthood from your whole household. And this is going to happen for many generations. There's not going to be a young man in your house. Those who are left are going to be removed from the priesthood. And the writer is pointing out that God's word was fulfilled. that had been proclaim uh that had been prophesied years before that. Again, this is one of the major themes and ver uh themes in 1 Kings, the faithfulness of God's word. But Abbeathar's problem was he got away from God He was a backslidden prophet. At one time he was useful to the kingdom, but now he was a detriment to God's purpose. Imagine that. At one time he carried the ark of God. What a privilege. At one time he was faithful and went with David through hardships, but now he was a backslidden priest. And he had become the thing that Paul in the New Testament feared when he wrote, I discipline myself, I keep a watch on myself, because I don't want to become, I talk, a castaway Tested and found to be no more qualified to be in a spiritual office. That's why Paul wrote to Timothy and said, Timothy, keep a close watch on yourself and on your teaching. You need to persist in this because in so doing you'll save yourself And you'll save those that hear you. It's very easy for Christians who were once useful, who once were loyal to the king, who may at one time maybe in a way carry the ark of God For those Christians to backslide, to grow apathetic, to place their own desires above the purposes of God and become useless. That's what happened to Abhiathar. Let's go on to the third person. Adonai, he represents sensual gratification. Abhiathar represents spiritual guilt. He was a backslidden priest. Joab. Joab was the next rival to the throne. He had to be eliminated. What does he represent? Personal gain. Look at verse 28. Then tidings came to Joab. For Joab had turned after Adonijah, though he turned not after Absalom. And Joab fled unto the tabernacle of the Lord, and caught hold of the horns of the altar. And it was told King Solomon that Joab was fled unto the tabernacle of the Lord, and behold he is by the altar. And then Solomon sent Beniah the son of Jehoida, saying, Go fall upon him Now here's the next person. Now Jerob was part of this conspiracy. He had conspired with Adonijah and Abathar. And when he heard about what happened to those two, he knew that the ashes were getting ready to fall on him, too. And so, what does he do? He runs to the tabernacle of the Lord. He grabs hold of the horn of the altar Oh the brazen altar. Have you ever seen pictures of it? But each square altar had a horn coming out of each corner. And he went and he grabbed onto one of those horns. And why did he do that? Well that was a way for pleading for mercy from your sins because the altar was the place where God forgave you where you found mercy because of the blood that was shed there at the altar. And so by grabbing the horns, he was pleading for forgiveness. He was pleading for mercy. It was also kind of a holy spot. You know, no one wanted to shed blood there in the tabernacle in that holy place No one wanted to commit murder right there. So it was kind of like, you know, the safe bass that you run to. You ever play it when you were a kid? Have a safe that safe bass. You can't touch me while I'm on bass This was kind of the spiritual base. You know, Joab runs to the tabernacle, he grabs the altar, says, you can't hurt me now. I'm here on base. But that wasn't going to help him. Because Solomon was going to be merciless. And so what happens? Solomon commands his servant to kill him anyway. Look at verse 31. And the king said unto him, Do as he has said, and fall upon him, and bury him, that thou mayest take away the innocent blood which Joab shed for me from the house of my father. Now, why did he deserve to die? Because he shed innocent blood. And you know why he did that? Joab did it to maintain his own position of power. He used violence to shed innocent blood, to keep his own position in power, to have personal gain for himself He was willing to do anything. Job represents the person who will do anything to get what they want, including violence. Does that sound familiar? There's a lot of that going on in our country right now. Do anything to get what you want, including violence. They have no problem shedding blood, doing violent acts, even committing murder for their own personal gain. David charged Joab with the murder of Abner and Emesa. And so he deserved to die. Even though he fled to the altar pleading for mercy, Solomon refused to spare him. God abhors wrongful violence, and Joab was a violent man. He was guilty of shedding innocent blood and and and blood guilt Blood guilt that had not yet been paid. And so notice verse 34. So Baniah the son of Jehoida went up and fell upon him and slew him. And he was buried in his own house in the wilderness. Joab's unhappy demise reminds us never to excuse our own love for violence. If we do not repent of our violent hearts, but insist on abusing power to get what we want from other people, there is no place for us in the kingdom of God. The only thing that can save us is the blood offering to atone for our guilty souls. And thank God that's exactly what Jesus did when he was crucified for our sins. So let me give you the fourth person. Adonijah, he represents sensual gratification. Abhiathar, spiritual guilt. Joab, personal gain. Shimei, we could say, really, he kind of stands for financial greed. Look at verse thirty-six. Here's the last person. This is the last person that Solomon's wrath falls on. Verse 36, and the king sent and called for Shimei and said unto him, Build thee a house in Jerusalem and dwell there, and go not forth any whither. For it shall be that on the day that thou goest out and passest over the brook Hedron, thou shalt know for certain that thou shalt surely die, and thy blood shall be on thy own head. And Shimei said unto the king, The saying is good as my lord the king hath said So will thy servant do, and Shemiah dwelt in Jerusalem many days. And so Shimi was a man, if you remember He was the man that threw stones at David, King David. You remember when David had to leave Jerusalem because of Absalom's rebellion, one of the worst days of his life? And as he's retreating out of Jerusalem, there's Shimei and he's cursing David and he's throwing stones at David, and even threatens to kill David And David doesn't do anything, he lets it go. But he knew that this man would always be a threat to the kingdom. And so what some and by the way, Simeon was also included in this whole thing of getting rid of any son of David because he was from the house of Saul and he felt like David and his family were usurpers. So he would always be a threat. So what does Solomon do? He puts Shimei under house arrest rather than kill him. This is again what David advised him to do. The city of Jerusalem would be his prison. He was restricted to living there and nowhere else If you come down out of Jerusalem and you cross the Brook Kedron, you've crossed the boundary, you will be put to death. I mean, if Shimmy and I were living today, he would have one of those ankle bracelets on. You can't go any farther. You are under restriction. And so, and Shimei agrees to these terms. This is actually gracious terms from Solomon. And he kind of postures himself. Oh, I'm your faithful servant, Solomon. No worries. I will agree to this to this restriction that you put on me. But you know what? He doesn't. In verse 39 and 40, he hears some of his servants run away. They go up to Gath. You know what Shimei does? He goes after them. And then David's servants, his spies, or excuse me, Solomon's spies. They tell him, they tell Solomon what Shemiah has done. And look at verse number 41. And it was told Solomon that Shemiah had gone from Jerusalem to Gath. And was come again. On the day that thou goest out and walkest abroad, and he Whither w that thou shalt surely die? And thou say unto me, the word that I have heard is good? Why then hast thou not kept the oath of the Lord and the commandment that I have charged thee with? And so when Solomon questioned Shimei and accused him of breaking his oath against the king and God, he has no response. And so Solomon pronounces his doom on him. And in verses 44 and 45, Solomon basically says, you're kind of, you, this is on your own head, this is on you. But the kingdom of Solomon shall be blessed. The throne of David shall be established forever. And so Shimei was put to death. Look at verse 46. So the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, which went out and fell upon him that he died. And here is again the theme of the whole narrative at the end of verse 46. And the kingdom was established in the hand of Solomon. Now again, this is what it's all about. Establishing the kingdom. Now again, we have to apply this to our own life. Remember, it's seeking first the kingdom. It is letting Jesus reign in your heart And establishing him as your king and living like that. And it's a daily thing. We face all kinds of similar temptations that we read of these men right here. Some of us are like Shimei. Our temptation is what money can buy. The reason he went after his servants is because that was money. That was worth a lot of money to him And he put financial gain ahead of the kingdom. And some of us are that way. We value earthly riches more than we do eternal riches. Other people are like Adonaijah. They put selfish gratification, sexual gratification ahead of our commitment. to the kingdom of God. Others are like Joab. They're guilty of anger and hostility and violence. And they use all of these intimidating things to get their own way, to get what they want. The question for each of us is this, what is the one thing that is keeping me from giving everything? To the kingdom of God. What is that one thing? And also understand this: it is of the very nature of a king to demand total allegiance You understand that? Jesus is your king. If you're a child of God, you're part of his kingdom. You know what he wants from you? He wants absolute total allegiance. He wants you putting his kingdom first. He wants you putting him first. I think it grieves the heart of God to see so many Christians who claim that Jesus is Lord and King of their life putting everything in the world ahead of the kingdom and ahead of Christ. What did Jesus say? Why do you call me Lord and don't do the things that I say? Why do you claim that I'm your king and you won't obey me? That's the call to those who are putting their own kingdom ahead of the kingdom of God. Like Solomon, Jesus established his throne by eliminating all his enemies. But you know what what his enemies were? Sin, death, the devil. Jesus eliminated all of those enemies. Jesus put the kingdom first. He didn't let any of these earthly things distract him from putting the kingdom of God first. And doing the work of the kingdom, which was what? To die for our sins. And Jesus calls us to join him and putting the kingdom first. First in our minds, first in our hearts, first in our bodies, first in our bank accounts, first in everything in our life Perhaps one of the best ways to illustrate this is through a sermon, a famous sermon that was preached that was later turned into a little booklet. No doubt you've heard of it, My Heart Christ's Home. You know the story where the author uh likens his heart to a house and he invites Jesus in and basically he says, you know Uh that when he accepted Jesus into his heart, that was the greatest thing that ever happened. And he wanted the Lord to be at home in his heart. And so the Lord went through his heart. He checked in every room in that house, his heart He went to the living room and he had to clean some things up there. He went to the library, had to clean some things up there. He went through every part of the room and cleaned it up. But there was one closet that this man would not allow the Lord to open. And Jesus finally got to that closet and said, I'm going to have to be Lord of that too. I'm going to have to clean that up too. And the man was reluctant to let Jesus have it, and Jesus said, I can't reign in your heart unless I have that as well. And finally he allowed him to open the door and all kind of junk fell out. And he said, Lord, I don't have the power to remove these things from my life, but I want them gone. If you will do this, I surrender these things to you. And that's exactly what he did. And that's how the story went. But I would like to add one other thing to this story, to this analogy, and say this: that in the heart of every person. There is a throne room. And when you got saved, you got off the throne of your heart and you put Jesus in his rightful place. And living under the Lordship of Christ means submitting to your king, not removing him off of that throne and putting yourself back on the throne. And that's a daily battle every day. To live as if to establish the kingdom and the rule of Christ in our own heart, to establish his lordship in our own life, is to submit to him every day of our life. To allow him to reign and rule on that throne that's in our heart. And that's what he demands of us: total allegiance. All enemies must be banished. All rivals must be put to death in order to establish the reign of Jesus in our heart. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Would you bow with me in prayer? Father, I pray that you'll use uh this sermon to speak to hearts tonight, to those that Or maybe they're wrestling right now over this issue. Maybe there are some things in their own life that they haven't submitted to the Lordship of Christ. Maybe there's a closet somewhere in their soul. Where they hide things, at least they think they are. And they haven't turned it over to the Lord. Lord, help us to realize That we will never be at full peace. We'll never have total victory. We'll never be what you called us to be until Christ reigns supreme in every area of our life. May Christ be established as Lord and as King. May all rivals be banished or put to death so that Christ reigns. With heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say that's my prayer tonight? I want Christ to be fully on the throne. of my heart of my life. I yield all to him, every part of me. I want him to reign If you're here tonight, you've never trusted Christ, or maybe you're listening or watching, you've never made Christ your Lord and Savior. This is the greatest thing you could ever do. Now is the time to do it. Now is the accepted time, the Bible says Now is the day of salvation. Would you stop what you're doing wherever you are, whatever you're doing, stop it? And would you pray right where you are And would you say, Lord Jesus, I submit to you, to your Lordship. I believe that you died for me, you rose again, that you are Lord And I give myself to you. I I'm getting off the throne of my heart, I'm putting you there. I'm enthroning you. And not only just enthroning you, I'm establishing you As king. And I'm gonna seek first the kingdom. And I'm gonna submit to the king If that's your prayer, friend, he'll save you, he'll forgive you for your sin. He'll give you eternal life. He'll change your heart. Father, again, thank you for your word. Lord, use it. We know that your word doesn't return avoid. So, Father, use it. May it spread swiftly for your kingdom's sake, for your glory's sake. And we pray in Jesus' name, Amen