Would you take God's word this morning? Open please to the book of 2nd Corinthians as we continue our study. In 2 Corinthians, we're going to in chapter 11 and we're going to look at verses 7 down to verse 12. Will you stand for the reading of God's Word? Second Corinthians chapter eleven, verse seven Have I committed an offense in abasing myself that you might be exalted, because I have preached to you the gospel of God freely? I robbed other churches, taking wages of them, to do you service. And when I was present with you and wanted, I was chargeable to no man, for that which was lacking to me, the brethren which came from Macedonia supplied. And in all things I have kept myself from being burdensome unto you, so will I keep myself. As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this boasting in the regions of Achaea. Wherefore Because I love you not, God knoweth. But what I do that I will do, that I may cut off occasion from them which desire occasion, that wherein they glory, they may be found even as we Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God help us in understanding truth this morning, the Word of God. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the Word of God. Thank you, Lord, for the privilege I have of proclaiming it. And Lord, I don't take that responsibility lightly and I realize that That I'm not I'm insufficient for these things and need your help every minute of every hour. So please fill me today with your Holy Spirit Help me to make this passage understandable and clear, and may we apply this to our life today. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The uh the issue of money in ministry has always been a sensitive topic. We've perhaps all have heard stories of uh greedy preachers that have taken advantage of churches and people. and have collected and made huge amounts of money in their ministry. I read an article this week about six nationally known TV evangelists that have made millions and millions of dollars and of the six that were named, none of them preach a pure gospel. They preach a false gospel. Well this is nothing new. Even in Paul's day, he was contending with con artists who pretended to be ministers who were actually motivated by money And this is the issue that Paul is dealing with here in 2 Corinthians. This is a very interesting part of our study of 2 Corinthians as we come to these verses. And the issue is the the criticism that is being leveled against Paul by people in the church at Corinth, and it's in relation to money. And but it's really this. It's not that Paul is actually profiting from ministry or that he's taking money from them. The criticism is that he would not take money from them. Can you imagine that kind of criticism? A preacher being criticized because he refused to take any money from his congregation. But that's why they were criticizing the Apostle Paul. Paul humbly refused to accept support from the church at Corinth. And the false apostles, what they did is they put a perverse spin on it. They said, well The reason he's not willing to take support or money is because he knows he's inferior to us. We are the super apostles. He's an amateur. We are the professionals In Greek culture, a skilled orator was considered a professional who made his living from the fees that he charged by giving great speeches. But Paul by ministering free of charge, that left uh the false apostles in a dilemma, in a difficult situation. Here's his humble apostle giving the gospel without charging anyone or taking any money from anything. Here are these supposed super apostles coming along and they're making money off of the people at Corinth. And they are, you know, charging fees for their services. And so they had to make up this lie that the reason Paul's doing that is because he knows that he's what he says is has no value. He's an amateur. They said his speech was contemptible. He lacked the polished skills that they had. He didn't have anything of value really to say. What he had to say was really worthless. And amazingly, the Corinthians fell for that lie. They were duped by the lie. And so Paul was left with defending himself and giving a reason why he did not take their support for the ministry that he he gave to them. And in verse 7, notice what he says. He says, have I committed an offense in abasing myself? that ye might be exalted, because I preach to you the gospel of God freely. When he says that I commit an offense, the word offense is the Greek word for sin. Did I sin? Did I miss the mark? Am I doing something that's contrary to the will of God and not taking money from you? I have abase myself that is to say I've humbled myself in order for you to be exalted, in order for you to have the gospel of God and to be saved and to know that you're going to heaven. You've gone from condemnation to glory. Because I humble myself and I choose not to take anything from you. Well, and what we see here really is a contrast between a true servant of Christ and a false apostle. Paul was not doing what he was doing for money. He wasn't doing it for gold. He was doing it for the pure joy of giving the gospel of Jesus Christ. The false apostles, however, had a different motive in mind. But the question still remains, why, Paul, won't you take support from the church at Corinth? And that's the issue here. And so Paul has to deal with this issue, but really he's already dealt with this issue once. And really to understand this section of 2 Corinthians, I think we have to back up. And look at how Paul dealt with this issue already in 1 Corinthians. So will you please take your Bibles, go to 1 Corinthians, and go to chapter 9 and verse number 1, where Paul will already, in 1 Corinthians, he had to deal with this issue before. And notice what he has to say about it in chapter 9. Actually in verse number 3, he says of 1 Corinthians 9, Mine answer to them that examine me is this. And the word uh answer apologia, my apologetics, where we get the word, really, my defense to those that uh Anacrino, those that want to investigate me. This is a word used by a lawyer arguing a case in court. They are trying to bring build a case against Paul. And Paul said, here is my answer. Back up to verse one. Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen the Lord Jesus? Are he not my work in the Lord? Now what Paul's going to do first is he's going to expound his right to receive report or support, excuse me. Paul's saying, look, I understand that I have this right to receive from you. I get that. I mean, I understand that. And he talks about this verse. I'm an apostle. Am I not an apostle? These are a string of rhetorical questions, all implying the answer, yes. Am I an apostle? Yes. Have I not seen the Lord? Yes, Paul, you've seen the Lord. In verse 2, if I be not an apostle unto others, yet doubtless I am to you, for you're the seal of mine apostleship. The seal of mine apostleship is you're in the Lord. Paul said, you know, the fact that I'm a real apostle is seen in the fact that you have come to Jesus Christ. The work that I've done is proof in itself that I'm sent from God. The fact that you're in the Lord. You're my work in the Lord. You're my seal. A seal was a proof of authenticity, a a proof of being real. And so Paul says my answer is this. I understand that I have the right to receive support. Look at verse number four. Have we not power to eat and drink? Verse 5, have we not power to lead about a sister or a wife? That's a believing wife, as well as other apostles and the brethren of the Lord and Cephas. In other words, Paul's saying, Look, I understand I have all these rights. I have a right to receive support from you. If I want to, I have the liberty to marry a sister that's a believing wife, I believe, a wife and bring her with me on my trips. And you support not only me but her also. I understand that I have that right in the Lord. In fact, other apostles do it Other brethren of the Lord, like Cephas in verse five, that's Peter. Verse six, am I only an apostle? Have we not power to forbear working? Are Barnabas and I the only one who have the right to refrain from working? In other words, Paul and Barnabas They were working to support themselves while they were sharing the gospel. And Paul says, Are we the only ones that are supposed to do this? He's kind of being sarcastic there. No. Paul says, see, I get it. I understand I have the right. to receive. He talks about the privilege of a workman. Look in verse 7. Who chargeth a warfare any at uh warfare any time at his own charge? Who planteth a vineyard and eateth not the fruit thereof? Who feedeth a flock and eateth not the milk of that flock? And he gets three illustrations to show it's common for a person to get his or her living from their work. A soldier Paul says, you know any soldier that goes out and and will war a warfare at his own expense? Do we know of any soldier like that? Hey, I'll I'll I'll fight for our country, and by the way, I'll pay it all myself. Or does the government pay them for their soldiering? Of course, they are compensated for being a soldier. What about a farmer? A farmer who plants a vineyard, he doesn't he eat the fruit of it? You ever heard of a farmer that plants and doesn't eat from his own labor If a guy plants a vineyard, he's going to eat of the vineyard. If a guy plants a crop, he'll eat the vegetables of that crop. That's just normal And what about a shepherd? Who feedeth a flock and eateth not the milk thereof? Shepherds don't work for free either. They expect at least some milk from the flock or some payment. And so all three types of workers are paid for their work. It's interesting that all three metaphors are used heavily in Scripture to picture the people of God and the work of God. And so Paul says, that's just the privilege of a workman. Whatever labor he puts out, he should benefit in return from some of that. But then there's the principle of the law. Look in verse 8. Say thy I these things as a man Or saith not the law the same thing? Paul says, you know, do you think this principle is according to my own judgment? Do you think this is just from me? Or does the law also teach this very same thing? And then Paul quotes from Deuteronomy verse four when he says In verse 9, for it is written in the law of Moses, thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. That was the law. that was given, if you borrowed someone's ox to tread out your grain, you know, to separate the wheat from the calf, you know, you're not supposed to muzzle the ox. You know, that would be like uh illustration I like to use, you know, if someone comes to me and says, you know, Jerry, can I use your Jeep for a day? And I say, Of course. Here's my Jeep, here are the keys. I give 'em, I give them a Jeep with a full tank And they give it back to me a day later and the tank is empty. That's not very neighborly. That's not very nice. In the Old Testament, if they lend you their ox a fully A fed, strong ox, and you give the ox back half-starved, because you used them and you muzzled them and you wouldn't let him eat the grain that he was treading out. That was not a very neighborly thing to do But but also Paul adds a question to that in verse number nine when he says, Does God take care for oxen? Do you think God May this law just because he cares for oxen? Well, yeah, God does care for animals. We know that. The Bible says he giveth the beast its food. God does care, but the ultimate care is not for animals, but for people. In other words, the Paul saying this principle in the law can be applied even today. If the if you don't muzzle the ox that works treading out the corn, you certainly don't do that with the laborer either. You don't do that. If God is certain to make sure that oxen are paid for their work, how much more is he concerned that people be compensated for their labor? And in fact, later on, Paul will again quote from this verse in Deuteronomy when he says this in 1 Timothy 5, Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor. Especially those who labor in preaching and teaching, for the scripture says, you shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the corn. I guess you could say I'm an ox up here giving out the corn, you know, the grain here. Don't muzzle the ox that's doing the labor. Paul applied that to those who preach and teach the Word of God. And so this principle is laid down in the law, is what Paul is saying. The labor is worthy of his hire. But then there's also the precedent of the past. Look at verse eleven. Where he says, If we have shown unto you spiritual things, or excuse me, verse 12, if others be partakers of this power over you, are not we rather? In other words, if you've done this for others in the past then you should also do it for for me as well. This has been a precedent. Others that have come, they have supported them. And really back up to verse eleven, there's a great principle there. If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we reap your carnal things. If someone teaches and preaches to you the spiritual things of God's word, is it a big deal that they reap back physical compensation or support for that? That's just that's just something that is right, is what he's saying there. And so he is speaking then of the proof of an apostle, the privilege of the workmen, the principle of the law. The precedent of the past, but then we could also say the pattern of the priesthood. Look at verse 13. Do ye not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple? And they which wait at the altar are partakers of the altar. And he points to the priesthood. He says, Even you Corinthians and your pagan priests, when they do their pagan worship in their temples, don't they reap some of the sacrifice when people bring their Meat sacrifices, don't they get a part of that? And that's true e also even in the Old Testament. Old Testament priests were supported by parts of the offering that were kept from the fire. They were supported by the first fruits of the harvest, by the meat of the firstborn animals that were clean, by the tithes that the people of Israel gave to the temple and to the priesthood there. That's just the pattern of the Old Testament priesthood. And then so lined up his argument in verse 14, he talks about the proclamation of the Lord. Look at verse 14. Even so hath the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel. Jesus himself ordained this principle. And you remember when in Matthew, when he sent out his his disciples on short-term mission trips, he would send them out. They would come back and report and they would rest and he would send them out again. And he gave them an instruction. He said, and remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his wages. Don't go from house to house. Draining people of their resources and taking things from them. Stay in the same place. Accept whatever you're given. Accept whatever wages are given to you. And just do the work of the Lord And that's the principle that the Lord gave. Now, all that to say Paul saying, look, I understand and know the principle that a labor of the Lord is right for them to be supported. It's right for them to receive money. That's all good and fine. Okay, Paul, if you understand that, then why aren't you taking the support from the church at Coran. Why are you refusing then this liberty of yours, this right of yours? Why are you not doing it? And in the next part of here in chapter 9 of 1 Corinthians, what Paul will do, and by the way, this is not the first time Paul did this. He didn't do it just with the church at Corinth. He did it also with the church of Thessalonica. And he said this to the Thessalonians, 1 Thessalonians 2. 9. For you remember, brethren, our labor and toil we work night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you. And while we proclaim to you the gospel of God, you are witnesses of how also how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct towards you believers. He said in 2 Thessalonians 3. 8, nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it. But with toil and labor we work night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you. He did it at other places. This is the policy that Paul had. When he went to a new place to Start a work, to share the gospel, he didn't take anyone's money. He didn't take anyone's support. And why did he do that? Well, in the next part of chapter 9, he explains his reasons for refusing. He gives several reasons. It starts in verse 12. Back up to verse 12. If others be partakers of this power over you, or not we rather, nevertheless, we have not used this power we says power we could say right. We haven't used this right, but suffer all things that as we take the expense on ourselves Lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ. Paul says, I don't want to do anything or come across in any way or manner that would hinder the gospel of Jesus Christ. And you see, here is the problem, brother. And traveling all around in that day were were false teachers and and and what are called sophists, teachers of wisdom, that were going around and they were gathering crowds and they were charging Big fees to give speeches and to teach their doctrines. In fact, there was a competition in Corinth among Teachers, sophist teachers, where they were trying to garner students and they would charge tuition to the parents of these students, and they would run expensive schools and and they were out to make money And so they would give these these incredible rhetorical orations that would hold people spell down and and break their money in from it. And Paul was careful that he didn't want to be associated with that group. Paul didn't want people to think he was just another one of these teachers giving out his own personal philosophy, and that's what these teachers did. They had their own human wisdom that they were dishing out that helped no one. It might have been entertaining to hear, but there was no substance to it, and it really helped no one. And Paul didn't want to be confused with just another one of those guys. Paul says, I don't want to do anything that hinders the gospel. He didn't want to act like them. He didn't want to speak like them. He didn't want to charge like them. He wanted them to know that the gospel of Jesus Christ is free of charge. Jesus said, Freely ye have received, freely give. And so that's the manner that he had. He didn't want to do anything that would hinder the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so he was very anti-Sophish, we you could say. He was very unlike them. And you remember in First Corinthians where Paul said, look, when I came to you, I didn't come with wisdom of words I didn't come with excellency of speech. I just came giving you the simple message of the cross and the gospel of Jesus Christ that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of man, but in the power of God. I wanted you to know the m the power is in the message of the gospel itself, not in the cunning or torical words of any gifted speaker. The message is in the the powers in the message. And so that was his manner. But also look at verse fifteen. But I have used none of these things, neither have I written these things, that it should be so done for unto me For it were better for me to die than that any man should make my glory void. That is, Paul said, Look, I didn't I didn't charge you anything, I didn't take any of these things. Because my glory, that is, my joy, is to just give the gospel out free of charge. That's my joy. I would rather die than anyone think that I'm in this to to reach into their pockets And doing it for money. I'm doing this for the sheer joy of preaching the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ. That's why I'm doing it I would rather die than anyone think anything else of me. I would rather die than they think that I'm doing this just to get money. But also he was under divine compulsion. Look at verse 16. For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing the glory of For necessity is laid upon me, yea, woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel. Paul said, Listen, I preach the gospel without asking for money, but I don't deserve any praise in this I'm not fishing for a compliment when I'm talking about this. I don't deserve any praise for what I'm doing. Why, Paul? Well, because I'm under divine compulsion. Because necessity is laid upon me. God chose me to do this. He put me into the ministry. He saved me by his grace. And now I'm under this divine compulsion. I just have to do this because God has put this in my heart to do I'm doing it not out of my own willingness. In other words, when he says that in verse number um seventeen, for if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward. But if against my will a dispensation of the gospel was committed unto me, what he's saying there is that it wasn't my idea for me to be a preacher of the gospel. It wasn't my, you know, my will had nothing to do with it. Again, I told you before when Paul was on the road to Damascus, he wasn't going to preach at a revival service. Or a 10 one. He was there going to persecute Christians when God met him and saved them by his grace and turned them around and made them a preacher of the gospel. And now Paul says, I'm under divine compulsion. I don't have anything to boast about because this is all God. God did all this. And I'm just doing what God called me to do. So I don't there you I I deserve no praise whatsoever for this Verse 18, what is my reward then? Verily that when I preach the gospel, I may make the gospel of Christ without charge, that I abuse not my power in the gospel. Paul said, you know, my reward is that I get to preach the gospel without charge. That's my reward. That's my joy that I get to do this. In other words, Paul was serving God out of pure gratitude and thankfulness for the grace of God that he had bestowed in his life. And I would submit to you, brethren, that that's the reason we serve God today. We serve our God not for gold, not for what we can get out of it. But out of genuine gratitude for his saving grace, what is the grace of God worth to you? The fact that he has saved you by his grace. That's why we come and we worship. That's why we we serve our Lord. We want to see the gospel go out. We want to see more people come to know Jesus Christ. And we do it all out of pure joy. Now, with all that said, go back to 2 Corinthians chapter 11, and we'll pick up the sermon. That was all introduction for the No, I'm kidding. We're going to go back and pick up the argument because it seems like the argument picks up here again in verse seven where again they're saying, Paul, you know, the the reason he's not taking money, oh he's a he's an inferior apostle He he he he knows that what he's saying is not any substance to it. Actually back up to verse five, because Paul says, For I suppose I was not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles. Paul said, I'm not inferior to any of these guys I'm not inferior to these super apostles. That's really what the word chief there means. Verse 6, but don't I be rude in speech yet not in knowledge? I might not be trained in all the oratory that you're accustomed to hearing. But I'll tell you what, I gave you real substance, I gave you the knowledge of God's word. I gave you truth is what he's saying there. And verse 7, have I committed an offense in abasing myself that you might be exalted, because I have preached unto you the gospel of God freely? Have I committed a sin in doing this? And of course Th you know, Paul's writing here with sarcasm. Of course he didn't commit a sin. Of course not Of course he's doing the right thing. But then he also adds, I received support from other churches. Look at verse number eight. I robbed other churches, taking wages of them to do your service. Here the word robbed is a very strong term. It's a military term of pillaging, of taking spoil. And Paul was speaking metaphorically again, he's using irony here. He didn't actually rob any church. But what he's saying is Other churches have given to me so that I can minister the gospel of God freely. And he's talking about the churches at Macedonia, the church of Philippi, the church of Thessalonica, the church of Berea. They had all given to him so that he can do this work and in order to not make the gospel appear chargeable. Paul said, I receive from them From time to time. Whatever I was lacking, whatever I did without, messengers from the churches at Macedonia would come and they would give me what I needed. And even there, Paul didn't ask for it. They just came and they gave to him. Paul said, I took from others. But he also was a temp maker to support his work. But he also wanted to cut off any opportunity for his enemies to have accusation against him. Ironically, look in verse number 10. But as the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this boasting in the regions of Achaia. Wherefore, because I love you not, God knoweth. But what I do that I will do that I may cut off occasion from them which is our occasion, that wherein they glory they may be found even as we are. And what Paul is saying there is, look, I am determined that I'm not going to change my policy I'm still not going to take your money. Even though you're criticizing me, even though this is being turned around and used against me, I did this because I didn't want to be criticized by those. I'm not going to change my policy. I'm going to continue as I am. And the reason I'm going to do this is because, again, it is it is his joy to do it. And also because he loved them. He said, why? Why why do I do this? Because I don't love you? I do this because I do love you. And also It puts the false teachers in a dilemma because now that I refuse to take any money, they're going to have to change their policy and not take money from you Otherwise they'll stop. You know. I want them to be as I am. I want them to not take any support for what they're doing. And let's see how long they last. Is what he's saying. Let's see how long they stick it out. The reason they were doing what they were doing is for money, is for gain. And then Paul makes his biggest accusation against them in verse number. 13, that they where he says that they may be found even if we are verse 13. For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. They're false teachers. They are not of God. And one one word of application today would be, brethren, beware of false preachers who are motivated by money. There's a lot out there. Be discerning. Not everyone who presents themselves as a preacher of righteousness is from God. It reminds me again the story of the preacher who decided to use reverse psychology on his church and try to encourage people to attend church more. And so one morning he decided to get up and he put on the devil's suit with a mask and everything, got out in front of his church and people that were coming in, he would say, Don't go into that church, don't go into that church. And he was scaring people. Some of the ladies got concerned, children were crying, they called the police. The police came and they arrested the guy, put him in handcuffs, took off his mask, and it was a pastor. Let me tell you something worse than a pastor in a devil suit is the devil in a pastor suit. And there are a lot of guys out there that present themselves as the angels of light, and they're not in it for the purity of the gospel They're not in it to see people come to Christ. They're in it to pad their own pockets and take advantage of unstable souls or desperate souls And that's what Paul is saying. These are false apostles, deceitful workers. Beloved, beware of false preachers. Beware. But then another word of application is be careful about your own motives. Why do you do what you do? Would you do for gold what you wouldn't do for God? What motives do you have? What motivates you more? Is it the joy of serving God out of pure gratitude for the grace of salvation, or is it the riches of reward or money? that motivates you. And finally, I would just say this. Understand the priceless value of being saved by God's grace The priceless value of it. I think sometimes we forget that. Do you understand how precious it is to know Jesus Christ, to know that your sins are forgiven, that you're going to spend eternity in heaven? Do you understand how precious the grace of God is? That's the greatest thing in the world. The greatest thing in the world is to know that you know Jesus Christ, that you're saved by his grace. Because you know what that means, beloved? This this life is temporary. It means that you get to spend eternity in heaven. And God has so many wonderful things laid up for his people. There is no Price tag that you can put on the value of God's grace. Are you thankful for that? Are you grateful for that? And does that gratitude and joy cause you to serve Him? Just that's just for the pure joy of serving the Lord that saved you. The Lord that save you. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, how thankful we are for your magnificent grace that has saved us and called us. Forgiving us of our sins, giving us an eternal home in heaven. And not only the future hope that we have in Christ, but even the present Life now. Even when we go through trials now, Lord, you're there for us. And you bring us through and you give us your grace. And you help us each day. And your mercies are so new every morning. How grateful we are, Lord For all of your blessings. And may this gratitude and joy be demonstrated in our humble worship and service of you, not for any other reason, but for Worship and joy and gratitude for what you have done for us. May we follow the Apostle Paul in this beautiful example of serving you, Father, with a right heart. In appreciation of God's wonderful grace. Lord, forgive us for our selfishness, for our petty motives. Forgive us, Lord, for our greed, desiring the wrong things or putting value on things that really have no value, and not really valuing the most precious commodity as your wonderful grace. Thank you for it all, Father. Speak to our hearts. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I just want to ask you, friend, before we leave, are you absolutely certain that you know Christ, that you're saved? That would be the desire of my heart that you know, friend, that your sins are forgiven, that you've repented and you put your full faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ, Christ in Christ alone. And friend, if you know that and you're sure of that, you understand what a what a gift that is, what a blessing that is And if you're not sure of that, I would just implore you today, make sure, don't leave until you have that settled. Right now, reach out in prayer. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation Just pray, Lord, I'm a sinner. Save me, forgive me. I repent of my sins. I put my faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. My hope is built in Christ and Christ alone. Save me, Lord. And then thank him for saving you. Thank him for what he's done in your heart. Father, bless this word to every hearing heart here today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's all