Take your Bibles tonight and open please to the book of First Corinthians, chapter seven. As you know, we're studying through First Corinthians on Sunday night. And we're in the chapter seven. And And uh chapter seven is uh not an easy chapter to interpret and and do correctly with, so I just hope you'll pray for me. And uh some of you I'm sure have questions about About some of the things that are written in here and we're hoping to get all those questions and answer all those questions. Uh not all of them tonight, and probably won't maybe some of them never, but we're gonna do the best we can Now again the issues that are being dealt with here in uh first Corinthians seven are Because again, look at verse one. Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote un So they wrote Paul questions about issues of marriage, issues of singleness, issues of divorce. And Paul is trying to bring clarity. There was a lot of confusion in the church at Corinth because there were a lot of people doing a lot of things. Now that they were saved, they felt they had the liberty to do certain things Some of the social institutions that God had created, like marriage, were uh being mishandled. And so Paul wants to bring clarity to it. And he wants to give some principles by which we can operate There's one overarching principle that I want to just talk to you about tonight. And uh but before that, let me just uh Back up here. A few years ago, I had the privilege to go to Uganda, Africa. I was asked to go there to speak at a pastor's conference and um to teach theology and doctrine and preaching to a pastor that were there and it's always a wonderful opportunity to do something like that. People in countries like certain countries in Africa, they don't have the ability to be trained like we do here in America. They don't have the seminaries and colleges like we do and so we have a great privilege here in the U. S. And whenever the opportunity opens up where we can go and invest in future in leaders in other places, that's always a wonderful opportunity. So I had that that opportunity and part Part of uh the at the end of the seminar and the teaching, I was taught all week long, pretty much all day, we had a a question and answer session. And one of the questions that came up during that session was about the marital status of someone and in fact there was a man there and he basically said, Look, I'm I'm a Christian now, I got saved, but before I got saved, I believe in polygamy. I'm I have three wives Now that I'm a Christian, which two should I divorce? Oh, okay, tough question. Well, and and and what do you say to something like that? That. Now that you're saved and you've had three wives before you got saved, now you're a Christian, what should you do? And uh it's clear that Than in God's standard of marriage, you're to be married to one person for life. That's God's standard. And so what should a man do if he's married to multiple wives and then gets saved? Should he divorce two of 'em or three or how many others to have one wife? And the thing the answer that I gave that man was simply this. I said, Sir you shouldn't divorce Any of your wives. The thing that you should do is you should be the best husband to the wives that you have, and be the best father to the children that you have. In fact Now that you're a Christian, they should see that. They should see that difference. So what? Are you supposed to divorce two wives? You know, how do you do that? Flip a coin? And then you tell the children of those wives, I can know longer be your father and to those women I can no longer be your husband. Why? Well now I got saved. Jesus is in my life and so I can't be with you anymore. That's not certainly not the message you want to send to someone in that position. And so you say, now where do you get that I mean where do you have the authority? I don't have any authority in of myself. But what but where do you get that principle? I get that principle Principle here from 1 Corinthians chapter 7. And I want you to look at what it says here. Look in verse number 17. I just want you to see this principle. It's laid out. In other words, the principle is whatever way salvation found you, that's the way you are to remain and abide. Now you walk however salvation found you. Look at verse number 20. Let every man abide in the same calling wherein he was called. However, Salvation finds you. You're to stay in that place. You're not to try to change things now, but now that you're saved, you stay in that same place Calling. And then in verse 24, brethren, let every man wherein he is called therein abide with God. Serve God. Whatever place salvation finds you, and whatever position salvation finds you, and again the context of this is in the social institution of marriage, and who also mentioned And some other things, but wherever salvation finds you, that's where you stay. You can't unscramble an egg. You can't go back and try to undo that, could do a lot of harm. You just, here's where the salvation finds you. Find you. Now you do the best you can to live the way God wants you to live. And so that's the principle here. The principle is serving God where He saved you. This is the overarching principle, I think, of this whole chapter. Because again, there's a lot of things going on here in the church of Corinth. There were some people that say when they Now that I'm saved, I have to be married, and so they're being pushed into marriage because now they're a Christian and they need to find another Christian. There are some people who got saved and they're married to someone who is lost, and now they think that now that they're saved and they're spouse's lost, they need to get out of that marriage relationship. And there are some people that were using the idea that they were a Christian to divorce a mate they didn't want to be with anyway. And so there are all kinds of things that were happening here, and Paul's trying to straighten it all out, and Paul's trying to say, look, just because you're single doesn't mean you're sinning against the Lord. It's okay to be single. In fact, singleness is Good, and especially you have more time, you can serve the Lord, you could have more devotion to the Lord. Singleness, there's nothing wrong with it. In fact, at one place Paul says, Look, I wish that every man were like me Now he wasn't being literal there, he's kind of using hyperbole. Singleness is good. I would that everyone was like me being single that could give this their time to the Lord. And so Paul's kind of straightened out all these things Here. And so Paul's trying to clear up. Now in the first nine verses of chapter 7, we kind of touched on some of these things. And again, Paul here, first of all, he's referring to this area of singleness There were those who were single there in the church that's Corinth. Some were single by delay. They were just simply waiting for the right person, and that's always a good thing. For them it was God's will for them to be single. And there are some people that have the gift of singleness. They have the ability to be by themselves and they give more of their time to the Lord. They can devote that time and serve Service to God. There's nothing wrong with that. In fact, that's a good thing, as Paul said. Some were single by death, they were widows, and they were wondering should they seek to get married now that they love And so the question is should they remain single or not? And in the first nine verses, Paul talks about And then there were others that thought celibacy was so such a high form of spirituality, they were trying to practice celibacy even within the bounds of marriage. And Paul has to straighten that out. So in the first part of chapter 7, he talks about about the devotion of being single and celibate. Again, he says it's good. He says it's God given. So for to for some, God gives them this gift. Look in verse number seven. I would That all men were even as I myself, but every man hat his proper gift, one after this manner, another after that. It's God given. Not everyone has this ability. And you have to Understand yourself and know whether or not God has given you this gift, this grace to be single. Because to those who don't have this ability, singleness is dangerous. Verse two, nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife. If you can't be single, if that's not the way you're wired, it's better for you to get married than to go out and have to face temptation all the time And he says this again in verse nine. But if they cannot contain, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn. And here he's speaking to three different groups of singles. In verse eighty I say therefore to the unmarried and to widows, he's already spoken to singles who were virgins. These were people who had never been married. And he tells them, If you can stay single if you want to, it's good. Have that gift, then go ahead and get married. And now he's going to say the same thing in verse 8 to the unmarried and to widows, two more groups. Now who is this? Well, widows, we know, obvious, this is someone who lost a spouse in death. What does he mean by unmarried? This is the Greek word ah damas, not married. It's the alpha negative in front of the word for marriage. And whoever these are, first of all, they're not virgins because Paul makes a distinction between being single and a virgin and being unmarried. And they're not widowers or widows. Because Paul makes a distinction in verse 8 to that. I think what he's referring to to when he says the unmarried, he's referring to those who are divorced. And he gives the same principle to all three, to those who are virgins, to those who are uh who are widowed and to those who are unmarried it's better if you abide like me Paul said to be single but in verse nine if they cannot contain let them Marry. For it's better to marry than to what? Burn. And he's talking there about burning with lust. It's better to be married if you do don't have the ability Number eight and nine then that you know for some divorced people it's okay to be remarried because he's implying that in verses eight and nine. What are the conditions of that? As we move along. But so he he gives these principles here in these verses. And so now he's going to go on to an um, by the way, let me back up for just a minute. He talks about the devotion of Celibacy. It's good to be single. He talks about the danger of it. You can't remain single if it's not your gift because it'll put you in all kind of spiritual danger if you don't have that gift. But then he talks about the disapproval. of it because again there were some in the church that thought that to be celibate was the highest form of spirituality and Paul says however within the bounds of matrimony and marriage it's wrong to practice celibate And in verses three to five, he's very clear about that. Let the husband render unto the wife do benevolence, likewise also the wife unto the husband, though the wife has not power of her own body, but the husband likewise also the husband And that is, you belong to each other. There's a mutual obligation, there's mutual ownership. If you ever want to practice celibacy inside the bounds of marriage, it should be for He says in verse number five, for a time that you might give yourself a prayer and fasting, and then you come together again, and be careful that you don't endanger yourself. So again, he's talking here about this area of singleness. But now let's move on because he's going to go to another topic in verse. 10. Again, we're talking about the principle, serve God wherever He saved you. Whatever condition salvation finds you, that's where you stay, and you just serve the Lord. And if God comes along and providentially changes your circumstances, you You accept that is from the Lord, but don't seek those changes. Don't try to make changes yourself. Just do just save the uh serve the Lord wherever Salvation finds you. Now, he talks again in your marital status. Look at verse 10. And unto the married I command, yet not I, but the Lord, let not the wife depart from her husband. And so here, Paul says, first of all, don't divorce your husband, he says. Let not the wife depart from her husband. Now He gives four reasons why you are to remain married. Obviously there were some who got saved and decided, well now that I'm saved to an unsaved person, it's I can just divorce them, I can just get out of that relationship and fall say No, don't you do that. Don't you dare do that. You stay married. Why? Because of the command of the Lord in verse 10. He said, Yet not I, but the Lord. And who he talking about of course Jesus. He's referring to the teaching on Jesus on divorce. If you go back to the gospels, several times Jesus will refer to Genesis 2. And then Jesus says Where Jesus talks about marriage and divorce, he's very clear to say, stay married, don't go after a divorce. There was one exception that Jesus gave in Matthew 19 And in Matthew five, where he said, Except for the cause of fornication that is continual unfaithfulness on the part of a mate who is unrepented, continu Continually unfaithful in that condition. You remember in the Old Testament when that happened, Moses permitted a div a bill of divorce, and Jesus in the New Testament says, you know what, uh there's that there's only one reason why there there will be uh a consent made for divorce. It's in this one case. Other than that, you stay married. And that was something hard for the disciples to receive, if you remember last time, because back in that day in Jesus' day, men were getting divorced For anything they wanted. They could get out of the marriage relationship, no problem. It was so easy. And Jesus said, no. No. There's only one concession. And Moses in the Old Testament permitted a bill of divorce because of the hardness of your hearts. But I say, except for the cause of fornication. So he gave one concession there. There's all repentance and restoration is always better in a marriage relationship, but if there can be no repentance And restoration. If there if one spouse is just hard hearted and they will not repent and they will not do right, then sadly sometimes the other spouse is a victim of the divorce in that case. And so Paul says, you know, the Lord's basic command was stay married. Stay married. But then he gives a also talks about his command Look at verse eleven. But if she depart, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband, and let not the husband put away his wife. What's he saying there? Again, some of the believers in Corinth had already divorced their spouse. They were Christians, thinking they were doing the right thing. They had either already done it or they were in the process of doing it. And Paul said, look, if someone's already done that, you You have two options. You can remain unmarried or you can go back and be reconciled to your mate. That's it. If there's someone who's just a Christian tries to divorce another Christian Just because they wanted to, that's the same thing there. Go back to your mate or remain unmarried, Paul says. There are some who who tried to get out of that relationship because one spouse was lost. He'll talk about that as we go on. But look at verse number 12. But to the rest speak I not And here's a clear command. And Paul says, Look, um, this is not the Lord, this is me speaking. And some people will ask and say, well, is Paul suggesting here that he has a lesser authority than the Lord when he gives a new command about this marriage and divorce? And that no, that's not it Paul is basically saying there was no clear revelation on this issue in the past when the Lord spoke about marriage. He was very clear about what he said In the Gospels, but there was nothing that dealt with this issue, and so now I'm going to speak on this issue. And what he was actually doing was putting himself on par with the words of the Lord. He was saying, this revelation that I'm going to give Is in addition to the revelation you already received from Jesus. So he's not saying that my words are less inspired. In fact, he's saying this is as authoritative as what Jesus said. This doesn't come from Jesus, however. This comes from me, his apostle. And he says, I it's not I, but it's speak I, not the Lord. And look again at verse twelve If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away. Again, there were some in the church that were divorcing their spouse Because they were lost. And Paul said, Look, don't do that. If you have a wife that doesn't believe and she still wants to stay with you, then stay with her. Don't get a divorce just because Because now you're a Christian. Again, stay where you are. Wherever salvation finds you, that's where you stay. Now you're saved. You have a spouse that's lost. Don't you You seek a divorce if she dw uh is pleased to dwell with you. Because that again that was happening. And what was happening because Christians were divorced An unsaved spouse. They were the world was criticizing the church and they were saying Christianity is tearing apart marriages rather than putting them together. Look what's happening here Here's a person who becomes a Christian and now they leave their spouse and they had no reason to do it other than that they became a Christian. And so Paul says, Don't do that. That's wrong. And some were thinking, well, now that I'm a Christian, if I'm married to a unsaved spouse, they will defile me and Paul says, No, that's not the case. In fact it's the other way around. Because look in verse number 14. And here he gives the other reason. You stay in that relationship because you bring Christ into that home. Look down in verse number 14. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by The wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else were your children unclean, but now they are holy. Now, what he's saying is, is look, when one member of that family, one spouse, gets saved, you bring Christ into that whole family. You sanctify that whole family. And when he says sanctified here, obviously he's not talking about salvation. And he doesn't mean that just because you're saved now, everyone else in your family. automatically get saved. That's not what he's talking about. The sanctification that he's talking about here is kind of it's it's family. You bring Christ into that family. And so There's a sense now that Jesus is in that home. That whole family now is exposed to the gospel. Why? Because now you bring Christ there. And yet you know what? Christ sanctifies everything That he touches. And whenever he's around, there's more opportunity now for them to hear the gospel and see the love of Christ. And now they have a great opportunity to be recipients of the grace of God Never forget when my father got saved here at Grace, and my father before salvation, he was kind of a rough character He's not here tonight so I can talk about it a little bit. They're out on vacation, but uh he was a rough guy. And I wanna when he got saved and I saw the turnaround in him, it was remarkable. I had never seen any Like that in my life. It was amazing. This was not the same guy. I'd go by his bedroom. He was on his knees with his Bible open, reading. And I thought, man, what in the world happened to him? I saw the power of the gospel. And you know what happened there? He brought Christ into our whole family when he got saved. And you know what happened as a result of that? That affected my life. That affected affected the lives of all of us. And that's what Paul is saying here. It only takes one Christian to make a Christian home. Just one Christian. You bring Christ into that home and you sanctify that Remember in the Old Testament when Jacob was with Laban and Laban understood that because Jacob was there, that God was blessing the whole household? And he he didn't say Also when Joseph was in Potiphar's house, Potiphar recognized that God's blessing was on his whole house because Joseph was there. So Paul says, look, stay as you are when salvation finds you, stay in that relationship. Don't Don't try to change it, don't seek that change because you bring Christ into that home. But also because of this, if the if the unbeliever in that relationship wants out, they can get out Look at verse 15. But if the unbelieving depart, let them depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to teach. And Paul's saying, look, let's just say here, two married couples, they're lost. All of a sudden, the woman gets saved. Now Christ is in that home. And here's a husband who says, you know what, I don't want Christ And I don't want your religion, so I'm out of here. And he doesn't want to stay in that relationship because of Jesus. So he leaves. But what can that lady do? What can that woman do? There's nothing that she can do. She has become the victim of what this man determines to do. And Paul said, if that happens, if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. That is, if that person leaves, if before they left there was warfare in that home, because that person now doesn't accept Jesus, doesn't accept Christ. And because of that, there's warfare, and this person finally says, you know what, I'm out of here. I don't want your Jesus. I don't want your religion. You just have it all. I'm gone. You're on your own. Again. What was the sin of that woman? No sin. She has become a victim of this this man. And the Bible says you're not under bondage there. And by the way, I've counseled people that have Gone through this, know of a man who got saved, he fell in love with Christ, he was very passionate in his walk with the Lord, but he was married to an Orthodox Jewish woman who said, I don't want your Jesus and I'm not going to have him. You need to choose choose between Jesus or me. And he said, you know, I I can't stop serving my Lord. I'm going to keep following my Savior. And she said, Fine, I'm out of here. And so she left them. She divorced them She said, I won out. And it was simply what was his fault? What did he do? He fell in love with Christ. He got saved. And she said, I went out. In a case like that, Paul says, Look, if they want to depart, there's really Really, nothing you can do. Let them depart. You're not the one who sought the divorce. You're not the one that wanted out of that relationship. You did no wrong, and in that case, you're not under bondage. And what bondage is he talking about here? I think in reference I think that person according to the scriptures is free to go out now and live their life. And if the Lord brings someone into their life, I think there's nothing that can hinder them from being married to a A Christian who loves the Lord, I think that's what he says means what he says. You're not under bondage. You didn't do any wrong. You didn't do any sin there. It wasn't your your thing. So you're free to move on. You're not under bondage Bondage. Don't carry the weight of guilt. You didn't seek it. And so Paul says that's why you stay as you are. You don't seek to do anything different. You just live the The best way you can because it's the command of the Lord and it's also my command. I'm giving you added revelation that you stay in that relationship because you bring Christ into that home, and also because it's The unbeliever wants to depart, they can depart. You can't make them stay. And if they do, you're not under bondage in that position. And so that's the the next reason that he gives there. But then also, because the unbelieving mate might get saved. Look at verse sixteen. For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? Or how knowest thou, O man Man, whether thou savest thy wife. You don't you never know what the Lord might do. That's why when you get saved, if you are married to someone who's not, you don't you just stay in that relationship relationship and you love the Lord and you love them and you be the best spouse that you can because you never know what God's going to do, Paul says. You never know. Whether thou shalt say Save thy husband. Or knowest thou a man whether thou shalt save thy wife. You never know, you never stop praying for them, you never stop loving them. You be the best you can be because you the Lord might work on that hard and finally bring them to salvation. And I've known of people who was married, I know of a woman who was married to a man for many years he was lost and she continued continued to pray and obey the Lord and do the best she could It took years, but it happened. And there's been situations where the opposite has happened. Here is a man. Now he's saved. married to a woman who's not. And he just kept loving the Lord and loving her and being the best husband he could to her. And you know what? God did a wonderful thing and saved her. It happens. It happens a lot. And the children And so Paul says, that's why you stay as you are. Don't try to get out of that relationship. Wherever salvation finds you, stay there. And let the Lord Work in your marital relationship because you never know what the Lord's going to do. So you stay at you serve God wherever He saves you in your marital relationships You serve God wherever he saves you in your national status. Look in verse number 18. If any man called, if any man called being circumcised, let him not become uncircumcised. Is any called an uncircumcision, let him not be circumcised. Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing but Commandments of God. Now, what's he talk talking about here? He's talking about when certain Jews got saved, they wanted to become more like a Gentile. They wanted to live like a Gentile, and they wanted to disassociate themselves from being Jewish. And Paul said, Look, don't do that. You are a Jew that's now saved. Don't try to no longer be Jewish and deny your national roots and your national status and academic If you're a Gentile, don't do that. And if you're a Gentile and you have gotten saved, don't try to be more Jewish because you feel like it's it's better to be Jewish Be a Jew as well as be a Christian. Paul said, Don't do any of that. Just stay as you are. Because circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing but the keeping of the commandments of God. That's everything Everything. And so the rule is just be who you are. Just be as you are when the wherever it is is how the Lord found you. And the reason The reason for this is very clear. Here's a Jewish man who gets saved, and Paul wants him to continue to relate to his Jewish roots and be around Jewish people and not divorce Divorce himself from being Jewish. Why? Because now that he's a saved Jew, who can he win to the Lord? Other Jews. Other people that are in that situation. So don't try to divorce him. Divorce yourself from your national status, Paul says. You just continue as you are, wherever the Lord wherever salvation finds you. Look again in verse number twenty. Let every man abide in the same Calling wherein he is called. The best person to lead a Jew to Christ is another Jew who has come to Christ. So don't Don't divorce yourself from your national roots. The best person that can lead a Gentile to Christ sometimes is another Gentile who has come out saved out of the pagan religion and now embraces Jesus Christ. In other words, wherever you're You're saved, you have an ability to reach the people around you that no one else can reach. You understand that? That's why it's wonderful to see people get saved. You know why? Because they have a circle of friends and family. around them that they can reach and nobody else can do it. So don't try to you say, well now I'm saved. I want to disassociate myself from all my family because they're all pagans, they're all heathen, and I don't want, you know Look, that grace that saves you can save them as well. And now it's time for you to take the grace that God's given you and share it with them lovingly. Because That circle of family and friends that you're in, don't disassociate yourself and come off like you're better than them now that you're a Christian. No, you stay in that circle of family and friends and you share Share Jesus with them so that they can come to know the same grace that you have come to know. And so in your national status, just stay wherever the Lord's, wherever salvation Salvation finds you, you just serve God right there in that position. So he talks about this in your marital status, the same principle in your national status, but then he's Also going to talk about it in your social status. Look in verse 21. Art thou called, or that is, are you saved being a servant? And the word for servant here is dulas. It's really the word slave. Were you saved as a slave? Now remember in the Roman Empire slavery was a big thing. It was just a Part of the culture then. There were millions of slaves in the Roman Empire. And some of these slaves would come to know Jesus as their Savior. And Paul said, Were you saved? Look what he says in verse 21. Care not for it. That is, don't worry about it. Because again, there were some in that church and in that culture that That, well, now that I'm saved as a slave, I only have one master, and that's Jesus. So I'm no longer going to submit to my boss, my master. I'm not going to do that. Because I'm free. I want to be free to serve Jesus and I can't be I can't have him as a master and Jesus as my master. So I'm getting out of that. And there were some that were pushing for Revolt as a Christian now that they're saved to no longer be a slave. And Paul said, look, don't do that. Now let me just qualify here very clearly. The Bible never supports slavery, ever. In fact, it was the seeds of the gospel that brought down that whole evil empire. But it took time. It took time for the gospel to spread. It took time for hearts to change and to see the wrong and the sin of this. And Paul's just simply saying, look, don't try don't become a social revolutionary and then try to overturn the way things are because that's not going to help you at that point. But if you're a slave and you're You come to know Jesus and you're saved, care not for it. Look, for if thou mayest be a free man, use it rather. In other words, Paul says, look, don't go out and try to be a social revolutionary and try to overturn things. However, if the opportunity for your freedom comes, then go ahead. Use it rather, he says. Go for it. If God providence However, if God providentially presents before you the opportunity for you To be free. He opens the door through some means for you to get your freedom. Paul said, go ahead and do that. Take advantage of it. That's what the Lord has done Now again there are some different interpretations of this. I don't want to get into all of it because I'll never finish if I do. But I think the really correct interpretation is if God gives you the opportunity for freedom, then you take advantage of and you got saved. You're now a slave who's a Christian. Just remember this. And God's like you're his free man. You're God's free man. In the Lord, he says. Likewise also he that is called being free is Christ's slave. Interesting the way Paul says that. And just know this if you're saved, you are a slave to Jesus and you're his free man because he is the one who's in charge of your life now and he can make you free. He can do whatever he wants with you now that you're his and you belong to him in salvation. He can change your circumstances. So don't worry about trying to change things with regard to your social status. You just serve the Lord Because remember this, even though you're a slave to man, you're God's free man. You belong to Him. And whoever's free, if they're saved, they're a slave. You know, all of us here tonight, we're slaves to something. I'm a slave to Jesus, and so are you if you're saved, because he's our master. And so we're all slaves, Paul said, if you're a Christian, you're the Lord's slave. You're Christ's servant, and verse twenty-three, and you're bought with a price, be not ye the servants of men. That is, always keep Christ first, and don't ever become the servants of men. Where you put man first, you remember that you're bought with a price and Christ is first in your life. And then again in verse number 24, he again emphasizes, Brethren, let every man Wherein he is called, therein abide with God. So these are the principles here then. In your marital status, just stay there Let the Lord change it. If he wants to change it, he can come along and do that. Just re- and your and your national status, don't try to be somebody different. And your social status, just remember to be content wherever salvation finds you. Remember that you're in Christ all men are equal, whether slave or free, you're all equal in the Lord Jesus Christ. Remember, you're the property of the Lord Jesus Christ because he bought you in verse number 23. And so you belong to the Lord. And so just here Here's again the principle: serve God where he saved you. Just stay there, serve the Lord, be faithful, and let God do as he wills. Because you know the Lord, He can change your situation whenever He wants to. He can do it whenever He wants to. So Paul says to the Corinthians, calm down. Stop making all these changes. Stop thinking you have to do this, that, and the other now that you're a Christian. Just serve the Lord. Just be faithful in whatever status you're in, whatever marital status Whatever national status, whatever social status. Just be faithful where you are and trust yourself to the Lord. Remember a song we used to uh we don't probably sing it too much. I haven't heard it Was to go and serve on the foreign field, but there were several things that prevented her in her life from doing that. She got sick and uh she couldn't go where she wanted to go. And so she determined that wherever she went was she was going to share the light of Christ wherever she was. And then she wrote the song that we now sing right in the corner wherever you are. Wherever you are. Just let them see the light of Christ and let the Lord do what He's going to do because God can use you wherever salvation finds you. God can use you where you are. And He's able to Able to fully change your circumstances if he's ready and wants to in his providence. Let's have a word of prayer together tonight. And so Lord help us just to follow your basic word A lot of times, Lord, we have a tendency to make things more complicated than they really are. But we're thankful, Lord, for the grace that came into our lives. And Lord, so many of us were saved. In different backgrounds, different circumstances, different situations, Lord, where the grace of God came to your people and saved them. And now, Lord, help us just to remember that now wherever salvation has found us, you've called us to be a missionary in that particular circle. You haven't called us to go out and try to change things in our own Might and power, but just to be faithful and to and to serve you and to put you first and to love you. And then Lord to see what you're going to do. Because Lord, we know that you can do great and mighty things. And I know that there are some people here tonight, Lord, and they may struggle with some of these things. There may some who may be some here who feel the pressure to do this or that, or others may put pressure on them to say, They have to be this or they have to do that. Lord, help them to realize, Lord, that you are their master. And Lord, they answer to you. And you're fully able to bring the right So Lord help us to be encouraged by this and help us to know Lord, that wherever we are, you can use us. It's your grace, Lord, that cleanses and forgives the sins of the past and finds us where we are. And uses us in a great way. So Lord, I pray you'll do that for every person here tonight. Lord, let this word encourage all of your people just to be faithful. And we pray in Jesus' presence. Precious name, Amen