Well tonight I we want to go to God's Word. The best way to look at the cross is to look at it through Scripture, what God's Word says. And I invite you to take your Bibles out tonight, please, and open to the book of Luke, chapter 23. If you've been with us on Sunday mornings, you know be we've been going through Luke's account of the Passion of Christ. And uh we've been doing a series called From Garden to Garden. We start at the Garden of Gethsemane and we end up at the Garden Tomb. And of course that'll be this Sunday. when we speak about the resurrection of our Lord. Tonight, of course, we focus on the cross of our Lord Jesus and in Luke chapter 23, starting at verse number 26. I'm wondering if you would you stand for the reading of God's Word just for a minute, and then you I promise you can sit down the rest of the service. Look at verse number twenty-six And as they laid him, excuse me, as they led him away, they laid up him upon one Simon, a Cyrene coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross that he might bear it after Jesus. And there followed him a great company of people and of women. which also bewailed and lamented him. But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For behold, the days are coming in which they shall say, Blessed are the other bear, and the wounds that never bear, and the patch which never gave suck. Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, follow on us, and to the hills cover us. For if they do these things in a dry green, or green tree, rather, what shall be done in the dry And there were also two other malefactors led with him to be put to death. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary. There they crucified him and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left. Then said, Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Pray with me. Father, thank you for the beauty of this scripture that gives us this historical account of all that our Savior endured on our behalf. Lord, help us tonight as we look to this passage. Give us understanding, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. When we come to the crucifixion of our Lord Jesus Christ, We see that each gospel kind of gives us a different perspective on the cross. For example, when you read the Gospel of Matthew, you see that Matthew focuses primarily on the miracles that took place around the cross on the cross. These were signs. And remember that Matthew was writing primarily to Jewish people who were constantly looking for a sign And it was if Matthew was saying, if you want a sign about who Jesus was, all you have to do is look at what took place at the cross. There was a universal darkness, there was the earthquake, the rocks were rent, the graves were opened, and the veil was torn. However, when you come to the Gospel of Luke, the emphasis is different. Luke does mention the darkness, he does mention the veil being torn, but that's not really where he lingers And that's not really the focus of Luke's gospel. Instead, Luke kind of slows down and he focuses on key people around the cross. He'll focus on the characters, on the groups of people On the individuals. For instance, we see a man carrying his cross. We see grieving women along the way. We see mocking rulers. and indifferent soldiers. We see a Roman centurion who confesses that Jesus was the righteous one We see a a a thief on the cross who is converted and a wealthy council member who steps forward encouraged. How does Well why does uh Luke do this? Because Luke's gospel from the very beginning to the end is really concerned about one major idea, one major theme that he wants to get across, and that is this that salvation is not just for the Jew and for Israel, salvation is for the whole world. Salvation is for everyone. It's Luke's gospel that writes of shepherds at his birth. Shepherds were kind of the outcasts that day. He writes of uh tax collectors. He writes parables about the Samaritans and prodigals. And now at his death, Luke focuses on the outsiders, the sinners. the unlikely converts surrounding the cross. And Luke is showing us something very important. The cross is not just an historical event, although it is that It's more than just a happening. It is really about a Savior who needs to be received. Everyone needs to respond to the cross. And that's really the question. That Luke really forces upon us not just what happened at the cross, but how will you respond to that one who died there on the cross? How will you respond to him? That's really the issue here. Because at the cross, every kind of person is represented. There is the religious and the irreligious. There is the powerful and the powerless. There are those that are near and those who are far. And every one of them must respond. And so must you. So must we. There are moments in history that demand the response, and Calvary is one of those moments. And again, the question is, what does the cross of Christ do to you? So what I want us to do tonight as we look in this passage from Luke, I want us to see just some characters, seven characters around the cross, and how they respond to the cross. The first one is Simon, a Cyrene, and we see this in verse number 26, where as they were leading Jesus away, the Bible says they laid hold on Simon And on him they laid the cross that he might bear it after Jesus. Now who was Simon? Well, he just was a person that happened to be in the crowd that morning who was watching as Jesus was being led away. He was from Cyrene, that is a city in modern-day Libya in northern Africa. That city had a significant Jewish pop population, and he was probably there in Jerusalem at that time to celebrate the Passover. And so while he was there, he saw this commotion, he saw the Lord being led away, he was there in the crowds, the Roman soldiers were looking for someone. that they could use to carry the cross of Jesus because at this time Jesus was so weak from the beatings that he had received that he could not bear the cross. Already he was so weakened from the beatings and the and the blood loss. And so they were looking for a man, no doubt, who was pretty strong. And at random they selected Simon. From a human perspective, it's at random. From a divine perspective, he was chosen. It wasn't no accident. What a privilege to be able to carry the cross of Christ. Scholars estimate that the weight of the cross would have been anywhere from a From 80 to 100, 120 pounds. And victims of crucifixion normally had to carry their own cross. And again, Jesus was too weak from the blood loss. The journey from Pilate's judgment hall to the place of the skull to Calvary was just a few hundred yards, really not that far away. One uh eminent specialist recently wrote an essay an essay in which he claims that the condition of Jesus as described by the gospel writers fits the pattern of one suffering from a bruised heart muscle, he says. And he says when a person's heart muscle is bruised, then they lack energy. Their severe weakness. Breathing becomes labored And perhaps during the beatings, the many beatings that Jesus had received, this had taken place. But anyway, he was too weak, he couldn't carry the cross. Simon the Serenian was compelled to do it. He didn't just jump up and say, I'll do it No, Luke makes it very clear in verse 26. They laid hold upon him. This is compulsion. Roman soldiers made him do it. He didn't really have any choice at that point. And yet what begins as forced labor actually becomes a life-altering event. And by the way, from this event we have all evidence, not say all evidence, but a lot of evidence, to believe that Simon became a believer. Did you know that uh the early church remembers him This is why I think Luke mentions him by name here. It's not an accident that he'll mention this man by name. And the Gospel writers, other gospel writers also mention him For example, in the Gospel of Mark, chapter 15, verse 21, it says this: They compelled one Simon, a Cyrenian, the father of Alexander and Rufus. Well who's Alexander and Rufus? Well evidently the early church knew, the church in Rome knew, and they say this was Alexander and Rufus' father. He was the one that was compelled to carry the cross of Jesus Later on in Romans sixteen, verse thirteen, Paul says this salute Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine. Scholars believe this is the same Rufus Mark Mark refers to That's true. That means that people in Simon's household were saved. His wife was saved. His sons were saved. We have every reason to believe that he was converted. He became a believer. I believe that he was a believer, and I believe that he was somewhat a celebrity in the church. Guess who we're going to have preach for us this Sunday? Simon. The one who carried the cross for Jesus. I really believe he was well known. But this moment changed everything for Simon and his household. Everything. The cross interrupts ordinary life. No one who truly encounters the cross remains the same. And this certainly happened for Simon. Many can trace their conversion to a moment when they didn't plan on it. They just kind of stumbled into a sermon. Maybe you're here tonight by compulsion. Maybe you're here because someone dragged you here. You're not here on your own accord. Maybe someone's forcing you to come. That's not by your design. It's by this circumstance. But you didn't really come seeking the cross. But let me tell you this, the cross has come seeking you And it's no accident that you're here. I think about my father's salvation and how the Lord brought him here to grace, and he heard Pastor Johnson preach, and his whole life was changed by the gospel. And after that, he didn't give me a choice. It's not like, hey Jerry, would you like to go to church? Never said that. Never asked me if I'd like to go. He said, get ready, you're going. I was compelled. I was forced. But you know what? I'm glad he forced me. Because it brought me in contact with the gospel. And you see so really the the issue is You know, not how did you arrive here, but what will you do now that you're confronted with the cross? What will you do about that? That's really the issue. So we see the constrained crossbearer. But then number two, there's the compassionate women. In verses 27 down to verse 31, there's a group of women that follow. that Luke mentions here. It's no accident that Luke mentions women. He does that a lot in his gospels because they were kind of looked down upon in society. I know that's not We don't like to hear that today, but that's simply the way it was back then. And Luke focuses on women. They have a wonderful place in the gospel. And however, these women here are kind of unique. Look in verse 27. There followed him a great company of people and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him. This was a sympathetic group. These were really not disciples, but local women. They were devout women of Jerusalem that really there who regularly turned out to these executions and they would they would Weep for those who were being taken to the place of execution. Sometimes they would provide opiates and painkillers for those that were going through this terrible crucifixion. They were professional mourners, you might say. And they're called the daughters of Jerusalem. Maybe this was just a group that that was their label because they would come out and they would mourn over those that were going through this kind of suffering. They wept, they mourned, they were moved with sorrow, they were emotionally affected by the suffering of Christ, and yet Jesus turns to them. And uh he says something very interesting to them. Look at verse 28. But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. Why does Jesus say that? He sees their sympathy, but yet sympathy is not the same same as salvation. They felt deeply But they really didn't fully grasp and understand the magnitude of what was going on that day, what was taking place there at the cross. Their tears were not, as it were, tears of repentance over their own sin. They were weeping for Jesus, but really Jesus said, look, you need to weep for yourself. You need to make sure that you're right where you need to be. He doesn't really commend their mourning. Instead, he redirects it. And he speaks a message of judgment. Don't you realize that judgment is imminent? Judgment is going to come. And that's why he says that in verse twenty-nine, for behold the days are coming in which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bear, and the patch of which never gave suck And they shall begin to say to the mountains, fall upon us, and to the hills, cover us. For if they do these things on a green tree, what shall be done in the dry? And Jesus here is giving a serious warning about imminent judgment that's going to come upon a generation of people that did not believe in him. And this was, of course, he was talking about with 70 A. D. , that Jewish, what some call the first Jewish Holocaust, in which one million people were slaughtered, slaughtered by the Romans. It would get so bad that many would run to the mountains and say to the mountains, fall on us, hide us, cover us. This was wrath being poured out. On the city of Jerusalem. And Jesus gives a short parable here. Interesting to me. He gives one little parable on the way to the to the cross. And verse 31. For if they do these things in the green tree, what shall they what shall be done in the dry? In other words. It's much easier to burn dry wood than it is to burn a green tree. And in this parable, Jesus would represent the green tree. What he was saying is, if I'm going through judgment, If the Romans are judging me being a green tree, that is to say, innocent, if the wrath of God is going to fall on someone innocent, what's it going to be like for the dry wood? If the Romans are going to do this to me, what do you think they're going to do to you when the time of judgment comes? What do you think God's wrath is going to be like for you? When that time comes. When the day of judgment arrives, can any of you escape? Do you know it's it's possible to be emotionally moved by Christ and yet still be in danger yourself spiritually? You can be moved genuinely, emotionally, by all the suffering of Christ, and yet there not be true repentance there. There are many people that weep at funerals but never prepare for their own death. Many people feel deeply about Christ, but they never really surrender to Him. Tears aren't enough. Sentiment is not enough. The cross calls for more than just emotion. It calls for true repentance and faith. Then here's a third crowd crowd we could say. There's the constrained crossbearer, there's the compassionate women, but then number three, there's the cruel crowd. And we see this from verse 32 down to verse 38. And here we see the brutality of man at its worst. If you have any doubt about the doctrine of the depravity of man, it should be erased when you read all this. How they treated Jesus. And verse 32, it tells us, and there were also two other male factors, two thieves, led with him to be put to death. Jesus is being brought to the place of Calvary. Jesus along with two thieves. So picture in your mind. Here's Jesus. Here's Simon the Serenean bearing the cross. There are two thieves bearing their cross. There's a parade of mourners and the soldiers. Overseeing the crucifixion. And the Bible says there they crucified him in verse number 33. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him. Calvary is a Latin for the skull, the place of the skull, the hill upon which Jesus would die. And Luke simply says that's where they crucified him there. And Christ's suffering upon the cross was unspeakable. There's no way really to capture it. Being thrown down upon the wood, nails driven through his hands and through his feet. And then put up there on the cross. And really, in order to breathe, you would have to push up to gather air to even breathe. Breathing was a struggle in that position there on the cross. And he, but that's not just physical suffering that Jesus went through. The suffering that Jesus went through is unlike any suffering that anyone has ever suffered. He suffered physically, he suffered mentally, he suffered spiritually. He being infinite in a finite period of time suffered what we being finite would suffer in an infinite period of time. Had we died and gone to hell to pay for our own sins, all of the eternities were compressed upon Jesus. All the hells that all others would suffer were all compressed and distilled there upon Jesus on the cross. It's hard for us even to truly comprehend that. But we know this. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was delivered for our offenses. Christ died for our sins. He bore our sins in his own body on that tree. The just that's Jesus for the unjust, that's me. He who knew no sin became sin for us So what does Jesus do in response to being nailed to that cross? Look at verse 34. Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. This is the first of seven utterances that Jesus gives while on the cross. And again, a person on the cross would struggle to breathe, let alone talk. They would have to really exert themselves to say anything. Which is why, although Jesus was on the cross for six hours, there was only seven sayings that he really said. And this is the first one. It was a prayer of forgiveness. And in this he was fulfilling prophecy because the Bible says in Isaiah 53, 12, he made intercession for the transgressors. Jesus prayed for mercy for his tormentors because they truly didn't know the magnitude of the sin that they were committing. They were blind as to the full reality that they were crucifying the very Son of God. And how did they respond to that? Well they mocked him. The Bible says they cast lots for his garments. The Roman soldiers began to play a game You ever go to Capernaum, you'll see a synagogue there and there's etched on the floor little carvings, little drawings like board games. And this is what they would do. They would kind of draw things on the pavement and they would cast lots kind of like dice And they play the games, and they were casting lots for the garments of Jesus, and again, in doing this, they were fulfilling prophecy, because the Bible tells us in Psalm twenty-two, verse eighteen, They part my garments among them and cast lots upon my Vesture. So they mocked him. They ridiculed him. Verse 35 down to verse 37. And the people stood beholding, and the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others. Let him save himself if he be Christ the chosen of God. And the soldiers also mocked him Coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. The rulers mocked him, the soldiers mocked him If you're the Christ, save yourself. But they didn't understand his omission. He didn't come to save himself. He came to save to save them. And to save you. That's why he would not come down from that cross. And in all this mocking again, the scripture is fulfilled. Psalm 22, verse 7. They all all they that see me Laugh me to scorn, they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, He trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him. Let him deliver him, seeing he delighteth in him. And even the sign above the cross in verse 38 was meant to be derisive. Verse 38 says, and a superscription was also written over him in letters of Greek, Latin, and Hebrew. This is the king of the Jews. That was the work of Pilate who put it there really as an act of revenge upon the Jewish leaders that forced him to crucify Jesus, even though he didn't believe Jesus was guilty at all, he was innocent. The religious leaders didn't like the sign, they said, No, change it to he claimed to be the king of the Jews. And Pile said, What I wrote, I wrote. Not changing that That was his revenge on them. But what we see here is the human heart, left to itself, rejects and mocks the very Savior it needs. This is depravity on display. And mockery isn't always loud. Sometimes it's quiet indifference. Sometimes it's delay. Sometimes it's simply refusing to bow. But to ignore Christ is to stand with that crowd. But here's number four, the converted thief. From verse 39 down to verse 43, Luke draws attention to one of the two thieves. Now, both of these thieves, at one point, they were mocking Christ. Both of them were scoffing at him. At one point, however, one of them stopped. Look at verse 39, and one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself. Verse 40, but the other answers rebuked him, saying, Dost thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? You kind of get the idea that these two guys knew each other. That they were partners in crime. And again, Mark 15, 32 says they were both heaping insults on Christ, but one went from being a scoffer to a seeker real quick. Something happened. He saw something in Jesus that changed him. Maybe it was hearing him pray the prayer, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. But his eyes were open to see who Jesus was. This is the evidence that God is working in someone's heart. They they they change. They see Christ differently They see him not as just a man. This this thief suddenly has an awareness of God. He talks about, don't you fear God? There's a heightened awareness of God. He knew that Christ wasn't just an ordinary man. And so it leads him to pray just an incredible prayer. But before that, notice what he says. In verse 41, and we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing amiss. This is another evidence of God's working in your heart when you see yourself as a sinner deserving what you get We are suffering justly. This man has done nothing. We deserve what we're getting. He realized he was a sinner. You see, when God opens your eyes and mind to see that we are sinful creatures, we're sinners, that's a work of the Holy Spirit of God. You know why? Because the Holy Spirit convicts us of sin. and of righteousness, that is to say, the lack of righteousness and of judgment, that there is a judgment to come. That's what this thief is doing right here. He's convicted of his own sin. You know, the human heart wants to boast and brag and present ourselves in the best way possible. It's only the work of God when that veil of self-righteousness is ripped away and we see ourselves for sinners just as we are. That's the work of God. And this this man, he sees that. And then he knows Jesus is sinless in verse 41. Again, this man has done nothing amiss. He was Pure and holy the Lamb without blemish or spot. And he knows he's Lord. Look at verse forty-two. And he said unto Jesus, Lord Remember me, Lord. I love that. Lord means master. If you call yourself, if you call someone master, that makes you the servant. He recognizes that Jesus is the master. And he knew Jesus had the power to forgive sin. Why? In verse 42, he says, Remember me. What was he asking for there? He's asking for forgiveness. In other words, forgive me, give me eternal life. Who has the power to forgive like that? Only God. Suddenly this man realizes this he's God. He's Lord. He's God. He's King. Remember me, when thou comest into thy kingdom, if you have a kingdom, that makes you a what? Makes you a king. That now he knows Jesus is king and that he's over a kingdom. And obviously, this is not a physical kingdom, it's a spiritual kingdom. That he's over. So he sees that. He receives Jesus as the king, and he knows that Jesus is going to have power over death and rise from the dead. You say, why? Well, why would you ask anything of someone that was going to die and stay dead? He understands that he will have power over death, and he has the authority to determine where he will spend eternity. That's God. That's Lord. That's King. And I tell you here tonight, beloved, Jesus Christ has the authority and the power to determine where you will spend eternity. That's his call. That's his call. And notice we see real faith from this thief. He didn't say, if you come into your kingdom, and I'm just making sure, you know, if you really happen to be, no. When You come into your kingdom. Real faith doesn't say if it says when. He knew Jesus was absolutely sovereign. He had absolute authority. He held the keys to heaven and hell. And he had the power to receive sinners. You see, the question is not, will you receive Jesus? The question is, will Jesus receive you? And he receives those who are genuinely repentant, who have faith in him. That is all in his hands. And I love how Jesus responds. He gives them assurance. This is great in verse 43. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. Wow. Truly, verily, that's emphasis. Talk about assurance of salvation. No one ever had any better assurance of salvation than that guy right there at that time. When Jesus says you're coming to heaven with me, guess what? You're coming. Today you're going to be with me in paradise. The bad news is you're going to die today, but the good news is you're going to be in paradise with me. You're going to be with me. Even at the edge of death, grace is still saving sinners. This man had no good works. He had no religious record He had no time to reform his life, didn't have time to get baptized or to do any of those other things that other people say you have to do in order to be saved. All he could do is look to Christ. In faith. That's all you could do. And Jesus says, that's enough. The cross is not a place where good people are rewarded. It's a place where guilty sinners are forgiven. But then we see number five, the commending Father. And in verse 44 down to verse 49, this is really the focus is now on the comment of God the Father. You say, wait a minute, God didn't speak here. No, he didn't. At the baptism of Jesus, we heard a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. At the cross we hear no voice, but that doesn't mean the Father doesn't speak. He speaks. But he speaks through signs. And look at verse number 44. And it was about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. Sixth hour, that's 12 o'clock noon. Until the ninth hour, that's three o'clock in the afternoon. So what happens? Jesus was on the cross for two three-hour periods from nine to twelve and then from twelve to three. And at twelve o'clock noon while Jesus was on the cross, the Bible says it got totally dark. To where the people that were standing there mocking Jesus at the foot of the cross couldn't see their own hand in front of their face. You you think that got their attention? For three hours. Luke uses the Greek word uh eclipto, which is where we get the word eclipse. The sun failed God turned off the lights. This is one of the most astounding miracles in Scripture. And it lasted for three hours. This wasn't just local. This was universal. What would happen if at twelve noon tomorrow it got dark as midnight and it would lasted for three hours? According to some of the church fathers, the supernatural darkness was something that was noticed throughout the whole world. And apologists like Tertillian used this as a defense of Christianity. He wrote, At the moment of Christ's death, the light departed from the sun, and the land was darkened at the moment that he died. And so this was something that was known. And this was God the Father Saying to everyone there in Jerusalem and all everywhere else, something special is happening right now. My son is dying for your sins. In the Old Testament, darkness spoke of judgment. Sin was being judged there on the cross. When the high priest would enter into the Holy of Holies once a year. It was in darkness where the blood was sprinkled on the mercy seat, and the Calvary was the mercy seat where the blood was sprinkled. There on the cross. Jesus was the great high priest shedding his own blood there. And what does the Bible also say in verse number 45? The sun was darkened and the veil of the temple was rent. in the midst. At that very moment, the huge temple which separated the holy place from the Holy of Holies, and the word for temple was naos. That's how we know it was the temple or the the veil that stood right before the Holy of Holies. It was rent from top to bottom. And that again was God the Father speaking there loudly. The darkness speaks of judgment, the torn veil speaks of access. And what does it mean? It means the Father receives the Son's sacrifice, that everything that Jesus did on the cross was pleasing to the Father. This is God the Father saying, This is my Son in whom I am well pleased. I'm pleased with this sacrifice. This is not defeat. This is divine approval. And so The sacrifice is accepted. Now we have access to a holy God. The old covenant was over. The system of external sacrifices is ended. Christ is the fulfillment of those shadows. But let me give you a another one real quickly here. The confessing centurion. Look at verse number 47. Another character that Luke points to around the cross. Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. And here we have a Roman soldier, a hardened executioner, a man who has seen countless deaths. Yet at this moment this death is different. There's something about Christ that breaks through his hardness at that moment. And Luke focuses on this confession. Why? Again, it's part of his purpose in his gospel to show the universal scope of the gospel and salvation. That is part of his purpose. That's been clear from the beginning. The angel announces good tidings which shall be to all people. Simeon, after the birth of Christ, says he will be a light unto all, to lighten the Gentiles, even Luke points all that out. And now this is in keeping with what Luke has been trying to see. Here's a Gentile who recognizes what many Jews missed The Jewish leaders, they were mocking Christ, but a Gentile soldier sees clearly who Jesus was. The cross has the power to awaken even the most hardened of hearts. That's what we see here. The same cross that saves a dying thief can soften a hardened soldier. And Luke also emphasizes the innocence and righteousness of Christ when he says the centurion said, certainly this was a righteous Man. Luke had already emphasized the innocence of Christ throughout the Passion narrative. Pontius Pilate several times said, I find no fault in him. Herod Antipas found nothing worthy of death. The thief on the cross said he's done nothing amiss, and now here the Roman centurion said this was a righteous man. And Luke wants us to see that Jesus is the innocent, righteous Savior who suffered unjustly, but he suffered for your sins and mine. We being the sinners. And he's showing us here really the right response to the cross, to recognize the righteousness of Christ, to acknowledge who he is. to understand he is the only savior and to flee to him for salvation. The centurion becomes really an unexpected model of responding to the cross. But then let me give you the last one and we're done. We saw the constrained crossbearer, the compassionate woman women, the cruel crowd, converted thief, commending father, confessing centurion, but number seven, the courageous disciple. And we'll just take a minute to wrap up with Joseph of Arimathea. Because look at verse number 15. Behold there was a man named Joseph, a counselor, and he was a good man and a just. The same had not consented to the counsel indeed of them. He was of Arimathea, city of the Jews, who also himself waited for the kingdom of God, and this man went unto Pilate and begged for the body of Jesus. And he took it down and wrapped it in linen, and he laid it in a sepulchre that it was hewed in stone, wherein never a man before was laid. Just out of nowhere comes this man by the name of Joseph of Arimathea. And it's really interesting because the Bible says he's a member of the council. What's that? That's a Sanhedrin This is the the Jewish Supreme Court. Jesus stood before them during the trial. Seventy-one of them. At least we know one of them there that wasn't on board. He was a secret disciple. He didn't consent to their decision. He was someone waiting for the kingdom of God. And he saw in Jesus someone who really was the Son of God. He's kind of like Nicodemus who came to Jesus by night. Said, Master, we know that you're a man come from God. Nobody can do the things that you do unless God's with them. And Joseph of Arimathea, he's the same way. He's been hidden. He's had faith in Christ. He's been a secret disciple, but now he can remain secret no longer. When Christ dies, Joseph steps forward. And I don't have time to put together the chronology, but as the Sanhedrin went to Pilate begging for a guard to be set at the tomb of Jesus. As they're walking out, Joseph of Ara Joseph of Arimathea, excuse me, is walking in to see Pilate to To ask him, would you please release the body to me? That took a courageous thing to do. He had to go against all of his peers who were wondering, what's he doing? Why is he there? They had already they had already probably asked Pilate, you know, please take the sign off the cross that says King of the Jews, would you please put claim to be king of the Jews? And he said, No, I'm not going to do that. But here's Joseph of Arimathea walking in courageously saying, Can I have the body of Jesus? And he will take the body of Jesus off the cross. And he will wash and cleanse that body, and he will place it into his own tomb that had never been used before. That speaks of sacred use. And in doing this he probably doesn't realize it, but he's fulfilling Old Testament scripture because the Bible says Jesus would be uh he would be taken with the transgressors and the wicked in his death, Isaiah 53 And the rich in his death, I should say, Isaiah 53. So here's a rich man that comes forward, gives Jesus his tomb. The cross brings hidden faith to open. You can't stay hidden if you think about what Jesus did on the cross. You're not going to be able to stay hidden. There are moments when silence is no longer an option. And the cross of Christ demands identification. It demands it. Are you a secret disciple? Content to believe but not stand? There comes a point when real faith has to be visible And you have to be known. And Joseph shows us that true faith will eventually step forward. And he does that. But Luke shows us all these people around the cross. And really, it's designed to make us think, where are we? Where are we in this crowd? How are we represented by this group of people? Which one do we identify with? The mocking, the rejecting, the thief who believed and was saved? The centurion who confesses truth, Joseph who steps out in faith. What about the women who are just sympathetic to the suffering of Jesus, but there's no real genuine repentance? Where are you? The great Dutch artist Rembrandt painted a picture of the cross of Christ, and in that picture there's various people around the cross that he painted, and there's a And when you look at the picture, you're immediately drawn to the cross, but then as you look at it and study it, you see the different people around the cross, and you see one little figure there in the shadows, and you wonder who that is, and that's Rembrandt himself He painted himself into the picture. And that was kind of symbolic. You know what? You just need to paint yourself into the picture. And you just need to ask, where am I? What does the cross mean to me? Because everyone has got to respond somehow to the cross. What is your response? Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want you to take a moment and Pray to the Lord yourself right there where you are. Paint yourself into the cross. Where are you with respect to what took place at the cross at Calvary? Where are you? What are you? Who do you identify with? What is your response to the cross of Christ? And as you're doing that, our men are going to come forward, we're going to have our time of communion together