Amen. Thank you so much. Would you take God's word this morning open, please, to the book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 1. 2 Corinthians chapter 1, and I want us to look at verse 12 on down a few verses. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word today? 2 Corinthians chapter 12, and we'll look at verse Excuse me, chapter 1, excuse me, and then we'll look at verse 12. For our rejoicing is this. The testimony of our conscience that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in the world, and more abundantly toward uh to you word For we write none other things unto you than what ye read or acknowledge, and I trust ye shall acknowledge even to the end. As also ye have acknowledged us in part that we are your rejoicing even as ye also are ours in the day. of the Lord Jesus. And in this confidence I was minded to come unto you before that you might have a second benefit, and to pass by you into Macedonia, and to come again out of Macedonia unto you and of you to be brought on my way towards Judea. When I therefore was thus minded did I use lightness, or the things that I purpose do I purpose according to the flesh, that with me there should be yea, yea, and nay, nay But as God is true, our word towards you was not yea and nay. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our hearts today. And let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the joy that we have to dig into it and to study it. Lord, help me. uh in my limited abilities and gifts to make your powerful, unlimited word clear. May it run swiftly in hearts and minds. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So I want to ask you a question this morning. I don't want you to answer it out loud, but just answer it in your heart. Um do you ever get mad at the pastor or the preacher? Well, you know, some people do. It's understandable because from time to time as pastors or preachers may do things that disappoint people. After all, preachers are human. We're not perfect. We make mistakes too. When the Apostle Paul is writing 2 Corinthians, you have to remember the context that the Corinthians are mad at Paul. They're mad at him. You say, how in the world can anybody be mad at the Apostle Paul? Well, he disappointed them He told him he was going to do something and then he didn't pull through. He didn't do it. And so as he writes this, they are mad at Paul. You have to understand that context. He promised to visit them. And then he didn't visit. He changed his mind. He changed his plan. Well, let me give you the context. You know, Paul started the church at Corinth and Soon after he left the church after having started it, he heard some troubling news. And so he he responded by writing a letter. This is not that's not first Corinthians. You know, Paul wrote four letters to the Corinthians. The first letter is not first Corinthians. We'll call it letter A. We don't have that letter now. It's a non-canonical letter. It wasn't inspired scripture or we would have it. But in that letter he kind of tried to deal with some of the problems and confront some of the issues. And uh it really didn't it didn't help much. They they in response wrote a letter back to Paul. They had a lot of questions. So in response to their letter, and still trying to deal with some of the problems, Paul wrote 1 Corinthians Well, that still didn't take care of all the issues. So Paul made what he called a painful visit. He visited the ch uh the Corinthians. It didn't really go well. There were some people there that made some accusations against Paul. It was harsh. And so he left having been having his heart broken. And later on he writes what is called a severe letter. We can call this uh letter C. Uh again, we don't have this letter, but in that letter he strongly rebukes the people at the church at Corinth and uh says that in that letter he's going to uh make a visit. He's going to come and and see them. But uh th things didn't happen the way Paul uh thought they would. And he had to change his plans Now when he did that, when he didn't do what he said he was going to do, there were some in the church that took an opportunity to attack Paul over that. They said, You see there, he's a hypocrite. He doesn't mean what he says. This is proof that Paul is not really an apostle, that he's a deceiver. In fact, there were false apostles in the church of Corinth that were turning some of the people against Paul. And this was really a source of distress for him. I mean, this really was a burden for him. And so now Paul writes uh in this letter of 2 Corinthians, he gives them the reasons why that he could not do what he originally planned to do. And in fact, much of Second Corinthians is Paul defending himself against the accusations that people made against him And what does Paul do here as he's answering a lot of these accusations is he simply responds by appealing to his conscience. Look at verse number twelve. For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience Paul says, look, you might accuse me of some things, but my conscience doesn't accuse me. My conscience is at rest. That's his whole defense. His whole defense is, look, I have a clean conscience. I have a healthy conscience. And in doing this, Paul is going to teach us some very important lessons about having a clean and a healthy conscience. Now, to be clear, what is the conscience? We talk about the conscience, what is it? The conscience, we could say, is that internal warning system that God puts in all of us? Everyone has a conscience God put it there. It all started right after Adam's sin in the garden. Adam felt something that he never felt before. It's called guilt. God had given man a conscience as a way to keep man from living out the full measure of his depravity now that he sinned against God. The Bible calls it inner light in Proverbs 20 verse 27. The spirit of man is the lamp of the Lord searching all his innermost parts. It's like this inward light, this inward lamp that God has put in every person. I like to use the metaphor of a traffic light. It's kind of like an inward traffic light. You know, sometimes it flashes red when we're not doing the right thing. It'll tell us stop doing that. It'll accuse us. Sometimes it flashes green. Sometimes it will excuse us. It will affirm what we're doing. The Apostle Paul said in Romans 9. 1, I speak the truth in Christ, I'm not lying. My conscience bears me witness. My conscience is flashing green. It's telling me that I'm not doing anything wrong here. I'm telling you the truth. Sometimes it flashes yellow. It tells us be careful, be cautious for what you're about to do. You're on a dangerous path here. You need to be careful. I like the uh the image that the Puritan Richard Sibbs gives to the conscience. He calls it the courtroom of our soul. Inside there's a courtroom. He wrote this to clear this further concerning the nature of the conscience. Know that God has set up in a man a court, and there is in man all that are in a court. Now you know that in a courtroom there are several members of a courtroom. There's the registrar who records what is done. There is the accuser who lodges the complaint. There's the witness who witnesses for us or against us. There is the judge. who uh calls us guilty or not guilty. And then there's the executioner who punishes us after we've been found guilty. You say, well which member of the court is the conscience? According to Richard Sibbs, the conscience assumes every role The conscience does all of that. The conscience is the registrar. The conscience records what is done. You can hide things from others, but you can't hide things from your conscience. The conscience is the witness. The conscience will bear witness against you or bear witness for you. The conscience is the judge. That will declare you guilty or not guilty. The conscience is the executioner. If you're guilty, the conscience itself will do the whipping. The conscience will torment you and will not let you rest. And so Richard Sibbs wrote, Upon accusation and judgment, there is punishment. The first punishment is within a man always Before we come to hell. The punishment of the conscience is a prejudice or a prejudgment, we could say, of future judgment. It will torment your soul. So that's why it's important for believers always to keep a clean and healthy conscience. In fact, the Apostle Paul refers to this a lot. He uses the word conscience twenty-three times in his New Testament letters. He emphasizes the importance of keeping a clean conscience. In Acts 24, 6 he said this. And herein do I exercise myself to have always a conscience void of offense towards God and towards man. Paul said, I always operate in my life to make sure that I have a clean conscience before God and before others. Void of offense. You see, when a person has a healthy conscience, then they have integrity. So what I want us to see here, what we're going to learn here, are seven blessings of a healthy conscience. that we learn as Paul is giving his defense to the Corinthians that are accusing him of wrongdoing, Paul's going to say, no, my conscience bears witness. And we get here seven blessings of a healthy conscience. Here's the first one. Number one, you're going to have joy. Look again at verse 12. For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience. In the midst of the accusations that they were hurling against Paul, he still had an inward joy that upheld him. It was a joy that came from knowing that his conscience bore witness with him, that he didn't do anything wrong. It excused him. You know what happens at salvation? At salvation, the Bible says that our conscience is cleansed, and the result of that is joy. You know, as an unbeliever, We had an accusing conscience. We had all kind of guilt. We had all kind of shame, all kinds of self-contempt. We threw the conscience threw that upon us because of all the sins that were multiplied against us before we knew the Lord Jesus That's why you see so many people that don't know the Lord and they're overwhelmed with a guilty conscience, they're miserable. And they try to do something with their guilt. They go to man's wisdom to try to deal with the guilt, but man's wisdom has no answer for your guilt. Only God can take care of that. Man's wisdom can't do it. There's all kind of clever ideas out there But you know what happens? It's salvation? It's salvation when you come to the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen to Hebrews 9. 14. The blood of Christ cleanse your conscience. And all of the sins are forgiven, your conscience is cleansed and made new, and as a result, all the shame, all the guilt, it's all gone, and you know what happens? There's a new joy there There's a joy, you have that sense of forgiveness. You ever see a person who's newly saved and their sins are forgiven and they know it, there's such a joy. There's such a freedom. Why? Because the burden of sin is rolled off, and the guilt with it And now you know what you do now as a new believer, as a Christian? Now you work to keep that conscience pure. You keep it clean. You don't allow sin to accumulate there again. That's why the Bible says in Proverbs 423, keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. He's talking about the conscience there. Keep it with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Paul said in Acts 23:1, when he was before the Sanhedrin, I have lived my life with a perfectly good conscience before God up to this day. He said to Timothy in 2 Timothy 1 3, I thank my God, whom I serve with a clear conscience. Here's blessing number two you'll have a joyful heart, but number two, you'll have boldness and confidence towards others. Look again in verse twelve. For our rejoicing is this that in a testimony of our conscience that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom But by the grace of God we have had our conversation in the world and more abundantly towards you. When Paul says simplicity and godly sincerity, simplicity means holiness. Sincerity comes from two words elie, sunlight, crino de judge It's pictures holding something up to the light to see and to and to to examine it. You know, sometimes potters they would fill uh vessels that had cracks in it with wax and then they would hold it up to the light to see if there were any more cracks in it. That's the idea with the word here. It means close scrutiny. Paul says, look, you can look at my life. You can scrutinize me. Remember when I was with you. Evaluate me. My life had nothing that would cause any kind of accusation towards me. I have confidence That my conversation in the world, that's those who don't know Christ, and more abundantly towards you, no one can bring against me a judgment that is legitimate. I've lived a life void of offense. That's what he's saying there. You can't bring anything against me. You see, when you have a clear conscience, you know what it gives you? It gives you boldness. Gives you confidence. The Bible says the wicked flee when no man pursues, but the righteous are what? As bold as lions. When you have a healthy, clean conscience, you have confidence. Even though others may bring accusations against you Paul said, you know, there's nothing there. I haven't conducted my life with fleshly wisdom But by the grace of God, I didn't use a subtle trick or try to deceive anyone. My conduct was consistent with someone you would expect Look at verse thirteen. For we write none other things unto you than what ye read or acknowledge, and I trust ye acknowledge even to the end. Paul said, Look, when I wrote to you in a letter It was it was not double talk. I didn't have any hidden meaning in the letter. I didn't use trickery. Our letters don't have double meaning What you read in the letter, what I said is exactly what I intended. I didn't speak out of both sides of my mouth. And Paul clearly states his intentions when he wrote. And so Paul was bold because his conscience was clean. You see, when you have a healthy conscience, you'll have a joyful heart. You'll have boldness and confidence towards others. But here's the third blessing. You'll always be ready to stand before the Lord Jesus. Look at verse fourteen. As also ye have acknowledged us in part that we are your rejoicing even as ye also are in the day of the Lord. When Paul says the day of the Lord there He's talking about the time when we will meet the Lord face to face. You understand that all you are going to stand before God one day and me too It could be a death, or it could be when the Lord Jesus comes, the day of the Lord, when the Lord comes. And we need to live a life so that when that day comes, when we stand before the Lord, there's nothing that we are ashamed of. There's nothing for which we have to be in shame. And Paul said, look, I'm looking forward to the day of the Lord. I'm hoping that at that time you will be proud of me. That's what he means there in verse 14 as you acknowledge us in part that We are your rejoicing that you'll rejoice in the way that I've conducted my life towards you. And I'll be able to feel the same way about you. I will be Proud of you in that time when we all stand before the day of the Lord. In other words, Paul was ready at that very moment to stand before Jesus face to face for what he had done. There was nothing that he did for which he would be ashamed. Paul said, I'm now right now, this very minute, ready to stand before the Lord. With my life and what I've done. There's no hidden shame. There's no hidden agenda in my life. You'll have a joyful heart. You'll have confidence towards others. You'll be ready to stand before the Lord Jesus. But here's the fourth thing You'll be controlled by the will of God, not the fear of man. Look at verse fifteen. And in this confidence I was minded to come unto you before that you might have a second benefit. And to pass by you into Macedonia, and to come again out of Macedonia unto you, and of you, to be brought on my way towards Judea. So when Paul made his original plans, he was very sincere. He said, look, this is what I had planned to do. In fact, Paul had plan A. In fact, you want to see plan A. Go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 16. Look at verse number 5. Just flip back one page. You should be. 1 Corinthians 16. Look down at verse number 5. Because he says in that letter what he planned to do, look at verse five. Now I will call unto you when I shall pass through Macedonia, for I do pass through Macedonia. And it may be that I will abide yea in winter with you, that you may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go. Paul says, You know, I want to go, I want to visit you, I want to spend the winter with you, this is my plan But look at the next verse, look at verse seven. For I will not see you now by way, but I trust to tarry awhile with you. Notice that next phrase. If the Lord what? If the Lord permits. If God allows this, but I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost for a great door and effectual is open unto me. This was his original plan. He was going to pass through Macedonia, he was going to stop at Corinth, he was going to stay there a while That was his plan. But notice how he ends it. He says, if the Lord permits, if God wants this. And if Paul wasn't able to do that, but he had plan B. You say, what was plan B? Well we read of that in the verses 14 and 15. Paul planned now to make two visits to Corinth, one on his way into Macedonia, the other on his way out. But even plan B had to be scrapped. He couldn't do either of them. He couldn't do plan A, he couldn't do plan B But you know what? Here's the thing about Paul. He was absolutely submitted to the sovereign will of God. How many of you know that we can plan things and they don't always work out the way we intend? We can say, you know, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this. And you know what? It doesn't happen. You know why? Because man can plan, but God is the one who directs our steps. That's why James said in James 4. 15, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we'll do this or we'll do that. We ought to always be submitted to the sovereign will of God. Even when we make a plan, we should say, okay, God, here's my plan. I'm going to do this only if you will. Only if you will allow me. That's submission to The sovereign will of God. By the way, we see that all through the New Testament. Paul said that all the time. He told the Jews of Ephesus he would return for renewed ministry with them if God wills, Acts 18, 21 He again said to the Corinthians, look in 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse number 19, we see the same thing. He said, But I will come to you shortly if the Lord will. And we'll know not the speech of them that are puffed up, but the power. Paul said, you know, I'm going to come if God wills it. Paul used this expression when he made plans because he understood more than anyone that God can sovereignly change what We plan to do whenever he wants. And Paul was always willing to change his plans to do what God providentially leads him to do. He was more concerned about doing the will of God than offending other people That's what a person with a healthy conscience is going to live like. They're going to be completely committed to pleasing God. And to submitting to God's plans, not the plan of others. So this teaches us that we need to be aware of our own uh finiteness and be dependent upon God and seek His will, even in everything that we plan. We should say, if the Lord wills, I'll do it. And so we know that God is in control. The Bible says a man's heart devises his way, but the Lord directs his steps. And so Paul was controlled by the will of God, not the fear of man. He wasn't afraid of man or doing things for Man, but always the will of God. So if you have a healthy conscience, you'll have a joyful heart. You'll have boldness towards others. You'll be ready to stand before the Lord You'll be controlled by the will of God, not the fear of man. But here's number five, you'll speak the truth without wavering. Look at verse 17. When I therefore was thus minded, did I use lightness? Paul said, you know, when I made these plans, do you think that I was doing this frivolously or carelessly? Or do you think I was planning this, not really ever intending to do it? And the Greek expression is a rhetorical question. It calls for a negative response. The response is of course not Of course you were serious, Paul. Of course you didn't use lightness. Paul said, Was I dishonest? Do I purpose according to the flesh? He said in verse 17. Paul said, I didn't plan this purely for self- Selfish reasons. I wasn't being self-centered. I wasn't trying to please my own flesh or my own self when I made these plans. Look in verse 17 again. He says, Do I purpose according to the flesh that with me there should be yay, yay, and nay, nay? I didn't say yes, yes, and then no, no at the same time. I didn't speak out of both sides of my mouth when I made these plans. I don't do that. But look at verse 18. But as God is true, our word towards you is not yea and nay. And here Paul calls upon God to be his witness. Paul said, you know, as God is true, he may be taking an oath here, as God is true, our word to you was not yes and no. I didn't vacillate, I didn't say one thing and mean another That's not what I did. God knows that. There's no duplicity with Paul. Paul's point is that God is truthful, and as God's representative, Paul said, I'm also truthful. That's what I need to be as a messenger of the Lord. And to show another proof, look at verse 19. For the Son of God, Jesus, who was preached among you by us, even by me and Sylvanus and Timotheus, was not yea and nay, but in him was yea. This is another proof of Paul's truthfulness. Paul said, remember how I preached Christ to you? When I preached Christ to you, did I waver any? Did I make Christ clear? Was I saying one thing one time about him and then another thing at another time? And by the way, some feel that some false teachers were accusing Paul of not preaching Christ trustworthy in a trustworthy way. And Paul said, look, when I preached Christ to you, I was unwavering. Do you do you do I speak like a man who doesn't have conviction? You is that the way I come across you When I preached Christ to you, Paul said, I preached it firmly, I preached it faithfully, I preached it forcefully. There was no yay and nay when I preached Christ. You know, Paul wasn't like a lot of preachers today who say, well, I just don't know I'm not sure. You know, is Jesus the only way? Well, I really don't know. I don't want to make anybody feel bad. I don't want to offend anybody. That's not the way Paul was. When he came to Jesus and the gospel, Paul was bulldogmatic. He was clear. He didn't waver. And so Paul says, remember the way I preach Christ. Look at verse 20. Why was he so dogmatic with Christ? Why was he so clear? Look at verse 20: for all the promises of God in him are yea And in him, amen unto the glory of God by us. Because Christ's promises are all yes. That's why. God never vacillates in the promises that he makes to us in Christ. They're always yes. They're always amen. All of God's great covenant promises throughout biblical history are all fulfilled in Christ, who is the yes and the amen of Almighty God. That's what he's saying. Paul's saying, my preaching of Christ is a token of how I speak. I speak firmly, I speak clearly, I don't say one thing and mean another. I preach Christ that way, and I speak truth that way. But here's the sixth thing. If you have a healthy conscience, you'll have a heart a joyful heart. You'll have boldness and confidence towards others. You'll always be ready to stand before Jesus. Be controlled by the will of God, not the fear of man. You'll speak the truth without wavering. Number six, you will not hinder the sanctifying work of God in your life. Look in verse number twenty-one Now he which establishes us with you in Christ and hath anointed us is God, whom has also sealed us and given us the innerness of the Spirit in our hearts. Paul's next argument as to his integrity is the work of salvation that God was doing in Paul's heart. Paul was a man of integrity, but his ultimate claim to integrity was the sanctification that God was doing in him personally. And Paul is basically saying, you know, God is doing this work in me. And by the way, He's also doing it in you. If you're here today and you're truly saved, God is working sanctification in you. He's not leaving you in one spot spiritually. He's bringing you along. He's making you more like Christ. Sanctification is the process whereby God makes us more like Christ. and less like the world. And there are four verbs that Paul uses here. He establishes us, that's salvation. He places us in Christ. He makes us one with Christ in verse 21 and anointed us. This is in relation to the Holy Spirit. He gives us the Holy Spirit so that we can serve God, and this Holy Spirit seals us in verse number. Twenty-one who has also sealed us, and verse twenty-two, excuse me, and given the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts That is a down payment. That's the guarantee of the believers' eternal inheritance and glory. You know why I know that I'm going to heaven? I'm never going to lose my salvation? Because I have the Holy Spirit. And that's God's down payment on my salvation. That's the earnest of the Spirit. Now in short, what Paul is saying is The Holy Spirit is working in us and conforming us and doing all these things, but he is working through the conscience to do it This is why it's important for a believer to always maintain a good, healthy conscience. Why? Because the Holy Spirit uses the conscience to do that work of sanctification. And if you don't keep a healthy conscience Then you're hindering the work, the sanctifying work of the Spirit. And that's why the Bible teaches us that we should strive for a clean conscience. Never disobey your conscience. Always try to keep that conscience healthy and clean. In 1 Timothy 1:5, now the end of the commandment is charity of a pure heart. and a good conscience and a faith unsained. That is, that's God's goal for us, that we grow in love and pure heart and a good conscience and true Faith, not a hypocritical faith, not faith that's hypocritical, but a unfeigned faith, a real sincere faith. Paul said in 1 Timothy 3 9, holding the mystery of faith in a pure conscience. By the way, it's necessary as a qualification for leadership in a church that you have a pure conscience. A healthy conscience is invaluable to our growth in the Lord Jesus. But here's number seven, the last one. You'll have a joyful heart. You'll have confidence towards others. You'll be ready to stand before the Lord. You'll be controlled by the will of God, not the fear of men. You'll speak. Truth without wavering, you will not hinder the sanctifying work of the Spirit. But here's the last one. When you have a healthy conscience, you will have a loving sensitivity towards other believers. Look what Paul said in verse 23. Moreover, I call God for a record upon my soul that to spare you I came not as yet unto Corinth. Paul again is calling upon God to be his witness. Again, he kind of takes an oath. The Bible doesn't forbid Christians to take an oath. Sometimes it's necessary. We should always speak truth. It shouldn't be necessary for a Christian to have to take an oath, but sometimes we're called upon to do that. Jesus was called upon to take an oath during his trial with the Sanhedrin And he allowed himself to be placed under an oath. And here in Paul, to show them the sincerity of his heart, takes an oath before God. He says, Moreover, I call God for a record upon my soul Here is the reason I didn't come. Here's the reason I changed plan B. Plan A didn't work out. I changed plan B. Let me tell you why I did it. To spare you. I came not as yet on the current. Paul said, I wanted to give you a break. Paul said, I didn't, you know, he could have gone to them, he could have confronted them, he could have rebuked them more as an apostle. But Paul said, I didn't feel like that was the time to do that. He didn't want another confrontation. He felt like he had already done enough. And he needed to give God time to work in their heart. And so Paul was sensitive towards the Corinthians. He loved them and he wanted what was best for them. And he would rather err on the side of patience and allow God to work. And by the way, time showed that that was wise because in 2 Corinthians, as we study it, we'll find out that Paul later met up with Titus in Macedonia and Titus gives the report to Paul that the Corinthians had repented. And things were going to be okay. They had repented. And so Paul did the right thing here. But out of all of these things, what we learn are lessons from Paul to keep a clean and a healthy conscience before God and before others. Now, just in closing, we just have a few minutes. I want to just real quickly give you some suggestions. You say, how do I How do I keep a healthy conscience? Let me just give you a few things that I think you need to do as a believer to do that. Here's number one, learn God's word. Simply learn the word of God. You know, your conscience has to be educated. You have to learn what Scripture says. You know, your conscience can at times accuse you wrongly. A judge can only make a right verdict if he has the right information. So you have to educate your conscience. You have to educate it with the Word of God. Study the Word of God. Meditate. Read on the Scripture. And number two, don't underestimate the seriousness of sin. This is the primary reason most people tolerate sin in their life. They don't see how terrible, how destructive sin is in their life. The Puritan Jeremiah Burroughs said the smallest sin contains more evil than all the torments of hell. We need to see it as serious. Don't play with it. Sin violates God's holiness. It brings discipline. It destroys our joy. It causes death. Number three, purpose not to sin. Purpose not to sin. Psalmists expressed this in Psalm 119, verse 106. I have sworn and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments. He had this holy determination. to do what God said and to not sin. Until you make that kind of conscious commitment, you're going to kind of do battle with the same things over and over again in your life. Determined not to. And number four, instantly confess and repent of any sin. When you do fail, and we will at times Then instantly confess that. Instantly repent before God. And by the way, confess it out loud. Let yourself hear you, let your ears hear you say it God, I've done this. I've sinned. This is what I did. It's evil. It's wicked. Please, Lord, forgive me. Give me a whole resolve. Give me victory over this. I forsake it. I walk away from it. Name it before God. The Bible says if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us. And then here finally, be a part of a church where other believers hold you accountable. You know, beloved, we all struggle with the same temptations and sins. All of us. We all struggle. We need to encourage one another. That's what Paul meant in Galatians when he said, bear one another's burdens. And so fulfill the law of Christ. We need each other. We need to encourage each other. We need to provoke one another to good works. That's why you come to God's house. That's why you come to church. That's why you're here in person, because you encourage other believers. You provoke one another under goodness And if there's a believer that you can trust, that you can be your accountability partner that can help you, that will pray with you and help you, then this is where you find them, right here in the house of God. Believers that love one another. We stimulate one another to good works. This is a very important reason the church was instituted. We are to hold one another accountable. And we lovingly pursue those who may be struggling. We want to bring them back with love and see them grow in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, all this to say we need to be diligent to keep our conscience clean, to keep it healthy, because it aids us in our spiritual growth. So let me ask you, how are you? How's your conscience? Is it guilty? Is it weak? Does it need to be educated in the Word of God? Is it wounded? Is there some sin that you have not dealt with and your conscience is telling you? To deal with it, to to take care of it? Is there some matter unresolved? Something you need to make restitution for? Whatever it is, listen, obey the voice Of that conscience that's under the control of the Holy Spirit and educated by the Word of God. Keep it healthy, keep it clean. And if you're here today and you feel the weight of sin because you've never been to the cross, Let me tell you this, when you come to Jesus Christ, the weight of sin that you bear, it'll fall away at the cross. When you put all of your faith in what Jesus Christ did for you there at Calvary, let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your word that is so very clear. For our hearts. I pray, Lord, for these your precious saints. It may be that there are some here that are carrying the weight of sin, their burden down. I pray that today they will hear the words of the Savior where Jesus said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden. Heavy laden with sin, the guilt of sin. Jesus said, Come unto me and I will give you rest. The rest that Jesus was talking about. Father, we thank you for that rest that we find in salvation when we come to the cross. When we Lay our burden of sin down at the cross when we put our faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ or what He did for us there, when we come truly repentant and broken and burdened down. And ask for salvation and forgiveness. We thank you, Father, that the Bible says that him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. And friend, if you're here today and that's your that's your burden, I I implore you, go to the cross Bring it to the cross. Ask for salvation. Cry out to God right there where you are. Say, Lord, I repent. Or Lord, I don't know how to repent. Help me, Lord, give me a spirit of repentance. Give me faith that I can lay down this burden of sin at Calvary. And I put all of my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Tell the Lord, friend, He's there. The Bible says this is a time when God can be found, when you're broken over your sins. And Father, I pray that you will speak the hearts, convict the soul, and draw them under yourself. And Lord, do this for your honor and for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.