Would you uh take God's word and go to Second Corinthians? We continue our study in the book of Second Corinthians, and this morning we're in chapter nine, and we're going to look at this whole chapter by the grace of God. But would you stand for the reading of God's Word and I want to read a few of these verses in Second Corinthians chapter nine And just look at verse number one. We'll start there as we read the scripture here together. 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verse number 1. For as touching the ministering to the saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you. For I know the forwardness of your mind, for which I boast of you to them of Macedonia, that Achaea was ready a year ago, and your zeal hath provoked very many Yet have I sent the brethren, lest our boasting of you should be in vain in this behalf, that as I have said, as I said, ye may be ready, lest happily if they of Macedonia come with me and find you unprepared, We that we say not, same confidence, uh same confident boasting. Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren that they would go before you They would go before you and to make up before beforehand your bounty whereof ye had noticed before. that the same might be ready as a matter of bounty and not as of covetousness. Excuse me for missing that one line there in verse number four, so I want to reread it. Lest happily, if they of Macedonia come with me and find you unprepared, we that we say not, ye should be ashamed in this same confident boasting. Too many pieces of paper up here on this platform on the pulpit. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's holy word. And may God help us to listen with a ear filled with the Spirit. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, We have need of your help as we go to the Scripture, Lord. It's our desire to worship you in the way that we listen to the Word of God as it goes forth. So, Father, would you open our eyes that we might behold wonderful things out of your word? We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We have been doing a study in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and 9. Paul's been dealing with specifically this area of giving in the church. And so we want to continue pick up here in chapter 9 as Paul's teaching the church in Corinth in this area that we need to learn about. I heard about a father who gave his little girl two dollars and said, You can do anything you want with one of the dollars, but the other dollar belongs to God. And so she was very happy and with joy. She ran to the candy store and on the way she tripped And one of the dollars flew out of her hand and into the storm drain. And she got up and she brushed herself off and she said, Well, Lord, there goes your dollar Some believers are a bit reluctant in the matter of giving. Now this was the case with the church at Corinth So Paul is encouraging them in this matter of giving. It seems strange that Corinthians need or that Christians, I should say, need to be encouraged to give to the Lord. God has given us so much. And that was true here at the Church of Corinth. This church was a very blessed church. God had enriched them in many ways. They were a wealthy community there. The city of Corinth being in that peninsula was a seaport. city and a city that was filled with uh wealth and the people there were well off. But they had not yet learned the principles of grace giving And so in chapter 8, the Apostle Paul basically explained to them these principles of giving to the Lord. And really, grace-giving is in response to God giving so much to us, his indescribable gift, Jesus Christ. And so Paul basically showed them that grace giving, giving to the Lord, is not hindered by poverty. He used the Macedonians as an example. They were people that were impoverished, they were under a great trial, and yet they gave liberally And giving is done sacrificially. These Macedonian believers, as Paul pointed to them, they gave, Paul said, uh According to their ability, and then they gave even more beyond their ability. And they gave voluntarily without being pressured. They gave as an act of worship. Paul said they gave first them own selves to the Lord And they did they did it in submission to Paul's leadership. They did it in harmony with other spiritual virtues as you're growing in your Christian sanctification. This is just one part of where you should be growing. and all the other areas of your Christian life. They gave us a proof of love. And so Paul taught them these principles, pointing to the Macedonians as an example. And having explained to them then in chapter eight the principles of grace giving, here in chapter nine, what Paul does is that he basically seeks to encourage them. He seeks to motivate them to give. Now, if you've been with us in our study, you know that the reason Paul is taking up this special offering is as a relief offering to Poor Christians that were in Judea, specifically the city of Jerusalem, they were incredibly impoverished. There were a number of reasons for this Part of it being the economy, part of it being a worldwide famine, part of it being they were being persecuted, many of them lost their jobs because they converted to Christ. And here's this huge church. of thousands of believers trying to take care of one another, and they all became very impoverished. And so Paul thought it would be a great thing for Gentile churches to take up a big offering and give it to the church in Jerusalem as a sign of love. As a proof of the of the power of the gospel, as a proof of the how the gospel basically brings love for one another, and it tears down all kind of man-made barriers and it makes us one in the Lord Jesus Christ. So Paul, when he first went to Corinth, presented this need, and the Corinthians responded enthusiastically, they were going to give, but then something happened which caused them to stop giving. And that was if you've been with us in our study, you know that false teachers came into the church at Corinth and they began to criticize Paul. They criticized his credibility. They said he's not really a legitimate apostle. He's not one of the twelve And that you need to beware of Paul. And so the people then stopped giving because they no longer trusted Paul. And Paul addresses this. On one occasion he went to Corinth and addressed the people face to face. He called it his painful visit. And then he left. He said he was going to come back, but he didn't. Instead, he sent what he called a severe letter And he waited with anxiety to find out how they would respond. And finally Titus, who he sent to Corinth, and then later met him in Macedonia, gave Paul the news that the Corinthians had repented. That they realized they're wrong, and that they were ready to reconnect with Paul. They wanted full reconciliation, and Paul rejoiced over it. He gave thanks to God for their true repentance. And now he's bringing up again this collection to the Corinthians, and he is giving them reasons, encouragements for them to continue this giving. So I want to just show you the reasons that he gives us here in chapter 9. I have seven compelling reasons why you should be involved in giving and God's work. The first reason is this, you your giving sets an example for other believers. Look in verse number nine again. In verse uh excuse me, verse 1 of chapter 9. For as touching the ministering to the saints, it is superfluous, that is to say, it's not really necessary for me to write to you, for I know the forwardness of your mind For which I boast of you to them of Macedonia, that a cave was ready a year ago, and your zeal has provoked very many. And so there's a sense in which Paul says, you know, I don't really need to bring this up again because I know that you I don't need to bring up, that is to say, the needs of the of the believers in Jerusalem. You already know why we're c we're making this collection You know the great need that is there. And Paul says, I realize that a year ago, when you first made this commitment, you were willing. That's what he means, the forwardness of your mind. You had such a willingness to do this. In fact, you were so willing, Paul says, that I bragged on you. I went to the I I told the believers in Macedonia, hey, these believers in Achaea And Corinth specifically, when I presented this need of this offering, boy, they were so willing. In fact, Paul says, your willingness stirred up The willingness of the Macedonians. That's the reason they said, hey, we want to do this. We want to give. Even though we're in poverty, even though it's difficult for us. We want to give sacrificially. And so they began to give, and Paul's basically reminding the Corinthians, your willingness provoked a generous response from the Macedonians. And so Paul is saying, listen, just remember that. Just remember how your giving has encouraged Others. And look at verse 3. He says, Yet have I sent the brethren, lest our boasting of you should be in vain in this behalf, that as I said, ye may be ready. And so Paul was basically saying, Look I sent I'm sending these brethren ahead. When he meant by brethren, if you've been with us in our study, there was Titus and there were two other unnamed brethren. That was the financial committee that Paul was sending to Corinth And he was telling them, look, get your offering ready. I'm sending these men to have it all in order so that when we come, it'll all be ready. Because the last thing that needs to happen right now is that you stop this giving. Paul said, now wait, I bragged on you. Now remember that. Don't don't make me look like a fool. Because I've been bragging on you to everyone, and if if when it comes time to take up this offering, if you are not ready, then what it'll do is it will it'll bring shame. to us. Look in verse 4, lest happily if they of Macedonia come with me and find you unprepared, we that we say not ye should be ashamed in this same confident boasting. Paul said, Look now, uh I don't want to be humiliated, I don't want to be disgraced, I don't want to be put to shame, and you don't want it that either. So let's continue in what you first did, because just know that your willingness has caused others to be willing. And here's the principle that we learn from this, that when you Give or when you do good, you actually are an encouragement to other believers. You're provoking them as well to good works. You understand that? When you serve the Lord and you do well, you encourage other believers. The Bible says in Hebrews 10, 24, let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. And Paul says, others have been watching you. They saw what you committed to do. You stopped, but now it's time to start up again, because again, you want you don't want to be put to shame. You want to continue to encourage others. So Paul says, your giving has encouraged others to give. And beloved, that same principle applies to us. I can't tell you how many times I've been blessed and challenged by seeing the generosity of you and other believers that have given sacrificially to a certain cause. to a a certain purpose and how that has encouraged other believers in the same thing. But then there's number two. Not only does your giving set example for others, but number two Your giving helps overcome the sin of covetousness. Look in verse five. Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren that they would go before unto you and make up beforehand your bounty Whereof ye had noticed before the same might be ready as a matter of bounty and not as of covetousness. And so Paul saying in verse five, for the reasons he already stated, he thought it was wise to send these three men this financial committee of Titus and these two unnamed men. So that you go you can make ready the offering. And notice that Paul uses the word bounty two times. Here in verse number five, to get ready your bounty. And that implies that this is a big gift. It's going to bless them. You know what the word bounty here is in the Greek? It's eulogia. And it's where we get the word um eulogy. You know what a eulogy is? A eulogy is when a blessing is pronounced. And so that's what the word here means, and Paul's saying this this bounty, this eulogia, this this blessing that you're going to give, and again, that implies that This was going to be a big gift. This was going to be a blessing. Paul didn't tell them how much to give. And they are just doing this of their own. But what he does expect is for them to fulfill what they promised. And then he says, you do this. As a matter of bounty and not as of covetousness, he says in verse number five. In other words, don't give it grudgingly Don't even appear to do it in a grudging manner, do it freely. And then Paul warns them of the sin that could keep them from meeting their commitment or giving what they originally promised. There's an implication here that they already promised to some And Paul says, look, make sure you fulfill that. You don't want the sin of covetousness holding you back from doing what you should do. And so he warns about a sin that all of us have to deal with in our heart if we're honest. We all have to deal with this sin of covetousness, this sin, this thing of being uh Malcontented, not content with what God has given us, this thing of wanting more, desiring more just to have more It's a very ugly sin. It's built into the very fabric of human depravity. Again, it's something that all of us have to deal with. Jesus said this comes out of a sinful heart Covetousness, deeds of coveting. The Bible calls covetousness idolatry because what it means is it's not enough. You have to have more. You are the issue here. You wanting more And Christians are not to associate with any of those that are covetous as the Bible are covetous, the Bible tells us. And so, you know what giving does? Giving puts to death, it mortifies this inward sin that all of us have to contend with from time to time. When you give out It overcomes this sin. John Wesley said, when I have money, I get rid of it quickly as possible, lest it find its way into my heart. It helps you to overcome covetousness. But, and by the way, there was a couple in the early church that were judged severely for this. You ever hear of a couple by the name of Ananias and Sapphira? You remember? And it's really in the context of what's going on here, the Jerusalem church. was suffering, believers needed money. Some of the believers in the church of Jerusalem began selling their property, selling their goods, taking the money, laying it at the disciples' feet, the apostles' feet, the apostles would then would distribute that money to the needy people. And Ananias and Sapphira saw what was going on and they saw some of the praise that was taking place by be people doing that. So they decided to sell a certain property. And their their commitment was was to take that property, the money from that property, and lay it all at the at the apostles' feet. And so they made a promise, but they didn't fulfill that promise. And the Bible tells us this story here in in Acts chapter 5, verses 1 to 11, where that Ananias basically sold the property, and then uh he only gave part of the money. He lied to God. He lied to the Holy Spirit, the Bible says. And when he was confronted about it. Peter, this is what Peter said in Acts 5. 3. And Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost and to keep back part of the price of the land? And verse 5 says, and Ananias hearing these words fell down and gave up the ghosts, and great fear came upon all of them that heard these things. I guess so. Here's a guy who made this commitment and then he didn't follow through. He kept part of it back because of covetousness. And right in the middle of the church service, Peter calls him out. You lied. And then he drops dead right there on the spot. What a serious thing. And fear came upon everyone. And then his wife comes in later, the Bible says. In fact, she came in in the space of three hours later. Two things. That must have been a really long church service. And it took her a long time to get ready for church. How long does it take you ladies to get ready for church for crying out loud? Three hours later, she walks in. And Peter calls her on the carpet, and she also, because of the sin of covetousness, God was setting an example. of this sin of covetousness. And so giving helps to overcome that sin. But here's number three, we have to move on. Your giving delights the heart of God. Look in Second Corinthians chapter nine again in verse number seven. And so Paul says to them now, encouraging them to give, verse seven, every man according as he purposed in his heart So let him give, not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver. And so again, Paul doesn't tell them how much, just according to what you purpose in your heart. And then you know when God looks at when you give, God doesn't look at what's in your hand, He looks at what's in your heart. That's what Paul's saying here. Again, there's no amount of money mentioned here. The focus is on the attitude of the giver. And what Paul gives us here are three types of givers. First of all, there's a sad giver. A sad giver. This is the one who gives In verse 7, grudgingly, and the word grudgingly comes from two Greek words ek out of lupe, sorrow, you're giving out a grief or sorrow. If that's the way you give, you're not giving in a really the right way. If when the offering plate comes by you have to pry your fingers off of that offering envelope. That's probably not the right attitude of giving. If when the offering plate comes by, you're singing the hymn, Blessed be the tie that binds. Our hearts together. When we asunder part it gives me inner pain. You're probably not having the right attitude in giving there God doesn't delight in people who give grudgingly. There's the sad giver, then there's the mad giver in verse 7, or of necessity, not grudgingly, or of necessity. And necessity is the Greek word which means the opposite of willingness. You're forced. You're under obligation. It's the attitude he says, I'm only giving because I have to. That's the attitude we have when it comes to paying taxes. Right? And when it comes tax time, say, man, I can't wait to pay all these taxes I can't wait to just give that money to the government. No, it's quite opposite. We only give what we have to give. And sometimes we do it and we're mad. that we have to do it. In fact that's how this whole country was started because we were mad about the taxes from King George You know, if you give in the offering plate the way you give for taxes, you don't have the right attitude. A tithe is not a tax. We don't treat it like that at all. God doesn't delight in people who give out of necessity or who give out of grief. What's the proper motive? Then there's there's there's the sad giver, the mad giver, and then the glad giver. And that's what God likes. Look in verse 7 again, where it says, not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. You know what the Greek word here for cheerful is? Hilaros. It's where we get the word hilarious. God loves a hilarious giver. So when the offering plate comes by, we shouldn't be weeping. We should be laughing. When it comes by. There should be joy. There should be, and that's the idea here. It's a great joy. You feel joy at the opportunity to worship God in this way. And to give back just a part, it's an act of the heart of joy for the for what God has done for you, for the grace that God has given you in this life. I've had the opportunity to preach in many countries in Africa, in the Cameroon, in uh Ethiopia, and Uganda, and Ghana, and Liberia, and and so on. And there's a tradition over there that I think that we could really learn from. And when they take up an offering in these churches, they the offering plate is in the front, and during the offering time when the music's played, the people dance down the aisle. They dance with joy and they come down the aisle and they put the offering in and they dance back to their seat That's a cheerful giver, beloved. Now I'm not suggesting that we do that here. We're not going to dance down the aisle or anything like that. But I love the attitude, and that's the attitude that the Apostle Paul is talking about here, that we do it with joy, because again, it comes from the heart. And it's the motive of the heart that is pleasing to Almighty God in this matter. So let's go on to number four. You're giving such an example. It overcomes the sin of covetousness. It delights the heart of God. It will result in your reaping. Back up to verse number six. Notice what Paul says here in verse six where he says, But this I say, he which selleth sparingly shall reap also sparingly, and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. So Paul is comparing our giving to the law of the harvest And any farmer knows that if you want to have a good harvest, you have to sow the seed, a lot of seed, and the more seed that you sow, the bigger harvest you're going to get in return. And there's no, and the investor knows the more money you invest or you put in the bank, the more dividends you're going to collect from that, there's no better investment than the kingdom of God. And the more we invest in the kingdom of God, the more fruit will abound on our account. That's what Paul said to the Philippians. Look, I'm not rejoicing that you gave me a gift. I'm rejoicing that whenever you invest in God's work, there's a dividend returned to you. It's fruit that will abound under your account. God has written the law of sowing and reaping into the very universe. And this is especially true here when it comes to worshiping God and giving. And I could take testimonies from people here who have been saved for a long time. And if I took the time, I believe there would be people that would come up here to this mic and you would say, you know what? I have been giving to the Lord and God has given so much back to me. I could never outgive God. God has has given back to me so much more than I have ever given to him. In fact, God challenges us in this. God challenges us. Remember in Malachi where it says this, bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse that there may be meat in mine house? And then he says, and prove me now, here was saith the Lord. If I will not open the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it, it says, God says, look, test me in this. Bring the tithes into my storehouse and you see if I don't open the windows of heaven on you. Because whenever you sow in God's work and God's Kingdom and the way that you worship through giving, God will give back. And notice verse number eight where he says this, and God is able to make all grace abound towards you. That ye always having all sufficiency and all things may abound to every good work. Again, you ever hear the expression you cannot give God? Well, that's what Paul's saying right here in verse 8. You're never going to be able to outgive God. And Paul is trying to express to the Corinthians the overwhelming generosity of God. And the way he does it in verse 8 is he uses the word all five times. It's the Greek word pos, all. He says in verse 8, all grace And then he says, that may abound to you that ye always, there's the same Greek word there, having all sufficiency, and all things might abound to every same Greek word there, all or every good Work five times. In other words, God's grace in giving back to us, it's off the scale. And some might w might wonder, well what if I give sacrificially to the work of God and God is not able to give back? That's impossible, beloved. Because of verse 80 again, it says, and God is able to make all grace abound to you. And so God will definitely give you a harvest. You will reap. And why does God give back? You know, and I've experienced this in my life. I give to God, and He just seems to give back more to me. And why does God do that? Why does he give back in verse eight that you might abound in every good work? Because now he can trust me, and I can continue to give, because the more I give out, the more God gives back to me. And then I just continue to give that out and he gives more back to me. You know what? His resources are in are in Constantly being recycled and put it back out to help others, to help the needs of others, and God can trust me with this And he does it so that I can continue in the work of God. Look at verse number nine. As it is written, He hath dispersed abroad, that he hath given to the poor, his righteousness remains forever And then in verse number 10 where he says, Now he that ministereth seed to the sower both ministers bread for your food and multiplies your seed sown and increase the fruit of your righteousness. Now Paul, what he's doing here is he quotes from Psalm 112, verse 9, to show that this has always been God's plan. He has dispersed, that is, that's the generous giver. The generous giver His righteousness, the Bible says, will endure forever. He will be exalted. God will replenish the generous giver. He will reward the generous giver that That'll continue to go on. In verse 10, he makes another reference to an Old Testament passage. It's Isaiah 55, 10. For as the rain comes down and the snow from heaven, it returns not hither, but what earth? The earth And maketh it bring forth in bud that it might give seed to the sower and bread to the eater. And the point here is that generous giving will impoverish no one, because the same God who supplies seed in the natural world will also apply or give monetary seed to the generous giver so that he can continue to sow Where does a farmer get seed from? Where does he get it from? Man can't make seed. There's no man, there's no scientist in the world that can synthesize a seed and say, I invented this seed now, and you can use it. You know who created seed? God did It's a miracle of God. Right in the very beginning in Genesis chapter 11, the Bible 1 through 11, it talks about when God created all things and he made vegetation to bear after its own kind. God, at that very beginning, made seeds. How does a farmer get his seeds? So that he could sow them? He gets them from God. And he sows that seed and he makes bread and he gives it to the eater. And more seed is given to him by God. And that's the principle. The same God who gives seed in the natural world will give to the generous giver Financial seed that you again might give bread to those who have needs. That's the whole principle. That's exactly what Paul's talking about. And that's been God's plan. And the result is this ever-expanding cycle. Those who sow will reap. And if you sow more, you reap more. And if you reap more, you have more to sow. And you're continuing in this. And then they will be enriched. And they'll be blessed by God Let me give you the fifth principle. Your giving sets an example for other believers. It helps overcome the sin of covetousness. It delights the heart of God. It results in you reaping. But here's number five. You will meet needs And this is what Paul says. Look at verse 12. For the administration of this service not only supplies the want of the saints, but is abundant also by many thanksgivings unto God. And uh when he says this administration of this service, the administration is just serving it. The word service here is actually where we get the word liturgy. In other words, when you give this way It's like a priest in the Old Testament offering a sacrifice. That's what he compares it to. And when you offer this sacrifice, God will use it and he'll meet the needs of others. You realize that every time you come to church and you give to the Lord You're offering a sacrifice to God like a priest would in the Old Testament? That's the word that Paul uses here. And what does God do? He'll take that And he'll use it to supply the wants of the saints. That is, you'll meet the needs of people all over. And Paul's saying to the Corinthians, when you give this gift, we're going to take it to the believers in Judea. And it's going to meet their needs. And what'll happen is it'll bring them joy in their heart. And it will result in thanksgiving to God Because of what you've done there? And then this leads to the next point. Your giving will glorify God. It'll glorify God. Look at verse 13. While the experiment of this ministration, they glorify God. For your professed subjection unto the gospel of Christ. And, he says, and your liberal distribution unto them and unto all men. That is to say, This gift will cause others to glorify God. Why? Because it will be a demonstration of the power of the gospel, that the gospel is real. Now, the church in Jerusalem had doubts about whether the gospel was really spreading in the Gentile world There were some in the church, Jewish believers, that were wondering if the Gentiles were truly embracing the gospel or were they just pretending? Would it be was it superficial? Was it real? And Paul says, look, this offering that you give, when it comes to the believers in Jerusalem, what will happen is they'll see this. And you know what they'll know? That you truly are believers. That your profession is real? That the gospel has power? And they'll glorify God? I mean why else would Gentiles worry about Jews? There was such a racial barrier in the ancient world between Jews and Gentiles. Why would Gentiles take up a big offering and offer it to Jews, Jews who really despise Gentiles? Why would Gentiles do that? There's only one answer. Because the gospel of Jesus Christ has changed their heart. And where there was apathy and where there was bitterness. All that was ripped out and it was replaced by love because when a person gets saved, they're downloaded with the love of God in their heart. And you love others. And this would be a demonstration of love. The Gentiles, the loving Jewish people, and the watching world would see all that and they would say, well, there must be something to this gospel message. That would cause this kind of love to be demonstrated. It's got to be because of the gospel, and what will happen is God will get glory for that. And then let me give you the last thing. Your giving is an expression of gratitude for God's indescribable gift. Look at verse 15, the last verse. Verse 15. Thanks be unto God. For his unspeakable gift. And this simple concluding verse is one of the, I think, the richest statements in all the scripture. And this is the reason we should all be involved in giving. Because it is a response to God's indescribable gift and giving us Jesus Christ, the greatest gift that has ever been given Was when God gave us his Son Jesus Christ. The greatest gift ever given. There's no words to describe it, there's no way to measure the value of it. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, the Bible says, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and he shall be his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor of the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father. the Prince of Peace. For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Romans 8:32, he that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall not he with him also freely give us all things? God's gift of the Lord Jesus Christ. is the indescribable gift. And when we give to the Lord, we are doing it as an expression of gratitude for God's gift. If the gift of Jesus Christ doesn't motivate you to give, then nothing will. Nothing will. But that's why we give. So, in closing, how did it all turn out for the Corinthians? Now Paul just finished here in chapter 9. In chapters 8 and 9, he talked about giving. Now he's going to move on to another subject in chapter 10. He's done with this issue of the collection. He's done with this issue of giving. He's not going to talk about it anymore. He's going to deal with other issues. But the question we have to ask is, did they respond well to Paul's encouragement? Did they finish what they start? Or did they get offended again at Paul? And say, you know, this this this subject of money is too sensitive, Paul, for you to talk about. Well, we know how they responded. You say, how do we know? Sometime after 2 Corinthians, Paul Visited Corinth just like he planned to do, just like he said he was going to do. He went to Corinth. He stayed there about three months according to Acts chapter 20. And during that time, Paul wrote The letter of Romans while he was in Corinth. And at the end of the letter of Romans, Paul makes a little remark about how the Corinthians responded to His encouragement. And this is what he said in Romans 15, verse 25. But now I go to Jerusalem to minister unto the saints. He's talking about that offering. It's now time for me. I stopped at Corinth. I've been here It's now time to move on to Jerusalem. I'm going to give this offering to the saints. Verse 26, for it has pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia. To make a certain contribution for the poor saints were at Jerusalem. And again, it says in verse number 27 of chapter 15, it has pleased them verily. Two times Paul said, you know what, they were pleased to do this. They were pleased to do it. Not only did the Corinthians fulfill their commitment, not only did they give this large offering to these believers that needed it But they were pleased to do it. They were happy to do it. You know what? They became glad givers. They were cheerful givers. And so they were obeying the Lord. Beloved, be a cheerful giver and do it as an act of worship unto the Lord. Let's bow for prayer here together. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, what I want you to focus on is God's gift to us. The Bible tells us that God gave us his Son, that he might be the propitiation for our sins. The propitiation for our sins. What does that mean? That means that on the cross Jesus satisfied God the Father's holy wrath for sin. The holy wrath that should have been poured out on me and on you was poured out on Jesus Christ. And He took our punishment. He paid our sin debt with His death on the cross. That's the gift. And because of what Jesus did, if you repent of your sin and put your faith in what He did, His finished work, you know what you get? You get eternal life in heaven. What's that worth to you? That's the greatest gift ever, beloved. And God wants you to have it. He wants you to put your faith in Christ. And if you haven't done that, I'm asking you to do it right now. Right now. Reach out in faith, just pray in your heart. God, I believe Jesus died on the cross to pay my sin debt I'm asking you right now to forgive me. I repent. I turn from my sin. I put my faith in the finished work of Christ. Save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, if you pray that and you mean it, God will save you. He'll give you eternal life. You'll become a child of God. That's the indescribable gift. And he wants you to have it right now. And if you prayed that prayer, and it's your desire to repent, put your full faith in Christ. And you've done that just now, let us know, friend, we want to encourage you in your Christian walk. I'm inviting you to do it right now, right where you are. Put your faith in Jesus. Father, bless your word to every hearing heart here today. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name.