So good to be in the Lord's house. And I invite you this morning to take your Bibles. Open to the book of Second Corinthians, chapter twelve. As we are continuing our study in 2 Corinthians. And I would just invite you to stand for the reading of God's Word. I just want to read a few verses here with you. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. I know you've been standing up a lot, but you get to sit down the rest of the service, and I'll stand the rest of the service. But look in verse number eleven, second Corinthians twelve. I am become a fool in glorying. Ye have compelled me. For I ought to have been commended of you, for in nothing am I behind the very chiefest apostles, though I be nothing. And truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience in signs and wonders and mighty deeds. For what is it wherein were ye were inferior to other churches, except it be that I myself was not burdensome to you. Forgive me this wrong. Thank you. You may be seated. This is God's word. May we receive it as such, and may we worship in the way we hear. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for your precious word. Thank you for the instruction that we continually get from it, Lord, for our own soul. So Lord, would you speak to us today? And Lord, would you just use your word to sanctify us? and to feed our soul, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. When you were growing up, did you ever hear the word shame on you? I would rather get a beating from my father than to hear my mother say, Jerry, shame on you. But shame is an emotion that we see less and less today in this perverted world. People today celebrate sins and declare that as something they should be proud of. They call it pride. They even mark off a time to be proud about their sins. Zephaniah three five says, But the unjust knoweth no shame. It's a good thing that people can be ashamed of their bad actions or attitudes, but It is evidence of a hard and callous heart and conscience when a person who is guilty no longer is able to feel shame. Jeremiah Gives the reason the people of Judah were judged so severely by the Lord. He wrote this in Jeremiah 6:15. Were they ashamed when they had committed abominations? Nay. They were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush. And he goes on to say, at that the time that I will visit them, they shall be cast down, saith the Lord. They no longer felt shame for their sins. Now in this section of 2 Corinthians, Paul is bringing this letter to a close. We're at the last part of chapter 12, and there's only one chapter left. Paul's wrapping up everything that he's been talking about here to these Corinthians in this letter. And he's going to make one last appeal to them. Uh he's going to visit them a third time as we're going to see. He had already visited them twice. The second time is what he called his painful visit. It didn't go well. He plans on visiting them a third time. He doesn't want the third visit to be uh a painful visit. And in all this time, Paul has basically defended his credentials to the church. Remember, he's being severely criticized by false apostles. But he explained his ministry. He answered all their accusations. And now he's urging the Corinthians to submit to God's word and be obedient to Christ. Now, in an attempt to motivate the Corinthians towards obedience and submission, Paul will openly rebuke and shame the Corinthians. for their behavior. This is what you might call just kind of almost like a climax right before Paul ends, and he's going to really be, we would say, kind of harsh here in these verses that we're going to look at. There are times when believers need a loving rebuke, or they need to be shamed. Paul is going to shame the Corinthians here in an attempt to bring about repentance. Now we know that to shame someone out of an evil motive, out of a hard motive, can can abuse a person, but that's not what Paul's doing here. Paul's going to shame them. In order to bring repentance, or in order for them to understand the guilt of their sin. And he's going to rebuke them. The Bible says open rebuke is better than secret love. And Paul loved the church too much to allow them to continue on in a path that would not be good for them. And so he rebukes them here. And as Paul rebukes the church here, we have to examine our own life and ask, are there times in our life when we need to be rebuked or shamed? There have been many times in my own Christian life when I have been rebuked simply by reading the Word of God. God the Holy Spirit has pointed out an area in my own life where I needed to get right Where I had acted shamefully in my own way, and I needed to repent of that, and I needed to get right with God. This is what Paul's hoping for among the Corinthians And there are basically three areas here where Paul is going to point out to them that they lack, that they need to get right. And he kind of shames them for it. First of all, there is a lack of scriptural evaluation, we could say. Look in verse number 11. I am become a fool in glorying. Ye have compelled me. Here Paul shames them for their lack of discernment. Paul's basically saying, you know, you should have had enough discernment to know that I was truly an apostle sent by God. They failed to see or accept the fact that Paul was truly sent from the Lord. that he was God's genuine apostle. Their lack of discernment was the reason Paul had to go to great lengths to defend himself, even to the point of doing something that he hated to do. First of all, Paul didn't want to have to defend himself. He hated doing that But even in the manner in which he did it where he had to glory, he had to boast. And remember Paul kind of did it in a way to make to show how foolish boasting is. Because the false apostles love boasting about themselves. They talked about their credentials. They were always presenting their what they've done, their resume, everything that they had done. And Paul said, okay, I'll fight fire with fire. If you want to boast about credentials, I'll do it. But boasting is foolish. And he had to do something that he called foolishness. And there's a sense in which Paul resents having to do that in verse 11. I am become a fool in glorying. Paul again uses the word fool to refer to someone who boasts. I mean he would agree with Solomon, who wrote in Proverbs, Let another man praise thee and not thy own mouth, a stranger not your own lips. But Paul said, you know, you compelled me, you forced me into this, this boasting. I should have been defended by you. Look at verse 11 again. For I ought to have been commended of you. You should have defended me. You should have been the first ones to stand up and defend who I am and that I'm sent from God. I should have been affirmed by you. Commended here is a word that means to approve of a person. The Corinthians should have jumped on the bandwagon of approving Paul and fighting off the accusations against Paul by the false apostles, but they didn't do that. And Paul had to defend himself. And in doing that, he says, I've become a fool And notice what he says here, for in nothing am I behind the very cheapest apostles, though I be nothing. Remember the apostles, false apostles. Paul called them the the super apostles. Chief is here we could translate super. I'm I'm not behind anything in these super apostles. Paul used that as in a sarcastic way. Oh these super apostles who like to boast about all that they do I am not in any way inferior to any of them. I'm not. The Corinthians should have known that. They should have seen that. They should have defended Paul. He wasn't behind them, first of all, in spiritual gifts. uh when he says I'm behind in nothing, Paul was gifted. You know, whenever God calls a person God will always give that person the needed gifts and abilities to do whatever God's called them to do But then also he wasn't behind them in supernatural signs. Look at verse number 12. Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience, and in signs and wonders and mighty deeds. You see, Paul was a true apostle of Jesus Christ. What is an apostle? The word apostle, uh apostolos, is the Greek word, it's used in two ways in the New Testament. First, it's used in a broad way. Anyone who was sent by the church was called a uh apostle, small a. The word simply means a messenger. In fact, we saw in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 where Paul talked about the The messengers from the churches, Paul was collecting a big offering to give to the churches to the church in Judea for the poor believers And there were messengers sent by all the churches that were involved in this offering. The Greek word there is apostolos, apostles. They were apostles small a because they were messengers sent from the churches. The New Testament uses it in that sense. But also there's a sense in which the New Testament uses that word with a uh in a narrow sense, capital A, and this is an apostle of Jesus Christ. And in order to be a true apostle of Christ, there are several qualifications. First of all That person must have seen the risen Christ. And Paul did see him. And they must have been specifically commissioned by Christ. And we know that this happened to Paul on the road to Damascus. Paul would later write in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, talking about the resurrection of Christ, that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles. And at last of all he was seen of me also as one born out of due time. He said, I'm the least of the apostles, and not me to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church, but by the grace of God I am what I am God called me. I saw the risen Christ. I was commissioned by Jesus Christ. But there's another uh qualification to be a true apostle. An apostle was normally affirmed by God through signs, wonders, and miracles. And Paul said that There were signs among you. Paul writes to the Corinthians, he said, Look, you saw my ministry and you saw the signs and the wonders. These are the signs of an apostle. Now, I know that there are some people today that like to call themselves apostle. Capital A. The question I would ask them is where are your signs and wonders? That accompany your calling. Have you seen with your eyes the risen Christ? Were you personally commissioned by him? And where are your signs and wonders? No doubt there would be some who say, you know We you know, God still does signs and wonders. Well I have no doubt that God does. God can do miracles anytime he wants to He's still in the miracle working business. My question is do you have that ability? Do you have the gift of an apostle to do signs and wonders. There were three, and the reason God had these miracles, and by the way, if you look in the Bible, what you'll find out is there were three specific periods when miracles were clustered together. We see them in the time of Moses and Joshua. We see them in the time of Elijah and Elisha. And then we see them in the time of Jesus and the Apostles. And in each case God was affirming new revelation. With Moses and Joshua, God was affirming the law that Moses was God's servant, and so was Joshua. In the time of Elijah and Elisha, God was affirming the fact that he was sending prophets to Israel And that their message was from God. And of course, at the time of Jesus and the apostles, God was affirming that the gospel message was of God. Jesus did many miracles and signs and wonders that authenticated that he was truly the Son of God. And later on the apostles were given this ability to affirm that the message, the gospel message, was truly of the Lord. And Paul's saying, Look, you saw the signs of an apostle among you. How come you weren't able to see that How come you weren't able to discern that? But then also Paul's special love. Look at verse 13. For what is it wherein ye are inferior to other churches, except it be that Except it be that I myself was not burdensome to you. Forgive me this wrong. Paul says, look, in what way were you treated as inferior to the rest of the churches? In other words, when Paul is saying, I have come to you, I've ministered among you, I didn't treat you any differently than anyone else, I loved you. The only thing I did differently was that I didn't take your money, I didn't want to be a burden to you I don't want you to confuse me with the false apostles who are taking everything they can from you. Or some of these other false teachers going around that are trying to get into your pocket. Paul said, I didn't do any of that. I didn't want to be a burden to you. And then sarcastically he says, forgive me for this. Forgive me for not wanting to be a burden to you. You see, the problem here with the Corinthians was one of spiritual discernment. They should have had the discernment to know that Paul was of God and that these false apostles were not. And by the way, we have to ask ourselves this question: are we able to use scriptural discernment to know whether the message is from God today or not? Because I want to tell you something, friend, there's a lot of false messages out there in the world. There's a lot of false gospels being preached all over. And it is your responsibility. It's mine as a pastor to warn you about that and to correctly teach you God's word, but it's your responsibility to also look to the Scripture and discern whether that message is right or wrong. That's your responsibility. John says, Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God. It's a mark of spiritual maturity that you're able to use the scripture and discern That's growth and grace, that's spiritual maturity. I remember one time I went to a big megachurch to hear a guy and he got up and he said this I'll never forget this he said you know there are three groups of people here in this room he said one there's one group that believed everything I say just because I say it He said there's a second group in here that listen to what I say, think about it, and then they decide whether or not it's right, and then they'll decide whether to believe what I say. And then he said there's a third group that don't believe anything I say just because I say it. And then he said this, he said, it's my goal to move everybody into group number one. And I remember Listening to that and thinking it would be my goal to move everybody into group number two where that you listen to what I say And then you think about it and you discern from the scripture whether or not what I'm saying is right and true, and then you believe it. If it's from the Word of God, we need to be like Bereans. Paul commended the Berean Christians because they searched the scriptures Paul said, daily, to see whether these things are so. And that's part of your spiritual discernment and growth and grace that you compare everything by the word of God. And you know why people are so easily deceived today? Because today truth is relative. Everybody thinks they can come up with their own truth. Let me tell you something, friend, truth only comes from God It doesn't come from in man. It comes from God. And God has given us an absolute standard, and that standard is the Word of God. And the moment you allow Satan to cause you to doubt that this is the word of God, you've lost your moorings, you have no more final authority, and there's no ability to think Uh antithetically, there's no bu ability to see right and wrong, truth and error, once relativity is the way you think. Our final standard has to be God's Word. And it's a shame on us if we're unable to discern truth from error. Paul said, prove all things, hold fast to that which is good. 1 Thessalonians 5. 21. But then there was also not only a lack of scriptural evaluation, but also Paul shames him for a lack of simple appreciation. Look in verse number 12, what he says. Excuse me, verse 14. Behold, the third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be burdensome to you, for I seek not yours, but you. For the children ought not to lay out for their parents, but parents for the children. Now, in spite of how Paul had been treated by the Corinthians, he was planning a third visit. He'd been criticized by them before for changing his plans, but Paul always said if the Lord wills, despite that, Paul is preparing to come now for a third time. Now evidently the false apostles had warned the church, look, when Paul comes again, all he's going to do is he's going to drain your financial resources. He's talking about this love offering that he's taking up for the church in Jerusalem. That's just a scam. He's going to take that money. He's going to pocket that money for himself He's not going to give it to anyone else. This is a huge trick. This is a huge deception. This is what the false apostles were accusing Paul of And so Paul kind of defends that in verse 14. He said, I'm coming a third time, and I promise you, I'm not going to be burdensome to you. I'm not going to take anything that is yours for myself personally. He says, for I seek not yours, but you. I'm not after your money, I'm after your heart I want you to walk with God. I want you to grow spiritually. I want blessings for your life. That's all I want for you. I'm not after your material goods. That's not what I want. I want to have the joy of seeing you walk in godliness. He wants their lives for the kingdom of God. Now, Paul Illustrates this by using the analogy of parents caring for their children. In verse number 14, he says, For the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but parents for the children. It's not the responsibility of the children to save up money to give it to the parents. By the way, if any of my children want to do that, I'm going to let them do it I'm just kidding. That's not what normally happens. It's the parents that save up And take care of the children and give to the children. And here Paul's analogy, Paul's saying, look, I'm your spiritual father. I'm not How much, Paul? Well look at verse 15. I will very gladly spend and be spent for you, though the more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved Paul saying, Look, you know, I'm your spiritual father, and I'll gladly with joy I will be spent This is the only time this word appears here in the New Testament. And it literally means just to give everything that you have. It's to give everything that you are where you have absolutely nothing left. You know, athletes use a term called leave it on the field, you know. When you're out there playing men, leave it all on the field. Just give it all when you're out there competing. And this is kind of the expression that Paul is using here. I'm going to give every ounce of my strength, and I'm willing to make every sacrifice I have to make for you. That's what I want to do, because I'm your spiritual father. In Philippians he said this, even if I'm poured out like a drink offering, I'm willing. I'm willing to do that. I'm glad to do that. I rejoice. And here he follows the example of our Lord Jesus Christ. Even though the more Paul loved them, the less they loved him, he says Even though the more they were acting almost like spoiled children who don't appreciate all the sacrifices that a parent makes for them. All the all the work that a a hardworking father has made to provide for his children. And I remember the years where my father, where he worked very hard all through my life to provide for his children. At points he worked three jobs and did all the sacrificing he had to do to make sure that he took care of us. And you all have parents like that as well that you could talk about. But here this is the point that Paul's making. I'm willing to spend and be spent. I'm willing to do everything I can so that you have what you need, even though you love me less. It's not going to keep me from loving you. It's not going to keep me from doing that, Paul said. You know, basically, they uh they really didn't appreciate what they were getting in the Apostle Paul. And that was the problem. Look at verse number 16. Be it so, I did not burden you. Nevertheless, being crafty, I caught you with guile. In other words, what he was saying is, you know, all right, we agree that I didn't burden you, but then you come back and you say I tricked you. As if I'm I'm doing this as a scam. I'm taking up this offering as if it's some big deception, you know That didn't really appreciate the heart of the Apostle Paul. You know, one of the dangers of the Christian life is taking things for granted. It's taking blessings from God for granted. The good things that God has given us. If we're not careful, we can think lightly on those things. Getting accustomed to our blessings, having godly people around you, spiritual people that invest into your life. You know, we just honored Mrs. Johnson. Thank God for the godly person she has been here for our church. And for Pastor Johnson and the years that he put in, you know, laying the foundation and being faithful to the Word of God for all of those years, don't take those things lightly. Those are spiritual blessings from Almighty God. But here the the Corinthians, they were they were taking these things lightly, they were taking them for granted. And Paul kind of shames them. He does it by you know asking them some questions. Look at verse 17. Did I make a prophet of you by any of them whom I sent unto you? In other words, if if this is really true, if what the false apostles are saying about me, and this is a scam that I'm running, where's the evidence of this? Where's the evidence? When I sent Titus, did he do anything to give you that indication? Because by the way, if this is a scam that I'm running, I can't do this by myself. It has to be a collective, you know, a collective uh uh plan here. You know, if Paul was going to embezzle money like the false apostles accused him of, he couldn't have acted alone. There had to be collusion. But Paul says, where's the hint? Where's the evidence of any misconduct of either me or Titus? And by the way, when I sent Titus, I sent two men with him. Everything was done with full accountability. And what Paul is saying is, you know, I've acted in total integrity. Look at verse 18. I desired Titus, and with him I sent a brother. Did Titus make a gain of you? Walk we not in the same spirit? Walk we not in the same steps? In other words, Paul was saying, you know, we all walk with the same integrity, we all walk with the same honesty. Thank God for honest, faithful ministers who are people of integrity, who care for the souls of the people whom God has entrusted to them. They are gifts from God. to the church. I've had phone calls from pastors from time to time where they they pastor with burdens on their heart because their own people are turning against them. Here are faithful men that are being attacked by their own people, and it's causing great discouragement and depression. And the Apostle Paul understands that because that was what was happening to him. But here, they acted shamefully, these Corinthians, because they failed to appreciate what God was doing. And they they failed to appreciate a true servant of Christ. But then here's number three, a lack of scriptural evaluation, a lack of simple appreciation. But here's the final thing, a lack of spiritual consecration. And verses nineteen to twenty-one we see this. Paul was very concerned for the spiritual state of the Corinthian church. Notice what he said in verse number nineteen. Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves unto you We speak before God in Christ, but we do all things, dearly beloved, for you're edifying. Now, Paul's concerned about their maturity, first of all. He wants them to spiritually mature in Christ. That's the primary reason he wrote this letter was for their edification. You know, the primary reason for Paul writing a letter was not to defend himself. Well you might ask, well if the primary reason was not to defend himself, why does he defend himself all throughout the letter? Well, he tells him why here. It's for their edification. Because if they begin to believe all the false accusations made against Paul by these false apostles. Then they no longer listen to Paul. Paul's discredited. You discredit the messenger from God. Then you no longer listen to him. And Paul's giving them the truth. And he knew that the only way they were going to grow and mature in Christ was to receive the truth of God's word. And that's what Satan does. He tries to discredit a true messenger of God, or he tries to discredit the Word of God And when he does that and you're no longer listening, you're no longer being fed from the truth of God's word, then that's how Satan gets you. And so Paul says, look, I'm not concerned about my own reputation. I'm not defending myself for my own sake. I'm doing this for your edification. I want you to be built up. That's what the word out here actually means, being built up in Christ. Do you know that everything we do here in church ought to be for the edification of one another? Everything that we do. Singing, the praying, the Lord Suffer Together, the fellowship that we have afterwards. That's why we all come together. You know why? Because we need each other. We need to build each other up in the faith. You can't do that if you're not here. That's why we come together. That's why the scripture emphasizes so many times. Coming together, come together. Because we need the building up of each other. We need the edification. Paul says, I want you to be edified. He was also concerned about their unity, because there was some division going on. The church at Corinth was a divided church, and he addressed this issue already once in First Corinthians, but now the false apostles they made matters worse. Some of the Corinthians were lining up behind the false apostles, some were lining up behind Paul, and it was causing division. Look at verse 20. Notice what Paul says, For I fear lest when I come I shall not find you such as I would And that I should be found unto you such as ye would not. Paul says, I'm afraid that when I come I might not find you the way I want you to be, and you might not find me the way you want me to be. When I come. What he's referring to there, he's hoping that the next time he comes, it's a wonderful uh coming together where Paul can be gentle and loving, where he doesn't have to use the rod like a father. And be rough like the last painful isn't. Paul says, I'm I'm afraid that there will be fighting among you, and there'll be division among you, and it's crippling. And what Paul does is he lists some words here that all talk about division, debates. He talks about in verse 20. That means contentions, envyings. This is where we get the word zeal, but it's kind of a negative zeal. It refers to a a jealousy here, a self-centeredness. a rivalry of then he talks about wrath, that's a violent outrage and strife, that's partisan division, backbiting, and then uh whispering. He he talks about that, that's simply speaking quietly behind a uh behind a person's back. Swellings, that is someone who's arrogant, tumults, public disturbances. These sins destroy a church's unity. And Paul says, I'm afraid I'm going to find some of that. You know, the Bible says the world will know that we are Christians by our love that we have one for another, by the unity that we express in the church, but then also their purity. He was concerned about their purity. And now Paul will mention three sins that have to do with sexual immorality in verse number twenty one. Unless when I come my God will humble me among you, and that I shall be well many which have sinned already, and have not repented of the uncleanness and fornication and lasciviousness which they have committed. Along with the sins of the spirit that he mentioned, he listed, there are sins of the flesh. Paul knows that in the past the church of Corinth had struggled with sexual immorality. By the way, it was it was rife in the city of Corinth. To live an immoral life was to uh the the word used back then was to Corinthianize. If you were Corinthianized, you were living a sexually immoral life. And Paul knows that this was something that was had already taken place in the past, and he's afraid that some hadn't truly repented of that, but that is still going on. And by the way, beloved, we live in a world today where these kind of sexual sins are no longer considered sins by society today. In fact, they're parading the streets and proud of some of those things. But I want to tell you something, the word of God has not changed. It is still a sin in God's sight. I know that when some people, you know, the media has accused me of being a homophobe. And and you know, I I my response is I'm not a homophobe, I'm a theophobe. I fear God, friend. And I look, I'm not, I don't hate anybody. I want people to come to Jesus Christ. I want people to truly know Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. I want them to be saved from hell. And Paul says, you know, I'm I'm afraid that when I come that I'm gonna find some of this going on. And he said, it would humiliate me. It would humble me. And there's a sense in which Paul's credibility was at stake because Paul had preached to them for many years. And he didn't want that to happen. And so he's asking them for repentance. He's praying for their repentance. I'm afraid, Paul says, that some of you will not have repented. And that's what I want. I want there to be true repentance. And beloved, I'll close with this. You know what a Christian is? A Christian is not someone who repents one time and then forgets about that repentance and then lives any way they want to. A Christian is someone who lives a continual repentance. We turn from the world, we turn from sin, we turn to Christ, and you know what? We keep walking towards Christ. That repentance from the world to Christ is continual. I might stumble on that path, but my direction has changed We're not talking about perfection. We're talking about direction. The direction of my life has changed. I'm walking towards Christ, and I live humbly. Repentant, poor in spirit, the Bible says, mourning over my own sin and yet rejoicing at the same time in God's wonderful cleansing and forgiveness. And you know what? I continue to repent. When sin comes upon me. That's what a Christian is. And Paul says, I want you to be repentant. So Paul shames the believers here. Not because he wants he's not being abusive. And again, I say that some people shame others out of an evil motive just to humiliate Them, that's not what Paul is doing here. There's a sense in which God will there'll be a sanctified shaming To bring about true repentance. Jesus did that in his ministry. He would shame someone in order to bring about repentance. And this is what Paul is doing here. Hoping that they will repent. And by the way, let me end by just saying this. Did you know that on the cross, when Jesus died, he took all of my sins and all of my shame? And it was laid on him on the cross. He took your sins. He took your shame upon himself so that you could have eternal life. We sang the song on a hill far away, stood an old rugged cross, the emblem of suffering and shame. Because Jesus took all of our shame upon him And he is the only way of true salvation. So we come to him, repentant. And that's what my prayer is that you would come to Christ. If you haven't already, put your faith in the living Christ. Who bore your sin and shame so that you could have eternal life. Let's bow for prayer together Father, we come before you humbly thanking you for our Savior Jesus Christ, who did indeed Bear on the cross all of our sin and our shame that we might have salvation. And Father, I pray for every soul here in this room. That they're at rest to know that Christ is theirs, that they have truly repented of their sin, that they're on their way to heaven, and Lord, that is the greatest blessing and joy that anyone could ever have. How we thank you for salvation made available in Christ. And yet, Lord, if there's someone here that hasn't settled that, I pray that today they would be ashamed of their sins. A shame that brings true repentance, that will cause them to kneel by faith, as it were, at the cross of Christ and say, God, be merciful. To me a sinner and save me. And Lord, may those who are truly yours already Continue to live a life of repentance towards you. Lord, let us not be overtaken by things that can happen to any Christian, Lord. If we're not careful, we can lack scriptural evaluation. We can lack simple appreciation for your blessings. Father, we can lack spiritual consecration in our life. Lord, help us to continue to pursue holiness in the fear of the Lord. For your glory's sake. And bless these words to every hearing heart today, we pray in Jesus' name.