Take your take your Bibles tonight, open please to the to the Gospel of John, uh chapter ten. Looking at John chapter ten. And tonight we are continuing our series called Family Matters. And tonight I want to talk from John chapter 10 out of shepherding your family. And I'm indebted to Stephen Cole, some of the thoughts that I read from him in his series on Christian family living But John chapter 10, we're going to look at verses 1 to 18. We'll just kind of look at some of the principles from this chapter with respect to this one issue. Now, a few years ago the Associated Press re reported a remark a remarkable story in a place called Axum uh turkey and it really showed how vulnerable sheep are when the shepherd is irresponsible. Evidently the shepherd fell asleep on duty one night and one sheep wandered off a cliff um and fell over the precipice of the cliff, followed by another sheep, and then another followed that one, and another followed that one, until finally fifteen hundred sheep fell off the same cliff following one another. The report said in the end, 450 dead animals lay on top of one of another in a bill away will away pile, uh the newspaper said. And uh the only reason the the ones that fell later were saved was because there was this pile of sheep that they fell on, you know. But that whole story there shows what happens when the shepherd uh falls asleep on duty that the sheep will wander away. Now Scripture often uses the metaphor for spiritual leadership of a shepherd. That seems to be a metaphor that's used uh often in the Old Testament to talk about The leaders of Israel, the kings, were called shepherds, priests and prophets were sometimes called shepherds. In fact, in Jeremiah chapter 23, God pronounces a woe upon the unfaithful shepherds of Israel. And Jeremiah 23, verse 1, it says, Woe be unto the pastures that destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture, saith the Lord. Therefore, thus says the Lord verse 2, the God of Israel, against the pastors that feed my people, ye have scattered my flock, and driven them away, have not visited them. Behold, I will visit upon you the evil of your doings, says the Lord And so this was a very serious thing for a person to be leaders of God's sheep. But then in Jeremiah twenty-three, verse four, God said this, I will set up shepherds over them which shall feed them, and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall they be lacking, says the Lord. And so it's a serious responsibility in the eyes of God to shepherd his sheep. Now parents, especially fathers, have been called by God to be the shepherds of their families. God has entrusted to us uh the lives of those little lambs that must be led in the right way. Now many men I find have a nagging anxiety about uh matters of leading their family. They know that they're supposed to lead their family, that that that's their responsibility, but they're not exactly sure what that means or what it even looks like or how to do it. They know that they're going to answer to the Lord for this important task, but they're just very, very unsure and uncomfortable about what their role is. Well, I think that the best thing to do if you have any doubts about how to shepherd your family would be a good thing to look at the chief shepherd or the good shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ. We can imitate him. We can learn principles on how to shepherd from Jesus. And this is what we're doing here in John chapter 10, verses 1 to 18. Now, when we look at this, first of all, I want to give you the context. I always want to make sure that you understand what's going on in the chapter. The sermon that Jesus gives here in John 10 really grows out of a confrontation that Jesus had. with the Jewish leaders in John chapter 9. There was a beggar who was born blind and Jesus healed that man and Um he when he saw the man he made clay um and put and uh and put the clay in the man's eyes and the man was just healed from his blindness. This is a great miracle of the Lord Jesus. When the neighbors saw that the man was uh healed, they asked, you know, what happened? How did this happen? And they and the man said, look, it was a man named Jesus is the one that did it. And when the Pharisees found out about this, they didn't like it because they hated Jesus and they didn't believe that the man was really healed. They did they refused to receive his testimony. In fact, they went to his parents and said, you know, it was what happened to your son? And this is where the parents said, look, you know, he's of age, go talk to him. You know, why are you asking us? He's old enough to answer for himself. And so they didn't like the fact that Jesus healed and especially uh on the the fact that it was done on a Sabbath day Which violated some of their man-made traditions. And so what they did was they ultimately excommunicated that man from the synagogue. They threw him out. Because they couldn't have this man coming to the synagogue every week talking about this one called Jesus who healed him and gave him back his sight. Jesus was a threat to their religion and their theology. So, in response to what the Pharisees and religious leaders did, Jesus will give this metaphor about being a good shepherd. Again, these Jewish leaders have been so unfaithful. They were the kind of leaders that God pronounced the woe against in the book of Jeremiah twenty-three that we just saw. And they would put people out of the synagogue if they uh had agreed already that if any man did confess that Jesus was Christ, he should be what? Put out of the synagogue. We'll just excommunicate him. We'll get rid of him. We can't have any of these Jesus followers in our synagogue. And so Jesus will give this story of the Good Shepherd, which stands in stark contrast to the evil, false shepherds that Supposedly, we were leaders of Israel. But in studying the words of Jesus, what we can do is we can learn some things about shepherding, most specifically for our purpose here, about shepherding our family. And so let's look at, I want to give you seven principles for shepherding our family. And here's the first one. Number one, to shepherd your family, lead your children through the door who is Christ. Look in chapter ten, and look at verse number nine. Jesus said, This I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out and find pasture. And Jesus here was talking about conversion. He was talking about salvation. You know, the the uh the the the sheepfolds back then sometimes were brick walls that were built kind of high out of the rocks. that were in the part of the terrain. They would build a high wall, and then they would leave the doorway open and the shepherd himself would sleep at the doorway. He himself was the door. And that's the imagery that Jesus is using here. He is the door. If anyone wants to come into the fold, they have to go through Jesus. And Jesus is salvation. And so the first thing I would say is that true conversion happens when a person comes to Jesus Christ and confesses him as Lord and they turn from their sin and they put all of their faith in Jesus Christ. True conversion is not just church attendance, although that's important. It's not just outward religion. Um you know, all the Pharisees claimed to be spiritual leaders. They had a form of religion, but they just were not born again. They were not converted. You remember the story of Nicodemus in John three, just a few chapters earlier. He came to Jesus by night. The reason he came by night is he didn't want people seeing him on broad daylight coming to Jesus. Here he was a a religious leader and here he was coming to this this hated rabbi named Jesus for spiritual instruction. And you remember what Jesus said? You have to be born again, Nicodemus. And Nicodemus had no idea what he was talking about as far as regeneration. And remember what Jesus said? Are you a master of Israel and you don't know this? How can you be a master of Israel? He had a master's degree in spiritual studies, and yet he didn't know this. Jesus had to explain that to him, and he was representative of All the religious leaders, they had not entered into salvation through Jesus Christ. They didn't really have him as their Savior and Lord. And so they they were hypocrites. Let me just say nothing will turn your child away from the faith more effectively than hip hypocrisy on your part. You must really know Jesus as your Savior. And you must be growing spiritually in that reality. And so, in order for you to lead your children to Christ, it has to be first real in your life. You can't bring your children anywhere that you haven't been. And you can't teach your children the gospel until you first have responded to the gospel. And again, salvation is not just a decision to pray and ask Jesus into your heart. Salvation means that God has brought conviction of sin into your life, a sense of need for the Savior and a turning from your sin and a turning to embrace Christ is putting your faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. And when God saves a person, they have a new heart. What does the Bible say? If any man be in Christ, he's a what? He's a new creature. Old things are passed away. All things become new If your children are truly born again, there's going to be evidence in their spiritual life that they are truly a child of God. There'll be a hunger to know More about the Bible to grow in their relationship with Jesus. There'll be a sensitivity about their own sin. There'll be a willingness to grow spiritually or grow in holiness. A desire to pray, all those things will be evident in the life of someone who is saved. You know, you've heard me say this before, but the biggest influence in my life with respect to the gospel was seeing my Father come to Christ. was seeing him embrace the gospel. I was talking to my mother the other day, and I I asked her, I said, Mom, what exactly caused Dad really to turn to the Lord? You know? And she told me that, you know You know, when we were small, my mother bought like these Bible story books, like these ten volume set of Bible story books with the really nice pictures. I still remember those books. I wonder where they are. I'd like to get them. Anyway, they were I remember the pictures, they were so bright and beautiful, and she would she would tell us stories uh through these books, um, you know, Bible stories. And she said, one day, your father picked up those Bible story books And he started reading them. And he said to me, you know, I know these are stories for children, but we really ought to read these. These are pretty good some of the stories. And then he got an invitation from his brother, George, um, who was coming to this church, a church that was uh you know started fairly recently that was on this place called Rolling Road, you know, and invited my dad to come. He came on a Sunday night and got converted under the preaching of Pastor Johnson And from there on out there was this dramatic change in his life. And he made his family come to church with him, and he shared the gospel with my mother. My mother She thought that she was all right. She she told me she because I thought I was a pretty good person. I was all right. And my father um basically explained to her in his own uh you know, bold way, your works are filthy rags. You know, I can just I can just hear my dad saying that, you know. And finally my mother got the idea that she was a sinner and that she needed to receive Jesus as our Savior. But then he began to teach the gospel to us and teach the gospel to me. And that's one of the greatest things that ever happened in my life. I saw the the change. I saw God working in his life. I saw the difference. I saw the evidences. And then he taught me the gospel. And I want to tell you, parents, that's one of the greatest things you can do for your children. Live and demonstrate the gospel to them and teach them the gospel. So to shepherd your family, lead your children through the door who is Jesus Christ. It has to be real in you first. And notice I said lead them through. Don't send them through. You have to be saved first. But number two, here's another principle. To lead your family, work at knowing them on an individual basis. Look at verse number three of chapter ten. To him the porter openeth, and the sheep hears his voice, and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him, for they know not the voice of strangers. And drop down to verse 14. Jesus said, This, I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. Now you're probably thinking, you know, this is the next principle, and that is to know your children, know them on an individual basis. Now you're probably thinking, I already know all my kids, you know, I know their names. You know, but there's a difference between knowing their names and knowing them. Um, and and and when the Hebrews talked about a person's name, they were referring to the whole person. to their personality, to their likes, to their dislikes. And it is the responsibility of parents to know each of their children. Each child is different. You don't know your children on a group basis. You have to know them on an individual basis. God doesn't make carbon copies. He only makes originals. And so get to know each child. It's amazing to me how that children can come from the same parents and be so different. That ever amaze you? I mean I look at my own four children, how different each of them are. I have two sons, they're so different. I have two daughters, again, they're so different. They all have these different personalities and characteristics and likes and dislikes and desires. And you have to learn each of those things. I think the examples in the Bible, you know, Cain and Abel, how different were they from each other, you know, and then Jacob and Esau. And so there's a principle here of learning and knowing your sheep, knowing your family. Remember what Peter said in 1 Peter 3:7? This was a principle from husbands to wives. He said, Husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge. And Peter was talking to husbands. This means take time to listen. Take time to get your to know your wife well. That principle is also transferable to your children. Take time to get to know them. This means you have to spend quality time with them and quantity time, you know, not just quality. Um, you know, when children are young, you know, take time to play with them, take time to read with them, include them in some of the tasks that you do. All that is helpful in getting to know them very um get to know them very closely and and understanding their relationship. And really, um, you can't properly discipline your kids if your relationship with them is distant or strained. You have to get to know them. Again, in verse number four, it says this, and when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him, and they know his voice. Note that the sheep know the sound of the shepherd's voice. And they follow him on that account. They follow his voice. What does your voice sound like at home? Do your children hear a pleasant happy, gentle voice, or is it harsh? Or is it angry? You know? Does it come across, you know, loud? And and I I have to be honest with you, my wife sometimes has had to tell me about this, you know, this loud preacher here. She's like, Jerry, you need to lower your voice. I don't even realize I'm being loud. You know. And she she goes, you know, I know you're not harsh, but you're coming across harsh. You know, when you speak, you need to lower your voice and be gentle, you know. And I'll say something like I am lower my voice, you know And you say, Well I can't control that. You know, when I'm I'm angry, you know, I just get look, you can control your voice. You ever you ever hear two people that are argument, they're arguing back and forth and they're loud and the phone rings and you go, Hello You can control it. Make sure that you have a cheerful voice. Make sure you have a tone that speaks of love and tenderness and warmth. It should say to your children, Come to me. Come, you can come to me about anything. That's the kind of tone that you want. The sheep will follow the voice of their shepherd. Now there's a third principle here. Not only lead your children through the door called Christ and work at getting to know each of them on an individual basis, but number three, to shepherd your family, you must set the example. You have to set the example in verse 4. Notice where it says that he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him. The good shepherd goes before his flock, and they're following after him. You know, that's what leadership is. You know, you you you don't drive sheep, you drive cattle. But you lead sheep. Um David Roper writes this about shepherding. He said shepherds didn't drive their sheep. They led them at the shepherd's morning call, a distinctive sound, each flock would rise and follow its master to the feeding grounds Even if two shepherds called their flocks, even if two shepherds called their flocks at the same time, the sheep were intermingled, but they never followed the wrong shepherd All day long the sheep followed their own shepherd as he searched the wilderness looking for grassy meadows and sheltered pools where his flock could feed and drink in peace. And I think that's a good example there. Again, parents, we have to be the example. We can't tell our children to live one way while we're living another. The book of Proverbs says this in Proverbs 23, 26, My son, give me your heart, and let your eyes observe my ways. There are two things there in that that principle principles, I think, in that proverb. Number one, you have to get the heart of your children. You want them to give you their heart. And then after that, you want to be an example. You want them to follow your footsteps, follow your Ways. If you want up your children to overcome their sins, then you overcome your sins. Beginning at the thought level If you don't win the battle on the inside, you're not going to win the battle over sin. If you want your children to speak kindly to one another, then you speak kindly. to others in your family. If you want your children to be quick to forgive, then you be quick to forgive. If you want them to be cheerful helpers around the house, then you have to be a cheerful helper around the house. Right? That's simple to say, hard to practice, right? But we gotta put it into practice. Here's number four. Again, number one, lead your children through the door called Christ. Know uh get to know them on an individual basis Set the example number four to shepherd your family you must lead them to the pastures of God's Word. Look in verse 9, where Jesus again said, I am the door, by me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved. And shall go in and out and find pasture. Verse ten. The thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. I am come that they might have life and that they might have it abundantly Note where their shepherd leads his flock to the abundant pastures. Where he says they'll go in and out and they'll find pasture. That is to say they will be well fed. This means you must lead your family into God's Word. Read Scripture with them. Again, I remember my mom doing this when, you know, even before she knew the Lord, she always had a desire for us to learn about the Bible and learn about God. And so she would read those Bible stories. And I still remember those stories, you know, all these years later. Um And so I would just encourage you to have a time when you sit down and read scripture together or maybe use a Bible story book and Talk about it. You know, when they're smaller, start out slow. Don't make it too long, but use some kind of maybe family devotion guide, but something that keeps their interest. Again, I was telling you that we did this with our kids and um find a time that works for you for us at work before bed, as I told you last time, because they didn't want to go to bed ever and they were always willing to sit down and listen, you know And then I would just say the next thing about this is just be consistent. And as the kids grow older than you, begin to give them more of Scripture, more of things that they can understand during that family time. And also be an example, getting them into places like, you know, we have awanas, they're learning the word of God, Sunday school, you know, one of the biggest battles and challenges that we've had after COVID is getting people back into the into the the good habit of coming for Sunday school. And getting to a class and learning the Word of God, it's hard to get teachers back into wanting to teach. It's hard to get people back into studying the Word of God because while COVID came, we got into these habits. that we're out of the norman or normal flow of what we would normally do with regard to our spiritual life. But I want to tell you something, Perry, it's important Because remember that it's just a few hours each week that they're getting the input of the Word of God. They have to get it here in church, but that can't be a substitute for what you're doing in your house. It has to be a supplement to what you're doing at your house. And you have to be consistent. It's always challenges to your time. As as a family, believe me, I understand those challenges. But this is this make this a priority. Here's the fifth thing I want to share with you. Remember I said lead your children through the door who is Christ. Work at knowing each of them. Set the example, lead them to the pastures of God's word. And then number five, to shepherd your family, you must guard them from danger Look at verse number 10. The thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. I am come that they might have a life. that they might have it more abundantly. I am the good shepherd, and the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. But he that is a hireling and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep or not, seeeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth. And the wolf catches them and scattereth the sheep. The hireling fleeth because he is a hireling and careth not for the sheep. But of course I think again Jesus here is referring to the false shepherds of Israel. They're the they're the thieves, so to speak. And I think also there's in this A hints of the work of Satan who is a liar and a murderer and a thief and all of that. And you don't need me to tell you that Satan is after our children today. And I think it's it's worse now than ever Uh you know, correct me if I'm wrong, but it's there's just so many challenges out there. And Satan is after the family. He's trying to confuse our children. You know, right now, you know, our ch you we have children that are confused about their gender. How did that happen? Because of all the lies that are going out there in the world. And because there are people telling them who they are outside of what scripture is, let me tell you who your children are. Your children who are who God created them to be, they are what God says they are, and nothing else. So today our world is filled with more lies and more deception and more false teaching and more worldly philosophy than ever. And it's going to take vigilance on the part of parents to guard your children. We can't isolate our children from the world. They have to live in this world, but what we can do is we can insulate them with the word of God and pray for them. Um and so we must guard their minds and their hearts, especially when they're young. Guard what they watch, guard the video games they play, guard what they listen to, guard who they hang around, their friends Guard where they go on the internet. Shepherds have to constantly watch over sheep. You know why sheep are so vulnerable? They're so vulnerable to the enemy. They're so vulnerable to the wolf that's out there. The two most important duties of a shepherd was guiding them and guarding them. And that's the two most important duties of parents. And again, you can only do that if you're guarding yourself from those safe influences. Are you guarding your own heart? Are you guarding your own mind from all these things? So let me give you number six. Again, number one, lead your children through the door, who is Christ. Work at getting to know each of them. Set the example for them, lead them through the pastures of God's word, guard them from danger. But here's number six, to shepherd your family, you must serve them You must serve them. Again, we're looking at the example of Jesus in verse 11. We read this, but look at it again. I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. Look at verse 15. As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. Look in verse 17. Therefore doth my father love me because I lay down my life that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, I have power to take it again. The commandment have I received of my Father. And here, of course, you know in these verses that Jesus was referring to his own sacrificial death on the cross. Now I realize that as parents, we can't imitate that. Only Christ could do what he did in that. But we can but his laying down his life is an example for us. of willing to sacrifice on behalf of those that we love. And also Jesus called us to do what? To take up our cross and follow him. To die to ourself. Remember, Jesus said, look, if you lose your life, you're going to find it. If you find your life, you're going to lose it. And so that's the promise of Jesus. When we serve our family by putting their best interests above our own selfish pursuits, there's a sense in which we find ourselves. We find our life. And so we have to be selfless. You know what love is? I think you know there's a lot of definitions floating about love. I think if you look the Bible, the summary of what Scripture says is that love is simply selfless sacrificial acts on the part of someone else. It's just doing selfless acts that require sacrifice on your part. to someone else. Whenever you do that, that is an expression of love. That's what Jesus embodied in his own life. When he died on the cross, that was the most selfless the most sacrificial act ever. And sometimes we must sacrifice for our families. We must make sure that they they they come first and we have to do what is best for them. And so we should do this out of love. And that again, you know, it may not mean something big, some big sacrifice. It might be just little examples on of day-to-day selfless serving of others. Just just selflessly do something for others. I've seen dads their authority to make their family serve them. Hey, I'm the head of this house. You know, go do this, go do that. And so on. And and and you know, there's times when we need to give our children chores and follow after them and give them those responsibilities. I'll grant you that. But we need to be an example of selflessness. Otherwise, we will raise selfish children. Let your kids see you willingly sacrifice what you want for someone else. Not just for your family, but also in the Lord's work, in the Lord's kingdom. You know, I've said this before, an all-family counseling The one thing that I have to deal with more than anything else that hurts families is selfishness. That's the one thing. I mean every problem, almost every problem I could say, in counseling with families, that is the root. The root it gets down to just being selfish, putting yourself ahead of others. Um loving yourself more than you love your family or loving others. That's called narcissist narcissism and if after the the Greek mythology of narcissist who was a hunter who was renowned for his beauty, his enemy was uh Nemesis. And the way Nemesis got it narcissists was that he saw a pool where there was a reflection and he showed it to narcissists. And narcissists looked down at the pool and he was so beautiful he couldn't pull himself away from the pool. And so he died there by the pole, at least that's how the story goes, unable to leave the beauty of his reflection. This is fixation on yourself, a self-love. That's narcissism. And you know what? That's the defining characteristic, I hate to say it, of Americans. That's not just my opinion. Christopher Lash wrote a best-selling book called The Culture of Narcissism, where he examined and he evaluated the dominant characteristic of American culture. And he said the dominant characteristic of American culture is that they're narcissistic. And then he wrote this, to live for the moment It's the prevailing passion to live for yourself, not for your predecessors. You live for yourself, not for your family, not for those that will come behind you. It's all about me. And that idea, that philosophy caters to the depraved nature of man. When Adam fell in the garden, the selfishness was just inordinate in his sin, sinful heart. I think it just it just grew out of out of uh uh proportion greatly. And again I think selfishness is the greatest destroyer of many things. It's the root of sin. And by the way, our culture today appeals to that. You know, have it your way. You deserve a break today. I know these are old slogans, you know. Look out for number one. You know, you owe it to yourself. All of that is this culture of narcissism. But God calls us to be different. Remember when the church of Philippi was having problems, internal conflicts, people were not getting along? And what did Paul do? He said this, let this mind be in you, which was in Christ Jesus. You know what he did? He pointed to Christ, who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. But made himself of no reputation, took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. The most selfless person to ever live was Jesus Christ. And his incarnation coming to this world, and his serving mankind, and his humiliating death Paul said, you need to have the mind of Christ and think of others, not yourself. Model the mind, the selfless mind of Jesus Christ before your family. And then finally, number seven. To shepherd your family. Tenderly care for each one, even if he or she is not being especially lovable Look in chapter ten, look at verse twelve. But he that is a hireling and not the shepherd, who's owned the sheep or not, see if the wolf coming and leaveth the sheep and fleeth and the wolf catches them and scatters the sheep. The harley fleeth because he's a harley and careth not for the sheep. The harley sees the flock in trouble and he takes off. He doesn't care about the flock, but he only cares about himself But the Good Shepherd stays with them through difficulties, and he helps bring them to a safe place, a secure place again. You know, it's easy to shepherd our sheep when they're being sweet and kind and they say, yes, sir, Dad, I will love to clean my room. I would love to take out the trash. I would delay me. That doesn't happen a lot, at least not in my family. You know, did you know that sheep can be stubborn? They can act like goats and buttheads. Isn't that what the Bible says? All we like sheep have what? Gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. You know, we want to get our own way, we want to be stubborn. But you know what? The shepherd doesn't walk away from the stubborn sheep or the straying sheep. You know He g he continues to go after them. He continues to shepherd them. He will correct them. That's why he had a rod and a staff. A rod can sometimes correct stubborn sheep. A staff can direct um you know, sheep that have gone astray, but he doesn't give up on them. You know, the goal for us as fathers and and parents is is to basically see them grow and mature spiritually Uh what Paul said in Ephesians 5 that we that they they grow uh like the bride is pure and and blameless, spiritually mature. And that means that we have to love our family and love our children even when they are not lovable. Because you know what? Christ loves his church when we're not lovable. Sometimes we're not acting the way that we should. Um so ask yourself, how can I best love my wife and my children in situations when maybe they're not lovable. We have to continue to love. That's what the shepherd does. Stephen Cole wrote once of hearing the late Joe Bailey speak on the subject of enjoying your children. Joe Bailey was a Christian leader from the Chicago area, and uh his story is he lost three of his children in death. And uh Stephen Cole said that when you hear him preach, and I'd never heard him personally, but Stephen Cole said when you hear him preach, compassion and tenderness kind of oozed out of him when he spoke. But he said he told about a time back in the rebellious seventies when one of his sons rebelled against all of his biblical conservative teaching that he taught his son. He grew his hair long, he grew a beard. He he ran away from the house. He was living in a rundown flop house, you know, where kids would drop drop in and they would crash for a few days before moving on. And he says one night he got a phone call, Bailey got a phone call from someone who uh identified themselves as a police officer. They said that they had his son down at the police station in custody. And so he got dressed and he rushed down to the police station. Um, but the police station said, We never heard of your son. And that night he went to other police stations looking for his son, and he was nowhere in those places, and so he concluded that it must have been a prank. So before heading home, he went ahead, it was late, he went into that flop house, and uh he stepped over some of the kids that were laying there on in sleeping bags sleeping in that house, and he found his son. And he saw his son there in the flop house. And he reached down and he kissed his son on the forehead. Just before he left and went back. And then he says this. He says, My son is now a pastor. And he told me not long ago, he said, Dad, do you know what turned me around? He said, No what, son? He said, that night when you came into my room and you kissed me in the middle of the night, he said, You didn't know that I was awake, but I was. And he said, I thought if my dad loves me that much, I'd better get my life together with the Lord. That's the kind of love that we need to show to our kids, even when they're not being especially lovable. Our goal is that each of our family members live for the glory of God. That is our goal. And God will be glorified in our life, in the life of our children, in the life of our family, because again, our goal is to share the gospel around the world that God might be glorified. And so, again, let me just summarize. To shepherd your family, lead them to the door who is Christ. Work at knowing them on an individual basis. Set the example. Lead them to the pastures of God's word. Guard them from danger. Serve them. And tenderly care for each one, even if he or she is not being especially lovable. Now you might say, where do I start? Well, that depends on where you are now. I would just say, first of all, get consistent in your own spiritual life. Make sure you know Christ. Make sure you know the gospel, that you've embraced the gospel. Make sure you're living out the gospel. Spend time with the Lord. Read the Word of God. Have a family devotion. Pray. And if you've got children that don't know the Lord, be committed to praying for them until God brings them conversion. Until God moves in their heart. It's God's will for your children to know Jesus Christ. And so don't give up. And just one more thing: have fun as a family. Have fun. Whenever the opportunity comes, make sure that you take full advantage of those opportunities to visit together and have fun together, build those memories because they're going to mean a lot As they grow older. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for this wonderful chapter, which for us serves as a model, as an example of how to shepherd. And Lord, we have to confess coming to it that we failed in many of these areas. Lord, I know I have. There's been times when I haven't been consistent. There's times when I haven't been as loving as I needed to be. There's times, Lord, when I um didn't set the right example in things. And there's times, Lord, when I was pretty selfish, quite frankly, instead of putting others ahead of me. Lord, I pray for your forgiveness. And I pray, Lord, that you'll help me to be a good shepherd to my family, to my children, to my grandchildren. And then to your flock. These are your sheep. They're precious in your sight. And Lord, you want to know them. You want them to know you. And Lord, that certainly is our heart's desire. And I pray that, Lord, you'll just use this to challenge and encourage our hearts to do all that we can. Lord, you told us in your word that our children are like arrows in the hand of a mighty man. That they can go where we can go. We can fire them from the bow of our home. And they can go out in other places in the world. And be a force for God. That's our desire, Lord. Our heart's desire as parents is that they know Christ, our children, our grandchildren, that they be used of you. So Lord, help us. And Lord, we're so dependent on your grace in this. So Lord, would you please help us in this? And I want you to, with heads bowed and eyes closed, would you just take a moment and Well, quiet reflection. Would you just pray right where you are and say, God help me? Maybe he's there's areas that you need to tell him about Take a moment while we're our heads are bowed, we're quiet before the Lord. And just reach out to Him. Right for that strange child. May that God will help you to be the right example. And Father again, thank you for this time in the Word. May it be an encouragement to all of your people here tonight, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen