For just a few minutes, I want to just share God's word with you tonight and just give you um something to think about as we worship the Lord. And I'm going to be reading out of Luke chapter two. I know it's uh dark out there, so you don't have to feel like you need to follow along in your Bible, but Luke chapter 2 and verse number 8, and I want to speak tonight on this passage here. Luke 2, the Christmas story. Verse 8 says this and there were in this same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night night. And lo the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. Now during the Christmas season, I've been going through a series with our church called the Characters of Christmas. And we looked at many of the major characters in this story. We looked at Zacharias and saw how that Uh he was the theme of his life was how God remembered his promise for the Messiah coming into the world. We looked at Mary and we saw that with her The theme was, with God nothing shall be impossible. We looked at the life of Joseph and saw how he was an example of receiving the virgin birth. Last Sunday we looked at the wise men and they were men who were seeking the Messiah, an example to us on how to do that. Tonight I just want to take a few minutes and look at the shepherds who are key characters in this Christmas story They were chosen by God to play a special role in this story. Luke writes about them. He mentions the shepherds. But let me just say that in the first century Did you know that shepherds were not looked upon very highly? In fact, some may consider them as being social outcasts. One scholar said this most of the time shepherds were dishonest and thieving They led their herds on the other people's land and pilfered the product of the land. Leon Morris wrote this. He said a as a class, shepherds had a bad reputation. They were considered unreliable and not were not allowed to give testimony. And yet this is the very group that God chose to give testimony to the greatest miracle that human history had ever seen. They are recipients of God's grace. And I want to just show you three ways in which they were part of the story. First of all, did you know that shepherds were involved in the prophecy that God made about the Christ child or the birth of Christ? And to understand this, uh we have to look at at the prophecy of Jeremiah, Jeremiah the Old Testament prophet again. I know you can't turn there, but just let me give you the story. Just think back six hundred years before the birth of the Messiah. Uh Jeremiah is in prison. Think about him being in prison there in the city of Jerusalem. He's a prophet of God. He didn't have a very happy ministry. In fact, Jeremiah was called the weeping prophet And that's because he preached a message of judgment to a rebellious people that refused to repent. They laughed at him, they mocked him, they ridiculed him. And they threw him in prison. Now the false prophets were out there preaching that prosperity was coming, you know, your best life now, or your best life is right ahead of you. And um Jeremiah, however, was preaching a message of judgment because of the sin of the people. In fact, at one point God said to Jeremiah, Jeremiah, go Throughout the city of Jerusalem and see if you can find one man who seeks justice, who speaks the truth. If you can just find one person, I'll spare this whole city from judgment. And Jeremiah looked, and you guess what? He couldn't find one And so judgment was sealed for this nation. And so Jeremiah is in a prison. Uh the king of the Babylonians, Nebuchadnezzar, had surrounded the city of Jerusalem. He was getting ready to uh destroy the city. It was about to become a ghost town. And and Jeremiah, if you can just put yourself in his position, he is he's depressed, he's in a dark prison, he's been beaten, he uh is knows what's going to happen. And so this is a very dark time for him. He feels alone, he feels forsaken, he feels insignificant. And right at that moment, God gives him a word. Did you ever notice that sometimes at the darkest moment God gives us a message of hope? And this is what God did for Jeremiah. It may be you here tonight. You might feel like yourself in a prison of darkness. Maybe the past year has been a very difficult, hard year on you. No doubt it's been on many families. Throughout the year we've suffered the loss of loved ones because of sickness. We've had a lot of things happen. Maybe you feel a little bit of darkness tonight. It's been hard for you to get into the Christmas spirit. Jeremiah uh gets a wonderful promise from God. And you know what God says? God said to him that Um the branch of David or the branch of righteousness was going to come. And this is what God said in Jeremiah 33, verse 15. In those days And at that time will I cause the branch of righteousness to grow up unto David, and he shall execute judgment and righteousness in the land. Jeremiah, there is coming a Messiah, there is coming a king And there's going to be joy again. He said that in verse 11, the voice of joy and the voice of gladness and the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride. You'll hear them, and they shall say praise. the Lord of hosts. You're saying, Jeremiah, there's going to come a day where joy is going to come. Joy's coming back. Now if you're Jeremiah, what are you thinking? When is that going to come? When is the time of that? And God doesn't give them the specific time, but he does give them a hint. He says this. He says, At that time there will be a habitation of shepherds, causing their flocks to lie down They will be watching over their flocks all around the areas of Jerusalem. God said, Jeremiah, there's going to come a time of peace. You'll hear the voice of joy again, you'll hear the voice of a bridegroom and a bride, and you'll see shepherds that are out there, and they will be watching over their flocks. Well, doesn't that sound familiar? Because really Jeremiah maybe foresaw what Luke will later write, when Luke wrote this in verse eight w where we read, And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock. by night. It seems like that Jeremiah in that prophecy in chapter 33 is describing what Luke is saying here in Luke chapter 2. that at this time it was a time of peace. Luke tells us that Augustus, Roman the the Caesar Augustus was on the throne. He had instituted what is called the Pax Romana, the Roman peace. It was a time of peace all over the world. And we also see in Luke chapter 2 that there was a young, newly wedded couple named Mary and Joseph traveling from Galilee down to Judea. And they were happy. They had joy. You know why? Because Mary knew that she was going to be the mother of the Messiah. In fact, we saw earlier on in Luke chapter 1 Mary's joyful song, when I've been doing this series, we looked at Mary, and the song that she sang of joy, because she would be the mother of the Messiah. And so this is exactly what Jeremiah prophesied. This is the fulfillment of what the Old Testament says, that at this precise time At a time of peace, at a time when uh the shepherds were watching over their flocks that the Messiah would come. So we see shepherds are involved in the prophecy of Christ's birth, but also they're involved in the place of Christ's birth. There's another prophecy about the birth of Christ, and I know that you perhaps know this. It's Micah 5. 2. Let me read it to you. But thou Bethlehem Ephraim Though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, Ju yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel, whose going forth have been from of old, from everlasting. Notice that Micah the prophet Prophesied hundreds of years before the birth of Christ, the birth of the Messiah, that he would be born in Bethlehem, and not just Bethlehem. If Micah had said he would be born in Bethlehem only Maybe people back then would have gotten the wrong town because did you know there were two Bethlehem? There was a Bethlehem up north in Galilee, and there was a Bethlehem in Judea in the south hill country And the Bethlehem in the northland was only five miles from Nazareth where Mary and Joseph lived. So if Micah would have said that he will be born in Bethlehem, most people probably would have thought that he would be born five miles out of Nazareth in the north Bethlehem, but he's more specific. He said in Bethlehem, Ephrata Though thou be little among the thousands of Judah. He was very specific. Not just Bethlehem. He would be born in Bethlehem of Judea. And this is very specific, and it's amazing to me that Micah knew this 700 years before this event took place. He predicted the very place, the very town that where the Messiah would be born. And by the way, the the scholars knew this because you remember in Matthew 2 when the the wise men came looking for the Messiah, where we he would be born They were very specific when Uherod called the wise men and the scribes together. Actually, not the wise men, but when he called the scribes together He asked them, where is this one born, King of the Jews? Where is he going to be born? And they said, Oh, it's going to be in Bethlehem of Ephrata, right down here, five miles outside of Jerusalem. That's where he's going to be born. And so the Bible was very specific about that. And let me tell you why. Luke is careful to point this out, and Matthew is careful to point this out, because there were many people going around saying Jesus could not be the Messiah because he was from Nazareth. And they would say, can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Nazareth was a nowhere town across the other side of the tracks, we would say today, a place where people that were there were despised by others And they would say this, you know, and for instance in John 7 verse 41, uh others said this is the Christ, but some said, is the Christ to come from Galilee? Has not the scripture said that Christ comes of the offspring of David and he comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was. And so there were people questioning, how could Jesus be the Messiah? The Messiah is supposed to come from Bethlehem in the hill country in the south And this is one Jesus is from Nazareth. How can he be the Messiah? That's why Matthew and Luke takes great pains to be very specific. that Jesus from Nazareth was born in Bethlehem of Judea in fulfillment of the Old Testament. prophecies. Now here's the question. How why would Jesus, who whose mother and father, actually stepfather, we know Joseph wasn't a real father, he Mary was the virgin, right? How could that they being from Nazareth give birth? How could Mary give birth to Jesus in Bethlehem? Why would that happen? And Luke tells us why. Luke the meticulous historian. Look in chapter 2, verse 1. If you can, but let me let me read it to you. And it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. So Luke tells us why. Mary and Joseph had to go back down to their ancestral home, which was Bethlehem, because Caesar Augustus put out a decree that Everyone was going to be taxed. Actually, the word taxed here is a word that means census. He was going to take a census for the purpose of knowing his military strength and taxing people. In order to do that, the Jews had to return their a to their ancestral home. And there was another thing that's really not said in the in the passage, but we know that it had to be there had to be a deadline, right? When you think about taxes What is the date that comes to everyone's mind? April what? I don't even know the date, but um there has to be a deadline. Why else would Joseph and Mary go down to Bethlehem in the dead of winter? This is an 80-mile journey into over rough terrain, into the hill country they're ascending up from Galilee down to Judea, up into the hill country. When Mary was nine months pregnant, why would you make that journey unless you had to be there? There was a deadline And they had to get back to Bethlehem. And also think about this, you know, Herod Augustus thought he was in control back then, giving this big decree. But we see the sovereign hand of God behind that, don't we? Because he gave that decree at the right moment Had he had given it any other time, Jesus wouldn't have been born in Bethlehem. He would have been born in Nazareth. But in order to for God to fulfill his word, Caesar Augustus gave the decree at a precise time, and Mary and Joseph had to get down to Bethlehem, and while she was there, Luke tells us in verse uh 3. All went to be taxed, everyone into their own city. And Joseph went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. Because he was of the house and lineage of David, to be to be taxed with Mary, his espouse wife, great with child. And so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be a liv be delivered while they were there is when she then would give birth to Christ in fulfillment of what the scripture says, this Old Testament prophecy. But can I also tell you that the Bible is even more specific than that? Shepherds were involved in the prophecy of Christ's birth. They were also involved in the place of Christ's birth. They played another role in this. Because let me talk about specifically where in Bethlehem Christ was born. Because there's been some question about this the specific place of his birth. We know it's Bethlehem, but where specifically? I think there's been some wrong ideas out there about the birth of Christ. In fact, if you go to Bethlehem today, they have a church here called the Church of the Nativity. It was built over a cave. And this w this cave was the supposed place of Christ's birth. And we can thank Helena, the mother of the Emperor Constantine. who found this spot and she said this must be the spot where Christ was born. And so now there are thousands of people every year that go to the Church of the Nativity and they go down these winding staircase to that specific spot where they think Christ was born. I've been there myself. I've been to that church. I've been to that spot. People come there from all over. I don't think that's where Christ was born. Uh don't pay a whole lot of money to go over there and see that place. There's a lot of other things to see. But I don't think that that was the spot where Christ was born. And let me tell you why. I think the Bible tells us a little bit more about this Now the only clues we get from Luke is in his gospel where it says, look down in verse number seven, and she brought forth her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling clothes. Laid him in a manger because there was no room for them in the end. Really the the the the two clues we have is the one manger and no room in the inn. Since there was a manger, many assumed that it was in a stable behind an inn. And so images of a motel, motel six kind of comes to our mind, and then a stable behind that, you know That's what we think about. But the gospel accounts do not mention a stable. And when the word inn is used, it's not really talking about a motel. The Greek word that Luke uses for N is cataluma. There's only one other place that Luke uses this word in his whole gospel. And that is in um or actu I should say in the whole New Testament it's not used anywhere else. It's used to speak about the Lord's Supper, the Last Supper. When Jesus with his disciples got an upper room, it's the same word, cataluma, a guest house. You see, most houses back in this day had a guest room or a guest house. And that's the word here. So this is the word that's used that that that um Luke is using here. In fact, if Luke Wanted to talk about a motel or an inn, he probably would have used the word Pandokion, because that's the word that talks about a motel or an inn. And Luke does use that word, but he doesn't use it here. You know where he uses it? He uses it in the story of the Good Samaritan. Remember that story a man fell among thieves? Good Samaritan comes along, takes the man, puts him in a Pandokion and inn. And there's even in that story an inn keeper, and he is a Pandokias An innkeeper, but Luke doesn't use those words here in this story. He doesn't even mention an innkeeper. We only include the innkeeper in the story because of the word end that is there But I don't think it's a hotel or a motel the way we think about it. I think that but Bethlehem was a was a very small town. I don't even think they would have had a little in and a small town like that. Again it was common for homes in that day to have a guest room a cataluma. And this is the word that Luke uses here. And when the census takes place, all of the relatives are coming back to Bethlehem, and the family guest house is probably full with other relatives. By the time Mary and Joseph get there, There's no place for them to go. There's no room in the guest house. So where do they go? Again, some people assume that they went behind the guest house to a barn. And there Jesus was born in a manger. Why do people assume that? Again, because of the word manger. A manger is a feeding trough for animals, so they they think it was a barn. But we don't have to wonder about this because there's a prophecy given in Micah 4. 8. Listen to this prophecy, Micah 4. 8, and thou, O tower of the flock. The stronghold of the daughter of Zion, unto thee shall it come, even the first dominion, the kingdom shall come to the daughter of Jerusalem. The phrase here, tower of the flock, in Hebrew is literally Migdal Eater. the watchtower of the flock. Now what is this? This watchtower. Did you know that? So according to this verse here, we have to look at it in Micah 4. 8, the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. In the watchtower of the flock, the Messiah would be born in McDahl Eder, literally. And again, what was this watchtower? What does it have to do with shepherds? What does it have to do with sheep? A watchtower was used by shepherds to watch over their flocks. And that this is also a place where lambs were born Now if you go to Bethlehem, what you're going to find out, it wasn't just a flat plain. It was hills all over. In order to watch over your sheep, you had to get up high. And shepherds will use these watchtowers to get up high and watch over their sheep. Let me read you what Cooper Abrams wrote. He said, This watchtower from the ancient times was used by the shepherds for protection from their enemies and wild beasts. It was also the place used were safely brought to give birth to the lambs In this sheltered building, the priest would bring the yews which were about to lamb for protection. These special lambs came from a unique flock. that was designated for sacrifice at the temple in Jerusalem. And so one of the duties of these shepherds who were also some of them served perhaps as priests was to look at these lands that were born there to make sure they were without blemish. They met up with all the specifications so that they could later be used in the sacrifice. in Jerusalem. And did you know it was also the job of these shepherds? Whenever a ew gave birth to a lamb, you know what they would do? The first thing they would do is they would wrap these little lambs in swaddling linen clothes And clothe them in white to protect them because they were uh they were they had passed the inspection, they were going to be used as lambs in the sacrifice in Jerusalem. And also remember that th they were under rabbinical rules of cleanliness and holiness And they had to maintain strict cleanliness, ceremonial cleanliness in that place where these lambs were born, because again, these lambs would be used for sacrifice in Jerusalem. Let me read to you what one Jewish scholar wrote in his classic book, The Life and Times of Jesus, the Messiah. This is Alfred Eldersheim. He said that the Messiah was to be born in Bethlehem with settled conviction. Equally so was the belief that he was to be revealed from Magdahl Eder, the tower of the flock. This McDowell Eder was not the watchtower for ordinary flocks, which pastured on the barren ground. beyond Bethlehem, but lay close to the town on the road to Jerusalem. A passage in the Mishnah leads to the conclusion that the flocks which pastured there were destined for temple sacrifice. And accordingly, that the shepherds who watched over them were not ordinary shepherds. So I believe here's what happened. I believe that when Joseph and Mary made the long trip from Nazareth into the hill country of Bethlehem They went to the home of their relatives. They found that the Cataluma, the guest house, was completely full. And they went to another place. They went to the watchtower. Hoping to find refuge there, and they were met by shepherds who offered refuge to a pregnant woman about to give birth and her husband. And this was to fulfill what Micah said in Micah 4, 8, and thou, O tower of the flock, the kingdom shall come to the daughter of Jerusalem. And that was the location on that consecrated ground, in that tower, where lambs were birthed and wrapped in swaddling clothes for the sacrifice in Jerusalem. That's where the Lamb of God, Jesus Christ. would be born that night. Again, Abrams write this, wrote this, Magdal Eder at Bethlehem is the perfect place for Christ to be born. He was born in the very birthplace of tens of thousands of lambs which have been sacrificed to prefigure him. And I think he's right God promised this. God pictured it. God performed it. At that place, Migdull Eater. It all fits together. This is the place where sacrificial lambs were to be born. And so he was born at that place. Now, think about this too. When when the angels come and they announce to the shepherds about the birth of the Messiah Look at ver and verse eight it says, And they were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior. which is Christ the Lord. Now listen to what they say in verse twelve. And this shall be a sign unto you. Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes. lying in a manger. Now the word sign here normally this speaks about a miracle, right? Something really huge. That's what the word sign means normally. It could also mean To see something that you don't normally see. This is something that's very unusual. What will be the sign? The Messiah is born today in this area right here. And this is the sign. You'll find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger. You don't normally see that. You don't normally see babies laying in a manger wrapped in swaddling clothes. And notice the angel doesn't give them any more instructions other than that. And what does the Bible say? The shepherds run to go see it. Now here's my question: how do they know where to go? The Bible doesn't say they went to Bethlehem knocking on the door saying, Hey, anybody here have a baby? Is there a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes around here somewhere? They don't do any investigation. They know as shepherds, when the angels said swaddling clothes, they knew where that took place. They ran straight to that place. Because they understood that lambs would be w wrapped in swaddling clothes there at the tower of the flock. They knew sheep would feed from mangers there. And so they went to that one place. You can go to Bethlehem today, you can go to what is called Shepherd's Field. I've been there. And uh we don't know where that tower was precisely on that field. But it was somewhere in that region, I believe on that night, where Jesus was born there in that field. at that tower, in a manger, the place where so many lambs were born for sacrifice, it was picturing perfectly what Christ would do. for the world. Let me give you the a final thought here tonight. Shepherds were involved in the prophecy of Christ. Shepherds were involved in the place of Christ's birth, but they were also involved with the proclamation of Christ's birth. Look our birth, look down at verse 14. This really distills in this one verse the whole purpose for Christ's coming. Glory to God in the highest and on earth. Peace And good will towards men. Christ came to bring peace and goodwill and to bring God glory Peace, what he's talking about here is not peace from war. We still have war since the birth of Christ. And what he's talking about is individual peace in the heart. Did you know that your greatest need is to have peace with God? Those who have never trusted Jesus as their Savior, you have a problem. You know what it is. You have sin in your heart that needs to be forgiven between you and Almighty God. Because the Bible tells us that those who don't know the Lord, you're at war with God. You say, wait a minute, I'm not at war. Well, the Bible says that those who believe not are condemned already. There's no peace. Your sins have to be forgiven. God is a holy God. He demands that sin be punished, but he doesn't want to punish you That's why he sent Jesus to die for your sins, so that when you trust Jesus, there's now peace in your heart, peace between you and God. Peace and good will towards men. This is the whole purpose. Now these shepherds, you know what? They believe because it tells us in verse 15, it came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into heaven. The shepherds said one to another, let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. You know what? They believed. They believed what God said. They ran to that place. And they saw the Messiah for themselves. Not only did they believe, they shared Christ, it says in verse 17, and when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. They went out and they told others. What an example to us. You know what we need to do? We need to believe in who Jesus is, the Savior. The Son of God come to die for sins, to give us peace, to have our so that we can have our sins forgiven. We can have peace with Almighty God. And have eternal life in heaven. We need to share Christ with others. And the other thing they did was they worshiped. Listen to what the Bible says. And their shepherds return in verse 20. Glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told unto them. They were glorifying, praising God for what they had seen, what they had heard. And God had chosen these shepherds to be a special part of this story, this beautiful story. They were the ones who first proclaimed the birth of the Savior Christ. What a privilege they had. The greatest story ever told and they got to play a key role in that. And by the way, the you know the story is not over. You can be a part of this story. when you trust Jesus Christ as your Savior and your Lord. Won't you bow for prayer with me tonight? And I just want to ask you, friend, do you know Jesus? Are you certain that you've trusted him as your Savior? And if not, I would invite you tonight. Just to pray. The greatest gift you could ever receive is salvation through Jesus Christ. And He wants to save you. Would you be willing right now where you are to pray, reach out and say, Lord Jesus? I don't want this Christmas season to go by without receiving the greatest gift. I know I'm a sinner. Jesus, please save me. I need you as my Savior and my Lord. Would you be willing to pray that? Reach out and tell Jesus, I need you, Lord. I'm a sinner. Please save me Bring peace to my heart. Give me peace. And if you pray that, friend, he will save you indeed. He will come into your heart. Forgive you for your sins and give you eternal life. Father, thank you again for your word. Bless your word tonight to every hearing heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.