Good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take God's word, please, and open to 2 Kings. Be finding 2 Kings chapter 13 as we continue our study on Wednesday night of 2 Kings. We're going to look at uh chapter thirteen tonight while you're finding that. In his autobiography, uh Just As I Am, Billy Graham tells about a conversation that he had with the newly elected president of that time, John F. Kennedy. He's he writes in the book on the way back to Kennedy's house, the President-elect stopped the car and turned to me and said, Do you believe in the second coming of Jesus Christ? And uh Billy Graham responded, he said, I most certainly too do. And uh the president said, well, does my church believe it? And he said, well they have it in their creeds and uh they don't preach it, he said. They don't tell us much about it. I'd like to know what you think. And so Billy Graham just very quickly gave him a little summary of what the Bible says about our Savior Jesus Christ's burial resurrection coming. And I think that the pre thing we have to Then later when you met again in eighteen sixty three And he said uh he hesitated for a moment and got in the car and drove away. Well, they never got that other opportunity because not too long after that, President Kennedy was assassinated. And Billy Graham writes in his autobiography, he said Uh as he was thinking about this, uh he said, his hesitation at the car door and his request haunt me still. What was on his mind? And then he says, I should have gone with them. And he said it was a moment that I could not recover. Think about that. What a missed opportunity that he had as he regr uh thought about that. Now This idea of missed opportunity is the theme that kind of ties chapter 13 of 2 Kings together. It's all about missed opportunities. And the key illustration here is the death of Elisha. Look in chapter 13 and drop down to verse 17. This is Elisha on his deathbed, and he says to the King Joash, and he said, Open the window eastward. And he opened it, then Elisha said, Shoot, and he shot. And he said, The arrow of the Lord's deliverance, and the arrow of the deliverance from Syria, for thou shalt smite the Syrians in Athach, till thou hast consumed them. Well, Elisha is on his deathbed, and King Joash uh hears about it, and he takes the trip to go see him. And the Bible tells us that he when he gets there, he kind of weeps over him in verse 14. He said, Oh my father, my father, the chariots of Israel and the horsemen thereof. Now what did he mean by that? Well he knew the value of Elisha to the nation of Israel. Many of the victories that Israel won against their enemies was directly a result of Elisha and his prayers And he knew that with the passing of Elisha was the passing of an error. Let me tell you something about true men of God. They're the nation's greatest blessings They're like a military defense. And sometimes, unfortunately, we don't really don't appreciate men of God until they are gone. And Joash is afraid of what's going to happen to Israel once Elisha is gone And so to encourage him, Elisha kind of wants to teach him something. He gives him a promise in the form of an object lesson. He tells King Joash, hey, pick up your bow, get some arrows, open up the window And then when you pull back on the bowstring, and he does all of that, Elisha gets out of his bed, goes over, puts his hands over the hands of Joash. And then he gives them a promise in verse 17. We saw it. The arrow of the Lord's deliverance. That was the promise. Each arrow that you fire represents a victory over your enemies. Again, Elisha was teaching the king a lesson. One of the lessons is the promise of the prophets outlives the prophets. Elisha might die, but the word of God doesn't die. The Word of God will live on. And here was a great opportunity for Joash. As many arrows as you fire out of the window That's the number of victories that you will have. That's the number of answered prayers you will have. That's the that's the deliverance that you will have against all of your enemies. Now let me ask you a question. If you were in Joash's shoes, what would you do? You would uh you'd fire all those arrows, wouldn't you? I think that's what you would do. I hope that's what you would do. But the Bible says in verse 18 that Joash uh he simply fired three arrows and he put the bow down. And Elisha got angry. Now a quiver normally holds about five or six arrows. And so Elisha said, You should have fired five or six. That is to say, you should have emptied that quiver. And that way you would have complete total victory. But Joash's half-hearted response was symbolic of the spiritual apathy of the whole nation of Israel. There's a sense in which Joash really represents all of the nation of Israel. His apathy, his half-hearted response, his lack of zeal for the things of God. And because of that, Joash missed a golden opportunity. And so this chapter really is about the whole nation of Israel in general missing opportunities that God continued to present. for blessing. And yet they continue to miss those opportunities and squander them. Now just understand this, beloved. When we Miss God-given opportunities, we pay a terrible price. And that's what I want you to get tonight. I don't know about you, but I don't want to make the same mistake in my life. I don't want to miss any opportunity that God will give. I want each day that God presents an opportunity for me to get it. And by the way, I believe that every day God presents new opportunities. Amen. I believe that there are opportunities to show the love of Christ to someone. There are opportunities to demonstrate our love to our family. There are opportunities to demonstrate and to share the gospel of Jesus Christ. All around us, if we open our eyes, there are opportunities that are there. I was up in Niagara Falls last week, as some of you know and I was in line at Walmart. You know, the first thing Carol and I do when we go to a foreign town is we go to the Walmart. Even whether we need something or not, it's just a thing to do. And uh we were in in line at a Walmart and there was a lady in front of me and and uh she had it was this obviously a a mother with children. And uh and and she didn't have enough money to pay for all the things that she needed to buy for her children. And so she started to kind of was embarrassed and started putting things back. And I said, ma'am, don't put it back. I'll pay for it. And she looked at me and her jaw dropped. And she said, Why would you do that? I said, Because God has been so good to me and I want to pass it along to someone else. And I want you to know this isn't from me, this is from Jesus, because he loves you. And uh she couldn't believe it. She really couldn't believe it. You know, I think every day there are opportunities for us to be a blessing. To share the gospel of Jesus Christ with other people. I don't want to miss God-given opportunities. The Bible says in Ephesians 5. 16, redeeming the time because the days are evil. So what I want you to see then here in chapter 13 are five ways we miss opportunities for blessings. I see this in the whole chapter here. And here's the first one. Number one, if you're taking notes, write down by failing to fully repent. By failing to fully repent. Now go back to verse 1 of chapter 13 because we're introduced to a king here This is a summary of the reign of Jehoihahaz in verse number one. He is the son of Ahaziah, the king of Judah. And the Bible says in verse one he reigned seventeen years, and we see his character. Look in verse number two, and he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, and followed in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nabat, which made Israel to sin And he departed not therefrom. So he's the king of the northern kingdom. He's the son of Jehu. You might remember him. Jehu and Ezel stamped out Baal worship in Israel and he judged Ahab's household. The Bible says here this son of of uh Jehu reigned for seventeen years and he did evil in the sight of the Lord. And he followed in the sins of Jeroboam. Remember Jeroboam? He was that king that decided to make his own religion. And he put a calf up in Dan, and he put a calf up in Bethel, and he told Israel, Here, these are your gods. And he caused Israel to go into idolatry. This was a monstrous sin. And some of the kings followed in that terrible example. And here we have a king who does that. Jehoiahaz follows in the sins of Jeroboam. And because of that, he's chastised. Notice his chastisement. Look at verse number three. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. And he delivered them into the hand of Haziel, king of Syria, into the hand of Ben Hadad, the son of Haziel, all their days. God punished him By sending this evil king from Syria to oppress them, let me tell you something, beloved, God will always chastise his disobedient people. You just mark it down. Many times we see this in of God's chastisement against Israel. Sometimes God will do it financially, sometimes God will do it militarily, sometimes God will send an army of soldiers, sometimes God will send an army of locusts, but God will punish His people and his punishments are remedial. They're meant to bring the people back to God. And by the way, God still does that. Are you a child of God? Because if you are, and you disobey the Lord and you continue in that, you know what God's going to do to you? He's going to punish you. He's going to chastise you. The Bible says, whom the Lord loves, he chastens. But now look at his contrition. He does the right thing. Look in verse 4. And Jehoiahaz besought the Lord. And the Lord hearkened unto him. Here's the first smart thing that this king does. He sought the Lord. Now the writer of Kings here seems to be taking a page out of the writer of judges uh because it's the pattern of sin uh punishment repentance deliverance sin punishment repentance deliverance we see that pattern all throughout the book of judges we see it here But this is the right response when God chastises is to the right response is to turn to the Lord, to repent, to forsake your sin, ask God for his deliverance. And I want to tell you something, friend, whenever you get to that place God is always willing to listen to that prayer. When you repent and you come to the Lord and you ask for forgiveness. And verse 4 besought is literally too. uh seek the face of God, to appease the face of God. We might say to plead with God, to beg the Lord. And God, who is so gracious, responds Because it says in verse 4, the Lord hearkened unto him, for he saw the oppression of Israel. And look at verse 5. And the Lord gave Israel a Savior so that they went out from under the hand of the Assyrians. And the children of Israel dwelt in their tents as before time. So God hears the prayer. God sends a deliverer We don't know who this deliverer is because the Bible doesn't tell us. Now I've read all kinds of different commentaries where everyone's out there speculating trying to say who this deliverer is. And you know what? When God doesn't tell us, it's because he really doesn't want us to know And uh and probably because it wasn't important, because really what the writer is pointing out is no matter who the human instrument is, deliverance comes from Almighty God. God is the one who does the delivering. And so the children of Israel, the Bible says in verse 5 Went uh dwelt in their tents as before time. Look at that last phrase in verse five. That is to say, that's another way of saying things went back to normal. Now you might think, well, that's good. But normal for Israel is not good. All right? Normal was what got them into trouble to begin with. It's because they were worshiping idols. And they needed to forsake their sin. There needed to be a new normal. There needed to be a new devotion, a new dedication to God. And that did not happen. And you know what happened? Israel went right back into their sin. You know, sometimes the repentance born in the storm will die in the calm. And you know what, beloved, that's not real repentance. Look at verse 6. Nevertheless, they departed not from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, who made Israel sin. But walk therein, and there remained the grove also in Samaria. The repentance was not compl It was just a half-hearted repentance. And friend, you mark this down. The true repentance will change a person's life That will not be temporary. Repentance involves the will, forsaking of sin, turning with all your heart to God. In fact, the Apostle Paul in the New Testament gives us a beautiful understanding of what real repentance is. Write down 2 Corinthians 7, verse number 9. Now I rejoice. Not that ye were made sorry, but that ye sorrowed to repentance, for ye were made sorry after a godly manner, that ye might receive damage by us in nothing For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation, not to be repented of, but the sorrow of the world worketh death. Now true repentance brings true salvation. False repentance, the sorrow of the world, Paul says it works death. Now, Paul here was telling us the qualities of true repentance. He said, I rejoice that you were made sorry, but real repentance goes beyond that. If it just stops there, it's not enough. It's not enough just to be upset or brokenhearted about what you've done. But it goes beyond that. He says, For you were made sorry after a godly manner. What does godly sorrow look like? It produces a repentance without regret. You know what some people do? They repent, and then later on they repent of their repentance. They they turned from their sin and then they turned right back around to where they were before. They repented, but they regretted that repentance. But the true repentance doesn't uh repent of its repentance, does that make sense? When you repent, you stay that way. You don't turn back. There are many times people are caught up in a sin and they're caught up in the guilt of it and the shame of it and the suffering of it. But once all that passes, they go right back into the thing that they had done before. True repentance will be without Regret, Paul says. And what we see here in this passage is it wasn't real because once the suffering was over, they turned right back into what they were doing before. That's not real repentance. Real repentance will produce an earnestness and righteousness, Paul said. What carefulness it wrought in you. The Greek word spudae, earnestness, diligence. It's the idea of this earnestness to do what is right. When you really repent, you're going to have a heart's desire to do what's right before God. But also true repentance produces a desire to show your repentance is real. Paul said that what clearing of yourselves That's apologiable where we get the word a defense. It means we have such a strong desire to clear our name once we really repent of something. You want to remove the stigma of what happened. One time a person asked virgin about a person, a pastor who sinned and They said, Mr. Spurgeon, will God ever use that man again? And Spurgeon said, when his repentance is as notorious as his sin, God will use him again. And that's what real repentance does. It makes your zeal for righteousness, a desire to clear your name as notorious as your original transgression. But also it produces an anger over sin. Yea, what indignation. You'll get angry at the very thing that brought you down. But also it produces a reverence for God. What fear, phobia, what reverence it brought in you. It produces a desire to have that relationship restored. What vehement desire, Paul said. Whatever relationship was broken, you wanted that. It produces a zeal for holiness. What zeal? It produces a desire for restitution. You remember the story of Zacchaeus when uh he realized he had done what was wrong, he said to the Lord, he said, Lord, Uh behold, uh the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I've taken anything from any man falsely, I'll restore to him fourfold. You remember what Jesus said to him? Salvation has come to your house today, Zacchaeus. So repentance is a complete redirection of the will. It's it's it's it's mental It goes beyond just regret. It goes beyond just remorse. Regret's just mental. Remorse is just mental and emotional. True repentance is your mind, your heart, and your whole will. It involves all of who you are turning to the Lord But now Jehoi uh uh Jehoias uh Jehoi Ahaz excuse me and Israel did not have Real repentance. And so as a result, God chastised them again. Look at verse 7. Neither did he leave of the people of Jehoiahaz But fifty horsemen and ten chariots and ten thousand footmen, for the king of Syria had destroyed them and had made them like the dust by threshing. That is to say, the i the army of Israel was decimated. God just judged them again. By the time the king of Syria was finished finished with them, they had only fifty horsemen, they had only ten chariots. They had just a handful of soldiers, relatively speaking. Under Ahab, they had 2,000 chariots. Now they have 10. Israel was crushed. Like dust, the Bible says. Friend, you mark it down, insincere repentance will produce greater judgment. And the worst thing was it they missed an opportunity to have the blessing of God. Here's the second thing I see. We miss opportunities by failing to fully repent. But here's number two, by failing to fully learn from the past. Now drop down to verse number 10 because we're introduced to another king here. This is a man who is the son of Jehoahaz, who is Joash. Now there are two kings named Joash, and I don't want you to get them mixed up. There's a king who reigns for the Judah uh for Judah, the southern tribe of Judah named Joash, and now we have a king who reigns for the northern tribe of Israel named Joash. Remember the divided kingdom? Now we have two kings each with the same name, but here's the new king of Israel. He's the son of Jehoahaz And the Bible says in verse eleven that he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, and he revented not from all the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Ner, who made Israel sin, but he walked therein. And then in verse twelve, the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did, and his might wherein he fought against Amaziah, king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the King? I mean that's that's his life right there. How'd you like that to be your epitaph This is all the Bible says about him. He followed in the footsteps of his father. Now you would think that one would learn to learn, or what one would uh learn from uh The mistakes that the previous generation made or his father made, not so. Like father, like son. The Bible says he does evil, he does the exact same thing. He worships the golden calf that Jeroboam set up. And he doesn't learn from God. You know, you can learn some valuable lessons from a bad example. In fact, Paul taught that. Paul told the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians 10, but with many of them God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. This is Paul talking about the Jews, and he says to the Corinthians, you know what? Remember the Jews in the wilderness? God wasn't pleased with them. And verse six of chapter ten. Now these were examples to the intent that you should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. Paul said, You need to look. at the mistakes of those of the past, and let that be an example to you right now. And then he went on to write, neither murmur ye as some also of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer Now all these things happen unto them for examples, and they are written for our admonition upon whom the ends of the world are come. Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall Let me tell you something, friend. If you fail to learn from the mistakes of others, you're doomed to repeat those mistakes and also the same consequences. What's the definition of insanity? Doing the same thing over and over again, expecting a different result? Well, that's what we have here. We miss opportunities by failing to fully repent. We miss opportunities by failing to fully learn from the past, but here's number three. We miss opportunities by failing to fully rely on God's hand of blessing Now go back down to chapter 13, verse number uh 14. Now Elisha was fallen sick of the sick uh sick of his sickness whereof he died. And Joash the king of Israel came down unto him and wept over his face and said, O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof And Elijah said unto him, Take bow and arrows, and he took unto him bow and arrows, and he said to the king of Israel, Put thine hand upon the bow. And he put his hand upon it. And Elisha put his hands upon the king's hands. Now, again, when Elisha is on his deathbed, Joash goes to see him. Again, Elijah says, or Elisha excuse me, says, open the window. Point the bow out there, and then he puts his hands on the hands of Joash. This is symbolic. Of receiving power from God. Elisha was really God's servant. He represented God. Elisha's hands really, we could say represent God's hands, and God's hands represent power. And the message is really for all of us, you know what we need? We need to rely on the helping hand of God. We need to rely on God in all that we do. And I want to say whatever we do, if God's hand is on it, it will be blessed. But if God's hands is not on it, it doesn't matter how straight we may shoot, it's not going to work out. We have to have God's hand of blessing on us. So let me ask you a question. Do you covet God's hand of blessing on your life? Do you covet his blessing on your labor? You know, the problem with a lot of Christians in a lot of churches today is we've learned how to get along without the blessing of God. And we need that. Watchman Knee in his book, Expect the Lord's Blessing, argues that everything in God's work depends upon his blessing. And so we need to be praying for God's hand to be on whatever we do. Pray for God's hand to be on this church. Pray for God's hand to be on all the the servants here, the your pastors here. Ministers here, I covet your prayers. I don't want to miss out on any opportunities. We can't rely on our own skill and ability. We have to rely on the hand of God. Now here's number four. We miss opportunities by failing to fully repent, by failing to fully learn from the past, by failing to fully rely on God's hand, but here's number four, by failing to fully claim God's promises. Now notice again that when uh uh Jeroash does not fire all the arrows, or Elisha gets angry. Look down at verse number 18. And he said, Take the arrows. And he took them. And he said unto the king of Israel, Smite upon the ground. And he smote thrice and stayed. And the man of God was wroth with him and said, Thou shouldest have smitten five or six times. Then hast thou smitten Syria till thou hast consumed it. Whereas now thou shalt smite Syria but thrice And so he gets angry. Why didn't Joash fire all the arrows? I mean, God had given him a promise: with each arrow there'll be victory. Why not fire them all? I was uh listing some excuses here why perhaps he didn't fire them all. Here's one. I stopped shooting because I didn't want to be presumptuous and ask God for too much. You know, can you have can you actually ask God for too much? One person wrote, Thou art coming to a king, large petitions with thee bring. His grace and power are such that none could ever ask too much. I stopped shooting because I'm not a very good archer. Well, God didn't give you a target. He just said shoot. I stopped shooting because he lies, you didn't help me more. You know, sometimes I hear Christians say, you know, I'm not getting a whole lot of help. I'm just going to quit. I stopped shooting because I thought there was three was plenty. Or I stopped shooting because I didn't think it would do any good. Or I stopped shooting because I wasn't in a shooting mood. I just didn't feel like shooting anymore. I stopped shooting because I didn't want to get overly excited. One commentator wrote that he may not have completely understood what Elisha promised. But friend, ignorance of God's word is no excuse. Let me tell you why I think he didn't fire them all. I think the reason he didn't fire them all was because he doubted what Elisha said. I think he just simply went through the motions just to please Elisha. And his doubt caused him to miss a great opportunity. You know there are many Christians that are like Jo Ash They don't fully embrace God's promises. They are kind of careless. They're kind of apathetic. When God offers a blank check of blessing, there's a tendency for believers not to really cash it. When God gives a promise, you know what we need to do? We need to fire all the arrows by believing and claiming what God has promised. And let me just think share this with you. Firing arrows to me is a beautiful illustration of prayer. You see, Elisha clearly asked Joash to do something, I think, that kind of models prayer. Think about the parallels. Like prayer, shooting the arrows requires effort and aim. It requires effort to pray And claim promises from God. Shooting the arrows requires instruction from the prophet of the Lord. We got all the instruction we need about prayer right here in God's Word. Shooting the arrows had to be done through an open window. Let me tell you something, friend. Jesus opened the window of heaven. When he died on the cross, he gave us access to the Father. We have all the access we need as children of God. Shooting the arrows had to be done without knowing the exact outcome ahead of time. The target was only Fully known by faith. And I want to tell you, sometimes when we pray, we don't really fully know the outcome, but beloved, we get on our knees and we fire the arrows by faith, believing in God. Shooting errors was ineffective because it was not repeated enough because of a lack of confidence in the character of God. And you know what our problem with our prayers are? We don't pray enough. We fire a few arrows and then we're done. But you know what? When it comes to praying, we need to fire all the arrows. We need to just keep praying. Sometimes we miss opportunities because we do not fire all the arrows of prayer to heaven. For God to answer. Now, let me give you the last thing here. We miss opportunities by failing to fully repent, by failing to fully learn. from the past, by failing to fully rely on God's hand of blessing, by failing to fully claim God's promises. But here's number five. By failing to fully believe in God's reviving power. Look in verse number 20 and 21. Now, this whole chapter ends on an interesting miracle because look at verse 20, and Elisha died, and they buried him. And the bands of the Moabites invaded the land at the coming end of the year. Here's an amazing story. of resurrection power. Now Elisha died, and because of Israel's military weakness, what happens is marauding Moabites come in at the spring and they begin to pillage villages and carry away spoil. And they're going through towns and doing this. In verse 21, there was a funeral going on, and it came to pass as they were bearing a man, that behold they spied a band of men, and they cast the man into the sepulchre of Elisha. And when the man was let down and touched the bones of Elijah, he revived and stood up on his feet. Now think about this. Here's a funeral procession going on. Here's some pallbearers. You would assume that they were friends of the deceased. They're carrying the corpse. And while they're doing that, they spy a band of raiders. And in fear for their own life, they break away from all decorum and they toss the corpse into a sepulchre. Some friends, huh? And they run away, and the Bible says that the body that was cast into the sepulchre of Elisha touched the bones of Elisha, and the man revived. As soon as he touched Elisha, he came to life and he stood up to his feet and he walked out of that sepulchre. There was still some life in those old bones of Elisha after all, wasn't there? This is perhaps the greatest miracle of Elisha, and it took place after he died. There's no other event like this in the Old Testament. And you would assume that this was the only time this happened, otherwise there would be a whole line of people at that sepulchre with dead bodies trying to get them to touch the bones of Elisha. Why does the writer give us this story? Why is this in this chapter? I think for two reasons. First, it proves that everything Elisha said and did was in God's name was true. And God was demonstrating that the promises and power of the prophets outlive the prophets. But I think that there's a direct connection here. God's giving a message to Israel. There's a direct connection with this narrative and the verses that follow. And the key thing is the word cast. In verse 21, it says they cast the man into the sepulchre of Elisha. But this same exact Hebrew word is used again in verse 23 in reference to Israel. Look at verse 23. And the Lord was gracious unto them and had compassion on them. And had respect unto them because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, neither cast he them from his presence as of yet. This is the exact same Hebrew word, and I think it's purposeful by the writer because he's making a parallel here. He's actually showing that this resurrection story is symbolic of the whole nation of Israel. You see, because of Israel's disobedience, they had been punished by God severely. God allowed Haziel, that evil Syrian king, to oppress Israel And the nation on more than one occasion appeared to be dead. Israel appeared to be cast aside as dead. It was like a dead corpse cast aside by its enemies, and even It's friends. Israel is that dead corpse. But with God there's always hope. In fact, others may have cast Israel into a grave, but God, as of yet did not give up. Again in verse number 23 it says, neither cast he them from his presence as of yet. Israel may look like they're dead, but God's not done with them yet. Why? Because of his covenant promise. Again, in verse 23, because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them. You see, Israel's only hope was in the covenant faithfulness of Almighty God. Now remember this The writer is writing to Jews who are in Babylonian captivity. They are in exile. You know what they're wondering? Is there any hope for us? To them Israel was dead. To them, they were living in a foreign land To them there was no hope of ever returning back to Israel, of their nation ever reviving. But this story gives them hope because with God there's always hope. Because when the corpse of Israel makes contact with the bones of God's prophetic promises, the nation of Israel will revive. God has power to revive the dead. Our God is the God of the resurrection. He's the God who brings hope in the face of hopelessness. And by the way, that's what salvation is. The reason you're saved tonight is because you had a spiritual resurrection. Because of what God has done for you. Now just to emphasize The fulfillment of God's promise and his power. The chapter ends on that note. In verse 25, and Jehoiash or Joash, the son of Jehoaziah. Uh Jehoiahaz, excuse me, took again out of the hand of Ben Hadad the son of Haziel the cities, which he had taken out of the hand of Jehoihahaz, his father, by war. Three times did Joash beat him and recovered the cities of Israel. Just like God said, three arrows, three victories. You see, God's word will always come true. The promise of the prophets outlive the prophets And with God there's always hope. So let me ask you a question, is there a hope in your heart that seems to be dead? Is there some dream that Seems to have died. Is there something that you're desiring and you're asking of God that just seems to be dead? Just take the corpse of that and let it touch the bones of the Word of God and watch it come alive. Fire all the arrows of faith and trust God to resurrect what the devil has put to death in your life. Don't miss any opportunities By failing to fully repent, by failing to fully learn from the past, by failing to fully rely on God's hand of blessing, by failing to fully claim God's promises by failing to fully believe in God's reviving power. Let's not be half-hearted in anything that we do You know why? Because Jesus wasn't half-hearted in what he did for you. He shot out all the arrows. Jesus didn't do anything halfway for us. He died for our sins. He was buried. He rose again. And he brings resurrection, power, and life to anything he touches. Thank God for that. Again, that's what salvation is. Salvation is a spiritual resurrection, and one day all those who have been saved will have a literal physical physical bodily resurrection because of God's promises. Let's bow for prayer tonight. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want you to take a moment and think about this chapter. All about missed opportunities. Would you just take a moment and just pray and tell God you don't want to miss any opportunity that He has. Ask God's forgiveness for perhaps opportunities we have missed because of our half-heartedness. Because we we didn't fully repent of something that we should have. Because we didn't fully rely on God's blessing, His hand. Or we didn't fully claim his promise. And in prayer, our prayers have been weak. We haven't fired all the arrows in in our prayers. And maybe there's doubt in your heart you fail to fully believe in God's reviving power. Just ask God to forgive you for your doubt. Forgive us for only firing half of the arrows. Let's make a determination and a commitment to shoot all the arrows. All the arrows of prayer and zeal and service and passion and Let's not do anything halfway for God. And if you're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ, the greatest thing you can do is to put your faith in the risen Christ. Just pray. Say, Jesus, you promised to save those that would come to you, and I'm coming to you. Save me, Lord Jesus. Forgive me for my sin. And friend, he'll hear your prayer. Father, thank you and for all that you have done. Thank you for teaching us from your word. Lord, may you bless this word to hearing hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' name.