Well, I invite you to take your Bibles tonight. I want you to go to the Old Testament book of Jeremiah, chapter number ten. Now this is special service because we are going to have a time of prayer and dedication for uh our tree and all those who worked over this, that the Lord would bless it. And I thought this would be a good occasion to address a question that is asked me, it's posed to me a lot and I've never really preached a sermon on it, so I thought I would deal with it tonight. And I want to just the title of the sermon is in the form of a question and that is Should Christians Own a Christmas tree? Should Christians own a Christmas tree? And it just seems like each year I have questions like this posed to me. Is it wrong for Christians to have a Christmas tree. Doesn't the Bible teach somewhere that uh it's wrong to cut down a tree and bring it into your house and decorate it? And Christians will often cite passages like we're looking at Jeremiah chapter 10, verses 1 down to verse number 6, and they'll look at passages like this And they'll use the passage like this to support the idea that it's wrong for Christians to celebrate Christmas with a tree. And one of the arguments goes like this, you know, it's pagan in its origin. They say it's it's this whole idea of greenery and and a tree is is borrowed from pagan religious festivals, has been adapted into uh Christianity and so therefore it has a pagan basis. And some will uh even point to the Roman festival, uh a festival called Saturnalia, where they worshiped uh a god called Saturn and they say, you know, there's so much uh ritual in that pagan festival that's brought into this idea of Christmas. But I want to look honest to look f closely at those things because I think if you look closely at it, that these claims have little basis in fact Um again some of the arguments they use, they say, well, you know, the Romans, they would hang evergreen boughs in their houses, they would give gifts of holly to one another. Uh one of the customs in Saturnalia included the giving uh uh and lighting of candles. And uh according to this, uh what I've researched that they would give gifts on the last day of the festival, and it was really a little wax or clay figurine that they called the uh sigillaria And so it's often stated that these Roman customs were directly incorporated again into the Christian celebrations of Christmas. Now my response to that is very simple. I would argue that just because there are similar practices doesn't mean that it's the same thing or even that there is a relationship In fact, if you study these ancient pagan religions, you'll find that this whole custom was very dark. And all this meant to serve as a replacement for human sacrifice. Let me just say that, did you know that in the Old Testament some of the rituals that the Israelites carried out in their worship of Yahweh There were parallels rituals that the Canaanites used in their worship of their God, but it doesn't mean that they were doing the same thing. And it doesn't mean that there was any relationship between Canaanite pagan worship and the worship of the real God, the God Yahweh, the God of Israel. For example, did you notice the Canaanites worship Baal and Baal was supposedly the God who died and resurrected every year. I mean every year when the when the uh fall came and the and the plants died. They say that Baal died. When the dry season came, they say that Baal died. He went to the underworld and he died. And every spring, supposedly, he had resurrected. So let me ask you a question. When we worship a God who came out of the grave, are we doing the same thing that the Canaanites were doing? Of course we're not. Absolutely not. There's a parallel there, but it's not the same thing. I read a very interesting story. During World War II, the American military used some uh let me just read you what the article says, they used some remote South Pacific islands for temporary landing strifts and supply depots The article goes on to say prior to that time the indigenous tribal people had never seen modern technology up close. Large cargo planes swooped in and filled an array of uh material goods. And for the first time the islanders saw cigarette lighters which they thought were were miraculous. They saw jeets and refrigerators, radios, power tools, and many varieties of food. When the war was over, the islanders concluded that the men who brought cargo were gods. And so they began to build shrines to the cargo gods. They uh made little airplanes and worshipped these cargo airplanes. They hoped that the cargo gods would return with more goods Now, let me ask you a question. When a child plays with a model cargo airplane, is he worshiping their gods? And you might say, well that's a crazy question, but you understand my point. That child wouldn't even know about those religious superstitions. He knew he knows nothing of it. And so, of course, he's not committing idolatry. We know the difference between idols and toys, but even though there are similarities there, there's absolutely no relationship between the two. And so we understand, and that's the principle that I want to get across to you. Just because there may be similarities in some ancient pagan uh rituals doesn't mean that there's any relationship between that and hanging greenery in your house or you know using a a gr a evergreen wreath or bringing plants in. Do you think that every time we bring greenery into our house we're observing some pagan ritual? Of course not. People have been bringing greenery into their house for centuries. And they're not, you know, honoring any pagan system there. In fact, did you know that there's a precedent in Scripture for bringing greenery into your house and even into the temple. Scripture shows that evergreens were mentioned prominently in the Bible. And they were used to symbolize God's favor towards God's people. Write down this verse, Isaiah 55, 13. Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree Instead of the briar shall come up the myrtle tree, and it shall be to the Lord for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off. Did you know that in the Old Testament Solomon loved uh evergreen plants and he used to bring them into the temple? Second Chronicles 9 27 says, And the king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stone, and he made cedar. As plentiful as the sycamore of the Shepelah. He had it all around because of in his mind it spoke about the goodness of God. And did you know that in the Old Testament that there's a feast called the Feast of the Tabernacles? And did you know that the part of the custom of that feast was for the Hebrew people to build a booth It was be kind of like a tool shed out in the back of your yard. And you know what they would do? They would they would decorate it just like we decorate our tree, but they would decorate it with greenery. And ivy and and evergreen branches and willow branches and all kind of branches, they would decorate their what was called the Hebrew word sekot, which means simply tabernacle or booth. And what did that greenery represent in the mind of the Jew? It represented the glory of God. It represented God's glory. Now, and some people will say, well, what about Jeremiah chapter 10, verses 1 through 5? Well, let's look at this verse here together because it is used a lot. to talk about uh maybe Christians shouldn't have a Christmas tree. Look at verse one. Hear ye the word which the Lord speaketh unto you, O house of Israel. Thus saith the Lord, learn not the way of the heathen And be not dismayed at the signs of heaven, for the heathen are dismayed at them, for the customs of the people are vain For one cutteth a tree out of the forest, the work of the hands of the workmen with the axe, they deck it with silver and with gold, they fasten it with nails and with hammers, that it move not They are upright as the palm tree, but they but speak not. They must needs be born, because they cannot go. Be not afraid of them, for they cannot do evil, neither also is it in them to do Good. And someone would have pointed a verse like this and go hop, there it is. You're not supposed to go into the forest and cut down a tree and then bring it home and and steady it, you know, with a hammer and then put gold and silver. Boy, that's exactly what that's talking about there, right? Wrong. It's not what that verse is talking about. We have to kind of look at it in its context and look a little bit closer. He's talking about people who have a tendency to be given over to superstitions and false gods In verse number two, the Lord said, Learn not the way of the heathen, or be not dismayed at the signs of heaven. This refers to things like comets and meteors and eclipses. You know, the Babylonians were always looking into the heavens and they were studying the stars and their movements and they were always coming up with a new God to worship by looking into the heavens. And so we could really say it like this, you know, don't follow the example of other nations who shudder before all these unusual events in the sky. Don't be like those other nations, the Lord says. Look at verse number three. For the customs of the people are vain. The word customs here refers to religious practices. That's what this word is So we can say it like this the religion of these people is worthless. Because look again at verse three. For One cutteth a tree out of the forest, the work of the hands of the workmen with the axe. So here's a man he goes into the forest, he cuts down a tree. When it says the word axe there, the Hebrew word here refers to a tool that kind of resembles an axe, but it has a curved blade fixed at the end of it at a right angle, so it's really used for smoothing out wood. And that's the idea here for carving wood, for smoothing it out. And what this is referring to is simply making an idol. When a person back then would want to make an idol, of course they use wood. They would have to go into the woods and cut down the tree, but with this tool, they were able to shape it. They were able to hew it into something that looked like a person Because they're making an idol. And verse 4 describes the next steps. Look at verse 4. They deck it with silver and with gold. They fasten it with nails. and with hammers that it move not. So after they take this piece of wood and they shape it and they make it look like a a man sometimes, or maybe even a a a a beast according to whatever God that they're worshiping, then they overlay it with gold or they overlay it with silver. And notice that they have to put nails in it so that it doesn't fall over. So this is some idol or God. It needs help so it doesn't fall over. Needs to be held up, and there's a sense in which here Jeremiah is making fun of the idol. What kind of a God do you serve that needs to be uh held up so he doesn't fall. And then look at verse five. They are upright as the palm tree. But they speak not. Look at the word palm tree there. It's a very interesting Hebrew word. And uh it could be translated as it is in other translations as, ready for this, Scarecrow. It's a Hebrew word that means a scarecrow. You know, we thought scarecrows were a modern invention. No, all the way back in ancient times they would put a scarecrow into the field. And so really what Jeremiah is saying here is that these idols are made to look like a a person, just like you know, a scarecrow in the field is made to look like a man, right in the field Jeremiah is saying these idols are made to look like a person and they're also made to look fearful. You make a scarecrow kind of affordable, scary, so that the birds will be scared and they'll go away So these idols look like a man, they look fearful, but they can't speak, he says in verse number five. But it says they are upright as the palm tree, but they cannot speak. And here's the next thing in verse 5. They must needs be born. That is to say, you have to carry them around. Uh you know, they can't walk. They might have legs, but they can't walk. They can't go anywhere. You have to carry them everywhere you go. And then he says this in verse 5: Be not afraid of them For they cannot do evil. That is, there's no reason to be afraid of these gods, because back then, when they created these idols, along with it came the curses that people would fancy in their own mind If you didn't obey this God, bad things would happen to you. And Jeremiah says, that's nonsense. Don't be afraid of this little idol that is made. It can't do anything evil towards you. And verse 5 again in the latter part, neither is it in them to do good. They can't help you either. They can't answer your prayers. They have no ability to do anything. And so what he's talking about here is very obvious. He's not talking about a Christmas tree, beloved. He's talking about an idol. And these idols can't do anything. And in contrast to that, look in verse 6: For as much as there is none like unto thee, O God, thou art great, and thy name is great in might. And so this is again this is what he's referring to here. And there's a similar passage. Hold your place here in Jeremiah chapter 10. Go to Isaiah chapter 44 and look at verse number 13 there. Same idea here. As in Jeremiah, Isaiah 44, 13, the carpenter stretches out his roll, he marketh it out with a line, he fitteth it with planes. He marketh it out of the compass, he maketh it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man, that it might remain in his house He hewed him down cedars, and taketh the cypress and the oak, which is strengthened by himself along the trees of the forest, for he planteth an ash, and the rain doth nourish it Then shall it be for a man to burn, for he will take thereof, and warm himself, yea, he kindleth it, and baketh bread, and yea, he maketh a god, and worshipeth it. He maketh it a graven image and falleth down thereunto. You get the idea? Here's a guy who goes into the woods, cuts down a tree. What's he do with the wood? Well, part of it he uses to build a fire and warm himself. And then he cooks something on the fire, and with the leftover wood, what does he do? He makes himself a god. He makes himself an idol. How ridiculous is that? And it's meant to sound ridiculous. Use the wood to build a fire and cook something and then the rest of the wood he'll bow down and worship it. And uh It's absolutely ridiculous. And this is the same idea that Jeremiah is talking about here in chapter 10. So, beloved, just let me say there's this passage is talking about idolatry, and the only way this refers to Christmas is if after you take your Christmas tree and you put it up in your house, you bow down and worship it I would encourage you not to do that. We don't do that, of course. So there's no verse in the Bible, no passage. that prohibits a Christian from having a Christmas tree or anything like that. Now, with all that in mind, let me just give you th three quick things. I want to show you three quick lessons about Christmas trees that I just want to bring out to you here tonight. Number one, I would say this Christmas trees have Christmas Christian roots. Let me say that again. Christi Christmas trees have Christian roots. Where did they come from? Where did they originate? Historically, we'd have to say That they have a Christian origin. And there are several arguments that have been made, several lines of arguments by historians, but all of them have one common denominator: that they are Christian in their origin. For example, there is the argument of Boniface. There are some historians that point to Boniface, the English missionary to Germany. And in the 8th century, he, they say, he instituted the first Christmas tree. He supposedly replaced sacrifices to the god Odin and his sacred oak with a fir tree adorned in tribute to Christ. So there are some historians that would say that. He is the one who brought the first Christmas tree, this missionary. And then there's another historical argument, and they say that the Christmas tree actually evolved out of what is called the paradise tree What is that? Well, did you notice the medieval church had dramas depicting um biblical themes with biblical scenes? And they would celebrate the nativity, and they would also tie into that the Garden of Eden and what took place in the Garden of Eden. So as a part of that play, they would have a paradise tree in the play. And many believe that evolved into uh what we had know now is as the Christmas tree. But then there's a third uh argument made by historians about where it came from and this is the argument of Martin of about Martin Luther Of course, you know the name Martin Luther. I've talked about him before. He was the great reformer. He's the one who rediscovered the gospel by studying the book of Romans. He was passionate about sola scriptura, scripture alone, sola fide, faith alone, sola gracia, grace alone, sola Christus Christ alone, sola deo gloria for the glory of God alone. Those are the five solas and he was passionate about those five things and it was this unshakable conviction that led him to love Christmas. And historians agree that Martin Luther absolutely loved Christmas because he saw it as an opportunity to teach the gospel. To celebrate the incarnation of Christ. And he believed that along with Christmas, there should be singing. Because if you go into the Bible and you look back to the very first Christmas story in the book of Luke, what you'll find is singing that is associated with the birth of Christ. The angels singing, glory to God in the highest. There was the song of Zacharias and the song of Elizabeth and the song of Mary. And so he believed that with Christmas should come the teaching of the gospel, and part of the way that you teach that gospel is through hymns. In fact, he got excited, and did you know that Martin Luther wrote some of the first Christmas hymns. And one of those hymns was taken by Johann Sebastian Bach, and it was turned into a Christmas cantata. So you can argue perhaps that Martin Luther wrote the first Christmas cantata. He believed in teaching the gospel through singing and all the symbolism of Christmas. Did you know that During the Reformation time, congregational singing and singing in the common language of the people, they were considered by the church as heretical acts. Can you imagine that And Martin Luther saw it as the exact opposite. The opportunity to teach the gospel through songs. And he even wrote, let me just read to you the the the Christmas hymn that he wrote It's called From Heaven Above to Earth I Come. It goes like this. The poem, From Heaven ab From Heaven Above to Earth I Come, to bear good news to every home. Glad tidings of great joy I bring, whereof I now will say and sing. To you this night is born a child of Mary, chosen virgin mild. This little child of lowly birth shall be the joy of all the earth. And so he loved the idea of singing the gospel. And he loved again all the symbolism. When he it was said that when he gave a a wrapped gift to his child, he would always remind them of the greatest gift that came wrapped in swaddling clothes that God ever gave to humanity, and that of course was the Lord Jesus Christ. And so where did the tree come from? Well, the story goes like this. Martin Luther one night, it was close to Christmas, he was walking through the woods. On a cold night. The stars were out and it was a beautiful night. Some accounts I've read said that he was thinking over a sermon. He was kind of meditating on a sermon that he had been studying. And so while he was walking out, he just looked out. It was one of those beautiful nights where he could see that the evergreen trees and just above him the stars And that whole scene simply reminded him of the night that Christ was born and the angels that announced his birth and the star of Bethlehem and it was just a beautiful scene there. And when he went back to his house, he was trying to describe the beauty of what he had seen to his wife. and to his children and it just didn't seem to be enough. So he went back outside with an axe, he chopped down a evergreen tree, he brought it into the house, and he decorated it with candles And that was the first uh Christmas tree. And the reason he did that is because he wanted the candles to represent the light Christ and also the stars that he saw that night. And it was said that after that Luther had made a practice of putting up a tree. in his home. And he would always quote the verse, Isaiah 60, 13, the glory of Lebanon shall come to you, the cypress, the plain, and the pine To beautify the place of my sanctuary, and I will make the place of my feet glorious. So Based on that information, you could say that the Christmas tree had a very distinguished beginning or pedigree. And so it started in Germany and it kind of made its way to England. You say, how so? Oh, by the way, how many of you ever heard of the song, O Christmas Tree, O Christmas Tree? How lovely are thy branches? That was originally written in German. It came out of Germany. Oltenenbaum, Oltenenbaum. We know that. And did you know that the husband of Queen Victoria was German, Prince Albert? And when he moved into Buckingham Palace with his Queen Uh he was the first one, perhaps in Great Britain, to set up a Christmas tree in Buckingham Palace and he would decorate it. every year. One year in 1846, the London News came by and they saw him with his family around the tree and they put a picture of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert and all the children on the front page of the London um the Illustrated London News, it was a sketched picture of the royal family standing around this decorated tree with all these things on it And from that it is said that the people in Great Britain who prized their queen and uh Prince Albert began to imitate and they began to put up trees to celebrate Christmas. And of course from there it spread. In America, President Benjamin Harrison and uh he was who was the first president Who was said to have a Christmas tree in the White House. So all that to say that Christmas trees, according to the research that I have done in Christian history, have Christian roots. But here's the second thing quickly, I don't have much time. Number tr two, I would say this Christmas Christmas trees are filled with Christian symbols Now this was more so when they first came into being, because the things that people hung on the Christmas trees back then were normally things that were edible, things that you could eat. For example, the decorations were nuts and berries, fruits, candles, gingerbread, and now of course we have the more popular tinsel, electric lights. And non-edible ornaments, even though some of your children and grandchildren have tried to eat some of the ornaments. They're non-edible now. But still in many, you know, and it's according to what country you're in, according to how you decorate the tree, but in a pre-industrial agricultural era nuts and berries and fruits reminded everyone of the providence and the provision of God who who fills our mouth with good things. and who gives food to all his people. Also it was said that the candles represented Christ, the light of the world. The gingerbread uh men on the uh tree. Of course the man would represent the God man Jesus who came as the bread of life. And this with the sweetness of the cookie, they were reminded of the sweetness of redemption. But again, some of these things of course still carry over. The light represents the light of the world, Jesus Christ, the star, the star of Bethlehem, the evergreen tree, represents the everlasting life that we find in the Lord Jesus Christ. So Christmas trees have Christian roots. Christmas trees were filled originally with Christian symbols. But then here's the third thing I would say, third and final thing. Christmas trees are a matter of Christian liberty. It's really a matter of Christian liberty. You have the liberty to have one in your home if you want to, and you have the liberty not to have one if you don't want to. It's really a Christian liberty issue. Now again, there are Christians who feel that it's wrong. And to them it's still related to a pagan custom. And so therefore they resist the rituals of Christmas. Did you know in researching this I found out, of course I knew this before, but I knew I learned some other things that the Puritans in the early America rejected Christmas altogether. Can you believe that? No Christmas at all for them. In fact they passed a law in sixteen fifty-nine to punish offenders who celebrated Christmas. They gave them a hefty fine of five shillings. Some of the Puritans called Christmas a fool's tide. They said first there are no holy days in the Bible except the Sabbath, and they said that uh the December twenty-fifth they said is ahistorical. That is, they said it was it was a Christian hijacking from a pagan uh ritual and religion and so therefore they refused to celebrate. In fact, they defiantly worked on December 25th to show their disdain for Christmas and anyone who would uh celebrate it. But you know that began to change. Things began to change. By the 1730s, many of the Puritan sermons proclaimed that Christmas was a joyful occasion, that there was opportunity to celebrate. The incarnation through some of these rituals. Poems were printed in New England in the newspapers Christmas music was printed in 1760, and by 1856, Christmas became a public holiday in the state of Massachusetts. Now, but today still there are Christians who feel like they don't want to celebrate it. And that's fine. Again, this is a Christian liberty issue. If you feel like you want to celebrate Christmas with all the traditions You have the liberty to do that, and if you don't want to do it, you have the liberty to refrain. Celebrating Christmas doesn't make you especially spiritual. Refraining from it doesn't make you especially spiritual. It's really a a non-moral issue. In fact, just while we end this, look in Romans chapter 14. Now we've been dealing with Romans on Sunday night. And so some of this will be you something that you recognize, but Paul was talking about these liberty issues. Look again in Romans chapter 14, verse 5, because it applies here in this. Notice what he says: one man esteemeth one day above another. And another esteemeth every day alike, Romans 5. 14. Now watch this. Let every man be fully persuaded what? In his own mind. Be fully persuaded in your own mind about this. Again, there's no spiritual significance to having or not having a Christmas tree. Now remember the context of this. Paul was writing to the church at Rome where there were Jews who, in their past lives, celebrated feast days. And Gentiles who didn't. And both were saved, and the Jews maintained some of those special days, some of those special Sabbaths, and others in the church didn't. And so it became a thing where there were some in the church that would look down on some of these Jews that would continue to celebrate some of these Old Testament special feast days. And they would say, Oh, that was fulfilled in Christ, why are you still still doing that? And so there were some in the church that were judging others. And Paul was very concerned about that. And Paul, that's why he said in verse number five, Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. Some people regard today to be very special to them, and to them it is special to others. Every day is alike. There's really no right or wrong there, you have the liberty to fall down on whatever side you want on this Let everyone be fully persuaded in his own mind. Look what he said in verse six. He that regardeth the day regardeth it unto the Lord, and he that regardeth not the day to the Lord, he doth not regard it. He that eateth eateth to the Lord For he that giveth God thanks, and he that eateth not to the Lord, he eateth not and giveth God thanks. What's the point he's making there? Each side is trying to do what they do to please the Lord. Right? That's what he's saying. The motives are the same. What's the motive? And this should be the motive of every Christian. What we do, we want to do for what? For the glory of God. We want to please God. And so Paul said there are some in the church that regard special days and they love all the traditions that go with it, but they do it now unto the Lord. They want to please God, they do it unto the glory of God. And there are some in the church that don't regard those days. They regard every day as special. And they do that for the glory of God. Both sides have the same motive. They want to please God. They want to glorify God. There are some Christians who refrain from Christmas or Christmas trees. And I believe with all my heart they do it because that is their conviction, and they do it unto the glory of God. And then there are some Christians that like to put up their trees and celebrate Christ uh Christmas, and they do it under the glory of God, and so one side shouldn't judge the other. If you like to put up a tree, don't judge those who don't. If you don't like to put up a tree, please don't judge me. I love my tree Let me let me alone with my Christmas tree. And that's Paul's point here. Don't judge each other in this. But do it unto what you do, you do it unto the Lord, because we all belong to God. Look at verse 7, for none of us lives to himself. And no man dies to himself or say, whether we live, we live unto the Lord. Whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Whether we live, therefore die, we are the Lord's. And the whole point is we all belong to God. Everything we do, we do it unto God. And so uh it's not the issue of whether you celebrate it or you don't celebrate it. The issue is you don't want to judge each other That's what displeases God. You want to receive each other. You want to give each other the liberty to practice the way your conscience would dictate. and what you think is right. But both sides are doing their best to please the Lord because they absolutely, totally belong to the Lord. And so you can remember and celebrate special days. There's warrant in Scripture for that, and you can refrain. By the way, did you know that God in the Old Testament instituted special days? He instituted Passover, the Feast of the Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Tabernacles, the Day of Atonement, First Fruits. In Leviticus, there are specifically six feast days that God set aside on the calendar for God's people to participate in. And the Jews even made up other holidays that were not in the Old Testament. For example, there is a There is a holiday that they celebrate around this time of year. Ever heard of Hanukkah? Hanukkah's not in the scripture. Hanukkah was something that was made up. Later on, after they were celebrating their victory over Antiochus Epiphanes and they had to rededicate and purify the temple because Antiochus Epiphanes killed a pig in the temple when he let the blood spill on the the altar, and so they had to clean it up and purify it. And they only they had oil in the manure. There was only enough oil for one day. They needed it for eight days, but miraculously the oil that should have only lasted one day, lasted eight days, and they called that a miracle. And that became known as the Feast of Dedication. The Feast of Lights. And by the way, did you know in John chapter 10, Jesus went to that feast? He celebrated Hanukkah. in the New Testament. So again, it's a matter of Christian liberty. You do what you feel led that you can do. But let me tell you what is not a matter of Christian liberty. While Christmas and celebrating Christmas is a matter of Christian liberty, what is not a matter of Christian liberty is confessing the incarnation. That's a matter of duty. We all must confess to the world Jesus Christ. We confess his life. We confess his death In fact, God instituted the Lord's Supper so that we should do that. He said, This do as often as you will in remembrance of me. And then Part of the life of Christ is his incarnation. Let me leave you with these verses here. 1 John 4, 2. Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus is come in the flesh is of God. And then in 1 John 4. 14, and we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. What is a duty for all of us is that we confess to the world about Jesus Christ. We confess his life. We confess his incarnation. And beloved, that's what we're trying to do here with this whole Christmas tree program. This is all about confessing to the world. What we know about Jesus Christ. That's why we named it no other name. You know why? Because there's no other name given to men whereby you must be saved. Because Jesus Christ is the only way. To heaven, because he is the Son of God, the Virgin born son of God, that came to this world to be a light for all those that will call upon him and that will make him Lord and Savior. So whether you have a Christmas tree in your home or not, do focus on this one tree, the tree of Calvary. Focus on the life of Christ. Focus on why he came to this world to be our Savior, to bear our sin. And so tonight we dedicate this tree and this whole program. For the glory of God, so that we can tell others about our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. The only way, the only truth, the only life, if a person will come to Him. He's the only way of salvation. So let's bow for prayer together tonight. Let's bow for prayer. And I want you we didn't have our prayer time. I wanted to save it till the end here now. And I want you to just take a moment, if you will, tonight. And there, would you just where you are, make it a place of prayer. And so we could seek the Lord together and ask him for his blessing. We want people to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. We want people to be saved. And so would you just take a moment and bow your head? And would you just pray, first of all, just thank the Lord, thank the Father for sending Christ into this world for us. Take a moment and do that