It's good to see everybody here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles and open please to the book of First Corinthians, chapter 14, as uh we are continuing in our series through First Corinthians And tonight we come to the 14th chapter. Let me just tell you, going into the sermon, this I've been all this afternoon, I've been down at Johns Hopkins all afternoon speaking to a bunch of students. And so I've been it's one of these days when I've been uh preaching, teaching all afternoon and came straight to the church from there. And so it's uh one of these days where I'm really tired of hearing myself So uh I I'm not gonna probably keep you that long tonight. I say that right now, right? But uh I'm kinda a little bit tired tonight, to be honest with you. So I hope I make sense. First Corinthians chapter 14. Now we're going to deal with an issue tonight that is uh I think a controversial issue in Christianity. Today, and that is the issue over the spiritual gifts of tongues. Now let me just say in the in in the very beginning that you know I don't have an axe to grind with anyone within the charismatic movement. I know that there are many godly good people that are charismatic in their theology, and and quite frankly, I've been blessed by some who have been charismatic in their theology. We we don't agree on certain issues Christians should speak in tongues. And again it comes from that persuasion, that theology. In fact, there are some that would say that if a Christian doesn't speak in tongues, that there's something wrong with their spiritual life That in some way they may be spiritually inferior. Um that there are some that would say that if you don't speak in tongues, that you probably uh sh have good reason to doubt whether you're even saved. And while researching for this uh this message, I just kind of looked at one charismatic author. I won't give his name, but he he has, I think, a basic view of what the charismatic theology And this is what he says. What speaking in tongues is for? He says, first of all, it's proof that we're born again. He says, secondly, it is speaking a sacred secret with God. He calls it perfect And then he goes on to say, we should be pushing ourselves to speak in tongues a lot. And so this is what he would say. And again, I'm quoting from him. So when you want to speak in tongues, you first set your mind upon the intention. Believe the words will be there, then just open your mouth and start speaking. But then he goes on to say, but do not speak English or any other language you know. What you will be speaking is whatever language God chooses to give you. And he said if it's a language of men, someone somewhere on the earth among the approximately six thousand And then he goes on to say this. He said, I remember when I said that you cannot do it wrong. You can't He said, Well really there's only one way to fail. When it comes to speaking in tongues, there's only one way to fail, and that is not to speak. says, pay attention here. If you open your mouth and speak not a language you know, it cannot fail. You will speak in tongues. Then he goes on to say, through the years I've shared these same truths with many people. People come back to me and said I tried it and it didn't work. And I always ask, did you open your mouth and let sounds come out? Did you speak? And they said And I say, Then you did not try. And that's really his advice with reference to speaking in tongues. So according to this pastor and this author, speak in tongues and it's proof of being saved. It's a private prayer language and we should pursue it. We should be pushing ourselves to do this all Now the question is, how does this line up with scripture? The question is, what does the Bible teach with reference to this spiritual gift? And that's really the purpose of our study. We want to get a biblical perspective about what the scripture has to say over this issue and try to hopefully bring some clarity from God's word over all of this. And so let me give you a few preliminary thoughts that Help us as we start before we really get into chapter fourteen. I think there's some thoughts that we need to consider. And here's the first thought, the final authority to distinguish between what is true True and and what is erroneous is not experience, but it's the word of God, right? We can't build doctrine on experience. And here's something that may be interesting to you. Did you know that Jesus during his earthly ministry never appealed to his own experience as a measure for authority? He was constantly Appealing to the Word of God. He was constantly saying, I'm only telling you what the Father told me to say. This is what God the Father told me to say. At one point, Jesus said this: He said, My doctrine And then he went on to say this he that speaketh of himself seeks his own glory. That is, if you speak from your own experience You're seeking really your own glory, not the glory that comes from God. Jesus said, I'm only telling you and teaching you things that come from the Father, not based on my own experience. So Jesus didn't even So we can say it like this human experience is subjective. Uh God's word is objective. Human experience is changing. Changes. Human experience glorifies man, scripture glorifies God. Human experience has no authority. Scripture is authoritative. That's why we must base what we believe not on experience but on the scripture. Because experience always changes. And Jesus reminds us in the scripture of how dangerous it is to rest on experience as the sole basis of one's spiritual Do you remember in Matthew 7 where Jesus said, Not everyone that says unto me, Lord, Lord, will enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my father, then it goes on to say, Man Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works And by the way, the word wonderful works there is a Greek word for miracles. Lord, haven't we done many miracles? Not just one miracle, but many miracles. And they were using their ex spiritual experiences as a measure and a test for their own authenticity before God. And what did Jesus say? Depart from me, I never knew you. I d I never knew you. And so they may have had a spiritual experience. They may have done many things that they thought were of God, but in the end it wasn't because Jesus said I didn't know you. I never knew who you were. And so we can't use spiritual experience as a genuine authoritative measure of is You might be saying, well, you know, I've heard someone speak in tongues before and I and I know what I saw and and so on. And I understand that, but that's not legitimate Legitimate test of whether something is of God or not. And every time a person supposedly speaks in tongues doesn't mean it's of God. For example, did you know that speaking in tongues is not strictly a Christian phenomenon? For example, there's uh did you know that the Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons claim to speak in tongues? In fact, on the Article 7 of the Mormon Articles of Faith, it says, We believe in the gift of tongues. Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, Practice speaking in tongues, Brigham Young supposedly prayed in a pure Adamic language. The language that went all the way back to Adam when the stall Salt Lake City Temple was dedicated. Mormons by the hundreds simultaneously broke out in speaking in tongues at that event. And today speaking in tongues is found among many cults and what we would label as false religions, uh which doctors and priests and medicine men in Africa and Australia and Asia have claimed to speak in strange tongues. Many voodoo practitioners cla can't claim One man reports that In East Africa, many people possessed by demons speak influence Swahili or English, although under normal circumstances they do not understand either language. Did you know Muslims claim to speak in tongues? They say that Muhammad himself spoke in tongues, and they're just following his example, and on we could go On back in history, the Roman poet Virgil claimed that tongue speaking was part of the priestesses on the Isle of of Delos. And Plato, the Greek philosopher, referred to tongues being used in his day. He said that the prophetess of Delphi spoke in strange languages and on we could go. And so what I I'm saying is simply this. We know that at least some of that tongue speaking out there is not of God, because who among us would admit that any of these religions that I just m mentioned were are are authentic Are scriptural. They're not. They're false religions. And yet here are people claiming to speak in tongues. So we know that there's some of that out there that is not genuinely of the Lord. So we know that that's not of the Spirit. And so we need to be careful. We need to test every experience by the scripture. The Bible says in 1 John 4 1, we're told To test the spirits to see whether they are of God. Experiences again have to come under the guidelines of Scripture. And here's another thought And we don't need to dwell on it because you already know it. Believers are continually warned in the New Testament to beware of deception. And also Satan always Sought to create a counterfeit for the true and the real. There's a true church, there's a counterfeit church. There's a true gospel, there's a counterfeit gospel. There is a true prophet, there are count of counterfeit prophets, there are true believers There are counterfeit believers. There is the true gift of tongues, and there's the counterfeit gift of tongues. And so the question is: what's the true? Now, let me just give you Well go to the book of Acts. 1 Corinthians 14. We are going to come back. Go to the book of Acts, chapter 2. And I know that you've probably read this before, but I want to go over it with you again. Let's establish what is the true gift Now the Bible is pretty clear on this, and on the day of Pentecost when the Spirit of God fell upon the church, uh the Bible says that um there there appeared over them uh like clothes of fire, almost like The She kind of glory over the tabernacle in the Old Testament. It was the sign that God had come, that God was there. In chapter 2, verse 4, it says, And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. And so here now are these disciples, and they're filled with the Holy Spirit of God, and they begin to speak uh in this these languages that they didn't prevent Obviously, no, and so this is a miracle of God. And notice what it says in verse 6. Now, when this was noise abroad, the multitude came together and went cur were confounded because that every man heard them speak in his own language. So there are Jews coming to this feast aid of uh from all over uh the region there, from different places, and they all come together, and they're hearing now these men who previously didn't know In our own tongue wherein we were born. And then from verses nine on down to verse eleven, he catalogues all of the languages that are mentioned that were being spoken there Parthenians and Medes and Elamites and dwellers of Mesopotamia and Judea and Cappadocia and Pontius and Asia and Phrygia and so on. And they were all amazed and doubt, saying, What what saying one to another, What meaneth this? But back up to verse eleven where it says, We do hear them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God. So the Bible is pretty clear. It is this gift that the Bible speaks about is when the Holy Spirit comes upon a person and suddenly they're able to speak in a earthly language that they previously didn't know. And the Bible, again, is clear because it catalogues the languages. Here is a person Who's given this miraculous ability, miraculous knowledge? And this was a sign that God was using to the Jews that were there. And so it's that spirit-given ability to speak in an earthly language that you preach. previously didn't know. Now, here's a second question. Is this the same gift of tongues mentioned in First Corinthians 14? Because you you What you come across here is that there will be some who admit that the tongues and acts are known earthly languages, but then they'll say that the tongues mentioned Mentioned in 1 Corinthians 14, however, are different in that they are a heavenly private prayer language. Now, that's what some are saying. Now, there's no reason to think that The clear definition and purpose of the gift of tongues ever changed? How can we say that what's mentioned in 1 Corinthians 14 is different from what's given in Acts chapter 2? The Greek Terms used in 1 Corinthians 14 are the same ones used in Acts chapter 2. There's no new definition of tongues that's given in 1 Corinthians 14. It is still a Holy Spirit given miraculous ability to speak in a foreign language. Well, here's the next question then. Where do some get the idea that the gift of tongues is a private prayer language? Or a heavenly unknown language. Where do people get that from? And the answer to that is, I think it's based on a misunderstanding or a misinterpretation of first Corinthians 14. Now you have to keep in mind that Paul had a very difficult task when he wrote that letter. He wanted to address the issue of tongues. He wanted to uphold the real gift, the real spirit-given gift, but at the same time he wanted to debunk the counterfeit gift. So he didn't want to throw The baby out with the bathwater, so to speak. He wanted to uphold what God was really doing, and he wanted to get rid of the counterfeit. And the Corinthians were abusing the real gift of tongues. He didn't want to want to hinder the work of the Spirit of God. And it was creating so much confusion and error. And remember that the Corinthian church, they had a lot of issues they were dealing with. They had abused the And so it's kind of crazy for us to assume that they would get this issue right if they'd gotten everyone else wrong And so Paul wants to straighten all that out. And so uh so this is what he does, and and I want you to go back to First Corinthians fourteen now, because what many In order to really make sense of 1 Corinthians 14, you have to know when he's referring to the real gift and when he's referring to the counterfeit gift. That's the key, and really knowing this. There are some that assume that Paul is legitimizing tongues as an unknown prayer language here. But there's a key to understanding this, I think. Whenever Paul refers to speaking in a unknown tongue as a prayer language, he's really referring to the counterfeit gift that's being used, not the real gift. He's not referring to the real gift when he does that. He never uses the speaking in a unknown tongue in a way that is positive but it's always negative. Now, let me again give you a clue. You say, well, how do you know When Paul's referring to the real gift and when he's referring to the counterfeit gift. Well, here's one way to know. Whenever you see the word tongues plural He's referring to the real thing. You say why? Well because how many languages are there? There's a lot, right? There's more than one, so he's referring to The real thing. Whenever he refers to the singular, he's referring to the counterfeit gift. You say again, why? Well, because there's only one kind of gibberish There's not plural non-cognitive languages that you don't understand. There's only one, right? And so when he refers to it in the singular, he's referring to the counter Counterfeit gifts when he refers to it in the plural, he's referring to the real thing. And so, and by the way, I think the writers of the translators of the King James Version try to help us out on You say how do they do that? Because what they do is they put the word unknown before the singular word tongue. Look at verse number two. For he that speaketh in an unknown tongue. Now notice that the unknown there is italicized, and so that's not part of the original Greek text. This is added And so when they use when they see when you see the plural there, sometimes they'll stick in the word unknown or they'll put in the word unknown when they according to their and uh translation and Interpretation think that he's referring to not the real thing but the counterfeit gift. The scriptures, the translators always have to use their own reason and rationale to do some interpretation. You can't really translate the scripture without giving your own interpretation to it. And so in their interpretation, whenever they put the word unknown before the word, the singular word tongue, I think they're referring to the counterfeit gift that is being used there and not the real thing. And so uh and for example, look in chapter fourteen, look in verse two. For he that speaketh in an unknown tongue speaketh not unto men. Look in verse number four. He that speaketh Now, by the way, the spiritual gifts are not to edify yourself, are they? No, they're to edify others, right? If you're doing something just to edify yourself yourself you're not using it in the right way. Look down in verse number five. I would that you all speak with tongues. Now here again Paul I think is using uh the s the plural here Talk about the real thing. Paul, in essence, what he's saying is, look, there's nothing wrong with the gift of tongues. I would that all of you were able to do this, to use the real gift to speak in tongues. Now to by By the way, he's using hyperbole there. You say, how do you know that? Well, because we don't get to choose our gifts, do we? No. So he's overemphasizing a point just to say Look, there's nothing wrong with speaking in tongues. I would that you all spoke in tongues. Nothing wrong with the gift. Look in verse number six Where he says, Now brethren, if I come unto you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you except I speak to you either in a revelation? In other words, it's not going to help unless you know unless you There's an interpretation given. Look at verse number nine. So likewise, ye accept ye utter by the tongue. Now, in verse number nine, what he's referring to there is not speaking, he's referring to the actual tongue in your mouth. He's referring to the literal tongue that you have there. It's not he's not referring to languages there. And so listen, again, here's an interpretive principle when you're studying First Corinthians 14, and you need to Be aware of this when you go through so you don't get confused. Whenever, in general, whenever he uses the singular tongue, he's referring to languages that uh a language that we really don't understand. So Supposedly a divine heavenly language, supposedly a prayer language. And whenever he uses the word plural tongues, he's referring to speaking in earthly languages. One, he's referring to the real gift, and the other he's referring to the counterfeit gift. Now, let me just s qualify that. This is generally true. There are exceptions to this rule And you say, well, where are the exceptions? And again, you have to keep the context clear, but there's an exception, for example, in verse 26, when he's referring to a singular person. Speaking in a singular tongue, and because the subject of the verse is singular, therefore the singular use of the word tongue is demanded. Paul's talking about a singular person who gets up and speaks in a tongue Singular, but there he's referring to our earthly known language. So there is an exception here to this. Now let me go to the fourth question. You see, that's where they get this idea that it's a private prayer language. It's a misinterpretation, it's a misunderstanding of First Corinthians fourteen. Sometimes people read it and they assume that Paul is giving an affirmation to a kind of a prophet In fact, he's kind of debunking that counterfeit gift here. But here's the next question. What exactly are the counterfeit tongues? Alright, we know what the real gift is. That's speaking in earthly known languages. Then what exactly were the counterfeit tongues? And the Corinthians allowed themselves to be influenced by this concept and Remember I told you that it was all a part of the mystery religions that were so prevalent in that region that was such a part of that day where people would just get kind of caught away speaker understood the language. They were speaking the language of the divine. They were supposedly in connection or in an intimate relationship at that moment with their God. That was all part of the mystery religions. And a lot of the Corinthians were taking what was being practiced outside the church, and they were kind of baptizing it and bringing it in the church, and they were calling this the real gift of tongues when in fact it was not And what was happening was they were confusing other believers in the church. Others were beginning to think that this was a real thing, and other people wanted to be able to do that too. And so it was bringing a lot of confusion There into the church. Again, you know, quoting from one scholar regarding this, he says, At the time of the Corinthian church, the Greco-Roman world had a multitude of gods, and in their worship of these gods Gods it was all very common for a person to go into ecstasy, which literally means to go out of oneself. They would go into an unconscious state where all kinds of psychic phenomena were would occur. They believed that when they were in that trance, they actually By the way, they had a word for this. And when Paul uses that particular word word, he's not coming up with a new word there. He's not quantitative. He's taking that word out of the mystery religions world and he's kind of bringing it in and saying, you know, this is what's going on here And again, this was a common practice. Again, quoting another New Testament scholar, he said this with the aestheticism of the Dionysian cult and the emphasis on tongue speaking and oracles, it is not surprising that some of the Corinthians carried these pagan ideas into the church at Corinth. And by the way, that's why when you study from chapter 12 to chapter 14, what you'll find our words that Paul uses that he's really pulling out of the mystery religions and saying, look, you know, this is what's going on. For example, there was the word iras. We know that this word means kind of a sense Sens uh sensual love, fleshly love, but it was also a word that was designed to talk about what was going on in some of the mystery religions. If you look in chapter 14, verse 2, where he says that in the spirit he speaks mysteries. That's the word mysterion. And again, this is a word that was used normally in the context of the mystery religion. When he refers to musical instruments in chapter 13, that was all part of what went on. In order to get into this trance, to get into this emotional state, they would play Play all kind of instruments and all kind of sounds to kind of help whip that person into that frenzy. That was all part of the the uh practice there, the clanging of the cymbals, the noisy the gongs and so on. At one place Paul uses the establishment. This expression, you're mad. Look in chapter fourteen, look at verse twenty-three. If therefore the whole church be come together into one place and all speak with tongues, and there come in those that are unlike Paul says, look, if an unbeliever comes in the church and you're all up there and you're all speaking in tongues and he comes in and Hears all this and sees all this going on. You know what the unbeliever is going to say? You people are mad. Now, a lot of times when you read that, you're thinking, well, that means crazy. You folks are crazy But actually the Greek word here menomai the word menomai is a word that was used in that day to describe someone who was a part of the mystery religions. And they were in this emotional frame of mind where they were communing with the deity. A person that was in that state where they were supposedly talking to their God and that gym They were said to be Menomai. That's where they are. And so what Paul is saying is: look, if an unbeliever walks in and sees you all doing all this, you know what they're gonna say This is just another pagan religion where people are doing the same old thing. Paul said if they see you doing that in the church, they're gonna associate you with one of those false religions if they see all that going on in the church. And so here's the next question. Why did this counterfeit use of tongues catch on and grow then in the Corinthian church. This is one of the questions I ask myself. I I sometimes wonder how how could they give into this How could they actually believe this? Well, as we already said, that the Corinthian church was not a spiritual group of people. We have to Understand that. And based on everything that we've already learned, they had all these other issues, all these other problems. And here they are surrounded in this culture with all these crazy He says, Brethren, be not children in understanding. Stop being children in understanding. Really, in the Greek, this is a prohibition, subjunctive, which simply means means he's commanding an action to stop that's already been taking place. Paul's saying, you have already been acting like children, your children in your understanding. Now stop it Stop it. You're acting like children in the way you understand. Stop being children. It's time to stop all of this. Stop this foolishness. Look what he says in verse number twenty. He says, Brethren, be not children in understanding, how be it, and malice be ye children, but not in understanding, but excuse me, but in understanding Be ye men. Paul's saying, look, you need to use your mind. You need to stop being so gullible, and you know, there's something characteristic of children, and that is, they believe whatever you tell them And Paul says, look, you need to be men in your understanding. If you want to be children, Paul said, be children in your malice. What did he mean by that? Well, you know, a little here's a little child, you know, little children, they don't have a whole lot of malice in their heart. In fact, you can see two little children fighting and getting at each other, and in the next minute, you know what you'll see? They're best friends Why is that? Because children don't have malice. And uh they don't think evil. And so Paul says, you know, if you want to imitate children, imitate children in malice. Learn to forgive each other. And by the way, they needed in the church to do that. The church of Corinth had some issues there. He said, look, be children and mouse, you know, forgive each other and learn to love each other. He had just talked about loving In 1 Corinthians 13. But don't be children in your understanding, in your discernment. In that area, you need to be more mature. You need to be like men. And another reason why tongues caught on And what is it? It's edification. It's not Self-edification. It is edifying others. It is edifying the body of Christ. Again, notice we don't have time again to look at all this. But uh if you read through First Corinthians fourteen very carefully, you know what you're gonna see the word edify is gonna come up again and again and again. You know why? Because the whole point that he's trying to make here Is that when God gave you a spiritual gift, He gave it to you so that you can edify others? Not for self-edification. This isn't for you. This is For others. This is for the body of Christ. In fact, the big point that he's making, here's the overall point. And the overall point is this: if you really want to classify uh spiritual gifts as Some being better than others, then Paul's basically saying, let me tell you, the gift of tongues is an inferior gift. It's inferior. Now, this is uh this goes against the grain of a lot of theology, charismatic theology out there today that tries to exalt this gift and they put it on a high pedestal and they say, Oh, this is the thing. You know, you have to get that second baptism and you have to do this and, you know, that'll prove that you're saved and so on. There's all kinds of different views out there about this. But either way they take and they exalt this gift. But that's exactly the opposite of what Paul is doing here. Paul is saying, look, this isn't a real uh A superior gift, this is rather an inferior gift. And why is that true? Because and he's gonna make this point, we haven't really gotten into chapter fourteen just yet. But he's going to make this point that it it's really an inferior gift. And um, you know, if you want to, you know if you want to really classify it and if you want to really be honest about it, tongues doesn't edify the church. It doesn't edify. You say, where do you get that look in chapter fourteen look down at verse number twenty two wherefore tongues are for a sign not to them that what but to them that Believe not. Tongues really is not for the believer. It's for the benefit of the unbeliever. And so that's why Paul says, you know, really, you all in the church of Corinth, you're picking this up and you're putting this gift on a pedestal and you're saying, Oh, this is the greatest gift to be able to speak in some kind of utterance, some kind of Private prayer language, and you're really exalting it, and Paul's saying, you know what, it it really doesn't edify the church. It's not really for the church. It's really for the benefit of the unbelievers. For the believers. And so the point that he's going to make, the whole theme, in the first 19 verses here of chapter 14, is that the gift of prophecy is superior to the gift of tongues It's better to prophesy than to speak in tongues. I mean, prophecy is so much better. And and again, uh tongues was such a big deal to them because It was a showy gift. It created kind of an elitist attitude among some of the believers who did that. And those who didn't were discontent and they wanted to be able to speak in tongues. And Paul says, You know what? Uh Yeah, that's the wrong attitude. If you want to really pursue after a gift, then you pursue after love. And remember that whatever gift you use is for the benefit of others. And just also Remember this, we already saw this in 1 Corinthians 13 that these gifts are going to pass away. There's going to come a time when none of them are really being used anymore. So you want to really pursue the gift And so let me give you then the reasons why that tongues is really an inferior gift. And you should really be pursuing after other things. And not this, and stop putting it on such a high pedestal. And so with that said, he's going to give in chapter 14, the first 19 verses, he's going to give eight reasons why it's an inferior Your gift to prophecy. That's really the whole point here. Now, I have five minutes. That's all introduction. Now we go into the main body of the sermon. Let me just make one point. I'll do one point and you know what? We'll do the other seven next week. Y'all gonna be here, right? Everybody not mad at me, right? Alright. So here's the First one. Paul says tongues is an inferior to prophecy. Why? Because of the nature of the gift of prophecy. Because of the nature of the gift. Look at verse thirteen. Follow after charity. Paul just got done saying That in chapter 13, right? Follow after charity and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that ye may prophesy. And really, this first one is really the conclusion of chapter Chapter 13, I think. And what he's saying is based on everything that he said in chapter 13, he really gives this command. Pursue love. This is a present tense imperative. Keep on continuing to pursue love He said, desire spiritual gifts. And here Paul is basically saying there's nothing wrong with really wanting to use spiritual gifts. And some of you might be saying, now wait a minute, didn't Paul say don't covet the best gifts in chapter twelve. Yeah he said that but this is kind of different here. What he's saying, and by the way, this is plural. The U here is not singular, it's plural. So what he's saying is as a church collectively, as a church as a whole It's okay to want to use your spiritual gift. It's okay to want to have good gifts. Because if you're doing it in the context of love, that's exactly what God wants. He doesn't want you selfishly trying to use Use a gift for your own edification. He wants you to pursue a gift so that you can use it to love others in the body of Christ. Nothing wrong with that. Nothing wrong with pursuing a gift With the right motive. As long as you're doing it in love, that's a good thing. And so therefore, you should desire to have a spiritual gift Do you want I I mean I want to have a spiritual gift. I want to be used. I want to help others. There's nothing wrong with that. And so Paul is saying, look, if you want to really desire a gift, then again we know that God is the one who actually Distributes the gift according to his will, but Paul's saying, look, if you want to desire to use a spiritual gift, all of you are out there and you're desiring this gift of tongues, but I'm here to tell you that prophecy is a better gift than that Why? Well, because of the nature of it. Look at it, he says in verse one because rather that ye may prophesy, and the verb prophecy here in the Greek propheto comes And in the early church, this happened in two ways. This was bow Both revelatory and we could say reiterative. That is, a lot of times when a person would stand and speak, the the l God would just give them words to say, and it was encouraging. I guess the best way we can compare it is when we kind of have a testimony time here and people stand up and they share something that God has done for them, or maybe God has said to them, and and doesn't that edify All of us when we hear other people and they tell us about what God's been doing, and that's just a wonderful thing. And that was happening in the early church. The only difference is you can kind of ramp it up a little bit and say some of the people we When they stood up and they spoke, they were speaking words that God gave them to speak. And so there's a sense in which they were revealing truth because God was giving it to give to the church. Now you have to Remember that at this time in redemptive history, we did not yet have the completed revelation of Scripture. And so God, through His Spirit, would speak through people to build up and encourage and edify the church By the way, that's why it's very we're very careful in the New Testament, the writers were to say, look, you need to test all the spirits to make sure it's of God. You need to make sure whatever's being said is measured against the scripture to make sure it's of God. But there was kind of this revelatory aspect with this, but there was also this reiteration. A lot of times when a person would stand up and speak, they were just reiterating what God had already said. And by the way, that's what we do today. When I come to you and I speak to you the word of God, I'm not giving you new revelation, beloved. I'm just reiterating What God already said. I'm just trying to make clear to you what God has already said, and we now have a complete revelation of Scripture. So what we need to do is we need to emphasize this and we need to preach this. And we need to make sure people understand this because this is the Word of God. And back in the early church, the speaking of the Word, that was central. Friend, it ought to be central. Central today. Our founding pastor built this church on the centrality of the word of God being preached. You know what's sad. Is that we see churches nowadays in this age where the Word of God is no longer central. Other things take center stage. It might be music, it might be drama, it might be It might be programs, it might be, you know, whatever, entertainment and all this other thing. The word of God is no longer central. But in the early church, the speaking forth of the Word of God was And so Paul was basically saying that you know this is better when someone just stands and they give the truth of God's word That is so much better than this gift of tongues that you're all putting on a pedestal and that you're all after. Prophecy is better than that. And so we're gonna have to end it there. Alright. And we're gonna give the other seven reasons next week. Alright, so you have to tune in next week and we'll just Just continue on Paul's arguments here regarding this thing. Let's let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we we thank you for your word. And Father, we want to live a According to it. We want to be in submission to it, Lord. And we know, Lord, the test of what is really of you. It comes, your word is really that the The final authority to all of that. And Lord, we know that we have to measure every spiritual experience next to the scripture. So Lord, help us to do this. We know we live in a day, Lord, when There's so many counterfeits out there. And they confuse the people of God. Lord, help us to cling to the word. And Lord, we want a true spiritual work From the Holy Spirit of God. We want Lord you to come among us and do something very, very real that is of God, where people walk away and say, Uh, we know this is of the Lord. We can see See the hand of God. Where, Lord, there's no human explanation except this is the Lord's doing. And it's marvelous in our eyes. And so, Father, may that be our prayer. Mightily in hearts and lives. Lord, give us discernment. Give us wisdom. Fill us, Lord, with your spirit, and help us, Lord, to walk in your way. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.