It's good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles. Open to First Corinthians chapter fourteen. As you know, we have uh been studying this uh letter for a while now, and we're kind of getting back into it. We left it for a few weeks Because of the holiday season. We had the Christmas Eve service and then we had just a wonderful New Year's Eve service last week. And um just I you know, honestly I thought that was one of the best year services that we had. And Pastor Johnson did such a tremendous job preaching the word and bringing us into the new year. And uh so it's it's it's just good to be a part of Grace by Bible Baptist Church. Now we get back to 1 Corinthians 14. We kind of left off there. You might remember that this is the same sermon I've been preaching for actually two weeks before we got into the Christmas holidays And now I'm going to kind of pick it up. And so this is kind of hard because what I want to do is just spend a little bit of time reviewing with you what I've been talking about in 1 Corinthians 14, and then I want to push on with you Now remember that in 1 Corinthians 14, the Apostle Paul is trying to straighten out some confusion that has been in the church at Corinth with respect to spiritual gifts, and specifically with respect to This was w really the area of controversy that had hit the church. And as you know, as we've been studying First Corinthians, the Corinthian church was somewhat a major immature church. They had a lot of problems they were dealing with, and one of the issues was the abuse of spiritual gifts. And Paul wants to correct this abuse. Now the reason tongues is such a kind of center stage gift is because this was the gift that people in the church were gravitating to as w as the greatest of the spiritual gifts. And b probably because it was a showy gift and because uh When a person was supposedly speaking under the Spirit of God in tongues, uh it put them on a plateau, a level spiritually that others perhaps But now remember one of the problems that we uh talked about with respect to the gift of tongues is the fact that there was a counterfeit. Gift and a real gift. There's a real biblical gift of tongues, and we looked at that. That's given to us in the book of Acts, chapter 2, where when the Holy Spirit came upon those early disciples, they were able to ha speak in another tongue, an earthly language, and in Acts chapter two, it catalogues all those languages. The Holy Spirit came upon them. They were able to speak an earthly language that they could not speak before. The unbelieving Jews that had come there to And so it was kind of a pre evangelism work that the Holy Spirit was doing that was letting the Jews there know Now we come to First Corinthians fourteen, and one of the big questions dealing with this is is this a different kind of in the church at Corinth was because of the influence of the Greek mystery religions all around them that believed in speaking some kind of non cognitive utterance that no one really understood We would call it gibberish. Uh uh it's kind of a divine language they would say, because they were getting in touch with the gods and accompanying that was the playing of all kind of instruments and symbols. Because a person would get worked up in a ecstasy and supposedly they would lead their body in a way and they would commune with theity and they would speak in a tongue that nobody knew. was part of the pagan religions, the mystery religions, and some of that was seeping into the church under the guise of being the gift of tongues. And part of Paul's issue here, what it has to do is a very difficult thing He has to separate the real gift from the counterfeit gift. He has to affirm the real gift, but at the same time debunking the counterfeit gift. And he doesn't want to hinder any of the work of God I don't know about you, but I I want all the Spirit of God has for us. I want all of what the Holy Spirit wants to do. But there's a lot of things going on out there in the name of the Spirit that are not of the Spirit. We have to be discerning, we have to be careful that we are uh you know using the word of God and the discernment of the Holy Spirit to make sure that it is of the Lord. What was happening where there were many that were speaking supposedly with tongues when actually it wasn't the real thing, they were imitating what was going on in the pagan mystery religions. Paul has to kind of debunk that, yet at the same time, he wants to uphold the real gifts. And part of also what Paul wants to do is he wants to show that really the gift of tongues is not a superior gift. Really, it's an inferior gift when you think about it. It really has no ability to edify anybody in the church. What was the gift of tongues for? Is it for the church? And Paul kind of answers that question question. Look at chapter fourteen, look at verse twenty two. Wherefore tongues are for a sign not to them that what believe, but to them that believe not. This this Sign gift is really for the benefit of unbelievers, not believers. And if you read the rest of verse 22, it basically says that but prophesying serveth not for them that believe not Not but for them that believe. That we could say preaching or proclaiming the word of God. Now that edifies God's people that believe, that's for believers. But tongue And we're we're not going to deal with that this week. We don't have time, but next week we'll talk about what is the purpose of tongues. What why did God use it? And Paul's very clear in 1 Corinthians 14 He gives us some specific reasons for this gift, and it's for primarily for unbelieving Jews, a sign to them that the gospel is really of God It's authentic. But now here Paul is going to mention some reasons why that the gift of tongues really is not a superior gift. It is really an inferior gift. It's inferior Specifically to prophecy. And when we say prophecy, we could just say the proclamation, the proclaiming of the Word of God. Now in the early church, they didn't have the completed revelation And sometimes people in a in a service would stand and they would speak uh and give a word from God and it was encouraging. But always it had to be uh you had to use discernment to make sure that what they were saying And they did have some letters, but they didn't have the completed revelation. But they were always careful, and the Bible says that we're to And so there was a sense in which some of the prophetic gift in the early church was revelatory and part of it was reiteration. Paul's letters or what was taught to them already. And so uh there was part of it was the written word that they had received, part of it was kind of revelatory. But we could really sum it all up by saying, really It's the proclamation of the Word. Now, thank God in this age we are recipients to the complete revelation of the Word of God. We have the canon of Scripture. And so when we talk about proclamation We're talking about simply expounding and proclaiming the Word of God. And this is to be central. So Paul's going to give several arguments, and I'm just going to kind of name them really quick. Now we elaborated on them all already so I'm gonna review and just name them and we've got to push on. But why is the gift of prophecy superior? And number one is because the nature of prophecy, and really I already talked about that because prophecy is the proclamation of the word And we believe here at Grace that the Word of God is to be central. We preach and teach the Word of God, it is central. And that's the nature of the gift. It's superior because it is the Word. But here's number two. Because not no one Really understands an unknown tongue. Look at verse number two. It says, For he that speaketh in an unknown tongue speaketh not unto men, but unto God. For no man understandeth him, how be if he speak In the Spirit he speaks mysteries. And Paul's continuing his argument and saying when a person speaks in an unknown tongue, he's really speaking mysteries that nobody understands. Now remember I told you That one hermeneutical clue, one interpretive clue to know whether Paul's talking about the real gift of tongues or the counterfeit gift is when he talks about the real gift of tongues He uses plural. Why? Because there are many earthly languages. But when he talks about the counterfeit gift, he normally uses the singular word tongue because there's only one kind of Gibberish. There's not plural, several kinds of uh uh tongue that you don't understand, or that is supposedly supposedly a divine tongue. And so and the King James uh translator kind of help us out here because they put in italicized letters the word unknown before it. So in verse two, when he talks about an unknown tongue, I think he's referring here to the counterfeit gift And what he's saying is that when someone stands and they speak in a language that nobody understands, uh it doesn't benefit anyone. Nobody understands it. Uh if it doesn't have understanding There's no edification. And so he gives four illustrations to kind of back it up. This one in verse two is from the mystery world. Notice in verse two where it says he speaks mysteries, mysterion. referring to the mystery religions back then. They're just imitating the mystery religions. They're speaking that no one understands. And then he also uses an illustration from the uh music world. Look at verse number six seven. And even things without life giving sound, whether pipe or harp, except they give a distinction in sounds, how shall it be known what is pipe or harp? Even music has a language If I went over there and started playing disconcerted notes that had no, you know, order and rhythm and melody, you know, everybody would just say all you're doing is making noise. But if someone like Scott Winter goes over and plays like he did this morning. Wasn't that also awful to you? And we we understand the music, we understand the language of that music, it it has a blessing to us. And that's what he's saying, even in the music world There's a there's a understanding to the language of music. And then he gives an illustration from the military world. Look at verse eight. For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to battle? If you're a Roman soldier and you hear the trumpet and it's a trumpet sound that you've never heard before, and by the way they had certain sounds that whenever the trumpet was blown, it was either wake up, pass But if a guy stands up and he plays a sound that nobody understands, what's gonna happen? There's Confusion in the camp. They're looking at each other saying, What did he say? We don't understand what he said. If the trumpet gives an uncertain sound, Paul said, who's going to prepare himself for For battle. So it uses illustration from the mystery world, from the music world, from the military world, and then from the multilingual world. Look at verse number 10. It says um It says there are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and none of them is without signification. When he uses the word voice, it's phone, it's just a language. There are many earthly languages. There's approximately six thousand earthly languages and dialects. Everyone has its own unique understanding Understanding. And people that speak that language understand it because it's very distinct and it's very understandable by those who speak it. But if you don't know the meaning of the language, it doesn't help. I mean, Paul said, if we don't understand the language, look at verse eleven, therefore if I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be unto him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh unto me, or shall be a barbarian unto me And the word barbarian here just means someone who speaks an unintelligent sound or unintelligible sound we just don't understand. And so the whole point is that if there's no understanding, there's no edification No one's getting edified in the church with this. But here's the third reason: prophecy strengthens, encourages, and comforts. Look at verse 3. He that prophesies speaketh unto men unto edification And exhortation and comfort. And all Paul is saying there is when the word of God is preached, these things just happen. People are edified, they're built up, people are stirred up, they are encouraged. But here's the number four. Because prophecy edifies the entire Look at verse 4. He that speaketh in an unknown tongue edifies himself. But he that speaketh prophecy edifies what? The whole church. So if a guy sp stands up and he speaks A tongue that nobody knows. It's an aesthetic language. He may be edifying himself. He might be showing everyone around how spiritual he is. He's on a different level, but he's not Prophecy edifies the whole church, Paul says. That's why it's superior. And by the way, there's an edification that is not good, a self-edification Edification is not good. It's negative. Paul presents it in a ne in a negative light in First Corinthians chapter ten when he talks about this self-edification, not until you're good, but it it's It's more of a pride thing for yourself. And so you can build yourself up in a way that's not good. And that's what he means here. You might be building yourself up, but you're not helping anybody around But then here's number five. Prophecy superior because the one who prophesies is greater than Than the one who speaks in tongues. Look at verse 5. I would that ye all spake with tongues, but rather that ye prophesied, for greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaks with tongues, except he interpreted. Now, someone says verse 5 there it says everybody should speak in tongues. And so that's why there are some people that hold on to this verse and they say, well, this says that everybody, Paul said he wants everybody to speak Well he's using hyperbole here. nothing wrong with the real gift of tongues. Listen, it's good. If it's true, if it's of God, uh there's nothing wrong with it. I was if everybody had it. Now we know that Paul's not being literal there. How do we We know that because we already saw in 1 Corinthians 12 that the Spirit of God is the one who gives us the gifts. We don't get to choose our gifts. I don't get to come to God and say, okay, God, I I looked over the list of gifts Gifts in the Bible, and here's the ones I want. That's not how it works. God is sovereign over the dispensing of gifts. He will give you the gift that He wants you to have. You can't go to God and say And so that's why we know Paul can't be being literal here. And besides, it already said in First Corinthians twelve, in fact Go back there and look at this again. Look in first Corinthians twelve. Look at verse uh twenty-eight, where it says, and God hath given some in the church first apostles and prophets Prophets, teachers, and then miracles, gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. And now he says in verse 28, God's the one who distributes all these. Look at verse 29. Are all apostles What's the answer for that? No. Are all prophets? No. Are all teachers? No. Are all workers of miracles? No. Do all have the gift of healing? No. Do all speak with tongues? What's the implied answer? No. Do I'll interpret? No. Not everybody has all of those gifts. God has given them to whomever He wants in the church. So not everybody Has all of the gifts. That's the whole point there. The Holy Spirit is the one who gives them. We don't get to choose them. And so when Paul says, I would that you all spake with tongues, he's not saying that it's God's will. will for everybody to do it. He's just saying there's nothing wrong with it. Remember in 1 Corinthians 7 when Paul was saying there's nothing wrong with singleness? Remember what he said? I would that all of you were single like me. Let me ask you a question. You think It's God's will for all of you to be single? No, of course not. And Paul wasn't saying to all the people there in Corinth, God wants all of you to be single? What was he saying? He was using hyperbole to say there's There's nothing wrong with singleness. If God hasn't given you a mate, and if He's chosen for you to be single, nothing wrong with that, because there were some in the church that were saying if you're single, there's something wrong with it And Paul said, that's not true. I would that everyone was like me, single. You could do a whole lot for God, you know, and that was the whole point. So he's using the same argument here. But notice what he says in verse 5 five. I would that you all spake with tongues, but rather that you prophesy, for greater is he that prophesies than he that speaks with tongues. In other words, again the person who Who uses prophecy and speaks the word of God is greater because again edification is taking place to all of the church and more is happening And so Paul puts a premium on prophecy over this gift of tongues. All right. Whew. All right, now I think we're ready to push on. That was all review. Y'all got that? I'm giving you a test next week. You better know all this. I'm just kidding. Let's let's go to point number six. Here's the sixth point. Because the individual who Who speaks in tongues doesn't understand what he's saying. He doesn't understand what he's saying. Look at verse 13. Wherefore, let him that speaketh in an unknown tongue pray that he may interpret. And what's he saying? Now here Paul deals with the speaker's understanding. Now, whereas in the previous arguments he dealt with the listener's understanding, Paul now is talking about the one who is actually speaking this unknowing tongue. And Paul is simply saying here, the speaker doesn't understand what he says. And there's a sense in which he's got to turn his mind off and shift into neutral. He's gotta kinda shut his mind down. And again, I think here he is again debunking the counterfeit gift of tongues where people are speaking in some unknown tongue. And when you use this counterfeit Because it's singular and the italicized unknown there. So it's not plural there, so there's only one kind of gibberish, and I think Paul here in verse thirteen is being sarcastic. I think what he's saying here is that look, and by the way, this is not the first time that Paul used Kind of a sanctified sarcasm against the Corinthians. Remember when chapter four he said, Oh, you are rich, you're full, you're increased, you know, you have all you need. And uh he was being sarcastic Sarcastic there. You know, you you you're not fools like us. You have all that you need. And what was he doing there? He was kind of humbling them because the Corinthians had this issue of being puffed up and proud And Paul said, Oh yeah, you guys have already arrived. You're already at the millennium waiting for us. And so he's using sarcasm there. He's using it, I think, right here. And I think here what he's saying is, he's saying, look, if you want to do something when you're speaking in this unknown tongue, why don't you ask God to help you understand what you're saying? Why don't you pray that you might interpret? Uh now remember we already said that this this counterfeit gift is speaking in something that nobody understood and supposedly it was a Language of the God. And so he's saying, look, if you're going to do this, why don't you just say, Lord, help me to understand what I'm saying here? Now you might be thinking, now wait a minute, you're pushing that into this verse. Well There's really only two ways to interpret this. One way is to say, I think Paul's being sarcastic, he's saying, Why don't you ask God to help you understand what you're saying? Sarcastically. Or you can say Say that Paul is actually asking them to pray for the gift of interpretation. Now, again, we already established that we don't get to choose our spiritual gifts. That's not up to us That's up to God. And since really Paul already established that in chapter twelve, we have to eliminate that option. And so we have to come back to saying he's being sarcastic here. He's saying Hey, why don't you ask God to help you understand what you're saying? Because you don't understand it. You yourself, you who are speaking, or you who are supposedly praying to God in this unknown tongue. You have no idea what you're saying. And look what he goes on to say in verse number uh 14. For if I pray in an unknown tongue, and again someone Say, oh, there it is. Paul says he's praying in an unknown tongue. No. Again, he's using a hypothetical illustration. He's saying, look, if if this were me and I were praying in an unknown tongue, my spirit prays, and the word spirit I'm saying. My my my words are coming out. And some people interpret that word spirit as being a person's inner spirit. If you want to interpret it that way, that's fine But the point is still the same. You don't understand what you're saying. You have no idea what you're praying. And so it's unfruitful. And Paul uses the word there, unfruitful, meaning it's not helping you. It's not helping anybody. You know, you're praying and you don't know what you're saying? And how is that supposed to be intimate? You know, that's not intimate language. understand what you're saying to the person that you are talking to. Try that on your wife, see how that works. It's not going to work very well. And so Paul says you're not understanding what your And so, in other words, Paul says, you know, if I'm going to pray, I'm going to pray with the understanding. Now he's deadly serious. Look at verse 15. What is it then? Or we could say it like this: what's the conclusion? What's my conclusion here? I will pray with the Spirit, or we could say with the breath, or the wind, or inner being, if you like. And I will pray With the understanding also. Paul says, when I talk to God, it's going to come from my inside of me. I'm going to use my breath, but I'm going to use my brain. And I'm going to understand Understand what I say. When I pray to God, I'm gonna know what I say. That's real praying there. It doesn't help you if you don't understand what you're saying And also look again in verse fifteen. I will sing with the Spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also. Apparently the Corinthians were also singing in this aesthetic language as well as praying in them. And Paul says, you know, I don't do that. What purpose does that serve? I mean it might show everyone around me that I have I'm on this This level supposedly, but it doesn't help me and it doesn't help them. I'm gonna pray, I'm gonna sing with the understanding there. So, prophecy support Because of the nature of the gift, because no one understands an unknown tongue, because prophecy strengthens, encourages, comforts, it edifies the entire church Because the one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues. Because of the individual who speaks in tongues, he doesn't understand what he's saying. Now when I'm prophesying, when I'm preaching, I'm understanding what I'm saying, hopefully, and hopefully you are too. But when you speak in tongues, Paul says this counterfeit gifts, nobody understands Also, here's the next reason. Because of the inability to say amen to tongues, the unknowing tongues. You can't say amen to it. Look at verse 16. Else when thou shalt bless with the spirit Spirit, how shall he that occupieth the room of the unlearned say amen at the giving of thanks, seeing he understandeth not what thou says? Now here we have Have biblical support to saying amen in church. That was a good place to say amen right there. You missed it. This is biblical support to say amen in church. Don't get offended because People say amen. It's good. It's good. We see this in the Bible. Paul commends it here. In fact, the problem with speaking in an unknown tongue, Paul says, is you can't say amen to it. Someone stands up and says something nobody understands, you can't say, Well, amen, brother. And by the way, this is also counsel for being careful where you put your amens. Don't amen something you don't understand And Paul says, you can't say amen to this. Now, by the way, the word amen here is simply a Hebrew adjective that means truth. Truth, brother. That's what it really says here Or so let it be, or I'm with you, and so on. And by the way, the Jewish synagogue, Amen was said all the time when a teacher would stand and teach the scripture. Uh they would amen the speaker. And so it happened a lot in the synagogues. In fact, let me give you a quote here from some rabbis. He who says amen is greater than he who blesses. Again, you missed A shot right there to say amen. Here's another one. Whoever says Amen to him, the gates of paradise are open. Wow. You guys are on board now The the gates of paradise just opened up for all of you, according to this rabbinic quote here. Here's another one. Whoever says amen shortly, uh his day shall be shortened. Whoever says Amen distinctly at length, his days shall be lengthened. So it can't just be Amen. It's got to be Amen. You gotta lengthen it Again, according to the rabbis here. So you know what was happening in the synagogue? That was spoken here. And by the way, that that became part of the church. When someone would stand up and speak a word of God, and people understood it, and they were blessed, and they were edified People would say amen. And also when testimonies were given in church, people would hear it and they would say amen from their heart. But now look again in verse 16. sixteen elsewhere now blessed with the spirit, how shall he that occupieth the room of the unlearned? Notice where it says the place or the room of the unlearned there, and this word simply means someone who doesn't understand the language being spoken. They're ignorant of what you're saying. If they're sitting in that seat of the unlearned and they're and they don't understand what you're saying, how can They say amen at the giving of thanks, seeing he understandeth not what thou sayest. What's that tell us? Giving thanks was a part of the church service constantly. And people were constantly Constantly giving thanks. And if someone stands up and they speak in a language that nobody understands, and you're sitting there, you you can't say amen to that because you're sitting in the seat of the unlearned. Or the unknowing I just don't know what this person is saying. Paul says you can't say amen to it. Look at verse 17. For thou verily givest thanks. Well, oh, you're doing a great Great job yourself standing up and speaking like that. Everyone's watching you and you you know it's really uh good for you. But nobody else is getting anything out of it. This but the other is not edified. And so again, Paul says it doesn't do any good. Others aren't being edified. Say amen to it. They don't understand. You might stand up and you might be getting a lot out of it. Nobody else is. No one can say amen to what you're saying. And then here's the eighth reason. Because speaking words that people understand is infinitely superior to tongues. Speaking words that people understand is infinitely Infinitely superior. Look at verse 18. I thank my God, I speak with tongues more than ye all. And again, I think Paul is using this expression here to say there is nothing Nothing wrong with the real spiritual gift. Paul says I do it. I speak more than you all. And by the way, Paul is an apostle, and I think as an apostle, he had the signs of an apostle, the gifts of an apostle. And it would be very appropriate for someone like Paul to have this spiritual gift that God gave to him because this was one of the signs Gifts, and who is it assigned to? It's assigned to unbelieving Jews that the message that they're hearing is authentic, it's from God. And think about Paul. Now, when Paul spoke tongues, he didn't use It is a private prayer language, I can promise you that. And he wasn't talking about standing and speaking in a language nobody understands. But you think about the ministry of Paul, what would he do? He would go from city to city From village to village. What was the first thing he would do when he walked into a new village or a new town or a new city? He would go to the synagogue. That was the first place because the gospel was to the Jew first So that's where he went first. And it wasn't hard to find because if you go into a village, the synagogue was always on the most elevated hill in the in the village. It was always On the high place. And they also had, you know, we have a steeple with a cross on it in our day for churches. But back then, it was a pole that went straight up So if you were a Jew and you walked into a town, all you would do is you'd look around, you'd look up, you'd look at the highest place, and where there was a pole, you knew there was the synagogue And Paul would go first to the synagogue. And I can imagine how this gift would be very helpful for Paul, who was speaking the gospel to Jews that did not believe And his ability to speak the words of God in a language that he previously did not know or learn, under the power of the Holy Spirit, they were able to I can see how Paul would use this gift. So again, he's reaffirming it. The real gift is reaffirmed here when Paul says, I speak more than you all. Again, there's nothing wrong with what And then notice he gives kind of a ranking. Look what he says in verse 19, though He says this, yet in the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding that by my voice I might teach others also than ten thousand words in an unknown tongue. Paul says, I'd rather speak five words that people understand when I'm in the church, I'm in the assembly, I'd rather speak five words that people understand than ten thousand that they can't. By the way, the word for ten thousand Here is the Greek word, uh myrioi, and this is the highest uh numerical equivalent. In other words, there's no word higher okay now we have numbers you know we have what billion zillion quintillion I I don't know after that but the Greek they just had this one word And this was the highest of all the numerical values. And so when he's saying here ten thousand, actually he means more. 11 it says the angel says and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands. You know what they're doing there? It's just using that same word over and over again And what's it really saying? You can't number them. It's so high. You just really can't number them. There's no number, there's no word to describe that number. And here it's the same word here. Paul's saying, I would rather speak five words in the church that people understand than decide Speak thousands upon thousands upon thousands. We could even say millions upon millions of words that nobody understands. Because again it does Nobody any good there if you speak words that people don't understand. And so Paul says that's why uh prophecy is is superior. And let me give you five words that you understand. All right. Jesus died for your sins. Those are five Powerful words right there. Five words. Paul said, I'd rather speak that people understand than all these that people do not. And so what do we learn from this passage then? Now I'm Kind of tempted to push on, but I'm not. Because I feel like I've downloaded a whole lot here. And uh we're gonna talk next week about the purpose of the gift of tongues. And Paul's very Very clear. He goes back to the Old Testament, he goes back to Isaiah, and he shows specifically what was the purpose for this gift and how God used it in the early church. But what do we learn from this passage here? We learn that the proclamation and teaching of the Word of God, it should be central, it should be done With understanding, so that people can be edified and built up. That's what we do when we come together to hear, we come together to hear the word of God. And that's why I say the thing I strive for, and I don't always Do it. But I strive for clarity. Because if you don't understand what I'm saying, you're not I'm not helping you. And so I try to make the Word of God clear. Because again, I think there's power in the message Of the Word. The power is not in me. I'm nobody. The power is in the Word itself. And if I make it clear to you, God the Holy Spirit will use that. And so we have to bring Bring it down. We have to make it simple. We have to make it understandable so you will be edified and built up. And what what else do we learn? Spiritual gifts are not for us, they're for others And so you have a spiritual gift. You need to find out. If you don't know what it is, find your spiritual gift and use it and build the body of Christ and use it to bless other people. And by the way, that's where the edification comes for us when I see other people being blessed. That's where I get my sense of fulfillment. And that's where you will too We never seek a selfish spiritual experience. I'm not seeking any selfish spiritual experience for me. You know, and that's what the Corinthians were doing. I'm not seeking any spiritual experience for myself. I am trying to bless And help others. And never seek the emotional without seeking knowledge. Let me tell you something. Bypass the brain. You understand that? When God begins to work, He doesn't bypass the mind and go straight to the heart. He speaks truth to the mind. And you know what that does? That stirs our Affections. That stirs our heart, that stirs our emotion. Uh you know, and that's what's of God. He works by truth through the mind, then to the heart. Watch out for counterfeits. Watch out for counterfeits. Satan's got them all around. He's counterfeited all the gifts. There are real, legitimate works of God, and there are counterfeits. We want what is Really authentic authentically from the Lord. Do all things with a clear mind. God never wants you to put your mind in neutral. That's not how He works. Again, he works by giving truth to the mind and into our heart, into our inner being. So let's seek the true work of the Holy Spirit of God. That's what we want to seek. And so Lord, we come again to you humbly, confessing, Lord, our our need of you, just like the song that we sang at our service, Lord, I need you. All of us would sing That, Lord, with all of our heart. We are a people that are in need of you. And Lord, we want all that you have for us. We don't want to be short-changed on any area. We want all the fullness of God, just like the Apostle Paul prayed for the believers that they might be filled with all the fullness of God. Lord, that's what our heart longs for. We want the Spirit of God to To have full control of us. We want to walk in the Spirit under the control of the Spirit. We want something that is true and authentic from you. And Lord, we pray Friday that you'll your work, your your mighty hand would be so evident that it would be something that the world just doesn't understand. They can't explain it. And I pray, Lord, for believers here that they if they haven't unleashed the spiritual gift that you've given them, that they would that they would learn what it is, that they would embrace employ it, that they would use it for your honor, for your glory. Bless these words to our heart, Father. Use us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.