Why don't you take your Bibles and open please to the Book of Matthew, chapter six, we are continuing our study of prayer and we're looking at this magnificent prayer that was taught to us by Jesus as a pattern for prayer And we'll just read the whole thing again, verse 9. And after this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. And tonight we're going to focus on this part of the prayer where it teaches us to pray and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. This is the part of the prayer where we ask for forgiveness. And so a question arises: should Christians pray for forgiveness? I remember once I received a letter from a man who heard me on the radio preaching on the topic of confession of sin and asking God's forgiveness of sin. And in the letter it was very obvious that this man was irate And in the letter he said that nowhere in the New Testament does it teach that a Christian must ask for God to forgive them of their sins or confess their sins. I remember thinking as I read the letter, what what Bible is this guy reading? My second thought was why would he say such a thing? And as I read the letter again, I tried to understand the point, and I was finally able to grasp why he argued this way. And his point was simply this: when a believer comes to Jesus Christ, the moment that they put their faith in Christ, the believing sinner is justified. That means all sins are at once forgiven. All debt of sin is paid for by Jesus Christ. All sins, past, present, and future sins. When you put your faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ, You are declared righteous and all your sins are removed. Jesus paid the debt for all sins. And someone will ask, even future sins? Well, yes, of course, because all of your sins were future when Jesus died, because you weren't born yet. The Bible says in Romans 8:1, There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. So all of our sins are forgiven. And so the argument is, why would a person have to ask for forgiveness of sins when their sins are already Forgiven. As a believer, you are under no condemnation in Christ. All of your sins have been paid for in Christ. And so the question then this person was asking, why then would you have to ask for God's forgiveness. And since that letter I've had other Christi Christians give me the same type of question. And so the answer really is to this question is pretty simple. First of all, the New Testament does teach that believers are to confess their sins, as we'll see. But also, Jesus makes it clear that we're to pray, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. But again, the question remains why? Jesus told us to do this. It's taught in the New Testament, but we're under no condemnation. Judicially, all of our sins are already forgiven. So why should we have to ask for forgiveness? Why should we have to confess those sins? Well, I want to give you several reasons for this request in the Lord's Prayer, for the making this a practice and a discipline in the Christian life. And uh so I want to give you eight reasons, the Lord willing, if we get through all of these Here's the first one. Number one, why do we do this? To maintain our close fellowship with the Lord. The forgiveness that we ask for here is not a judicial issue. It's not an issue of whether or not we are judicially right or declared righteous before God. That has been settled. The issue here is a relational issue, not a judicial issue, but a relational issue with the believer and Christ. It's like the married couple that went to the counselor and asked, and he asked, What's wrong? And she says, Well He never tells me he loves me. And the counselor looked at him and said, what do you have to say about that? He said, well I told her at the altar that I did when we got married, and I haven't changed my mind. By the way, guys, that's not a good way to operate, just in case you don't know that. It's one thing to be declared husband and wife judicially. At the altar, you were declared husband and wife. You were one. It's one thing to be c to be declared husband and wife judicially, but it's a whole nother thing to be husband and wife relationally on a daily basis. It requires more than just that judicial pronouncement. It goes a bit farther than that. Fellowship with Christ is something that must be cultivated and maintained, like any relationship. And 1 John refers to this in 1 John 1 verse 6. It says this, if we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Walking in darkness is simply a metaphor for walking in sin, or we could say living in a pattern of unconfessed sin. There was a group of uh heres heretics really that left the church that John was talking about. They had embraced Gnostic heresy. Gnostics were always talking about being enlightened and ha being on a spiritually enlightened plane that no one else was on and having a close intimacy with Jesus. They claimed this higher level of truth, and yet they were also involved in the most gross immoral sins that you could imagine. So here they were having the cl claiming to have this close relationship to the Lord on one hand and then walking in sin on the other, and John says, you know what, you can't do that. You can't walk in sin and have fellowship with Jesus Christ. If you say that you do that, then you lie and you do not the truth. But it says in 1 John 1 7, but if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another and the blood of Jesus Christ. His son cleanses us from all sin. Walking in the light then means that we are constantly recognizing and dealing with sin in our life. We don't just get saved and never think about sin ever again. Why? Well, because salvation brings a new awareness of sin in our life. Before I was saved, I had absolutely no sensitivity to sin. In fact, I would say before I was saved, I never thought about sin But after I got saved, I had this new profound awareness of sin in my life. In fact, John is contrasting someone who is truly saved with someone who is not. And a person who is truly saved has a new awareness, has a new sensitivity to sin in their life, so much so that what do they do? They confess those sins continually. John says in 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have no sin, he says, uh Or if we say we have not sin, we make him a liar, and the word is not in us. Those who have no awareness of sin, John says, those are the people that make God a liar. And God's word is not in them. If you claim to be a Christian and you never ever think about sin, you never ever confess sin, uh sin never bothers you, it never occurs to you that you may be sinning against the Lord and doing something According to John, you're not really a believer. Because a believer is constantly confessing their sin. In fact, the word for confess in verse 9 is present tense active, that is continual action. We are continually confessing our sins and asking God to cleanse us from sin. Why do we do that? So that we will maintain a close fellowship with Christ. That's why. Because as a believer, I don't want to do anything to hinder my walk with Christ. I don't want to do anything that displeases Christ. And when I do, I want to deal with it immediately. I want to confess that sin. Remember the story in John 13 when the disciples were arguing over who would be the greatest in the kingdom? Jesus girded himself with a towel. And he began to wash the disciples' feet. And this act of humble service was a demonstration of love, what it is to serve one another. And when Jesus came to Peter, Peter said, Lord, you'll never wash my feet. And then Jesus said, Well then you have no part or lot with me then Peter. And Peter said, Well whoa, whoa, if that's the case, then Lord, wash me all over. That is go ahead and give me a bath. And what did Jesus say? Jesus said, those, uh he said, he that is washed needeth not to be uh not to s uh needeth not save only his feet to wash. In other words, Peter, you've already had a bath. You just need your feet washed. You know, there's a tremendous spiritual truth here. Christ was using the act of foot washing to speak of our spiritual walk. Guess what? When you got saved, you got a bath. But your feet get dirty. And you need to have your feet washed. And you need to be cleansed. You need to do that daily to walk with the Lord. And so we We ask for forgiveness and we confess to maintain our close fellowship with Christ. But here's number two, to maintain our joy in Christ. And again, we see this also in 1 John. Back up to verse number three. That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. John is talking about having a real intimate relationship with Christ. And that's part of what it is to be saved. When we get saved, we Come to have fellowship with Him. That knowledge and closeness with Christ is the source of the believer's joy. The word fool in verse number four, where it says that these things rightly undo that your joy may be full of plural, which is To make something complete, that is, to overflow. It's like putting a glass under a faucet and turning the water on, and the water just uh filling up the glass and then overflowing out of the glass. That's the Greek word there To know Christ and a fellowship with Christ is a source of overflowing joy in the life of a believer In the book The Legacy of Sovereign Joy, the author wrote about the conversion of Augustine. He said that Augustine lived a wild and loosely immoral life And one day he went to a friend's garden, and in that garden there was a Bible, and he opened up the Bible. Actually the Bible was already opened, and it was opened to Romans 13. Verse thirteen, let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and ending, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. And when he read that verse at that moment Augustine had trusted Christ. God had done a conversion in his heart And immediately he was filled with what he called a sovereign joy. This was a joy that surpassed any other joy on earth that he had tried. All the temporary, earthly, worldly joys that he came through living a loose life was nothing compared to the joy that he experienced in knowing Jesus Christ. And later on, Augustine would write, how sweet all at once it was for me to bid of those fruitless joys which I once feared to lose. Or excuse me, which for me to rid, I should say, of those fruitless joys which I had once feared to lose. You drove them from me You who are the true, the sovereign joy, you drove them from me and took their place, O Lord my God, my light, my wealth, and my salvation. Isn't that good? That's what happens to a believer. When Christ comes, drives away all of those temporary earthly joys. that came through the flesh and replaces it with a joy that overflows. But there's only one thing that can stop this joy, and that's sin. As a believer, you should have this constant joy. But sin will clog up the fountains of joy in your soul And when you have unconfessed, unforsaken sin in your life, you're not going to experience that joy. It's like David in Psalm 51, where he said, Restore unto me the joy. of thy salvation. Why did he pray that? Because after his sin with Bathsheba, he had no joy. All that joy was gone. And he wanted it back. As Christians, we live in that joy. And if we don't confess our sins, if we don't deal with sin in our life, that joy will not be there that we should have, that we should enjoy as a Christian. So we confess our sins, we ask for forgiveness to maintain close fellowship, to maintain our joy in Christ. But here's the third thing: to perfect practical holiness in our life. The call to salvation is a call to live a holy life. Second Corinthians 7:1 says this: Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit Perfecting holiness in the fear of God. The promises Paul is referring to are the ones that it were were mentioned actually in the previous verses. And what were they talking about? It was a promise that God will come among us, and we will be his people, and he will be our God if we touch not the unclean thing. In other words, we will have a close, intimate fellowship with the Father. So based on these promises, we are to cleanse ourselves from all filthiness. And we are to perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord. Perfecting here means to finish or complete. It is holiness is referring to a separation from all that would defile a believer in body or in mind. We are to complete the holiness that God has declared in our life. When you were saved, God declared you holy. That is your position. Your practice needs to come to the equal level of your position. God says you're holy. Now guess what? You need to live holy. You need to pursue righteousness in your life. If you're not pursuing righteousness as a Christian, again, I would question whether there was true conversion that took place in your life. Because every believer, the goal of their life should be To be like Christ, to walk in righteousness. We don't pursue righteousness in order to be saved. We pursue righteousness because God has already declared us righteous. Because we already are saved. We're making our practical life commensurate with what God has declared of us positionally. The illustration I I like to use is, you know, when I play football My coach would constantly say to me, Harmon, play your position. You know, I was trying to all over the field, trying to play everybody's position, you know, running all over the place. He would say, Harmon, play your physician. You have a position, you have a responsibility, play that position. And what God says to the believer when you get saved is, look, play your position. What is your position? Your position is you are holy. Your position is you are righteous in Christ. Now live that out. But then here's number four, along with that. We confess sins to maintain our close fellowship, to maintain our joy, to perfect holiness, but also to mortify the sin nature. Look in Colossians chapter 3 and look at verse number 5 of Colossians chapter 3. And notice what he says here in Colossians 3. 5. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness, in order to affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry For which things sake the wrath of God cometh upon the children of disobedience, into which ye also walked sometime when ye lived in them But now ye also put off all these, anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have Put off the old man with his deeds. And the old man in verse 9 is a reference to the old sin nature that is very much a part of all of us. The desires of the flesh or the old sin nature are still very much a part of the believer. They're not absent from the believer. We still have that old Adamic nature in us. When Paul says mortify your members, he's talking about the members of your body, your mind, your hands, your feet, any part of your body. Why? Because that's what the flesh or the old sin nature uses He uses your body to produce sin. And Jesus made it clear that man's basic problem is not what's on the outside. But it's what's on the inside that give gives them problems. That which proceeds out of the heart of man is what defiles a man. And so we must daily mortified or put to death or kill these the the flesh or the lusts of the flesh. If you're living according to the flesh, the Bible says you must die. But if by the Spirit you're putting to death the deeds of the body, then you will live. One time a man wrote of uh of a missionary who had a garden and had a certain shrub that was in his garden that had poisonous leaves And at that time, he had a child, a little toddler child, that was prone to put leaves in his mouth. And so he was very concerned about that. So naturally he dug the shrub out and he threw it away. The shrub's roots, however, were so deep that soon the shrub sprouted again. And the missionary would have to go back and try to dig it out. and root it out again, only to see that the shrubs would continue to just keep coming back. And so constantly he had to try to root out or dig out this shrub that had these poisonous leaves. That's an illustration of the life of the believer. You know what? We still have this poisonous shrub inside of us. And the roots are so deep that when you root it out, guess what? It's going to come back. You might have victory over one area of your life one day, but you know what? What you'll find is that that doesn't guarantee that you're going to have it the next day or the next week. It's a constant practice of dealing with indwelling sin. Our hearts need continual mortification. That's what Paul meant when he said, you put off the old man. It's like taking off filthy garments each day we have to mortify them. And we do this when we name our sins before God and we confess those sins before God and we're honest about that sin before God. Daily confession assists us in putting to death the desires of the flesh. But when you let it go, when you let the weeds grow in your heart, then the flesh is going to take over. It's going to maintain control. And so this discipline of confessing sins is necessary in mortifying or putting to death sinful desires that are in our heart that constantly have to be dealt with. But here's number five. We do this to maintain close fellowship, to maintain our joy, to perfect holiness, to mortify the sin nature. But number five is We ask for forgiveness and cleansing to cleanse our conscience and to keep it sensitive. To cleanse our conscience and to keep it sensitive. We have to do this every day. It's important in order to keep our conscience working the way it should work. Remember that the conscience was given to man after the fall. After the eating of the forbidden fruit came the birth of the conscience. Before that, a conscience was not really necessary because there was no sin. But with the sin came the guilt of the conscience and this sense of shame, this sense of right and wrong. Adam and Eve felt for the first time this guilt, this shame. They felt naked. They sensed this evil in them. Their innocence was destroyed, and instantly they felt it strongly And let me say that the conscience that God put in man is a gift to protect man from himself, from his his depravity. Not said before that we don't we are all depraved, fully depraved, but we don't always fully live out our depravity. And the reason for that is well there's several reasons, but part of that is the restraining effect of the conscience in us. The conscience acts as this warning system that God has put in the soul so that we don't go past it. And when we do go past it, we sin against God and we sin against our own conscience And in order for that conscience to be cleansed, what do we have to do? We have to confess that sin. We have to acknowledge the wrong. We have to confess that sin. And if there's restitution that is has to be done, then you need to do that In order to keep the conscience clean. That inward moral guide. The Bible says in Proverbs 2027, the spirit of a man is the lamp of the Lord searching all his innermost parts. That is, that's the conscience. And the conscience is like a inner traffic light, I like to say, traffic light it flashes red when we need to stop. Flashes green when we've done the right thing. Sometimes our conscience will affirm us. And it flashes yellow when it tells us to be careful. Job said this in Job 27, 6. I hold fast my righteousness and will not let it go. My heart does not reproach me for any of my days. That's Job talking about his conscience affirming him, my heart does not reproach me for anything that I have done. It's possible for a believer to ignore their conscience so much that their conscience becomes dysfunctional and it's not an aid to their sanctification the way it could be If it is kept clean and yielded to the Holy Spirit and informed by the Word of God, if all those things happen, then our conscience is a great tool to help us in perfecting holiness. Because if you heard me say before, never go against your conscience. That's a bad habit to get into. Because if you do that, you'll Do what some did in the New Testament, that is, make shipwreck of their soul, and have what Paul called in 1 Timothy a seared conscience, that is a conscience that no longer works. Remember, we've been studying 2 Corinthians on Sunday morning. Remember when the false teachers there were accusing Paul? Paul didn't appeal to any other court but the court of his own conscience. He said, You might accuse me. But Paul said in 2 Corinthians 1 12, For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in this world. Paul's boast, we could say proud confidence, was the testimony of his conscience. Paul said, My conscience is at rest. In fact, my conscience affirms me and what I am doing. And the reason we confess our sins and we ask for forgiveness is because we want to keep a clean conscience, because that is a tool that God uses as he continues to do this work of sanctification in our life. Let me give you number six. To remain accountable for our relationships with people. Again, Jesus taught us, forgive us our debts as we what? Forgive our That was kind of weak. You guys, this is the part we don't like. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our It's easy to say God forgive us our debts. Second part of that prayer is a little harder. As we forgive our debtors. And sometimes we say that immediately faces start rising up in our mind. People maybe we haven't forgiven. But we pray this to remain accountable for our relationships with people. We will only get forgiveness for our sins as we forgive others. And this Augustine called this this part the terrible petition, because he realized if we pray this We're really asking God not to forgive us if we haven't forgiven, truly forgiven another, and that's true. Unforgiving hearts cause prayers to die on our lips. And this is the only part of the petition where Jesus elaborates on. Look at Matthew 6 and look down at verses number 14 and 15. For if we forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. Jesus elaborates on that very clearly. You need to learn to forgive others. If your relationship with your fellow man is not right, then your relationship with your God is not right. If you haven't forgiven others, If you haven't released people from the prison of your heart and true forgiveness, then God will not forgive you. And so in order to really walk with God, we have to forgive others. This keeps us accountable to keeping our accounts clear before God. And we have to ask ourselves when we get to this part of the prayer, is there anyone I have not forgiven? Is there anyone that I'm holding a grudge against? Is there anyone that I have bitterness against? Biblical forgiveness is a deliberate decision. It's not an emotion. You say, well, I don't feel like forgiving. Well, you don't have to feel like forgiving. You just have to forgive. It's a decision that you make. It's a decision to say not guilty. It's a decision to not think about the offense anymore. And you know what? I always say, do the right thing. Your heart will catch up with you Don't follow your heart. You make the decision and let your heart catch up. I choose as a as a as a choice of my will to release so-and-so from the prison of unforgiveness in my heart. I choose to forgive that rotten no, that nasty no. No, you say I choose to forgive that person. I let them go. They're not guilty. Not guilty. You don't bring it up. You don't think about it anymore? It's gone. You release the offender from the guilt of their sin. You refuse to bring it up. You refuse to talk about it. You refuse to think about it. You refuse to let others bring it to your attention. You reject talking about it whatsoever. And you are reconciled to that offender as far as is biblically possible. That is forgiveness. And we, when we pray this prayer every day or we use this as a pattern, that keeps us our hearts right. That makes sure that we release people from unforgiveness in our heart. And so we pray this to remain accountable for our relationships with people. But here's number seven, to prevent God's discipline To prevent God's discipline. 1 Corinthians 11 31. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. Do you hear that? Paul's saying, look, either we judge our sins by confessing them and asking God's forgiveness, or God will judge them. If you judge yourself, God doesn't need to judge you. You know, it's like if you discipline yourself, God won't need to discipline you. I I said this before when I was the administrator here at Grace, someone brought a little kid to me who had done bad in in class. And I think he was in kindergarten or first grade. And I had this reputation as being a real mean administrator. And so when the teacher brought this little boy to me He was already in tears, big old tears rolling down his cheeks. He was, you know, almost hyperventilating, you know, and he was just so broken already. And um You know, what do you do when someone comes before you like that? You know, he's already judged himself. I don't need to judge him. You know what I said to him? All right, go and sin no more. You know. That's it. You've all he's already acknowledged that he did wrong. He's already judging himself. He's already broken over what he did. There's nothing left for me to do. Other than say, you know, you're forgiven. Move on. Forget it. Get it past you. And Paul is saying, and by the way, when Paul wrote these words, he was talking to the Corinthians, and this was in 1 Corinthians eleven. They were practicing the Lord's Supper, but they were doing it in such a careless manner. They were bringing their food together, and the rich people in the church were hoarding their meat and their food, and they were allowing the poor people to do without Because there was such a division in the church. Some were refusing to share their food with others. And then they pretended to come and take the Lord's Supper after that. And Paul said, that's why some are weak and sickly among you. That's why God is judging you because of the way you're doing this. But you know what? If you judge yourself, you won't need to be judged by God. That is, Paul is saying, if you take care of your own sin, if you confess your sin, if you discipline yourself, then there's no need for God to do that. So the reason each day we confess our sins and we ask for God's forgiveness is because what we're doing is we're judging ourselves. We're judging our own sins. And we're we're calling it what it is. Confession is from the Greek word homologo, to say the same thing, or we look at our sin and we see it the way God sees it as an incredible wickedness against his goodness and his holiness and we confess that sin and we call it what it is and we ask for God's forgiveness and we turn from it. That's judging our sin. And if we do that, we won't need the discipline of God. Say, what if I don't do that? Well then God will take over. God will do the judging and God will do the disciplining because he's not going to allow a child of God, someone who names the name of Christ, Who calls himself a believer, he's not going to let anyone like that continue in an unbroken pattern of sin in their life without confessing and judging that sin. Because God is committed to making every one of his children Christ-like, righteous. So he will judge. I I would rather me judge than God do it. I would rather me take care of it. And here's number eight, to ensure that our prayers are not hindered. Why do we pray, forgive us our debts? To ensure that our prayers are not hindered. We confess our sins because the thing that will keep our sins Or excuse me, keep our prayers from being heard by God is our unconfessed, unforsaken sin. Psalm 66, verse 18. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. James 4. 8 says, draw nigh to God, and he will what? Draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts. God will not answer prayer if we regard sin. Isaiah 59, 1. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that he cannot save. Neither his ear heavy that it cannot hear. But your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you, that he will not hear. And so I want God to hear my prayers. And in order for that to happen, I can't hold on to any sin. I have to release, I have to confess, I have to judge. And so these are eight reasons why we pray this prayer. Lord, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And so may we incorporate this into our prayer. This is a discipline that we need to do as believers each day. You've already had your bath, you've already been saved. But you need to wash your feet. Every day you need to do that. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we again are reminded as we study these verses how unspeakably loving That your forgiveness and grace is. It's beyond our comprehension, Lord, that you are so patient with us And we thank you, Lord, that at the cross indeed all of our sins were judged. Judicially, we are under no condemnation. We are not sinners in your sight. We're your sons. We're your children. But even as your children, Lord, we have to maintain that relationship. We're responsible to do our part to walk in fellowship. And to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. And so, Lord, may we have this discipline in our life. May we remain close in fellowship. Because of what it does for us, Lord. We need you. We need your intimacy in our life. We need your strength. We need your peace. in our heart. We need your joy to uphold us through any circumstance that we go through. We need your close fellowship, Lord. And so help us as each day passes, that as we pray and seek your face, that we pray, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And Lord help us by your grace to make a decision to release anyone from unforgiveness in our heart, to bang the gavel in our heart and say, not guilty. Forgiven. Lord, so that we can be forgiven, so that we can maintain this close walk with you. Speak to hearts, Father. Use this word to help us to grow in Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.