Would you take God's word, please, open to the book of Psalms this morning, Psalm chapter 101. And I want to deal with this chapter a few verses out of it. Would you stand for the reading of God's word? I want to read a few verses with you this morning. Psalm 101. And we'll look at verse 1 of this. I will sing of mercy and judgment. Unto thee, O Lord, will I sing. I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. Oh, when wilt thou come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the work of them that turn aside. It shall not cleave to me. Thank you very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for the blessing that we have experienced already worshiping here together. Lord, would you please help me to make your word clear? And Lord, help us to apply it to our lives that we may see a growth, spiritual growth in every believer. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So I want to deal this morning with one question. It's a question that comes around this time of year, and that's the question of should Christians make New Year resolutions? Of course we're in the new year. This is the first Sunday of the new year. Every January people make resolutions to change things about their life, their diet, their finances, their habits, and so on. I I agree that uh Enrollment and gyms are up. Uh the YMCA enrollment is up and other places. Uh and of course they're also back to normal by February, I read, as well Uh the gym owners say that we call January the donation month. Also people at the beginning of the new year they they they try the keto diet or the cornivore diet or the vegan diet. They're gonna change the way they eat. I read one woman she said, you know My New Year's resolution was to stop eating sugar. And so far I've failed three times today and it's only breakfast. According to one study, uh those who make resolutions, only 12% actually keep them. So you could say that a New Year's resolution goes in one year and out the other. The tradition of New Year's resolution goes all the way back to ancient Babylon, just in case you didn't know that During the Akitu festival there was a course a worship of their God and it was at the beginning of a new agricultural year they would make vows to their God and whatever they borrowed from someone they would return Also, the ancient Romans practiced New Year's resolutions. They named the the first of the year, the New Month, after the god Janus, who was depicted with two faces, one on the front and one on the back. So you can look over the back the the past year and look out over the new year. And at midnight on December the thirty-first, the Romans would imagine Janice looking back over the old year and forward to the new year And based on that, they would make resolutions and commitments based on that one idea there. They would make commitments about better behavior. And someone will say, well, since making resolutions like that seems to be pagan in its origin, should Christians make New Year resolutions? Now of course early Christians rejected pagan festivals Yet they would sanctify certain practices. They would use certain things for themselves. And so Christians began to make resolutions at the beginning of a new year. The Puritans, more than anyone else, Christianized the idea of resolutions. But it was actually John Wesley who came up with the idea of a watch night service. That was really his his invention. Uh they would have a watch night service Where they would have prayer and scripture reading and confession and commitment and renewal for a new year And of course, John Wesley was a Methodist. This was a derisive term given to him and his group because people would see them uh being so diligent in their Christian life that they were methodical in the way that they lived their Christian life because they had methods. about what they would do and the way they would do it and that term stuck. But the larger question is regarding resolutions would be this. Is it biblical? Is it biblical to make resolutions? And the answer to that is absolutely yes. In fact, I would say for a believer, for a Christian, it is absolutely necessary If you're going to live a goddess life, it's not going to be on accident. You don't drift into godliness. You don't drift into a holy life If you're going to live that kind of life, you're going to have to determine to do that. It's going to have to be on purpose. You have to make a decision that is born of a godly resolve. Now we see this all throughout the Bible. For example, in Psalm 119, verse 111, Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against God. That's a resolution. In Psalm 55, verse 17, evening and morning and noon will I pray. He's making the determination that he's going to pray three times a day, evening and morning and at noon. Now the song that we just read is written by David. He's standing on the threshold of a new season of his life. He's just been anointed the new king of Israel. And he's making godly resolutions about the kind of king that he wants to be, how he wants to behave himself in his house, how he wants to walk uh within his kingdom, how he wants to lead people, how he wants to deal with sin and evil in his life And so he goes through this. Look at verse number two again. I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. Oh, when wilt thou come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart. And so here's David, and he's making these godly resolutions. And we need to follow this exam example in our own walk with God. We all need to make resolutions about how we are going to live our Christian life. We can't drift We have to do it on purpose. That's why resolutions are necessary. So I want to give you this morning five reasons for making godly resolutions in your Christian life. Here's the first one. Number one Because God's people have always bound themselves to obedience. This is part of being a child of God, of promising obedience to the Lord. Just write down Psalm 119, verse 106. I have sworn and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments. I love that verse. This is an example of holy resolution. He's very uh purposeful here. He binds himself to God's word and he does it publicly. I will keep your word. I will, I will, I swear I will perform it. I'll keep your righteous judgments You'll find if you read Christian history that the Christians that God has used the most have been most effective for his kingdom. are Christians that made resolutions and they live by it. I think of one man, D. L. Moody, I'm sure you've heard that name. D. L. Moody was a very uneducated person. When he came to Jesus Christ, it is said that when he pronounced the word Jerusalem, he did it in two syllables. It's hard to do. I've tried to do that. The elite made fun of him because he was not a very educated man, but God used him in a great way. And one set one time R. A. Tory preached a sermon on why God Use D. L. Moody. And in that sermon, he told a story about how that Moody and his friend Hen Henry Varley were walking one night, and they and then Henry Varley was talking and he said, The world has yet to see what God will do with a man fully committed to him. And D al Moody heard him say that, and D al Moody said, By the grace of God, I will be that man, fully committed to God. And he lived by that one resolution. And because of that, God used him in such a mighty way. Read of Christians like David Brainerd, the Great Missionary. If you read his journal you'll see that it was filled with resolutions about Early morning prayer, about mortifying sin in his life, about preaching Christ, about serving God, not waiting for the perfect conditions to do it, but a determination to serve God Perhaps the best illustration of this is Jonathan Edwards. He's the preacher that is famous for the sermon Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, and God used them during the second great awakening of our country. But when he was 18 years old and he was converted to Christ, he wanted to live for the glory of God. He determined he was going to live his whole life directed to the glory of God. So he decided to write down some resolutions that he was going to live by. And he wrote down, are you ready for this? 70 resolutions. 70 Now I would think, how do you remember seventy resolutions? But every week he would read over them. These were resolutions that he thought out. Let me give you an example of one resolved never to do anything Any manner of thing, whether in soul or body, less or more, but what tends to the glory of God. Here's another one. Resolve never to lose one moment of time, but to improve it for the most profitable way that I can. And on he goes. He made resolutions about specific habits, about improving time, about maximizing study of God's Word, about controlling his diet, about reading scripture, and so on. 70 resolutions. The Christians that God used greatly were Christians who lived on purpose for the glory of God, who lived according to resolutions. But here's number two. Because godly resolve is a guard against compromise. And just write down Daniel chapter 1, verse number 8. We read of the godly resolve of Daniel, where he said, where the Bible says, But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. And you remember the story of Daniel, how he was carried away as a captive into Babylon, a young Hebrew boy. And there in Babylon he was forced to enter, we could say, the University of Babylon. He was being reprogrammed and brainwashed into Babylonian ways. And one of the things that he was required to do was to eat the king's meat. We say, well that's not a bad thing to eat like a king. I mean to eat uh you know barbecue and and and you know roast uh it's a perfect for a carnivore diet. But this wasn't a matter of carnivore versus vegan for Daniel. He could not eat the meat. You say, what was the problem? Well, there was two problems. First of all, the meat did not re meet the requirements of the Mosaic law Hebrews were forbidden to eat meat that was prepared a certain way, but secondly, this was meat that was offered to a God. And so to participate in eating that me, according to one commentator, Woods says, it was partaking in an act of worshiping a pagan deity. So to eat that meat would be totally to disregard his God, Yahweh, and to worship a pagan God. And Daniel said, I will not defile myself. The Bible says he purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. Now Daniel didn't make that decision at that moment. He had already made that decision that he would not defile himself before he ever got to Babylon. That was a resolution that he came up with as a young Jew being carried away, knowing that he was going to be in a pagan environment, there was one resolution that he would live by, and that is He would not in any way defile himself before his God. And so when the temptation came, that decision was already made. He didn't wait for the temptation to decide. He had already made that decision. Unresolved hearts are easily conquered. And if you don't resolve before the temptation comes, then you're more apt to fall into that temptation. Daniel reminds me of Psalm 119, verse 115. Depart from me, ye evildoers, for I will keep the commandments of my God. If you do not live by conviction, you'll live by circumstance or you'll live by convenience, and you'll just easily go with the flow of the world. E. Stanley Jones said, if you don't make up your mind, your unmade mind will unmake you. A person of godly resolve will swim upstream against the flow, against the current. Not because he's stubborn, but because They desire to live a life pleasing to the Lord. But here's number three. Another reason why you should make godly resolution is just because godly resolution is an expression of lordship. It's an expression of lordship. Everyone will know who you serve, who is your Lord, who is your master. Write down Joshua chapter 24, verse number 14. We see this again. Here is another Old Testament illustration. Joshua gathers all of Israel together at Shechem. Shechem was a very historical spot. That was a place where God met with Abraham. It was a place where God also met with Jacob. Very historical spot with the people. Joshua meets with all of Israel there because they're at a transition time. They're getting ready to to inherit The promised land that God gave them, the major battles had been won. Now they had to go in and clean up, do a mopping up operation and take possession of what was theirs But Joshua knew that there would be many temptations when the people went to inherit the land of Canaan, there would be the temptation to compromise with the Canaanites. There would be the temptation to worship the Canaanite gods just to fit in to the culture around. And Joshua knew that If they didn't make godly resolutions, then they could easily compromise and succumb to the Canaanite culture. So he's calling upon them to make a decision. Neutrality is not an option So Joshua makes this statement, choose you this day whom you will serve. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. We're going to serve our God and we're not going to give in to the culture around we're going to make that decision right now. Joshua didn't say, we'll see how it goes. Well we'll try our best. He made a public resolution and he's calling upon the people of Israel to make that same resolution. This reminds me of the story of Eric Little, the Scottish uh sprinter. You may have heard that story where in 1924 he competed at the uh Olympic Games in Paris. He was favored to win the 100 meters. That was his event. But he found out that the qualifying heat was on a Sunday. And Eric Little was a godly, devout Christian. And he said, I can't run on Sunday. Sunday is the Lord's day. I've already made that decision that I will not do any of these activities on Sunday. And so he decided not to run in the qualifying heat, which means that he would not be able to run for the gold medal And the British press was merciless with them and they put pressure on them. The British government said you need to change your mind. Even Christians said you need to compromise on this. But he would not, because he had already made a resolution. He said, I am a Christian first and an athlete second. The Lord's day is to worship him, and that's all I will do on that day. And he did not run. in the 100 meters. But if you know the rest of the story, he did, however, run in the 400 meters, which he was not favored to win in that event, but he won the gold medal and he set a world record when he ran in that event. Eric Little's story teaches us this simple truth. Christ was not just a part of his life. Christ governed his life. Christ was the master of his life Godly resolve is an expression of lordship. Here's number four. We should make godly resolutions because spiritual growth requires intentional discipline. It requires intentional discipline And again, we read in the New Testament epistles of Paul this same godly result throughout a lot of his writings. For example, in 1 Corinthians chapter 9, Paul said this, so I do not run aimlessly I don't box as one that's beating the air. He said, I discipline my body, I bring it under subjection, I bring it under control, lest by after preaching to others, I myself could should be, and he used the Greek word adokemus, tested and found to be disqualified. He's using an athletic illustration there Just like an athlete would train in an event in order to compete and possibly win, it we would re would require discipline and training. And direction and all of that, self-denial, Paul said, that's the way I want to be as a Christian because my purpose is to preach Christ. I don't want to be disqualified And so he, on purpose, he had a godly resolve. There were certain things that he would live by to discipline himself. Paul uses the same illustration to Timothy in 1 Timothy 4 7. He said, Exercise, Timothy, exercise thyself rather unto godliness. Some translations say it like this, discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness. The Greek word exercise, gymnazo, where we get the word gymnasium. And again, it's another athletic metaphor because in Greek culture all the cities had gymnasiums where people would go and they would they would train their body, especially athletes in that day Uh sports was a big part of that world just like it is our world. They had three great games. Olympic Games was part of it. They had all kind of events that athletes could compete in, wrestling and boxing and chariot racing and javelin throwing and leaping and of course running was a very big event. And Paul again uses all of these metaphors when he's talking about the Christian life in his epistles. And he talked about his own life, for he said this in 2 Timothy 4, 6, for I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I ran the race And so Paul says, you know, all of us, we all have, spiritually speaking, a race to run. We all have to compete in the Christian life, and we all have to discipline ourselves for godliness. Again, you can't do that by accident. It has to be on purpose. An athlete who does not discipline himself Who does not train, who does not have certain restrictions and certain guidelines that he lives by, when it comes time to compete, he's not going to win. It's not gonna win. You can't just, you know, uh if you're a football player playing for the Ravens trying to beat the Pittsburgh Steel Steelers tonight You can't just show up to practice whenever you feel like it, whenever you want to. You've got to work hard to compete. That's the idea. Because Paul says bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable unto all things. Again, using this idea, you know, go ahead and and and train your body and and be healthy and all that, but just remember Although bodily exercise profits, it's a little profit compared to when you train yourself for godliness because that will profit you now and the life to come. So much more profit in training yourself in godliness. That's the idea there. And so that means that we have to enact in our life spiritual disciplines. Spiritual disciplines. You say, what's spiritual disciplines? It's really, it's godly habits that aid us in spiritual growth Things that we do regularly, living according to some resolutions, so that we will Aim for holiness and we will be able to attain it because we have set out on that course. What are some of the spiritual disciplines, Bible study, getting into the Word of God? Are you studying God's Word? Prayer Jesus told his disciples, but when thou prayest, enter into the closet. Not if you pray, but when you pray. He assumed that if you're a follower of his, you're going to pray. Church attendance, public worship. You understand that public worship is necessary for spiritual growth? The writer of Hebrews wrote to the believers they were going through severe persecution and because of that many were missing out on public worship. And the writer of Hebrews said this, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together, as in the manner of some, but exhorting one another. So much more as you see the day approaching. In other words, persecution is not a reason to skip church. We need to get together all the more and exhort one another. People let the least little thing keep them from public worship. When the New Testament refers to church attendance over and over again, it says when you come together, when you come together, when you come together, not if, but when. We need the mutual encouragement that comes from being together in the house of God. And when you're not gathered together in God's house. You're going to suffer spiritually because of it. And I tell you what we're seeing today is a dangerous trend. It's the trend, it's this rise of individualism where people are disassociating themselves from one another. And that's really because of technology, today you can do everything behind your computer screen. I mean you can shop behind your computer screen, you can actually do doctor appointments behind your screen. computer screen, you can make appointments on your phone. You can even get your whole education behind a computer screen. Some people, because of COVID, they're still working at home behind their computer screen. You never really have to go out anymore You can do everything right there, right through the screen. And this has a really bad effect on church because I'm gonna tell you something, you can't have church through your screen. You cannot do that through your screen. I know some of you are thinking, oh, he's gonna get on this hobby horse again. Yeah, I am. It's a dangerous trend. There's no such thing as church without gathering. No such thing as church without gathering. It causes people to believe, you know, I can grow spiritually on my own. Or I can worship alone. I don't need shepherds. And what this does is it weakens Accountability. Sin grows best in isolation. When Satan wants to really get at you, the first thing he'll do to you is he'll isolate you. Get you away from other believers. It also encourages this kind of spiritual consumerism where the church becomes something that I watch, not something that I'm involved in or I belong to. It erodes authority. You know, I can pastor my own self. It replaces shepherds with algorithms. Guidance becomes impersonal and unloving. I I read where some churches now are actually using AI for counseling for their church members. It also undermines the incarnation. Let me tell you something. Christianity is a word-made flesh faith, not a digital transfer of data. Alright? I'm thankful when God wanted to save us, he didn't live stream it. He sent his son Jesus personally to the earth to live among us. And so if your faith can't get you, I I honestly believe this. If your the quality of your faith can't get you to church on Sunday, I doubt very seriously that it'll get you into heaven. I don't know of any Christianity, I don't see it in the New Testament where it says I can be a Christian without church. I don't see that in the New Testament anywhere. I've been looking for it, I just don't find it anywhere. We now do alone what God designed us to do together. We need each other in the church. And I'm not anti-technology. I am anti-replacement. Technology is a servant, it's not a substitute. Alright, let me get off that and I'll move on. I'll move on. Stay out of my preaching, Gary. Paul said, exercise yourself rather unto godliness. But here's number five. Why should we have godly resolution? Because godly resolve is our response to his grace. Some people say making a list of resolutions, that's illegalistic. Resolutions are fleshly. We have to live by grace. But living by godly resolutions is not legalism. It's not legalism. What's the difference? Legalism seeks acceptance by obedience. Godly resolution responds to acceptance When you live by godly resolution, you're actually doing that because God has already accepted you. Legalism says, I obey in order to be accepted. Godly resolution says, I am accepted by God, therefore I will obey. I want to please the one who has died for me and who loves me. The Bible says we love him because he first loved us. So legalism works for God's love. Godly resolution works from God's love. Legalism trusts the flesh. Godly resolution depends on grace. That's the difference. Godly resolution rests in God's dependence. Legalism is self-confident. There's an interesting verse here I want you to look at. Look in Psalm 101. Look again in verse number two. Notice what David says here. He says, I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. Oh, when wilt thou come unto me? What does David mean by that? Well, that one expression right there expresses dependence. Not self-confidence. David, in essence, is saying this, Lord, I am resolved to obey, but I know that obedience is impossible without your presence, without you coming to help me. I can make these resolutions, but I'm absolutely unable to keep them unless you help me. Unless your presence is with me. This verse guards from legalism. The psalmist doesn't trust his own resolve by itself. He needs the Lord. And so we see the balance here. He says, I will behave myself wisely. He's going to make resolutions, but also, oh, when wilt thou come unto me? Lord, I'm dependent upon you to help me to do these things. But another thing is legalism imposes man-made standards. Godly resolution submits to God's word. See, legalism adds to Scripture But godly resolution is governed by Scripture. It applies God's words to our life personally. And it binds ourselves to the Lord's word, not to human tradition or man-made things, but to the word of God. But here's another thing. Legalism produces pride or despair Godly resolution produces humility and repentance. See, legalism leads to pride when you succeed, despair when you fail. But godly resolution expects weakness. I know how weak I am. I know I can make these resolutions, and I know at times I might fail, but I can also repent and get right back to where I need to be. You see, that's the difference. The resolutions keep you accountable, and when you fall, you don't give up. You get up and you continue on. The Bible says the righteous man falleth seven times and he rises up again. You just keep going right back with that determination. A godly person resolves knowing he may fail, but knowing what to do when he does. Legalism breaks you when you fall. Grace teaches you how to get back up. And that's the difference. So we're not lacking in having good desires. I believe that everybody here, if you're a believer, you're a true child of God, you have godly desires. You have holy desires. You want to do better. You want to live more for God. You want to be more holy and more sanctified. But the graveyard of spiritual growth is filled with the phrase mentu. You ever hear the poem Mr. Mentu has a comrade and his name is Neverdu? Did you ever chance to meet them? Did they ever call on you? These two live together in the house of never win. And I'm told that it is haunted by the ghost of might have been. Mentu is the graveyard for intention. You just have to be like the David in the psalmist. You have to make these resolutions. You have to say, I'm not just gonna feel this, I'm not gonna just have the godly desires. I am going to do to do something about it. I'm going to make these resolutions. I'm going to live by these in my life. If we don't choose our course, the world will choose it for us. If we don't train for godliness, we'll be trained by our screens, we'll be trained by our schedule, we'll be trained by our appetites, we'll be trained by our Ears Let me just close with this illustration. This is a story that's told about John Wesley, the man who was called the Methodist because he was so methodical in the way that he lived his spiritual life. But there was a man who came to him year after year with the same struggles, same failures, same patterns, same defeat. And finally, Wesley said something to him that he needed to hear He said to him this, good desires and intentions without disciplines is useless. Good desires and intentions without disciplines is useless. He said, if you don't order your life, you'll be back here years from now with the same problems. And friend, that's not legalism. That's just honesty. That's just honesty. Because wanting holiness is not the same thing as pursuing holiness It's not the same thing. Admiring Christ is not the same thing as submitting to Christ as Lord and ordering your life according to that. So I I want to just challenge you here on the first Sunday of this new year with the same challenge that came from Joshua. Choose you this day whom you will serve. Make a decision. Not someday, not when life slows down, not after when this season passes. Choose you this day. Make a decision this day and make it very practical. Before you leave today, there are some people here that need to make some resolutions in your life. Resolutions about the Word of God. I need to be in God's Word every day. I need to be reading. I need to be meditating. I need to get into a study. A resolution about prayer. When you're going to pray And not let anything keep you from that prayer resolution about the church. I will be faithful in the assembly of God's people. I will worship God publicly. Resolutions about obedience. I need to put away this sinful pattern in my life, this one besetting sin that just keeps coming back. And I don't do anything about it, I don't get serious about it, and it just keeps pulling me down, it just keeps defeating me. And it's going to continue to do that until you make some godly resolutions about it and determine what you're going to do about it. Some people say, well, you know, I just bring my sin to Jesus. He already took your sins on the cross. Here's something. Just stop doing it. Make a resolution on how you're going to overcome that. A resolution about service, I will use my gifts, not bury them. I will use my gifts for the glory of God. Let's bow for prayer together. Let me just say this with heads bowed and eyes closed. If you're trying to change without being changed by the gospel, that's not going to work. You'll either become proud or crushed. The good news is that Jesus Christ did not come to give you a motivational speech. He came to give you a new heart He came in the flesh. He lived without sin. He died for your sin. He took all your sin upon himself when he died on the cross. He rose again. And now by his spirit, he empowers what he commands. He will empower you to do the things that he has commanded you to do. So today, don't just make resolutions, make a full surrender. Say, Lord Jesus. I'm calling upon you to be my savior and my Lord. If you haven't already done that, reach out and pray and say, Lord, I want you to be my savior. And my Lord. And I want to live on purpose for you. And friend, when you fall, and you will stumble at times, just don't quit. Just repent, rise, and return. Again, the Bible says the righteous man falls seven times and he rises up again. So let may your heart be like that of David that we read this morning. I will walk wisely In a perfect way. Would you just say, Lord, help me to live that way? Strengthen me. Father, thank you for your word. I pray, Lord, that you'll use it in every heart this morning Help us, Lord, to live on purpose for your glory, our holy life. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.