It's good to see you tonight, and uh I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and if you'll open please to the book of First Corinthians, chapter 14. As you know, we We are we're going through this epistle of 1 Corinthians, and we're now dealing with chapter 14. And we began last week talking about uh actually I started a sermon Last week I'm going to try to finish it tonight. I might not finish it tonight. If I don't finish it tonight, uh you won't hear it again until next year, basically. Uh so we'll we'll we'll see what happens here But we're dealing with the issue of spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians 14. This is not really an easy chapter to understand. It takes some uh real study and and uh spiritual discernment to know what the apostle Paul is talking about here, but we want to just give clarity to what the scripture has to say with reference to spiritual gifts. God has given all of us spiritual gifts that we're to use for the edification of the Bible. And we want to know what the Bible has to say about this issue. Now we're dealing specifically with the issue in 1 Corinthians 14, the issue of tongues. Because this is an issue that has come up uh in the church at Corinth. There was a lot of confusion there over this issue, and as you know, the Corinthian church was a church that was very image Spiritually, and they were battling over many things. And uh this is just another one of the topics that the Apostle Paul has to address and bring clarity. So let me just kind of review a little bit of what we talked about last week. And you remember that we just had some basic questions at the beginning that we asked, first of all, what is the true gift of tongues? And we looked at Acts chapter two. We're not going to get into that tonight, but in Acts chapter two it was very clear that the true gift of tongues is the Spirit giving Miraculous ability to speak a foreign language that you previously didn't know. This is a sign gift. This is something that's done miraculously To be able just to get to get up and to speak in a earthly known language, a tongue that you didn't study, uh that that is definitely something that uh is miraculous from God. And we see this happen in Acts chapter two, when many of the followers of the Lord on the day of Pentecost, they stood up and they spoke. The Bible says the one Wonderful works of God and languages that they previously did not know. There were Jews from all over the uh Middle East there that had come to Jerusalem for the feast days and they The second question that we addressed is is this the same gift of tongues mentioned in 1 Corinthians 14? Now those Who hold the charismatic theology will admit that the tongues in Acts are earthly languages, known languages, because the Bible makes that clear. But then they'll say that the tongues that are listed here in are that are mentioned here in First Corinthians fourteen, I should say, that these are however different. This is not talking about earthly known languages that they will contend And argue that this is talking about a heavenly language, a they call it a private prayer language. It's different from the tongues in Acts chapter 2. And the way that we answered that is First of all, the Greek terms that are used in First Corinthians 14 are the very same words that are used in Acts chapter 2. There's no new definition given in 1 Corinthians And then there's a third question we address, and that is, then if that's the case, where do some get the idea that the gift of tongues in 1 Corinthians 14 is a private prayer language? And the answer to that question is it's based on uh a passage here in First Corinthians 14. We're going to look at it a little bit deeper tonight. But it's based on a misunderstanding of that passage or a misinterpretation of that passage. Now again, let me just remind you That the Apostle Paul wants to uphold the true, genuine biblical gift of tongues to this church. He doesn't want to debunk the real work of the Holy Spirit of God God. Nobody wants to do that. We need the work of the Holy Spirit in our church and our churches. And Paul wanted to uphold the real spiritual gift, but at the same time, he wanted to debunk the counterfeit gift of tongues. And there was and what has happened here in the church at Corinth was that there was a counterfeit gift of tongues that made its way into the church. It wasn't the real gift that was given in Acts chapter 2. It was something that was different. And so the key I said to understanding this This chapter is to know when Paul's talking about the real gift of tongues and when he's talking about the counterfeit gift of tongues. kind of interpretive clue or we could call it a hermeneutical clue, and that is that when Paul uses the singular, he's talking about the counterfeit gift because there's only one kind of non When he uses the plural of tongues, he's talking about the real gift because there are many earthly languages. Now, this is a general rule here, as we'll see. There are a few exceptions to this But I think that this is a general principle that you can follow when you're reading First Corinthians fourteen to give you understanding as you read. Now the other question that we dealt with was what exactly then What's the counterfeit gift of tongues? If the real gift is speaking earthly languages by the power of the Holy Spirit, what is the counterfeit gift? And you remember I told you that the Corinthians basically allowed themselves to be inf influenced by the heathen concept of speaking in tongues which was some kind of ecstatic uh gibberish and this was characteristic of The mystery religions that were so um popular in that day, in that age, in that region particularly, uh the Corinthian Assembly uh was in Influenced by these pagan mystery religions, and these mystery religions basically taught that an individual worshiper that was worshiping their God uh they can get caught up into a an emotional state and they would think a spiritual state to where they would be carried away, they would spirit would leave their body, they would ascend into the heavenlies, and they would be able to speak in a the tongue of the The gods or some kind of language that no one knew. It was a private language, and in that language they would speak mysteries. That's why it was called the mystery religion. Sometimes they didn't understand the things that they were saying, but they would speak these mysteries, and supposedly then this was a mark of spirituality. They would commune with that deity. And this whole concept of speaking in a unknown tongue was brought into the church because that was practiced in these pages. And so there were some that was doing that in the name of speaking in the power of the Holy Spirit. That's why we saw as we study that there are some Certain words that Paul uses that he takes from the mystery religions that was used in the context to speak about mystery religions. For example, the word eros uh is a word that was used in that context the word mystery or mysterion in verse number two we're gonna look at that uh again that was a term that Paul borrowed uh it was a term that was used to speak Speak about the mystery religions in that context. He speaks about musical instruments because they were used sometimes to help a person reach that place of ecstasy where they could ascend and s speak in a And also in verse twenty three, you remember if you look at that verse where Paul said, and all speak with tongues, and there come in those that are unknown Unlearned or unbelievers, they will say that ye are mad. And the Greek word there, menomai, is a word that was used to describe someone who was part of a mystery And so the Apostle Paul is saying, Look, if someone comes in the church and they see all this going on, they're just going to say, You're just another one of those mystery religions. And so Paul uses some of that terminology in this text here. But another question we considered is why did this counterfeit use of tongues catch on and grow in the church? And first it was because you know the the church was spiritually immature. Look at verse 20 again of chapter 14. Brethren, be not children in understanding. Howbeit, then malice be ye children, but in understanding be Paul is just basically saying, stop being children and the way that you understand things, it's time to grow up spiritually and and your understanding be like men. If you want to be children, be children in malice Because they're constantly forgiving, and uh that's the way you're to be a child, but not in your understanding. They weren't using their discernment, they weren't using their mind. And so Paul Well that's one reason Paul says that they were spiritually immature, but another reason was because the uh Corinthians failed to understand the purpose Of spiritual gifts, which is what? Edification. The purpose of spiritual gifts is not self-edification. Now, Paul made this very clear in chapter 12 12 and 13 That when we exercise a spiritual gift, it is not for self-edification, it's for the edification of others. And this is a key idea here in this chapter. Chapter. Paul is saying that you're to edify others with the gift that God gives you. And really the whole argument of this chapter is that because of that because edification is the primary reason to exercise your spiritual gift then because of that then tongues the gift of tongues is really an inferior gift Not a superior gift. Now remember that in the church at Corinth, they were putting this gift of tongues on a pedestal. They were saying it was the best of all the gifts because this was very showy and fortunate church at Corinth you had the have and the have nots those who were able to uh have this ability to speak in these unknown tongues uh unknown tongue and those that could not and it was a Shall we get then Paul is basically saying, look, um if you want to know what the the best gift is, if you are just demanding that, just know this the tongue Is not one of the better gifts. In fact, it's an inferior gift. There's a better gift than that, and that is the gift of prophecy. In fact, if you it's okay to want to use spiritual gifts Now at one place he said stop coveting the best gifts. Uh really if you want to covet something, covet love. But in another sense he's saying it's okay to want to use a spiritual gift, but if you think That tongues is the top gift, uh then you're wrong. It's really inferior. In fact, if you really want to get technical about it, tongues is not really for the purpose of edifying The church. It's really something that's used for unbelievers, not believers. And so throughout the rest of the chapter, you know what Paul does? He's going to use one argument after another To show that tongues is inferior to prophecy. And we say prophecy, we're talking about the proclamation of the Word of God, the preaching, the proclaiming of the Word, and in The early church had happened in two ways. Sometimes people in an assembly would stand up and they would give testimonies. They would give a word that God placed on their heart, uh, and it would be an encouragement to others. And sometimes it It was just the proclamation, the reiteration of the Word of God that God had already given. You have to remember that at that point in redemptive history that all of the Word of God had not yet been given. Some of the apot uh the letters of Paul written, but really this letter of 1 Corinthians was one of the first letters that Paul wrote. It was written in A. D. 59. There were actually 17 other New Testament epistles that were written in Written after First Corinthians. And so we're pretty early in this sense of God revealing his word and giving his word. And so in that context, then people would stand up and with the gift that God had given them And by the way, that's why in the New Testament you see so many verses that say you better try the spirits and make sure they're of God. better make sure that when a person speaks, they're speaking of God. And you better compare it with the word, the revelation you already have, to make sure that a person is not speaking out of turn there. And so Paul's saying that the the gift of prophecy is better. Whether it's uh reiterative, they're reiterating truth already given, or whether they're giving a word from God. Now what I'm We're going to do now is just show you the reasons why. Tongues are inferior to prophecy. Number one, we talked about this last week because of the nature of the gift of prophecy, and that was in verse one, where he said, follow after charity and desire spirit Spiritual gifts, but rather that ye may prophesy. That is, prophecy is to be preferred over tongues because of the very nature of the gift, because prophecy is The proclamation of God's word, and the word of God is to be central, the proclamation of the scripture. So let's go on to number two. I already elaborated on that last time But here's the second reason he gives. And this that's this because no one understands an unknown tongue. Prophecy is superior because, number two, no one understands an unknown tongue. Look at verse 2. For he He that speaketh in an unknown tongue speaketh not unto men, but unto God. For no man understandeth him, howbeith in the spirit he speaks Mysterion, he speaks mysteries. And so Paul continues his argument, why prophecy superior to these counterfeit tongues? And his point is very simple. Those who speak in an unknown tongue, they cannot be understood. And if you cannot be understood, then there's no edification from it. There's no value in it. at all. If you if if I stand up here and I speak something that you don't understand, uh it's not going to help you in any way. It's not going to bless you. So in order to hammer home his point, Paul's going to give four illustrations to prove this point. Here's the first illustration. We could say from the mystery world. From the mystery world, because in verse Verse number two, when he says he speaks mysteries, again he's referring there to the mystery religions. When a person speaks in an ecstatic tongue, he's not speaking to men, but unto God. And let me just say this. I think there's no article here in the Greek when it says speaking unto God. And I think that you can translate this unto a God. He's not speaking unto the God, he's speaking unto a God. When there's no definite article, you can put the the uh a there, a god. And I think Paul's referring here to the pagan tongues associated with mystery Religions because he says he speaks mysteries. He's not speaking unto men, but unto God. And when it says, notice in verse 2 where it says he's speaking in the spirit, he speaks And notice it's spirit with a small s. This is not talking about the Holy Spirit. He's speaking in his own spirit. So we could say it like this: a man speaking in an un Unknown tongue speaks mysteries in his own spirit, and no one can understand him because no one knows the language. And because no one knows the language, therefore there's no edification that is taking place there when he's speaking in this language. Nobody understands him. He stands up, he speaks in an unknown language, and he's speaking in his spirit to a God And so therefore there's no edification there. How can that help anybody? Even if he claims to be speaking to the God, how can that help anybody Now, there are those that hold to the idea, and they will argue again that uh there's an unknown tongue that can be spoken that is a private prayer language. And this is the verse that they base that theology on, this verse here, verse number two, which again I think is referring Paul's not speaking of it in a positive light. He's not speaking of speaking up Is speaking unto a tongue in a positive way. He's saying, look, if a person does that, they're not speaking unto men, they're speaking unto God. Or we could even say a God. But even if If they pretend to be speaking unto thee, God. He's not speaking unto men. And remember, spiritual gifts are not to to minister to God, and it's not for self-edification. For others, and so but when a person does this, he's not speaking unto men. Therefore he's not edifying anyone. That's the whole point that he's making here. He's not better than any others. He's only Benefiting himself. Let me just say, beloved, there's no passage of scripture in the Bible that speaks of a private prayer language. is the only verse that they that that those with this theology that believe in the the charismatic theology that believe in this this is the verse they base it on and it's not correctly being interpreted here Now now remember Jesus. Now I know that some of the arguments are well you know this private language it's my intimate language with God and you know it's it's a it's a very intimate thing that I have with God and again And I've I I've I've talked to some who believe this and and and God bless them. I'm not I'm not against anyone when I preach this. Please know that. Uh I'm just trying to make the word of God clear. like the guy the Amish man, there was a guy in his orchard and the Amish man said, I would never hurt thee or harm thee, but thou art standing where I'm about to shoot. And uh there's a sense in which I'm not trying to hurt anybody I'm just going to try to make this clear. I'm just shooting in this direction. But listen, there's no passage in the Bible that talks about a private prayer language. They say, well, it's just my intimate language. Look, you can't get anyone More intimate in your prayer than when Jesus taught us to pray. Do you think that anyone got any more intimate in their prayers than Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane when he prayed? And yet when Jesus prayed to the Father there, there was no unknown language there that he used. It was the most intimate prayer and praying that your And when the disciples saw Jesus pray, they said, Uh Lord, teach us to pray the way you do. And what did Jesus say? If you want to pray like this Then just say this, our Father who art in heaven. He gave a whole model for intimate prayer. And none of that included any kind of a private, unknown language In fact, in one place Jesus said this in Matthew six, seven, but when you pray, use not vain repetitions, like the heathen do. You know what the word vain repetition is in Greek? It's from the Greek word bata Logeo. Logeo meaning to speak. Bata is kinda like a non-word. It's uh onomatopoeia, you know what that is? Like like the the bee goes b Buzz. And the horse I don't know what the horse does, but anyway, I can't imitate the horse, you know, nay, the horse goes nay. The cow goes moo, buzz, nay, moo. Those are not Real words, they are they are spelled out to make a sound. That's onomatopoeia. That's what's happening here. The the word bada is really not a word, it's It's a word it's spelled out to make a sound. And so Jesus is saying, listen, when you pray, don't say Don't don't say that. Why? Because that's what the pagans do. That's what the heathen do. That was something that was characteristic even of Jesus' day of of pagans And so th there's nothing in the scripture that I see of the Bible teaching that there is a divine language that a believer can get to if they really And and this is a misunderstanding here of this verse. And so Paul Saying, listen, from the mystery world, if a guy stands up and pretends to do this, he's not speaking unto men, he's speaking unto God. And so the point is, he's not edifying anyone. Nobody understands him And here's the next thing. From the music world. Look in verse number 6 of chapter 14. Now, brethren, if I come unto you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you except I speak to you either by revelation or by knowledge or by prophecy or by doctrine. Even things without life giving sound, whether pipe or harp, except And so here's the point. Paul's saying, look, what if I came to your church and you know what if I got up and I spoke in an unknown tongue And then I left. How would that help you if you don't understand me again? I'm not helping you. I remember one time I before I was saved, I think I was about thirteen years old, a friend of mine invited me to his Catholic church And so I just went um and the the whole service was done in Latin. I didn't understand anything. Guy got up, spoke in the language, didn't understand it, and I left. You know how much good that did me No good. Well it did me one one good. I'm not going back there. That's not helping me. If you speak in an unknowing language, no one's gonna understand you And this is what Paul is saying, and he says, Let's take for instance a a musical instrument in verse seven. Even things without life, giving sound, whether pipe or harp, except they give But distinction in sounds, how shall it be known what is pipe for heart? Even if even musical instruments have a language where that you can understand if they're played with Melody and rhythm and notes and the grouping of notes. Even uh you could take a harp. You know, this morning we had some harps in our service, and these two girls just played a song and there was no s singing. They just simply plucked at those strings. But how many were blessed by that if you were here? And you know why we were blessed by it? Because even those harps gave a distinct sound to us We recognize the music. And so when we're they're playing, we're sitting here, you know what's going on in our hearts? The music, the words are going through our minds, right? We're thinking about the words because They gave a very distinct sound. There's even a language in music that we understand. And that blesses us. But what if I said I'm gonna play the piano for you tonight, folks. You're in for a treat. And I walked over there on the piano and I went boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. And then I came back and I'd say, didn't that bless you? Guys blessed by that? You're lying, you weren't blessed by that. It didn't make any sense. There were notes all over the place. There was no distinction there There's no melody, there's no rhythm, there's no grouping of notes. And so that's what Paul is saying here. And then he uses an illustration from the military world. And by the way This would be understood by the Corinthians. You know why there was a uh uh ancient musical hall that was very popular in that city. It it sat twenty thousand people and people would go to just hear instruments that were played that would hear harps and pipes and so uh they could understand what Paul is saying here. But he now uses an illustration from the military world. Look in verse Number 8. For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself for battle? Now you have to know that in the Roman military, they would use a bugle to communicate orders And they had certain sounds for certain orders. They had a certain bugle sound that meant wake up. It's time to wake up. They had a certain sound which meant pack up. Back up all your things and get ready. There was a certain sound that meant march away. There was a certain sound that meant get ready for battle. There was a certain sound that said Charge in the battle. There was a certain sound that said retreat. And while a person was in battle, they had certain trumpet sounds that told them exactly what maneuvers to make while in the battle That was all spelled out. It was all very clear. But Paul is saying here, what if a bugler got up and he just played any tune he wanted to that nobody recognized? What kind of response would he get from the soldiers? What are we supposed to do? Why? Because Paul says if If a trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who's going to prepare himself for battle? How are you going to know what to do? And so again, there has to be understanding. Look what he says in verse 9. So long Likewise ye, except ye utter by the tongue words easy to be understood, how shall it be known what is spoken? For ye shall speak into the air Again, if you don't utter words that people understand, you're not doing anything, but just, you know, you're blowing hot air. That's all you're doing, Paul says. Nobody can understand you. I remember the uh the when I was first went into seminary, my Greek professor uh said, I'd like to take you with me on I'm going to go up to Harvard Divinity School. We're going to there's a theological society there, and I want you to hear some of the papers read, and I'm going to read a paper there. I think it would be a good experience for you. And so I said, sure, I'll go. And so we went in there and they had all these, you know, really smart professors stand up and read their paper. And I sat there and I said, I have absolutely no idea what any of these guys are talking about I I didn't know anything. I mean their whole language, it was a foreign language to me. They were using a whole vocabulary. I didn't understand it. I'm sitting there going, I don't know if I should do this and I mean this is a this was and then of course the professor after said, How'd you like that? Oh it was wonderful, lovely, thank you. Did me absolutely no good Because there was this vocabulary they were all using trying to impress each other. Did I didn't understand it. And friend, if you don't understand what's being said Uh uh if you if people the normal people that come to church even here, if you don't understand what I'm saying, if I'm not making it clear, I'm not helping you, and neither is anyone else And so this is what Paul's saying. The Corinthians were so carnally self-centered that they couldn't care less about being understood in their communication. That was all beside the point. concerned about is making an impression to others about their uh you know in the context I was in where guys were trying to sound smart or academic, I think At some point they could probably care less how much people understood. As long as you were impressed, and that's the way it was in the church at Corinth. They were standing up and they were doing all this and they weren't really concerned about being understood By anyone else. And so Paul compares those Christians to musical instruments blown by somebody who's not a musician, just making uncertain sounds and being played poorly. And he's saying you're not helping anyone. But then he uses an illustration from the multilingual world. Look at verse number 10. There are, it may be so, so many kinds of voices in the world None of them is without signification, or none of them are without significance. Verse 11, therefore if I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be under the And so Paul here when he says there are many voices There the word for voice is actually the Greek word where we get our word phone from. Phone, phone. There are many voices, sounds, and what he's speaking about here is earthly known languages. Many earthly known languages of the world is filled with many languages. And why is that? eleven God said after the ark for the multitudes to spread out, subdue the earth, and they did instead of spreading out they came together and they were building a tower under the heavens, supposedly this high tower And that passage is kind of humorous because God has to come down to see what they're doing. It couldn't have been too high of a tower. God had to come down to see what they were doing. And of course, they were disobeying God God's directives and God said you're going to scatter, whether you want to or not, and then of course he confounded the workers that were there, and that's when the world began To speak different languages. Did you know there's approximately 6,000 languages and dialects in the world today? 6,000. And Paul says there are many But none of them are without significance. That is, each earthly language has a certain meaning. We might not understand it, but the people who speak those languages, they understand it. And they know the meaning of it. But you know what? If I hear a person speak that language and I don't understand what they're saying, it doesn't help me. Paul says if a person who has Who has an earthly language speaks it and you don't understand them and they don't understand you? Look in verse eleven. Therefore, if I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be unto him that speaketh of barbarian Now again, I think this is uh onomatopoeia that he's using here. The idea is if someone Is speaking to me something I don't understand, their own language, to me it's like bar bar bar bar. I don't get it. I'm gonna be a barbarian unto them. They're gonna be a barbarian. That's the point that he's making. There has to be understanding. That's why. when I go to a foreign country, I have to have an interpreter. Last Sunday I spoke at Johns Hopkins, there were some Chinese students there. I had to stand up and speak uh through an interpreter to some of the Chinese students there. Otherwise they're not going to understand me. It doesn't help them if they don't understand me. And again, this is the point that Paul's making So tongues that are unknown are useless. That's the simple point. They're useless. Tongues that are unknown are useless. So Prophecy is superior because when a person prophesies, you understand them. But if a person speaks in tongues and there's no interpreter there, if it's the real thing, then still You're not helping anybody, Paul says to this church. No one's understanding. And so what's the point again? No one in the assembly is being edified. You're just edifying yourself Nobody else is being edified. Because look look at verse twelve. Even so ye, for as much as ye are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek that ye may excel to the edify Of the church. You're so zealous to use a spiritual gift, but make sure that when you use a gift, it's for the edification of the whole church. Not for yourself, for everyone else around you. Not showy, it's not to stand up and show everyone that you can do this. It's for edification. And so this is the second reason prophecy is superior because no No one understands an unknown tongue. But here's the third thing. Prophecy is superior because prophecy strengthens, it encourages, and it comforts. Look at verse number three. Go back to verse three. But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men to edification and exhortation and comfort. Simply put Prophecy is superior because of what it produces. Because of what it does. And again, we're again edification is the key thing. Paul does three things that it does when you're proclaiming What happens? People are built up. Edification. Uh particular word there. Um you're building up. Just like you're building A building, you're building those in the church. Preaching edifies. It helps you mature in Christ. But also not only builds up, but it stirs up. It exhorts you. Again in verse 3. And an ex Exhortation. You'll be encouraged to live for the Lord. You'll be motivated to serve the Lord. And that's what the preaching of the word does. And again, that's why it's central because it builds you up, it encourages you. It stirs you up to live a godly, holy life, to serve the Lord. But then also what does it do? It cheers you up, because again in verse three, and comfort he says there Uh God's people hopefully will leave the service comforted because of the word of God, because of the promises of God. And I fully realize that many times When people come to church, they are depressed, they're heartbroken, they need a touch from God, they need to hear a word from God, they need to hear that God loves them. Cares for them. They need uh desperately to be encouraged. And so, and I don't know about you, but for me personally, spiritually, when I come to church and I hear the word of God preached, That always comforts me. It always encourages me. It always builds me up. I love to hear a preacher just take the word of God and make it clear, expounded, because that always Blesses my heart. And I always get renewed from that. But that's what preaching does. That's what prophesying does. And you know, there's a sense and even when there's music that is played, you know, music that the purpose Of music is to again to communicate the Word of God. We're talking about Christian music. It's another medium to communicate truth. Major purpose is not entertainment, it's edification. To build up. That's why when a person sings a song, we also have to make sure that that song is theologically correct. You wouldn't stand it if I preached error here and And that's why prophesying is so much superior, Paul says, because of the nature of the gift of prophecy, because no one understands an unknown tongue when it's spoken. So no one's being edified. Number three, because prophecy strengthens, it encourages, it comforts believers. But let me give you the fourth reason here. Because prophecy edifies the entire The entire church. Look at verse 4. He that speaketh in an unknown tongue edifies himself, but he that prophesies edifies the church. So again, Paul is talking about this speaking in the unknown tongue, not in a positive light here. This is a negative light. If he you get up and you speak in the unknown tongue, you're only edifying yourself But if you prophesy, you edify the whole church. Now, someone might ask this question: wait a minute. If they're edifying themselves, isn't that a good thing to edify your self. And I think that the answer to that is I think Paul here is being sarcastic when he says they edify themselves. This is not a good edification. There's a sometimes Paul will use this same Greek word not in a positive way, but kind of in a negative way. You can build yourself up, but that's not a good thing necessarily. Sincerely. Okay, let me give you an example of this. Go back to First Corinthians chapter eight real quick. Will you do that? First Corinthians chapter eight, verse ten. Remember that Paul already dealt with this whole idea For example, he said that you know it's not wrong to eat meat offered to idols, but some weaker believers think it's wrong, and so don't do it Because you're going to cause them to stumble. But notice what he says in verse 10, 1 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 10. Notice what he says. He said, For if any man see thee who hath knowledge, that is talking about those who You that are mature Christians, who have knowledge, sit at a table in the idol's temple, eating the idol's meat, shall not the conscience of him who is weak be look at that word emboldened there Be emboldened, you know that's the same exact Greek word for edification. Okoidome to build up. Won't his conscience of him who is weak be built up Up, edified, or he's using here the word, same word, emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols. In other words, it's possible For edification to be to someone's harm rather than to someone's good. In this case, this is what's happening here. This edification would cause this weaker brother to be Ruined. That's his whole point here. And so that's not a good thing. And I think Paul's saying the same thing here when he says if a person speaks in an unknown tongue He edifies himself. But that's not necessarily a positive thing in that way. But on the contrast, he but he that prophesies Edifies the church. And again, not to belabor the point, but again to say that's the point of spiritual gifts. It's edifying others. Now let me give you the next one. Prophecy is superior to tongues because of the name Because prophecy edifies the entire church, therefore it's Superior, but here's number five, because the one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues. Again, look at verse Verse number five. I would that ye all spake with tongues, but rather that ye prophesy. For greater is he that prophesies than he that speaketh with tongues Except he interpret that the church might receive edification. And so the one who prophesies, Paul said, is greater than the one who speaks of tongues. And so Paul is saying, look, I would that you all Paul spoke with tongues. Notice it's plural there. He's talking about the real thing. Paul said, I would that all of you spoke with tongues. Now, someone would say, All right, there it is. It's God's will for everyone to speak in tongues. Tongues because Paul just said it right here. Paul said, I would that all of you speak with tongues. So therefore, it's God's will for all believers to do it But that's not what he's saying here. What Paul is doing here is he's he's using hyperbole for the purpose of emphasis. And you need to understand that. He's he's He's speaking something that is impossible for the sake of emphasis. And again, there are some people that use this verse and say it's God's will for everyone to speak in tongues because Paul Paul said, I would that you all spoke with tongues. Now, just remember that Paul had already said earlier that we don't get to determine our spirit. Spiritual gifts. Right? Remember that? It's God who does it. First Corinthians twelve. God distributes those gifts severally as He wills He will give you the gift that he wants. And not everybody is going to have the same gifts. In fact, go back to chapter 12. Look at verse number 29. Go back to chapter 12. Look at verse 29. Notice where he says here. Actually we'll start at verse 28. And God has set some in the church, first apostles, secondary prophets, thirdly teachers, after the miracles, then gift of healings Helps, government, diversities of tongues. And so Paul says, now God distributes all these gifts. And then he says this in verse 29: Are all apostles? What's the implied answer there? No. Are all apostles? No. Are all prophets? Again, what's the answer? No. Are all teachers? No Are all workers of miracles? No. Do all have the gift of healing? No. Do all speak with tongues? No. So again, that's the implied answer. So that's why Paul Paul can't be saying here that it's God's will for everyone to speak in tongues. Again, he's using hyperbole for the point of emphasis. And what's he trying to emphasize? What's the point that he's trying to make There's nothing wrong with using the real spiritual gift of tongues. Nothing wrong with it. Again, he doesn't want to throw the baby out of the bathwater. And there's another place where Paul does this, in case I know some of your So let me show you one more passage here. Look at First Corinthians chapter seven. Go back to First Corinthians chapter seven. Remember he's arguing here over the The point of marriage and singleness. And there were some in the church that were looking down upon those who were single, and Paul is basically saying, Look, there's nothing wrong with singleness. Some people, God has given that gift of being single And so to make his point, look at verse number 7. For I would that all men were even as I myself. Now what's he talking about there? What was Paul's marital status When he said that, he was single. So Paul said, Look, I would that all men were just like me. What does he mean there? I would that all men were single. Let me ask you a question. Do you think it's God's will For all men to be single? No, of course not. So why does he say, I would that all men are just like me, single? Because again, he's talking about the impossible For the purpose of emphasis. And in essence, all he's saying is look, there is nothing wrong with being single. Just because a person is single, some of you think that there's something wrong with them and they're out of God's Well, no, that's not true. I wish that everybody were single like me. But if that were true, if this was a divine directive, the population of the world would be gone after a while Obviously that's not what he's saying there. He's using hyperbole to emphasize a point. This is the same thing. If you go back to 1 Corinthians 14, the apostle Paul is saying the same thing here when he said in verse number five, I would that you all spake with tongues. Now again, he's not giving a divine directive. He's not saying it's got God's will for everyone to speak it with this sign gift of tongues. He's just saying that to use the real spiritual gift of tongues, there's nothing wrong with it I don't want you to get the idea while he's debunking the counterfeit gift and he's putting it in a negative light and he's saying prophecy is so much superior to that. At the same time he doesn't want anyone in the church Church to think that there's anything wrong with using that real spiritual gift of tongues. And so he says, Look, there's nothing wrong with it. I would that everyone spake with tongues, but even better, rather, that you Prophesy. For greater is he that prophesies than he that speaks with tongues. And so again, Paul's saying, you know, there's nothing wrong with tongues that has It's a legitimate place. And if there's an interpreter there and they can help you understand what's being said, that's and it edifies the whole church. Man, that is great. That is good. But let me tell you, prophecy is better It's still better. And again, we already saw in 1 Corinthians 13 where there's going to come a point in time where prophecy will fall away, it'll fail. And tongues will cease, but love will continue on. And so when he's saying these gifts are all going to come to an end, I think when he talks about tongues ceasing Again, I pointed this out to you before, but the word for cease there, it's a middle voice, in and of themselves, when tongues are no longer necessary to the church, it'll come a point in time when they cease But prophecy is going to continue on. And I think that the implication there is that when tongues are no longer uh uh being used because the purpose for which God gave them is no longer necessary Then they'll cease, but prophecy is going to continue on after that. Now we know in the perfect all those things will be done away. And the one thing that we will take to heaven with us is our love. Paul made that Clear. But again, Paul's whole point here is that the one who prophesies is better than the one who speaks in tongues. It's a better spiritual gift because it edifies the church. I have four more points. And it's eight o'clock. So you all have had enough. So we're gonna pick this up. I'll see you next year and we'll we'll deal with the rest of this next year, okay? Uh because again next week we're going to have our Christmas Eve service. The following week we're going to have our New Year's Eve service. And then the week after that it'll be 2018. So you're going to have to wait until next year to finish service. of this sermon. This sermon has taken a whole year to preach. Let's bow for prayer together. Lord, I pray that you'll give us understanding as your people Lord, our desire is to glorify you in everything that we do. And we know that, Lord, when you do a true work, that Satan is always out the counterfeit. What you do that is real. He's always out to try to confuse the people of God. But I pray that you'll remove any confusion from our heart and our minds. And that's why, Lord, we're so grateful for the Word of God. Because when we study it and we look at it, we see that this is a clear word. And it keeps us, Lord, from drifting off into error. And being deceived, and it gives us clarity. And Lord, may it also give us a great hunger for a true work in your church Father, we do need the true work of the Holy Spirit. And while, Lord, we know there's many counterfeits out there, we hunger for a real moving of God, your spirit moving in hearts And lives. And Lord, we believe that you're a God that can do anything at any time. And you can do the miraculous in our lives when we come to you and when we pray and when we seek your face. You'll honor your word and you'll honor your cheer your children. And Lord, there's some people here tonight and they just need you to work mightily in their life. And Lord, I pray that you'll do that. In fact, with heads bowed and eyes closed. I just need a work of God in my own life. And I'm praying for that. God bless you, friend. God bless you. God bless you. You know the Holy Spirit wants to work mightily in our hearts if we're open opened to him and we're yielded to him. God bless all those hands. That hunger for a a work of God. And you know what? He he'll honor that. He'll honor that Father, bless every hungry heart here tonight that wants to see you work mightily. Lord, use us as a child Church. We're closing out one year. We are anticipating a new year. We can look back and see your wonderful blessings. But Lord, there's a hunger in our heart that And so, Father, use us, and may we be usable in your sight Make us diligent students of your word. Not so that we can just know things, but Lord, so that we can live a holy life, a godly life, and we can share Christ with others and see more come to know you. Lord do your great work in our church. And we'll thank you and we'll praise you for it. In Jesus' precious name. Amen.