Would you take God's word and uh turn to the book of Luke, chapter two? Luke chapter two. And we're going to read verses 25 down to verse 35. Would you stand for the reading of God's word? Stand for the reading of God's word. Luke chapter 2, verse 30, starting at verse 25. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came by the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, Then took he him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation which thou art which thou hast prepared before the face of all people. A light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. And Joseph and his mother marvelled at those things which were spoken of him. And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother. Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign which shall be spoken against. And yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. This is God's word. May we receive it this morning with all our heart. Thank you, you may be seated Father in heaven, as we come before you today, we thank you for your word and what it teaches us about our Savior. And as we look at this passage of Scripture today, Lord, may we Learn something that we can apply to our life. For your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. As you know, during the Christmas season, I've been going through s certain characters in the Christmas story uh that played a key role in this beautiful uh story of the birth of Christ. We looked at Zacharias And we looked at Mary and we looked at Joseph and we looked at the wise man and the shepherds. But we're going to look at one final character today, a man by the name of Simeon. He is somewhat a mysterious figure in Scripture He appears on the pages of Scripture and then suddenly he disappears and we don't ever really hear of him or see him again All we know about Simeon was that every day he would appear at Jerusalem, at the temple there at Jerusalem, a major intersection for people traveling back then, and a place that was a constant rush hour, you might say And he would be there in the temple every day. I think he was there every day. The Bible doesn't say that, but I'm kind of using my sanctified imagination there to say I think he was probably there every day watching over the traffic of people that would come by. And he was looking for something. He was hoping for something. He wanted to see something very special and particular. And what we know about him in Scripture was that he was a very devoted man. He was a godly man. And God had laid upon his heart a special revelation. We don't really know if he was a priest or if he was a prophet or a Pharisee, just a person who was a lay person that was a very godly and devout person. But it pleased God to give to this man a special revelation, and it was this, that he would not die until first he laid his eyes on the promised Messiah. And again, if you'll give me just a little bit of a preacher's license here to use my sanctified imagination, I imagine that he probably came to the temple every day. Every day he was watching, he was looking at people, he was looking for the Messiah with his own eyes. And so I think that every day he would go to the temple at a certain time, perhaps at a certain spot And uh looking at the traffic of people that would go back and forth through the grounds there on the temple. And he was looking intently, he was looking for the Messiah, he was looking for what the scripture calls the consolation of That's in verse number 25, waiting for the consolation of Israel. This is another title for Jesus the Messiah. We've already seen many titles of him as we look at these characters. Of course he's Jesus, he's the Christ, he's the Son of the Highest, Son of David, the dayspring from on high Here he's called the consolation of Israel in this sense that he would be the one that would bring comfort to Israel, not only to Israel, but to the whole world. And so, year after year, Simeon went to the temple looking, waiting for God's Messiah. And years stretched into decades. And many times, you know, we're called upon to wait for God's promises to be fulfilled, aren't we? Waiting is one of the harder things to do in the Christian life. But Simeon did wait So much so, I think, that he perhaps became a fixture there for uh people that would live in Jerusalem and went to the temple, they would see this man, this funny old man there every day I mean think about it. Did you know that already at that time in Jesus' day that Jerusalem and the temple there was a tourist attraction? It was already one thousand years old, the city of Jerusalem and the temple there The temple that was built by Herod, that was a tourist attraction, so many people would come, thousands and tens of thousands of people from all over the world. to go visit Jerusalem and the temple there, the holy city. And uh they already had tour guides that would guide people through uh this this incredible temple. The temple that Herod built there in Jerusalem was called one of the wonders of the ancient world. Because it was spectacular. And uh I imagine people would go there and take tours. They'd have buses back then, but maybe they had multi-seat chariots. Who knows, you know And they would go on these tours. And as they would take these tours and go through the temple grounds, and the tourist guide would point out certain features of the temple and certain important things that happened at certain places there in that holy temple. People would see this old man that was there, and uh they would probably say, uh who is that old man there? And the tour guide would probably say, oh, that that's that's old Simeon. He's been uh coming to this temple every day for years and years And well, why is he here? What is he looking for? Oh, he said that God gave him a revelation that he would see the Messiah with his own eyes. And he's looking for the Messiah. Now, as we look at this story here, what does this man Simeon teach us? He was a man who placed all of his hope And the promises of God, all of his hope. God promised him he would see the Messiah. So he lived each day of his life. Hoping, filled with hope, that God would fulfill that promise to him. He's brimming over with hope. And so we can learn some things with from this man Simeon, things that we can apply to our own life. And the one major idea I want you to get from this narrative today are those who hope in God's promises. will be rewarded. When you hope in God's promises, you will be rewarded. So let's look at this. I want you to see three important lessons from Simeon that we learned. Number one Those who hope in Christ live righteously. When you're hoping in God's promises, when you're hoping in Christ, you will live righteously. Notice what it says about this man That he was, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and the same man was just and devout. Look at the word just. You see, to hope in Christ means to live godly And this man lived a godly life. The word just here is a word that means righteous, virtuous, someone who lives an obedient life. He excelled in practical righteousness. And let us learn from him. We must be righteous people. There should be a practical righteousness. about us as the people of God. But also it says that he was devout in verse number 25. And this is a word that means conscientious, really. And what it means is he was conscientious about matters of spirituality. He was very careful. He didn't have a careless spiritual life. We might say that he wasn't hit and miss in his spiritual walk with God. He was very devout. He was very conscientious He cultivated a walk with God. No one becomes righteous and devout accidentally. You have to do that. By being conscientious of praying each day, conscientious of your devotion to God. Let me ask you, how about you? Are you conscientious about your walk with God about reading the Word of God each day of your life, about seeking God in prayer, spending time with the Lord The key to his righteousness can be seen in view of his relationship to God. Look down at verse number twenty-nine. Notice what he when he uses the word Lord, Lord, now let us thy servant depart These are the words of Simeon. When he uses the word Lord there, this is an unusual word for Lord. It's not curios. It's the Greek word despotes. It's where we get our word despot from. And in the lexicon, this means an absolute ownership or or uncontrolled power. Now when we think of someone who is a despot, we think in terms of being negative about that person because normally it speaks to someone who rules over someone else with brute force. So we don't look upon that word positively, but that's not the idea here This speaks of God having absolute exhaustive control over his servant. And it's Simeon is using this word. He calls God his despotess. That is Indicates that he was absolutely, totally surrendered and submitted to God in his life. That God was his master. That he was his willing slave. God owns him completely. And so what this reveals to me about Simeon was that he had a high view of God. God was absolutely sovereign, Lord, and master over his life. He had a humble view of himself He said he was God's servant. And so to live in hope in Christ means to live godly, but also it means to live expectantly. Again, look at verse 25. It says that he was waiting for the consolation of Israel. Waiting for the consolation of Israel. And this is referring to a prophecy given by Isaiah in the Old Testament In Isaiah forty verses one and two, when God would comfort his people and remove their sins by sending the anointed one the Messiah. And so the word waiting here has the idea of an eager anticipation. He eagerly anticipated this Messiah. Now how long has he been looking? We don't really know Probably, well I would say, venture to say most of his life, according to tradition, Simeon was 110 years old at this time. So probably all of his life. It would have been very easy for him to think, you know, generations have come and gone and still I haven't seen the Messiah. Maybe it's not going to happen. And maybe he it would be very easy for him to give up this whole notion that he would ever see him. But Simeon never lost Faith in God's promise. He just continued to hope. And he's an example to all of us because just like Simeon was waiting to see the Messiah at his first event, guess what we're doing? We're waiting to see the Messiah at his second event, aren't we? That he's going to come again. This is my Apple Watch talking to me. I'm gonna put her over here. Um We're waiting for the advent of the second advent of the Messiah. And it may be that you're here, you say, you know, you I've heard this all of my life that Jesus is coming again. I hear it over and over again. Years have passed and still the Messiah has not come. Yeah, I know that's exactly the situation Sime was in And yet he did see the Messiah, as we're going to see in this passage. And beloved, Jesus is going to come again. And if you know Jesus as your Savior, guess what? You will see the Messiah And we're waiting just like Simeon waited. You said we've been waiting for 2,000 years. That's right. 2,000 years, and yet The Bible says, will the Son of Man when He comes, will He find faith on earth? Will he find people that are living expectantly with faith brimming over, knowing that the Messiah is going to come? People of hope live expectantly. People of hope live godly. But here's another thing, to hope in Christ means to live spirit-filled. What I noticed about Simeon was that he was a man who walked in the spirit He lived in tune with the Spirit of God. And he must have been very close to the Lord because it was God who revealed to him personally And look in verse number 26. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. Simeon must have had a very special relationship to God for God to share with him a secret like that. The Bible says in Psalm 25, verse 14, the secret of the Lord is with them that fear him, and he will show them his covenant. And so someone says, Well, how did he know this? Well, the Bible says it was through the Holy Spirit. We see the Holy Spirit mentioned in verse 25, the Spirit was upon him, in verse 26, and it was revealed unto him by the Spirit. In verse 27, and he came by the Spirit into the temple. The Spirit of God was all over this man. All over him. This was before The Spirit was poured out on the day of Pentecost. You might say that he was really an Old Testament saint, living before the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. And yet, here's a man that was filled with the Holy Spirit, and the Spirit of God was all over him. We need to ask ourselves this question as we look at this. Does God's Spirit work in my life? Am I filled with the Holy Spirit? If the Holy Spirit was to withdraw himself from me, would I notice it? Would I even notice it in my life? You see, to walk in the Spirit means to be daily dependent upon the Holy Spirit of God in our life. And that's what Simeon shows us here. The Spirit of God revealed it to him. He lived a spirit-filled life. So to hope in Christ means to live righteously, it means to live godly, it means to live expectantly. It means to live in the power of the Holy Spirit. But here's the second thing I want you to see. Those who hope in Christ will be rewarded. Those who hope in Christ will be rewarded because God rewarded Simeon's hope so much so That he did more than he promised. So let's look at this here. But notice some of the things that God did reward him with. because of his faith and his hope. God rewarded him with an understanding of the things of God. If you look carefully at this narrative, what you're going to see is this man had an insight into some things that many others perhaps did not have. He will know instantly when he sees the Messiah. You know, the uh the why the uh The scribes of Israel. Um, they didn't really have this kind of knowledge. Um when Jesus was born, King Herod had to call for chief priests and scribes to discover what the Old Testament said about his birth. They could give the correct answer, but they missed the whole fact of it. And here Simeon knew through the Holy Spirit who the Messiah was. But also he knew that the world would not welcome the Messiah. In fact, there would be much opposition And there would be much much anguish for Mary. Drop down to verse number 34. This is when he's holding the Messiah. and rising again of many in Israel for a sign which shall be spoken against. And here he's referring to Isaiah 8. 14. You might want to write that in your margin. The stone of stumbling and a rock of offense is what's referred to in Isaiah 8. 14. He would be the stone that would be rejected. There would be some people that would stand upon this stone. They would be exalted because of Christ. And there would be some people that would stumble over him. because they reject him. And then he talks about a sign in verse number 34, the end of it, for a sign which shall be spoken against Others will speak against him, in other words. And here he's talking to Mary. Mary, you should prepare yourself. Others will speak words of hatred and hostility against him. They will oppose him with their words So Simeon had some real insight here. He had an understanding that was given to him by God. Mary, this child is the Messiah. He will be a stone. Some will stumble over him. Some will be exalted on him. And many will speak against him because he speaks the truth. You show me a preacher that everyone loves, and I'll show you someone who's not preaching the truth. Jesus would speak the truth, he would demonstrate the truth, and many would speak against him, it says. I think even the disciples during the earthly ministry of Jesus were surprised At the amount of hostility and opposition that Jesus faced. They didn't especially expect the cross and all of that And we still see that opposition today against Christ. I've said this before. People have no problem with Christmas, they just have a problem with Christ. They have no problem with the festivities and all the things that come about with Christmas, but they still hate Christ. And Simeon saw this. This is something that he knew by God's revelation. And so God rewarded Simeon with an understanding of spiritual things. But secondly, Simeon was reward rewarded with the fulfillment of their godly desire of his Godly desires. So those who hope in Christ will be rewarded with the fulfillment of their godly desires. And so we'll see this here. For Simeon, this one moment in the temple made all of his life and his waiting worth it. His deepest desire was to see the consolation of Israel. And so notice what happens. Look at verse 27. And he I love this phrase here. And he came by the Spirit into the temple. The Holy Spirit impressed on his heart one day to get up and go to the temple. Has God ever put something on your heart to do? That you just feel like you should do it. You're impressed by the Lord. You just have this strong compulsion. And so one morning, Simeon gets up and the Spirit of God moves upon him in a special way and tells him to go to the temple because on that day he would have a divine appointment. Maybe he woke up that one morning, he wasn't feeling all that well. Maybe he felt, you know, maybe I'll stay home today. But the Holy Spirit moved on his heart. And he went. You know, you ever feel like, well, I believe I'll miss church today? You know what? That might be the very day that God has something for you. The very day that God wants to do something special. And so the Spirit brought Simeon to the temple at the exact right time for him to be there. Now think about all the concurrence of events that has to happen, all the confluence of events that must happen. And we're talking about a huge temple complex with thousands of people walking through I mean I I've been to Jerusalem. I've been uh to where the temple used to be, that uh the temple complex that is uh there. It's a huge area I've been to the s the steps on the southern side of the temple, those big wide steps, where back in Jesus' day people would be coming and going and there were all kinds of little mikfahs, these little baptismal pools where people would go and wash themselves and then go up into the temple and get ready. And so it was bustling with people, thousands of people. Think about all the things that had to happen in order for Simeon to be at the right place at the right time, right when Mary and Joseph were going to the temple with Jesus. But that's exactly what happened As he goes to the temple, he notices a young couple with a little baby. They were obviously not wealthy. They were not from the elite or aristocratic people of Jerusalem. He noticed a poor couple. Perhaps he saw joy in their eyes. But notice what happens. It says that in verse 27, and he came by the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, then took him up in his arms and blessed God. Now, Luke doesn't give us a whole lot of detail how all this happened, so again it allows for a little bit of imagination. And th also think about this, Mary and Joseph were f were were from Nazareth. That's where they lived. They came to Bethlehem because of the decree of a Caesar Augustus. And so before they go back to Nazareth, which is a long journey, and by the way, some would probably expect it, they would go back immediately. You know, right after the uh they were registered for the census and after the baby was born. But no, they go to Jerusalem first. And this seems a little bit out of the way. But here Luke is meticulous. He tells us why, and really it's back up in verses 21 and verse 24. The parents who are utterly devoted to obeying God and keeping the law We're obeying God's Old Testament law because after eight days the child would be circumcised. That's when the child would be named. That's in verse number 21. That was his circ the circumcision of the child Jesus. And then after 40 days, they would present a child to the Lord. The law required a woman wait forty days after the birth of a son before presenting themselves to dedicate the child to the Lord. That's verse twenty-two. The law also required that a mother and father present their firstborn son to the Lord, kind of a dedication to the Lord. That's verse number 23. All these things are happening After eight days Jesus is circumcised after uh uh while forty days, uh they go to the temple and they are dedicating Jesus to uh God there. There's a sacrifice normally given of a lamb. If you're poor, you would use the the the Bible made allowance for you to use a pair of turtle doves which we see happening look in verse twenty four to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the Lord a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons And so this is all taking place here. They're going to the temple to dedicate themselves to the Lord, to dedicate the baby to the Lord according to the law. And all this had to happen because Jesus was born under the law, the Bible says. He fulfilled all the righteousness of the law. And as Mary and Joseph are coming to the temple, here Simeon sees them. And again, I sometimes wonder how this happened. You know, let me ask you new mothers a question. All right. If you're out in public and a hundred year old man comes up to you And wants to hold your baby, what is your first response going to be? Someone that you've never met before, you've never seen before. It just we don't really know, but there's one clue that I have when I study this. In verse 28, when it says, Then took he him up into his arms. The word tuk here is decomai in the in the Greek, the idea of welcoming or receiving. So this suggests to me that Simeon didn't just walk up to Mary and just pull the child out of her arms. That's not what happens here The word suggests that Mary offers him to Simeon. And so I kind of think of it like this. He walks over to them. He understands immediately through the Holy Spirit that this baby, this child is the Messiah. He sees it. He knows it. You can imagine the emotion. I mean, here's something. He's been waiting for this all of his life. All of his life. And finally, here is the Messiah. Do you think there would have been a little bit of emotion in this in his eyes? Maybe maybe his eyes welled up with tears. I don't know. There certainly was joy in his heart And Mary can see this. She can see this man. She knew there was something unusual about him. She sensed the Spirit of the Lord on this man. And I think Mary says, would you like to hold it? And Simeon reaches out and receives Decomi. He welcomes the baby Jesus into his arms. You know, isn't God gracious? God does more than he promises. God simply promised Simeon that he would see the Messiah. But you know what? He does more than just see the Messiah. He holds the Messiah in his arms. And for that brief moment, he's holding the one who upholds all things. He's holding in his arms an infant who is infinite. He's holding God in the form of a baby. That is incredible when you think about it. That little moment there in redemptive history when Simeon is holding the baby Jesus. Those who hope in Christ are rewarded with the fulfillment of their godly desires. But God often does even more than we ask or think. The Bible says in Proverbs 1024, the desire of the righteous will be granted. The Bible says in Psalm 84, verse 11, no good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly. And if you're walking an upright life and you have desires in your heart, And you can hope in those things that God will fulfill those things in your life. God will not withhold godly ambitions that you have, godly desires that you have in your heart, if those desires are for the glory of God. Let me ask you a question here today. What is the one thing you're hoping for before you die? What is the one thing that you want to see happen before the Lord calls you home? Do you have any godly ambitions like that? And say, Lord, please, I want to see this. I'm not talking about a selfish bucket list. I'm not talking about a trip to Hawaii or anything like that. Although that's okay. I'm talking about godly spiritual ambitions and you're waiting for this to happen in your life, you're seeking, you're praying. It might be the salvation of someone, maybe a hard case, someone that you've been Praying for it may be just godly goals that you have, things that you want to accomplish. Those who hope in Christ will be rewarded with the fulfillment of their godly desires. And God will often do more. Then you ask. And so this man is rewarded with an incredible understanding of the things of God. He's rewarded with the fulfillment of his desires. And also the readiness for death. This is the other reward, the readiness for death, because look what he says in verse 29. Lord, now let thy servant Depart in peace according to thy word. You know what Simeon's response was, now I'm ready to die. Now I'm ready to go to heaven. Now let us thy servant depart in peace. This saying has become known in the Latin as the Nun Dimitis. This is the Latin which means now, Lord. Now, Lord, he was ready. There was a sense of fulfillment in his life. All that what he wanted to have happen in his life was done. All what he was called to do, he did. And so the picture here that we see is really of a soldier being relieved of his watch. He's done. He's finished. He watched for the Messiah all his life. And now God's using him as a part of this story to be someone who would bear witness that this was the Messiah. And now he was ready to go. Now he was ready to die. He had seen Jesus. And he was ready to go May I say this, my friend, you're not ready to go anywhere until first you see Jesus. You're not ready to die until you see Jesus. And I don't mean see him literally or in a vision What I mean is that you're not ready to die until God has opened your spiritual eyes to see the beauty of Christ and you see him for who he is as the Savior and the Lord. And you have turned to him in repentance and made him your Savior and Lord. And friend, when you do that, when you see Jesus When God opens your eyes to see who he is and you do confess him as Savior and Lord, then you're ready to die. And this is what Simeon said. He's ready to die. Can I ask you a question today? Are you ready? If God were to call upon you for in death Would you be ready and say, I'm ready to go right now, if God were to do it, because I know that my sins have been forgiven. I know I have the hope in my heart. Like the Apostle Paul said, for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. It would be just better if I die. And so God makes his people ready. to die when they put their hope in Christ. And I've seen this in the life of many Maybe you're here today and you know maybe you had in the last year a loved one go to heaven, uh someone who is a Christian, someone who is a believer. Now here at Grace we've seen some wonderful godly saints. Go on to heaven. And you know the common denominator in all of them where I've been involved. I've seen their life. I've been a part of this church for many years of my life and many of these saints I've grown up with I've seen their life. I knew their faith. And when it was time for God to call them home, you know what? They were ready. God put a readiness in their heart. That it there was no pain, there was no reluctance. There was a sense of anticipation, there was a sense of joy, kind of like Simeon is saying here, now Lord, let. Your servant depart in peace. There was a sense in which all that was needed to be completed in their life was done. It was completed. And now they're ready to go home and be with the Lord. Corey Timboom tells the illustration how that when she was a little girl, she went to a the funeral of a friend of hers, her friend's father had passed away And it was impressed upon her heart that her parents would die one day. She saw death up close for the first time and it scared her. And she went to her father and she was so worried and her father gave her words of comfort. He said, Corey, when you and I get on the train to go to Amsterdam, when do I give you the ticket to get on the train? And she said, Well father, you give it to me right before I'm ready to get on the train. You put the ticket in my hand. He said, that's right And when God the Father is ready to call one of his children home, he puts the ticket of grace in their hand right before they get on board. He gives them that grace. That readiness. And Simeon had that ticket. He sang and he said, Now let thy servant depart in peace according to thy word. And so those who hope in Christ will live righteously. Those who hope in Christ will be rewarded. But let me give you a final thought here before we close. Those who hope in Christ will not be disappointed. They will not be disappointed. All of this is centered on the Lord Jesus Christ. How can we know that our hope will not Disappoint us. We know we will not be disappointed because our hope is rooted in Christ Himself. Everything we hope for is centered in Christ. And now again look at verse 34 because uh notice what Simeon does here. After he's uh he blesses the Lord, in verse 28, he takes up Jesus in his arms, he blesses God Verse 29 he says, Now let thy servant depart in peace according to thy word, verse 30, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation. He's not disappointed. He is thankful that he has seen God's salvation. Verse 31, which thou hast prepared before the face of all thy people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people, Israel. Simeon knows that this savior is not a savior just for Israel, but the whole world. A light to light in the Gentiles, everyone. In verse 33, Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken. And now, however, Simeon turns to Joseph and Mary. And he blesses them. He says unto Mary's mother, Behold, this child is set for the full and rising again of many in Israel, and a sign. Which shall be spoken against. And simply what he's saying is: this child is going to bring salvation to all who will receive him. The rising of many. Many will rise in salvation. God's grace will raise them I tell you, I'm thankful today that God in his grace saved me because in doing that, he exalted a nobody. And that's what he does in salvation. His grace raises us, his grace exalts us. But then on the other hand, he will bring judgment to all who reject him. In verse 34, and set for the fall, for men will fall. Also. In other words, he's saying, Mary, there's no neutrality with your son. There will be some who will rise up in salvation because of him, and there will be some who will fall. in judgment because they reject him. And Matt tell you, dear friend, there's no neutrality with Jesus. You're either for him or you're against him. You will either be raised by him or you will be judged by him. It's one or the other. But he will bring salvation to those that will put their trust in him through his death. And look at verse 35 and we'll close He said, Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. And the image of a sword was for Mary. Mary, a sword will pierce your soul. And what is this? This is a prophetic reference to the anguish that Mary would feel one day as she would witness the crucifixion of her son. In the suffering of Christ Her soul would be pierced many times. As they pierced his brow with thorns, her soul would be. would be pierced. As they pierced his hands and his feet, her soul would be pierced. As the soldier took the sword and pierced the side of Jesus on the cross, her soul would be pierced. Each time Jesus' body was pierced, Mary's soul was pierced. And here in this prophecy, Simeon is giving us the purpose for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ to suffer and to die for sin. Maybe he had Isaiah 535 in his mind that That through his wounds, through his piercing, many will be saved. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquity. And that was the whole purpose of him coming. To bring salvation. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin. So because of the birth of Jesus Christ, we have hope. That's what this message is about. When we hope in Christ, We're blessed with righteousness. We're blessed with rewards. We will not be disappointed. If Christ is your salvation, you can have hope, no matter how difficult your circumstances may be. If Christ is your salvation, friend, you have hope. Let's bow for prayer together today. Would you take a moment there in quietness and would you examine your own heart and would you pray there quietly to yourself and would you Make sure of your own soul standing before God. Have you put all of your faith in Jesus Christ as your Savior and your Lord? Are you hoping in Him? Is there some godly ambition that you want to see happen in your life before you die? Right now tell God about it. God, I want this This is this is my godly ambition. This is what I want to see before I die. Would you do this for me, Lord? Again, this might be the salvation of a loved one. This might be a a mission project that you want to see accomplished, a a desire to reach Someone or some venture for the kingdom of God. What is it? Tell God about it. Lord, let me see this. Let me see this. Put your hope in Christ for your salvation. Put your hope in Christ for the fulfillment of all your desires, your godly desires, friend. Tell God all about it. Father, thank you again for this word. Thank you again, Lord, for speaking to our hearts. And we we praise you with all our heart in Jesus' name. Amen.