Pray you had a wonderful Christmas. I want to invite you to take your Bibles. Open to the book of Luke, chapter 2. The book of Luke tonight, chapter 2, and I want you to look down to verse 25. Luke chapter 2, verse 25. Now we have been going through, if you've been with us on Sunday night, we've been looking at what I call the first songs of Christmas. And in the narrative of the Gospel of Luke, chapters one and two The incarnation, the coming of Jesus Christ, is given to us, but it's given in a very unique way, given in a way where there are some songs that are very central to the coming of Christ. Spirit-inspired songs sung by key characters here in the Christmas story. We already looked at the song of Elizabeth, and we looked at the song of Mary, and we looked at the song of Zacharias. And then we saw last week the song of the angels. And now we come to the final song, the song of Simeon. I want you to look in Luke chapter 2 and look at verse 25. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. There's a story told of a man by the name of Indian Joe. I don't know if you ever heard this story. Indian Joe or Indian Joe is not a character conceived by Mark Twain and his Book, Tom Sawyer. That's probably what some people thought of when you heard that name. But this is a real person, and he was an integral part of the folklore of the city of Pittsburgh in the 40s and the 50s. He was known as Indian Joe, but in all likelihood he was probably not an Indian, and his name was probably not Joe. But he was very well known to the older residents of that city. And really he became an institution in his day in the city of Pittsburgh. What Indian Joe would do every afternoon is he would appear at a major traffic intersection at Route 51, just past the Liberty Tubes that connected downtown Pittsburgh with the southern hills of that municipality. And what he would do is he would direct traffic. He was a very harmless and simple man And he didn't stand in the actual street where the cars are coming by. He stood on the corner where the street light was. And when the light turned green, Joe would motion to the traffic, come on, it's time to come. And when the light would turn red, he would hold up his hands and say halt. And so he was helping to direct traffic there during the rush hour, and he was there every day. And he wasn't breaking any laws. Nobody bothered him. The police left him alone. The officials didn't really speak against him. But everybody in that day just assumed that Indian Joe was just a few fries short of a happy meal. But this is what he would do every day. He was there every day. And he became a fixture in the city during that era. Visitors would come to the city of Pittsburgh back then. And they would inquire about this strange man that was out there at this major intersection directing traffic. And then one day, Joe wasn't there. He just was gone. And they never saw him again. And those who saw him and knew him scratched their heads and they wondered whatever happened to Indian Joe? When I heard that story, I think of this man here, Simeon, in the scripture. He's somewhat of a mysterious figure in the scripture. He appears on the pages of uh this gospel of Luke and then suddenly after this he disappears and we never see him again or we never hear of him again. All we know of Simeon was that every day He would come to a major intersection, you could say, of that ancient city Jerusalem. And of course that was the the temple area. That was always a very high traveled place. It was like a rush hour in any major city. People were constantly coming and going, and every day he would come to the temple, and every day he would watch over the traffic of people that would pass by And he would look in the faces of people and he was looking for something very particular. He was looking for something very specific. And uh Something that the Lord had told him. And what we know of him in Scripture was that he was a very devout man. We just read that in this passage here, in these verses here. He's a very godly man. And God had given to this lay man, this lay person, a special revelation. We don't really know whether Simeon was a priest, we don't know whether he was a prophet or a Pharisee. The scripture really doesn't say And so I assumed that he was just an ordinary lay person, but it pleased the Lord to give to this man a special revelation And this was the revelation. He would not die until first he laid eyes on the promised Messiah. That was the promise, that was the revelation that God had given to Simeon. And so Simeon And we don't really the truth of the matter is the scripture doesn't say that he came to the temple every day, but if you'll give me a little bit of of preacher's license here tonight to use my sanctified imagination, is that okay? I imagine that this man came to the temple constantly, every day. He was watching, he was waiting to see the Messiah with his own eyes He was looking for the Messiah. In fact, he was looking for what the scripture says in verse number 25, calls them the consolation of Israel, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Ghost was upon him. The consolation of Israel was simply another title for Jesus the Messiah. Now, as we study these songs, we've already seen several titles. We've seen the name Jesus used in these songs. We've seen the Christ, the Son of the Highest, the Highest. We've seen the title Son of David, Horn of Salvation, Day Spring from On High, the Savior. And now here is yet another title used of the Lord Jesus the Messiah, and he is called the consolation of Israel. And the word consolation here simply means comfort. He would be the comfort of Israel. He would be comfort to suffering people. He would be comfort to any suffering people. Maybe you're here tonight and maybe that's what you need. You need consolation. You need comfort. That's what Jesus is. And so Simeon would come to the temple day after day and week after week and the weeks stretched into months and the months stretched into years. And the years stretched into decades, and he would just constantly be waiting. You know, sometimes God calls upon his people to wait for him to fulfill his promises. Don't you know that? Sometimes the hardest part of the Christian life is having to wait. God said to Abraham in the Old Testament, you're going to have a natural-born son. But Abraham had to wait many years before God fulfilled that promise. God said to Enoch in the Old Testament, there's going to be a flood. It's going to come to this world and destroy the wicked in this world. And Enoch had a son, and he named his son Methuselah, and that name means when he is dead it shall be sent. When that baby would die, that's when the flood would come. And you know that Methuselah lived nine hundred and sixty-nine years. That's a lot of waiting. Sometimes God calls upon us to wait. And even so here, now Simeon had been given this revelation from God. And God now tells them that you have to wait for it to come. And so Simeon did wait So much so that Simeon became a fixture there in the city of Jerusalem, that first century Jerusalem. And by the way, did you know that the first century Jerusalem Already that city at that time in the first century A. D. was a thousand years old. So don't think that Jerusalem in that day was a very new city. No. It was already a very old city. A thousand years old. And did you know that it was already in that day a major tourist destination in the old world, sporting one of the great wonders of the world, which was the ancient temple in that day built by Herod And it was a fabulous temple that he had built there, and people would want to come, pilgrims sometimes on their journey, and people from all over the world would come, multitudes, thousands, and tens of thousands of people would come as pilgrims into the Holy City to look at this temple. And they even had tour guides back then. I don't think they had buses that ran, obviously. Maybe they had chariots where you can see a lot of people, who knows? But people would come and they would tour that ancient city and they would look at the temple and the tour guides would show them the unique features, the engineering feats that built that wonder of the world back in that day. And they will perhaps point out other special events that took place right there on those temple grounds. And as they were in the midst of their tour Uh inevitably, and again I'm using my preacher license here, a little bit of imagination, if you'll bear with me. I think that someone along the way in this herb would say, Who is that old man over there? And we see him here every day. Who is that elderly man? And the guys would perhaps laugh. And say, well, that's just Simeon. He comes here every day. And don't pay much attention to him. Now Simeon wasn't Indian Job, but he was a forerunner of Indian Job. And people didn't give him a lot of credit. And they just scoffed at him. I remember the first time I visited the city of London I went to the Tower of London. You know, that's that castle, that fortress that was built on the Thames River by William the Conqueror, built in the 10th century. Already it was a thousand years old. Going there to see that it was a major attraction there in the city. And I remember I took the tour and uh was led by these men who were dressed in royal uniform called beef eaters. Some of you may have already taken that tour before yourself. And there at that tower, a very high traffic area, there was a man who was had a Bible in his hand, and he was preaching the Word of God, and he was preaching about the second coming of Christ. And you could imagine the reaction from the people. They would scoff. And the tour guide said, pay no attention to this man. He comes here from time to time. And I think that's the way they treated Simeon. The guides would say to the people, don't pay any attention to this old man. He comes here. He comes around every day actually thinking that he is going to see the Messiah. He actually thinks that he's going to see the consolation of Israel. And I am convinced he was an object of derision. and an object of scorn. And the people laughed at him. You know, the world still laughs at people of faith today. And the people would say, Simeon, what are you doing here? And Simeon would say, I am looking for the Messiah. And they would say, why are you doing that, Simeon? And he would say, because God told me that I would not die until first I laid my own eyes on the Messiah. And finally the day came. Finally, the appointment that he had waited for had come. And the Spirit of God moved upon his heart. Look in verse number 27. And he came by the Spirit into the temple. That morning the Spirit of God moved on his heart to go to the temple. Uh you can imagine he's been doing this time and time again, perhaps Maybe he felt that morning like he didn't want to go anywhere. Maybe he thought, I'm going to miss the temple today. You ever have that thought, I'm going to lay out, I'm not going to go to church today. That might be the very day that God has something special for you And so the Spirit of God led him that very day, brought him to the temple at the exact time, at the exact moment. To notice a young couple carrying a a little child with them into the temple, he notices this poor yet happy young couple and this newborn baby boy being carried in the arms of a mother. Now why were they there? Luke, the historian, he doesn't make us wonder about it. He lets us know Why they were there in verse number 27, it was the custom of the law. Now Mary and Joseph were from Nazareth. That's where they lived And you remember, if you've been with us in these sermons, you remember that we found out why they came to Bethlehem. They lived in Nazareth, and yet the Bible prophesied in Micah 5. 2 that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem And so why would a couple that lived in Nazareth go to Bethlehem? Well we know because Luke tells us there was a decree from Caesar Augustus in chapter two. All the world had to be taxed, and so Jews would have to go to their uh hometown And so Mary and Joseph had to take that trip, and they had to be in Bethlehem, and while they were in Bethlehem, Jesus was born. But then the the other thought is this, well why would they then go to Jerusalem? That's not the way back to Nazareth. One would think that after she had the child and after they registered for the census that they would automatically go back to Bethlehem, uh to Nazareth rather to their town, the place they lived, and yet before they did that they stopped in Jerusalem first. Why would they do that? Well again, Luke, he doesn't cause us to wonder. He tells us, back up to verse number 21. And notice what it says, and when eight days were accomplished for the circumcision of the child, his name was called Jesus which was so named of the angel before he was conceived in the womb. And when the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord As it is written in the law of the Lord, every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord, and to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of God, a pair of turtle doves were two young pigeons. And here we see the godliness and the piety of Mary and Joseph. They wanted to fulfill the law. They wanted to fulfill God's word. And according to the word of God, there was a certain requirements that had to happen. First, the law required that male children be circumcised on the eighth day. We saw that in verse 21. Then secondly, the law also required that women wait 40 days after the birth of a son before presenting themselves in the temple for purification. We saw that in verse 22. And then the law also required that a mother and father present their firstborn son before the Lord This was kind of a dedication. This was kind of a presentation before the Lord, and they would offer a lamb on the altar. In behalf of that child. That was according to the law. Now in verse 21, the circumcision takes place in Bethlehem, but verses 22 and 23 take place 33 days later They want to fulfill the law of God, and so they come to the temple to dedicate to present their baby and to give an offering. And by the way, normally the offering was a lamb. However, if you were uh impoverished If you couldn't afford a lamb, the law made a stipulation. You could simply bring two turtle doves or two young pigeons If you couldn't afford a lamb. And we see in verse 24, that's exactly what Joseph and Mary brought, which gives us an idea that they were not very well off. This is a poor young couple. And so they bring their offering to the Lord, and they make their presentation before the Lord, and it's while they are there that Simeon Bumps in providentially to Mary and Joseph and the baby Jesus. And all the hopes that Simeon had are fulfilled All the promises that God made to Simeon are fulfilled in that one meeting place there. Now you know what Simeon represents to me, and I think represents to you. He represents someone who hopes in the Word of God. All his hope was in what God said. I don't know about you, but that's where all my hope is. All my hope tonight, you say, Brother Harvey, where's all your hope? All my hope is in what this word has to say. Because friend, if this is the word is not true, and if the Bible is not God's word, then I have absolutely no hope, and you haven't none either. But this is the word of God. So all of my hope Rests in his word. And I could say all of my hope rests in the Christ that is revealed to me in Scripture In the Word of God. Because that's where we learn of Christ through the written word. And so Simeon then represents the person who places all of their hope in the Word, all of their hope in the Christ. Now, what I see here in this story are blessings that come to a person when they place their hope in God's Word and their hope in Christ. And there are five of these blessings, and I'm going to go through them quickly. I'm not going to belabor any of these because I want you to see them kind of in a balanced way. Here's the first one, righteousness. The righteousness. Back up to verse number 25, because it tells us that he was just and devout, and behold, there was a man of Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. Notice closely these words. The word just there is a word that means righteous. He lived an obedient life. He excelled in practical righteousness. He was devout. That chose his piety. This has the idea of a careful spiritual walk He cultivated a walk with the Lord. No one accidentally becomes devout. You have to cultivate your walk with the Lord. And he had a righteous life. And we kind of see this in his prayer. Look drop down to verse number 29, where it says, Lord, now let us or let us thou uh now letest thou thy servant Notice the word Lord there. It is the Greek word despotes. And that is a word that means someone who's in absolute power. We get our word despot from it. Now that's kind of, when we say that word in English, it kind of brings a negative connotation, but that's not the way it's intended here in the Greek. It means someone who is in absolute, total control of another person's life And Simeon was calling the Lord despotes. Lord, you have absolute total control over my life, which means, Lord, I have surrendered every part of my life to you All of my being is surrendered to you. You know why? Because that's what happens to a person who puts all of their hope in the Word of God He surrenders to the Lord. And notice his patience again in verse 25, waiting for the consolation of Israel. He lived all of his life. Expectantly. He was expecting the coming of the Messiah. By the way, did you know the Lord calls you to live that same way today He wants you to live expectantly of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to tell you, beloved, just as surely as Christ came at the first Advent, He's going to come at the second Advent. And we're to live a patient, expectant life. We see his righteousness. But I want you to see, secondly, notice his relationship He had a special relationship to the Lord because it says again in verse 26, and it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ And so he walked in tune with the Spirit of God. He walked so close to God that God shared with him this revelation. That he would see the Messiah. He must have had a very special relationship to the Lord. The Bible says in Psalm 25, verse 14, the secret of the Lord is with them that fear him. In Proverbs 320 or 3. 32, the Bible says the upright the Lord takes into his confidence. And that's the kind of man that Simeon was. And in case you missed it, notice the Spirit of God on him. Look in verse 25 at the end where it says the Holy Ghost was upon him. Verse 26, it was revealed to him by the Holy Ghost. And then in verse 27, he came to this by the Spirit into the temple. And so the Holy Spirit was all over this man. Think about that. Here's an Old Testament saint living before the outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost Yet he probably lived more in the fullness of the Spirit of God than most Christians do today. He was totally yielded to the Holy Spirit. There are some Christians, if the Holy Spirit would withdraw himself, it wouldn't change the way you lived or walked. In some church services, if the Holy Spirit left, the people wouldn't even notice it. Because they're not walking in tune with the Spirit of God. And so here's a man who walked close to the Lord. So we see righteousness as a blessing. We see relationship, but also we see reward. Reward. Notice the reward that he receives. Look at verse 28. And he took him up. Let me back up to verse 27. He came by the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, then took he him up in his arms and blessed God And notice this, he took them up into his arms. This was the reward for Simeon. God had fulfilled all of his hopes and dreams right here. You ever hope for something in? You have to wait. The Bible says in Proverbs, hope deferred maketh the heart sick. But when the desire comes It's a tree of life. You ever waited and waited and waited for something to happen, and you waited and waited, and finally that thing that you had hoped for finally comes, and the Bible says when it happens, it's like a tree of life There's such joy, there's such release, there's such wonder in that. And by the way, normally when God gives you what he promises, he normally gives above what he promises. You ever notice that? He doesn't just give you what he promises. He gives you far above that. You say, how do you see that here? Well, notice what happens here. The Bible says in verse 28, then he took him up into his arms. Here's Simeon. Now what did God promise Simeon? You're going to see this child with your own eyes. The Lord didn't say anything about holding the Messiah But here Simeon, he takes them up in his own arms. I sometimes wonder how this all happened. Mary and Joseph are on their way into the temple and they're approached by a man traditionally says he was about a hundred years old at that time. A hundred-year-old man comes up a stranger and just takes the baby out of Mary's arms? Now let me ask you mothers who have a new child, if a stranger came up to you on a street corner and tried to take your child out of your your arms, what would your reaction be? You better guess again, old man. You're not getting this baby. Who are you? So I wonder sometimes how this happened. And Luke tells us he just took him up into his arms. But if you look at the word took here, it kind of gives us a clue as to what happened. Look at the word took there, then took he him up. The word tuk here is an interesting word in the Greek. It's decomi. And it's the idea of welcoming. Welcoming. It's not the idea that you grab something, like is what we would think about when we think of the word took, you just grab something. That's not the Greek word here. The Greek word here is to welcome something that is being offered to you. To receive something. That kind of gives us a clue. So I think this is how it happened. Mary and Joseph walk into the temple. Mary's holding Jesus. Simeon walks over to Mary and Joseph. And the question I have in mind, how did he know that this was the right couple? How did he know that this baby was the Messiah? Listen, the same Holy Spirit that told him to get up that morning and told him to go to the temple at that certain time, and by the way, it's the job of the Holy Spirit to bear witness to who? Jesus Christ. That's what the Holy Spirit does, points people to Christ. And so the same Holy Spirit that led him that morning, that took him to the temple, is the same Holy Spirit that said, go over to that couple. And there he is. There's the Messiah. And Simeon looks down and he sees this beautiful baby. Now I don't think that he had a stoic look on his face. I think he was beaming with joy. I think there was some laughter. I think there was laughter mixed with tears. Welling up in his eyes. And Mary and Joseph see this old man and they see the radiance on his face. They see the tears welling up in his eyes. And they know there's something different about this man. He's not just any ordinary person. And I think that Mary says to this man, would you like to hold him? And he decomai, he welcomes, he receives the Messiah. And so here is God giving more than what he promised To Simeon. More than just seeing him. He gets to hold him. Friend, that's a gracious God. You know, those who hope in Christ are rewarded with the fulfillment of their godly desires, but God always does even more than that. He does above that. The Bible says in Proverbs 1024, the desire of the righteous will be granted. Psalm 3410 affirms those who seek the Lord shall not be in want of any good thing. Psalm 8411 says, No good thing will he withhold from them who walk uprightly God gives the desire to those who have godly desires. I should say he's not going to give you every desire. If your desires are not godly desires, he's not going to meet those. But friend, if you have godly desires God will meet those desires. And each of these verses that I read has a condition to it. He grants the desire of the righteous. Of those who walk uprightly, of those who delight in the Lord, because when you walk with the Lord and you're righteous and you delight in the Lord, you know what happens? God gives you godly desires And then he grants those desires. And so the Lord does far above what he promised. And here's the fourth thing. Righteousness, relationship, reward, but also write down readiness. Readiness. Look in verse 29. Notice what he says. He's holding the infant Jesus into his hands. He says in verse 29, Lord, now lest thou, thy servant, depart in peace according to thy word. So Simon is holding the baby and he says, now Lord. And by the way, this is where uh people name this song uh nun Dementis, that's the Latin for now Lord, after these first two words. That's what this song is titled in many places. the Noon Dementis, the Now Lord song, because after he's holding the baby Jesus, he is holding the one who is upholding all things. He's holding the infant who is infinite. It couldn't get any better than that. Life couldn't get any better than what was happening at that moment. All his dreams and desires were fulfilled And so he says, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace. Now, Lord, I'm ready to go. I'm ready to go home. You say, why did he say that? Well because his service was complete. He's now ready to die And the point here is that Simeon's whole mission had been completed. Now what was his mission? By the way, God calls different people to do different things. Each person has a unique purpose and calling in your life. You have to find out what that calling is. The particular calling that God had given Simeon was very simple. He was to bear witness of the Messiah He was to be one of those witnesses. And each time he showed up to the temple, he bore witness to all the people that were around that the Messiah is coming. He became so associated with the coming of the Messiah that when people saw Simeon, they automatically thought of the Messiah. Because he was going to bear witness that the Messiah was coming. And his desire was realized. And you know what? One day he just didn't show up after. He was just gone. And I imagine there were people in Jerusalem scratching their heads saying, what happened to that old man Simeon? His service was complete. It was already done. And notice also what he says, look in verse 30. For mine eyes have seen thy what? Thy salvation. You know what he means by that? He says, Lord, I don't need to watch him grow up. I don't need to watch him talk to the doctors in the temple. I don't need to watch him multiply the loaves and fishes or turn water into wine I don't need to see him do any of those miracles. I don't need to see Maltransfiguration. I don't need to see his crucifixion and resurrection. This is all that I need to see right here, because right here I am holding your salvation and my salvation. Right here. He said, now I'm ready to depart in peace. You know what this teaches us? A very valuable lesson. Listen, those who hope in Christ are ready for death. Those who hope in Christ are ready for death. Believers are prepared for death. They don't dread it. They don't fear it like others. We might fear crossing that chilly river waters of the River Jordan, but we don't certainly don't fear what's on the other side. Christ prepares people for death. Why was Simeon ready to die? Because he saw Jesus. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. You're not ready to die until you've seen Jesus. When I say seeing Jesus, and I'm not talking about in a vision, I mean you're not ready until you see him as the Christ, as the one who came and bore the penalty of all of our sins upon himself took our sins upon him, died, and satisfied the wrath of a holy God until you have repented and turned to him in salvation. And see him as your only way, friend, until you see Jesus in that way, you're not ready to die. But once you see Christ, you are ready to die, and he will fill your heart with peace. And the question is not if you die, it's when you die. Let me give you some truth here. We're all gonna die. New statistic out. One out of every one dies. The mortality rate is 100%. And I want to tell you the wisdom of this world and the philosophies of other religions, they cannot prepare you for death. Only Jesus Christ can do that. Let his birth prepare you for your death. That's what Simeon did. It's wonderful to see Christians who are at peace with death. I read word Corey Tinboon. Famous from the book The Hiding Place, A Little Girl in Holland. And of course, I'm sure you probably read something about Corey Tinboom. She grew up in an era, in a time where death was all around her. And even as a little girl, she became acquainted with death very soon. A neighbor had died. And suddenly the thought dawned on Cory Tinbun that her father and her mother were going to die one day. And that she was going to die one day. And she became overcome with this thought of death until finally her father who was a Christian man said to her, Corey, he said, when you and I go to Amsterdam, when do I give you your ticket? And she said, right before I get on the train. And our father said exactly. And our wise Heavenly Father knows when to give you what you need when you need it. And you see, friend, when it comes time for God's children to get on the train of death, at that moment God will give the ticket of grace and peace to his children. And Simeon had that ticket. He had that ticket. He said, now let thy servant depart in peace. I'm ready to go now in peace. You see, the word depart here, very interesting word. It means to to release a person from a prison. You know, that's what it is for a Christian. For a Christian, death is releasing us from this prison. This body of ours begins to Hinder us from doing all what we want to do, and there comes a point in time where God says, I'm going to release you from that. It's released from a prison. It's also a word that means to untie a ship that's loose from its moorings, that that's set out to sea. And that's exactly what happens at death for a Christian. When a person dies, we say here on this shore, there he goes, but people on the other shore are saying, Here he comes. You're going on a voyage. John Newton, the man who wrote Amazing Grace as he was dying, he said this. He said, I'm like a person going on a journey who expects its arrival at any moment and is frequently looking out the window for it. But this word also means to take down the tent. To move from one location to another, to take down the tent. And Peter said that. He said, knowing that surely I must put off this my tabernacle. I've got to fold my tent. You know what death is to a Christian? It's moving out of this tent. It's moving into a mansion. That's what it is. And so Simeon says, I'm now I'm ready. I'm at peace. I've seen the Savior. Let me give you the last blessing. Righteousness. Relationship, reward readiness. But here's number five, revelation. Revelation. Look at verse uh thirty two. And when Simeon before he gives Jesus back to Mary, he prophesies. He gives has a revelation that God gives to him. And he speaks about who this child will be. Verse 31 a light or verse thirty-two, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which are spoken of him. And Simeon blessed them and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child Is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign which shall be spoken again, and yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. Now as Simeon gives this revelation, he says a lot. First of all, he says that this this Savior, he's going to be a light to lighten the Gentiles. He's not just a Savior for Israel, but he's a Savior for the Gentiles, for all people. And we've seen that illustrated in other songs here. But then in verse 34, Simeon turns specifically to Mary. And he speaks words specifically to her. Now, some may wonder why he didn't speak to both Joseph and Mary. But I think these words were to prepare Mary for what was going to happen in the future with her child. And by the way, later on uh in the in the gospels. We don't see Joseph. Joseph kind of disappears off the pages of the Gospel of Luke right after the incident at the Passover when Jesus was twelve. We don't read any more about Joseph. And many scholars think that he died before Jesus began his public ministry, and there was only Mary left. And so here, Simeon speaks specifically to Mary, and this is what he's preparing her for her for. Excuse me. He is saying you have to be ready because your child is going. You're ready for this? He's going to suffer. He's going to suffer. This is why he's here. Look again in verse number 34. And Simeon said, or blessed them, and said unto Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel. In other words, he is destined to be a determiner of men's destiny. Some people are going to stumble over him. and fall in judgment, and others will rise in salvation. And so the image that is given here is really the image of a stone, that rejected stone. He is like a stone. And there are some people that are going to trip over him. They're going to stumble over him. Because they're not going to understand who he is. And many people will fall, and many people will be judged by him, but other people will step upon the rock, they will rise in salvation. So people will either stumble over him or they will rise and be exalted because of him. It's very simply this, friend, you can't remain neutral about Jesus Christ. You either believe who he is, and you stand on the rock Christ as your foundation, as your source of salvation, or you stumble over him, friend, but you can't remain neutral about him. And he's he's not just another collection of ancient wise men that came along. He is the Christ. You've got to make a choice. You can't be neutral. And so here's the next thing. Also, notice what else he says in verse 34. And for a sign which shall be spoken against. That is. It's a word here, the simian is the word here for a miracle. And it actually the sign is going to be others will speak against Him. Mary, you should prepare yourself. Others will speak words of hatred and hostility against him. They will oppose him. They will oppose his words. Friend, you show me a preacher that's loved by everyone. I'll show you someone who's not preaching the truth. When you preach the truth, everyone's not going to love you. And this is certainly true of Jesus. Many did not believe him, didn't believe in his signs. They slandered him. And we already we've seen that if you've been with us on Wednesday nights, they ridiculed Christ instead of believing the signs. But now here's the last thing. Look at verse 35. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul also that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. And so here he uses the image of a sword, and this was for Mary. And he's saying, Mary, a sword will pierce your soul. And you know what he's referring to here? This is a prophetic reference to the English Mary would feel as she witnessed the crucifixion of her son. And we we can understand this, we can relate to this as parents because when we see our children suffer, we suffer greater. We suffer in our heart, in our soul, when we see our children suffer. And so when she saw, when she beheld the sufferings of Christ, when she saw him being pierced, and by the way, he was pierced many times. the crown that he wore, that thorns of the crown of thorns on his brow that pierced his brow, his hands and his feet that were pierced with nails, the soldier's sword that pierced his side. Each time she saw her son get pierced A sword pierced her soul because she saw the sufferings of her son. But here Simon, Simeon, rather, is prophesying the purpose of the coming of the Christ. He's coming so that he might suffer and die for the sins of people. I think Simeon may have had in mind here Isaiah 53 where it says he was pierced for our trans And through the Holy Spirit, Simeon understood something that even the disciples failed to grasp in their whole earthly time, and that is that Christ had to suffer these things to enter into his glory. And without the shedding of blood, there would be no remission of sins. And so, friend, you must trust in what Jesus did. His death on the cross, his suffering, his passion, his death was for you to have salvation. And so my question to you tonight is this: Is your all of your hope in Christ and what he did I love the song. Sometimes people come to me and they say, sometimes I doubt my salvation. I say, well, listen, just quote the words of this song here and let it be a prayer. My hope is built on nothing less. Than Jesus' blood and righteousness. Nothing less. All of my hope, I want you to know tonight, all of my hope is in Christ. All of my hope is in his word. It's built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. Is Christ your salvation? Is he your hope? I'll close with this. During World War II, some American prisoners were in a German concentration camp And while they were there, they secretly received word that the Allies had won the victory, and in three days they were going to be released. The Germans had not yet known that. And so for three days they were there in that prison with news that the Germans didn't know that the victory had been won. They were still, during that three days, they were still had the same deprivation they'd Still were subject to the same sufferings that they had normally had when they were there in that prison. But now they suffered with great hope because they knew the victory had already been won. Friend, that's the hope that Jesus Christ brings. Because no matter what sufferings you might endure in this life, if your hope is in Jesus Christ, guess what? You've already got the victory. It's already yours. He's won the victory For those who hope in him. And if you put your hope in him, you will not be disappointed. And you'll be able to say like Simeon, now, let thy servant depart in peace. I'm ready. Whether you live 60 years or 60 minutes You'll have peace and you'll be ready. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, we thank you for this story. And what it teaches us. And Lord, help us to be like Simeon. Help us to be such a faithful witness to the Messiah. So much so that when people look at us, they think of Jesus. And when they see us, they're reminded of a Savior. And wait, may we, like Simeon, place all of our hope, all of our faith, all of our trust and the promises of your word in Christ as our only means of salvation And Father, we pray all this in the mighty name of Jesus and for his glory's sake, amen