I want you to take your Bible open to the Old Testament book of Zechariah. We've been studying this book, and I hope that it's been a blessing to you, and I hope you're learning from it. There's this incredible Old Testament book that has so much in it with regard to the end times and what God's going to do with respect to uh His plan of sa his plan of consummation in the end and also with uh his people Israel, the nation of Israel, and so on. But it's it's got relevant truths for us here as well. It speaks so well to us And we're in chapter 3 tonight, verse number 1. We're actually going to do the whole chapter here tonight and look at it. And I want to talk about sinners in God's courtroom. You know, Americans are quite captivated by courtroom drama. Seems like the most uh popular TV shows are those about the courtroom, reality shows about people going to court. thus called the People's Court. And uh I haven't watched that in a long time. I stopped watching that when Judge Wapter was no longer the judge on that. But then also there's uh you know Judge Judy and all these other judges with their names, and then there's even, I think, a whole channel dedicated to courtroom drama. Lately we've been captivated by high-profile people going to court. Uh uh uh the the uh Joe Biden's son, Hunter, and uh Donald Trump and so on. Thousands of people like to follow high-profile trials And that's why this next vision of Zechariah is so interesting, because what it presents to us is a really incredible courtroom drama, you could say. This is the fourth vision of Zechariah, and he brings us, as it were, into the courtroom of God. Now the problem that this vision wrestles with, or really deals with, is how can a morally defiled and sinful people be made fit to appear before the presence of God, much less to to uh serve the Lord, to minister to uh before the Lord Now you remember in the when God made the covenant with Israel in Mount Sinai in Exodus 19 and 20, you remember Mount Sinai was basically unapproachable. If you read that narrative, you'll find out that The presence of God that came down upon that mountain was accompanied by all kind of incredible theophanic type mess manifestations. In fact, Exodus 20 says that all the people saw the thunderings and the lightnings and the noise of the trumpet and the mountain smoking. When the people saw that They saw from a distance. They didn't want to get close. And they said, Moses, you speak to God for us because we we don't want to get there. We don't want to get close to God. Um lest we die. And that's really what it was designed to show is that sinful people cannot approach a holy God. And that was really the reason for that. So, God is not to be trifled with because God is a holy God. I love the song that we just sank about about God's holiness. I think that we don't emphasize that enough. The Bible says in the Hebrews 12. 21 that even Moses was terrified and he quaked in the presence of God because our God is such a holy God. That's why it really irritates me when I hear people talk about God in careless terms or use loose and flippant terms about God, you know, the big man upstairs and And all that sort of thing. That just grates at me because let me tell you something. He is the Almighty God. He is a holy God. And we are to give him reverence in the way that we speak about him All throughout Scripture, when people experience the presence of God, they're stunned. When Isaiah saw the Lord, his response was, Woe is me, for I'm a man of unclean lips. They see the holiness of God and they see their own sinfulness. That's why in this fourth vision that Zechariah has, he must be amazed to see a sinner standing before a holy God. That's what it really is happening here. Look at verse one. of chapter three and he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord. So here in Zechariah's vision, the high priest high priest Joshua, who had returned with the exiles from Babylon He also came with Zerubbabel the governor to go back to rebuild the city and rebuild the temple. He came with 49,000 other exiles returning back to the land. Here he is in this vision and he's standing before a holy God. Now again, remember the people are rebuilding the temple. Israel was in captivity because of their sin. After seventy years, they were allowed to come back to repatriate the land. But as a nation, their sins were still very great. And there's no evidence as as of yet as a nation that they had repented before the Lord. Now Israel did learn their lesson about idolatry. They learned how bad that was. God said, if you want idolatry, I'll take you let you go to a land where it's thief and idolatry. where they worship idols all the time. And Israel got their fill of idolatry while in Babylon. And after they returned from the exile, Israel never committed idolatry again, ever. They learned their lesson about that. But the b again, the big question is, how can a holy and righteous God restore such a sinful people to fellowship with himself and be consistent with his holy character? Now, to answer that question, this vision is given here to Zechariah. And the answer to that question really is found in the one who is standing next to Joshua the high priest in this vision. Who is he standing with? Again in verse one. And he showed me Joshua the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. Right beside Joshua the high priest is the angel of the Lord. Now we have identified him already. in previous visions as the preincarnate appearance of of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the second member of the Trinity. This is Jesus standing next to Joshua. This is a beautiful picture here. uh of the ministry of Christ as our advocate. You might say that this whole picture, this whole vision that Zechariah has is kind of an Old Testament illustration of the New Testament truth in 1 John 2. 1 If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, who? Jesus Christ the righteous. And that's what this really is a beautiful picture about. So what I want you to see here in this fourth vision are three important works. of Christ our advocate. Here's the first work. Number one, intervention. Just write that down. Intervention. What does Jesus our advocate do for us? He intervenes for us. Again, this is a courtroom scene, similar to that in the book of Job, where it's in heaven, the record of heaven. God's there, the angels are there Satan has also come to accuse Joshua, the high priest, who's standing before the Lord. He's accusing him of his unworthiness. So really in this courtroom drama you have four characters. You have God the judge. You have Satan, who is the prosecuting attorney. You have Jesus, who is the defense attorney, the advocate, and you have Joshua, who is the accused. He is the defendant in this case. So let's look at these. First of all, let's look at Joshua the defendant. Notice he again he's standing before God. And also mark this that Joshua is a representative of the whole nation of Israel. He's standing, and that assumes the position of being the accused party. But again, he represents as the high priest, not just himself, although he does represent himself, but he represents the whole nation. He's representative of them. You remember that God called Israel to be a nation of what? Priests. Now Joshua is the high priest, but he represents Israel. who was the nation of priests. You remember at Mount K uh at Mount Sinai, God made a covenant with Israel and said, If you obey me, if you walk in my ways, then you will be to me a special people. You will be a nation of priests. And that's what Israel was. And again, Joshua represents them here collectively. But Israel failed And they sinned greatly against God, and they were unclean before God. Notice that as Joshua was standing before the Lord, he has on filthy garments. Look down to verse number three what it says. Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments. The word filter here is soi, which um it's funny it sounds like soil, but it's the Hebrew word soyi. And it means this actual word is really uh a word that means dirty. Fow odored. Actually, it is the word for excrement. This is the worst kind of defilement possible for a Jew. According to Merrill Unger, the word can be translated excrement covered. So he's standing before the Lord, and he's got on his ropes, but they're all covered in manure. They're covered in excrement. Picture a farmer who's been cleaning the barnyard, and his overalls are covered with manure. He reeks of the stuff. Without bathing or changing any clothes, he comes to church. That's how Joshua appears before God in this vision And it represents the dirtiness of their sin before a holy God. How can a people, again, like that serve a holy God Suppose you've been working on your car all day and your arm your hands and your arms are you know filled with grease and your wife who's been working on her new white dress calls you and says, I need you to zip up the back of my dress. How are you gonna do that? Don't you dare try and do that. Your your grimy hands have no business touching that pure white dress. And again, that hypothetical situation is a picture of a real more serious matter. How can defiled sinners like us serve a holy God And I think the Jews to whom Zechariah was ministering felt the sting of that question. Again, they had just returned from captivity in Babylon because of their sin, and yet as a nation they hadn't really fully repented before God. And so, you know, a lot of times when we, you know, uh start to serve the Lord, do you ever get this? I get this sometimes. You feel the sting of conscience like you ask yourself questions like, well, who are you to stand and do what you're doing? Who do you think you are that you can do this? Because uh I'm nothing but a sinner. How is it that I'm able to even do anything for God And sometimes we feel that sting of conscience. How can I, as an unworthy sinner, serve the Lord in any way? So this is the question that is really this whole vision is going to answer. But anyway, here's Joshua. He's the accused. He's standing before God with filthy garments. But then there's Satan, the accuser. Look again in verse 1. And Satan standing at his right hand to what? To resist him. So standing right beside Joshua, the high priest with his filthy garments, is the prosecuting attorney in this courtroom. And the word Satan here actually means adversary, and it refers to his work of resisting the people of God. He is constantly accusing God's People are accusing the brethren. That's what the Bible says in Revelation 12 10. Write that verse down on your margin where it says that Satan is the accuser of our brethren, and he accuses them before God day and night. Satan is constantly railing accusations against you and me, the people of God. And here he is, ready to make accusations against Joshua, the high priest. And you know something about Satan, when he talks to God, when he talks to us about God, he lies. But when he talks to God about us, he tells the truth. He tells exactly the right things about us. And, you know, he he points to our many sins and he says, you know, this person does not deserve to be your child. He doesn't deserve to get into your heaven. He most certainly doesn't deserve to serve you in any way. And that is all true. Satan is absolutely correct in all that. Satan doesn't have to do much to build a case. All he has to do is to point out All the sins that we've all committed, true sins, right sins. And if God counted those sins, you know, beloved, we could not stand. The Bible says in Psalm 130, verse 3, if thou, Lord, should mark iniquities, who shall stand? We in our sins don't stand a chance in and of ourselves. That's why I'm thankful for this next person in the courtroom, number three, that's Jesus the advocate. Jesus the Advocate. Look at verse 2. And the Lord said unto Satan, The Lord rebuke thee, O Satan. Even the Lord that hath chosen Jerusalem rebuke thee. So here is the angel of the Lord. Again, this is a free incarnate appearance of Jesus. Jesus intervenes in the courtroom case. Why? Because he is our advocate representing us before the throne of God when we do sin. Thank God we have an advocate there. And here Jesus takes up the cause of Joshua. Notice that in this whole scene, Joshua doesn't say a word. And that's wise. There's nothing he can say. He stands shamed. He knew that the accusations against him were true. The smell of his filthy garments were there. He was guilty as charged And the only thing that we can do when Satan brings an accusation against us is to allow Jesus to step in. And Jesus does that every time. And notice what he says: the Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord rebuke you. Now what's the basis of this rebuke? Two things here. Joshua, who represents Israel, or we could say represents the people of God. God is saying, these are my people by my choice. These are my people by my grace. He didn't read the list of uh Joshua's good deeds over the years. His rebuke is based on this. That these are the chosen. The Lord hath chosen Jerusalem. And Jerusalem here again is one word that stands for the whole. It stands for all of the people of God, all of Israel. And it's he mentions Jerusalem rather than Joshua again because it's really has the whole nation in view, not just personally, but nationally. But clearly the whole point is they are recipients of my grace. They're recipients of my grace. Did you know that all salvation is a work of God's grace? All of it is. The basis of Jesus' defense is his own payment for our sin, which would take place in the future on Mount Calvary Did you know that all people are saved the same way? People in the Old Testament are saved the same way as people in the New Testament. The only difference is people in the Old Testament, they're looking forward to the cross, right? People in the New Testament are looking, we look back at the cross. But we're all looking at the cross, whether you're looking forward to it or backward to it. We are all have our faith in that work of the Messiah, Jesus Christ. And those are the people of God. By Jesus Christ, whose blood cleanses us from our sin. We are saved, and therefore the Bible says that Again in 1 John chapter 2, verse 1, my little children, these things write unto you that you sin not. If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And listen to verse 2, and he is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only, but also the sins of the whole world. And that word propitiation, as you know, is a very important word theologically. At the heart of it is the gospel. And what it means is that Jesus' death on the cross satisfied God's holy demands for justice. That's the whole point. On the cross, when Jesus died, his death satisfied God. The Father. And so therefore, salvation was purchased by the blood of Christ. It's a gift. God was appeased. God was satisfied. And it's based on that work of Christ that we can even stand before a holy God. It's all because of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. God is holy. His holiness demands that sin be judged. He's also a God of love. He wants to be able to forgive. And so in order for his holy nature and his nature of love to be reconciled together and be united, someone has to pay the penalty of sin. Someone innocent, someone righteous, someone holy, that someone was Jesus Christ the righteous. And of course Jesus did do that. And so therefore, it is based on that that We have the ability, as sinful people, to be like Joshua here. And even in our filthy garments, we are able to stand before the presence of God because of Jesus Christ our advocate. Amen. And so this is a beautiful picture of all of that right here. But notice another thing that Jesus says in verse 2. He says this at the end of verse 2, he said, uh, is not this a brand plucked out of the fire? And in that expression, here again, Jesus is talking about Joshua and by extension the people of God. You know what we are? We're brands plucked from the fire. If you're saved tonight, you better thank the Lord Jesus Christ because your salvation got you out of eternal fire. We're brands plucked from the fire. That's the mercy of God. And so I see in this, however, a note of compassion. Joshua is my child. I plucked him from the fire. This answer of Jesus to Satan demonstrates the loving compassion of God towards us when we Sin. You know, when we sin, what do you think God's attitude is towards us? A lot of times when we sin against the Lord, we're defeated, we're humiliated, we're ashamed, we stand there in our filthy garments. We want to go and hide. We had a tendency to think that God wants to make us suffer. He wants to punish us. But this that that's not what God wants. That's what Satan wants. Satan wants you to be punished. He wants you to be ashamed. He wants you to be humiliated. That's what he's trying to do to Joshua here. But what does Jesus do? He his attitude is one of love. He wants to come along our side and he wants to plead our case. And he wants to remind us that we are his child. He comes and he picks us up and he comforts us. That's what an advocate does. And so in this courtroom scene of heaven. The father is the judge. We could say that I'm the guilty sinner. Satan is the accusing attorney. I'm guilty and deserving of his punishment. Satan presses the case demanding action and Jesus comes alongside and says, I'm your defense. I'm your defense. I'm your attorney. Today, when you need legal help, you go and try to find the best attorney. In New Testament times, you would try to find your friend. That was your advocate. Someone was your friend. Someone that you knew loved you. And I think that's all inclusive in that word. advocate. Yes, I am a sinner. Yes, I stand guilty. I stand condemned. But Jesus comes along and says, yeah, Jerry sinned, but I pay for his sins with my own blood. And that's what we see. Jesus says, I've taken his punishment. And by the way, that explains why Jesus takes his wounds back to heaven with him. Because all he has to do is show the Father the wounds on his hands. That's evidence enough right there. The only man-made thing in heaven are the wounds of the Lord Jesus. And they're there to remind the Father and even remind the devil that Jesus paid our sin debt, and then therefore our sins are forgiven. It said Martin Luther, the founder of the Reformation, had a dream or a vision or a nightmare. He wasn't really sure, but he was waking in the middle of the night to see a figure standing at the foot of his bed that he identified as the devil himself, and the devil had a scroll. And on the scroll was a list of Luther's sins. And as the devil was unrolling that scroll, he was pointing out one sin after another, one after another, and Luther had to admit that the list was accurate And he said he felt that it at that moment his very soul was slipping into hell. And just then the advocate, the Lord, stepped in in his dream, and Jesus said, Tell the devil to unroll the rest of the scroll. And Luther said, I command in the name of Jesus that you unroll the rest of that scroll. And finally, the devil reluctantly unrolled the rest of the scroll, and at the bottom of it was written in red ink, pay for by the blood of Jesus Christ. Uh in fact you can go to uh I hear you can I've never been there, maybe one of these days, but you can go to Wartburg Castle where he was, where he had that stream, where it is said that, you know, he took an ink well and threw it up against the wall and the ink spot is still there. He would have these vivid spiritual warfare type things that happened with him, Martin Luther, these dreams. And that was the result of the dream that he had when Satan, he said, appeared and accused him. And he remembered the righteousness of Christ. So number one is intervention, but write down here's number two that goes along with it. Imputation. Imputation. Look at verse number three. Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments and stood before the angel. And he answered and spake unto those that stood before him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him. And he said un and he said unto him, and unto him he said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with change of raiment. And so here again, this is such a beautiful picture of what takes place in the life of the child of God. We see, first of all, forgiveness. He takes away the filthy garments. Again, Jesus' reply to Satan's accusation was, take away the filthy garments from him. That's forgiveness. He gives Joshua a word of loving assurance. Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee Believers today know that they're forgiven when they confess their sins because we have the promise of that assurance. What's the Bible say? If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us. and cleanse us. But his grace goes beyond forgiveness. Notice the next thing. This is imputed righteousness. He gives us new garments or robes of righteousness. Look at verse number four. And he answered and spake unto those that stood before him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him. And unto him he said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with change of raiment. And I said, Let them set a fair meter upon his head. So they set a fair meter upon his head, and clothe him with garments. And the angel of the Lord stood by This is a just again an incredible vision here. Here he is standing with the filthy garments, and the Lord commands, you know, take Take away those garments. I'm going to give them a change of raiment. The word raiment here, mahalassot, occurs here in Isaiah 3. 22, and it describes fine clothing, white garments, beautiful white garments. And again, that is such a beautiful picture of salvation because you know what happens when you put your faith in Jesus Christ? He takes away our filthiness, he takes away our filthy garments, and he gives to us the robe of righteousness. We get the righteousness of Christ given to us. Again, I don't know a more beautiful truth in the Bible than all of that. This all pictures the removal of sin, being imputed and given the righteousness of Jesus. You know, the Bible says without holiness we can't see God. The only problem is none of us have any holiness. And what happens though is when we put our faith in Jesus, God removes our filthiness and he gives us the holiness of Christ, the righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is called imputation. Now you might say, well now wait a minute. I don't see the word righteousness used here in this. It just says rich robes. But the meter or the turban that was worn on by the high priest, did you know it had a plate on it and you know what the plate said? Holiness to the Lord Holiness to the Lord. It is reminded the wearer that that what they ha what that represents is the holiness of God Those robes represent the righteousness and the holiness of our God. And this again is the doctrine of imputation. And that's an important doctrine for us to understand. Did you know that in the Bible there are three imputations? Where something is placed on someone else. For example, did you know that, here's the first infusation, Adam's sin is imputed to us Did you know that? Paul makes that very clear in Romans five. Wherefore by one man sin entered into the world, Eris tense. At one point in time, sin entered into the world, and death by sin, again, Eris Death passed upon all men at one point in time, for that all have sinned. Again, eros tense. At one point in time, all sinned, and death passed upon everyone at that one point in time You say, well, now wait a minute, I wasn't alive then. Now I know you weren't alive, neither was I. And you know what? However, you were in Adam. And Adam being the federal head of the human race, his sin was imputed to all of us. So we all bear the guilt and penalty of Adam's sin because all die. His sin was imputed to us. That's one imputation. You say I have a problem with imputation. Well, you shouldn't, because if you do, you have a problem with this next one. Our sin was imputed to Christ. And that's Paul's whole point in Romans 5. Adam's sin was imputed to us, but you know what happened? All of our sins were imputed to Christ. That's why on the cross Jesus took the sins of the whole world. The Bible says the Lord laid on him what? The iniquity of us all, right? All sin was imputed to the Lord Jesus Christ, which is why he died in such pain and suffering. because he was paying for our sin. But here's the third imputation, what we see illustrated here in this story. Christ's righteousness is imputed to us. Now that sounds like a pretty good deal. I don't know about you. I think that's an incredible thing. My sin given to Jesus, his righteousness put on my account. And again, that happens at salvation. And this is what this whole scene right here pictures. That's why the Bible says, David said, Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin. And also it says, as David, even as David described the blessedness of the man unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works. What a blessing, what a blessing that God now imputes the righteousness of Christ to us, and he no longer imputes sin on our account, because all of it was taken play taken uh by our Lord Jesus Christ and paid for. Now there's a third thing here. That's why when Satan comes and tries to make accusations against us, it won't work. Paul said like this, Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifies. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. Now let me give you the third word. Christ, our advocate, he does a work of intervention. He intervenes Imputation, he gives us his righteousness, he gives us his righteous robes. But here's the third work, installation. Say what do you mean by that? Well, after Jesus cleanses us, he recruits us to serve as his priest. Look at verse number six. It says this, and the angel of the Lord protested unto Joshua, saying, Now the word protested here Probably a better translation of that word would be charged. The word is ud in the in the Hebrew. It means giving a solemn commission or the giving of a responsibility. Another way to express this would say would say like this, the angel of the Lord solemnly commissioned or charged or gave a responsibility to Joshua. In other words, this is the point in the vision where Joshua is now recommissioned to be the high priest of the people of God, Israel. Now, let's put it in its context back then. The people are coming back, they're rebuilding the temple, the temple worship is going to pick up again. But what Israel needs and what the high priest needs is cleansing from God. They need to be repentant. That was the first message that Zachariah preached, if you remember, to turn to me. And now. God wants to cleanse them from their sin so that Joshua then can be recommissioned as the high priest, and they again can do their work, their ministry in there at the temple of God. And so the Lord cleansed him, the Lord robed him in righteousness that he might serve. And this is meant again for the nation of Israel, but it also is meant for us. Do you know why God saved you? He saved you so that He you can use you so that you can serve Him. He didn't save people just so they can just sit in church and be spectators. He saved you because he wants to use you in his work And by the way, did you know that every person here, if you're saved, h how many of you are saved? You know that tonight. Would you raise your hand? Okay, do you know what that means? That means you are a high priest. You're a priest of God. In the New Testament, all those who are believers, you are a priest. First Peter 2, 5, write this down. Ye also, as lit lively stones. Or built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Then he says this in verse number nine. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. A peculiar people that you should show forth the praises of him who's called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Now here Peter's talking to the believers. And you are now, as a New Testament believer, a priest of God. And you're Ministry now is to offer up spiritual sacrifices to God. We don't bring animals to the altar, but what we do is we bring the sacrifice of praise. We bring the sacrifice of our good works. The Bible says in Romans twelve that we are to present ourselves as a living sacrifice. That's all priestly terms. That's our worship. We give of all of ourselves to the Lord in his service. And so we are saved, we're cleansed that we might serve the Lord. But in order to do that, we have to walk in holiness. And what I want you to see is what I call the standards of ministry. Look down at verse number seven. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, if thou wilt walk in my ways, and if thou wilt keep my charge, then thou shalt also judge my house, and shalt also keep my courts, and I will give thee places to walk among these that stand by. So here is the Lord giving the standards of what he expects of ministry. First, he says, Joshua, it's your responsibility. Walk in my ways. If we want to serve the Lord, that's the first thing we have to do. There has to be obedience in our life. We have to walk in his ways. Second, he says To keep my charge. That is faithfully execute the office of duties of high priest. Joshua was to uh do his service. He was to be faithful. He was to serve with excellence. Before the Lord to fulfill his duties, God again expects the same out of us. How is it that believers can be so haphazard in the way that they serve their God after we've been saved out of sin? We've been cleansed by the Lord Jesus. And yet there are so many that give half-hearted service to the Lord. That's not a good high priest. And God said, you know, if you do this, there'll be a threefold blessing for you, Joshua. First, he said he would judge my house. And then he uh that is Joshua would rule in the temple in divine worship. He would oversee all of that. He said, secondly, keep my courts. That is, he would guard from the desecration by ungodly people, uh frivolous worshippers. Third, he said that um this is the third promise to Joshua personally. He says that, and I will give thee places to walk in verse 7 among these that stand by. Now these that stand by were the angels that were in that vision. So it's almost as if God is saying, you know, you will be admitted to the very throne of God. You'll have special access to God. In other words, you will be considered a noble, worthy servant of God, where you have wonderful access before the Lord. You'll enjoy communication with God, the same communication that these angels enjoy. You'll have wonderful fellowship with God. What an incredible blessing. But there's one other thing I want you to see here in this vision as we close it tonight, and that is we saw the standards of ministry, but notice the signs of the Messiah. Look at verse number eight. Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, thou and thy fellows that sit before thee, for they are men wondered at. For behold, I will bring forth my servant, the branch, and behold, the stone that I have laid before Joshua. Upon one stone shall he Shall be seven eyes. And behold, I will engrave the engraving thereof, saith the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. And in that day, saith the Lord of hosts, shall ye call every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig tree Say, what is this? What Joshua and other priests of the Lord did Their ministry as priests, here the in this, he's being told that Joshua, you and your other fellow priests, what you are is you are a sign. of someone who is to come. And verse number eight. Notice this expression, for they are men wonder at in verse 8. Um wondered at, excuse me, in verse 8. The word wonder here, Mopit, which means a sign. In other words, these priests were men that were a marvelous sign. That would be a good way to translate that. Joshua, you and these other priests, do you know that what you do and your calling, you all are a wonderful sign, a marvelous sign of something that is yet to come. And what is that? This is all now pointing to the Messiah who is yet to come. This is a beautiful messianic passage in the Old Testament. where it points forward to Jesus Christ. And notice three images that are given for the Messiah. My servant in verse 8 where he says, for behold, I will bring forth my servant That's a wonderful title in the Old Testament used for the Messiah in the book of Isaiah. And then he's called also the branch. Look again in verse 8, for behold, I will bring forth my servant the branch. Again, the branch is an image of the Messiah frequently found in the Old Testament among the prophets. Why? Because he is a branch Or a sprout of David, of the house of David, but also of the Lord God Himself. And there's a beautiful picture of that, of the humanity of Christ and the deity of Christ But then also he's called the stone in verse number nine. For behold the stone that I have laid before Joshua. Upon one stone shall be seven eyes. So we see here the stone. Now By the way, the four titles of the branch that, or there are four titles in the Old Testament about the branch that really parallel. The Gospels, branch of righteousness for David that really parallels Matthew, where the gospel is all about Jesus Christ, the Son of David. And then the my servant, the branch, that's all in the Gospel of Mark. It presents Jesus as the servant. And then the man whose name is the branch, that's the Gospel of Luke, who was where he's called the Son of Man and the branch of the Lord. That's the Gospel of John, where Jesus is the Son of God. And then also finally here the stone, as we saw in verse number nine. And we see this stone used, this imagery of a stone used many times about Jesus. He is the cornerstone, the stone of stumbling, the rejected stone. And what he's saying is there is coming one. And by the way, the seven eyes I think represents the omniscience of the Messiah. As God, he'll know all things. And so, and also in verse 9, where it says, Behold, I will engrave the graving thereof It says God the Father will place an engraving on this stone one day. What does that refer to? Well, it it really doesn't tell us what it refers to. There are some Who interpret this and say the engraving on the stone actually represents the wounds of Jesus, but there's really no proof for that. There's really that might be taking it a bit too far We don't really know what the engraving is because the Bible doesn't tell us. But we do know that these images all point to the Messiah who will come And who will, with his own sacrifice on the cross, be the basis and the reason why anyone can be cleansed from sin, whether it's Israel back in that day or us today. It'll be because of the Messiah, Jesus, who will come. And look at verse number 10. In that day, saith the Lord of hosts, shall ye call every man his neighbor? under the vine and under the fig tree. Actually I need to back up to verse nine where it says at the end, and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. And then in verse 10, and in that day saith the Lord of hosts, shall ye call every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig tree. And I think this all points to that one day When God will remove, we're talking here in the context of Israel, remember Zechariah, his interest in this vision is for the people of Israel, the future of the nation of Israel in Jerusalem. And he says there's going to be a a time when in one day God will cleanse all the people. He'll cleanse the people of Israel. And when will that happen? Well, we're going to look at that as we continue to study the book of Zechariah, but I believe that points forward to the time when Jesus Christ will come again at his second coming. And when the Bible says all those of Israel who had rejected Christ, they will look upon him whom they have pierced. And then God will uh cleanse the people at that time. And verse ten where it says people dwelling under the vine and under the fig tree, that is a image of peace and security When that happens, what he says is the people of Israel then will dwell in peace and security. That's why we know that this is going to happen at the second coming of Christ. Well, how do we know that? Well, because is the nation of Israel dwelling in peace and harmony and safety right now? No. But in that one day, when Israel is cleansed, When Israel recognizes their Messiah, the branch, the servant, the stone, when they look upon him whom they've pierced, God will cleanse them all. And the Bible says at that point then every man will dwell under the vine and under the fig tree. It'll be a time of grape. prosperity, of great peace, of great security, and that is yet to come. And so it's a beautiful assurance to Zachariah and the people on that day of God's cleansing, of God's forgiveness, of God's mercy based upon what Jesus Christ did on the cross. And from Zachariah's perspective, what the Messiah would do. But for us it's what Christ has done there on the cross. And so, what is the work of our advocate? Intervention, imputation, installation. He puts us into his service so that we can be useful. We as unworthy sinners are cleansed that we might serve God. That's the purpose. John Wesley, when he was six years old, woke up one night to the horror of being in a burning house. His house had caught fire. Everyone else had already gotten out safely, but John Wesley was still in there. And somehow he had been forgotten among all the Wesley children by his parents. At the very last moment, just before the roof collapsed, a neighbor climbed through the window window and pulled John Wesley out of that house, pulling him to safety. After that he always talked about himself as being a brand plucked from the burning. And that became even more real the when after he got saved, for so many years he tried to work for his salvation, doing religious things until the first time. So finally he understood that salvation doesn't come by good works. It comes by putting your full faith in what Christ did. And when that realization came to him, he finally was converted. And when he was converted, he realized more than ever how God rescued him not just from that fire when he was a child, but God rescued him from eternal fire. And he always called himself a brand that was pucked from the burning. But the truth of the matter is, friend, that's what all of us are. And we all have a debt that we owe to our Savior, to serve him as a faithful, faithful priest of God. Let's bow for prayer together. Heads bowed and eyes closed, friend. Just examine your heart. Do you know the Lord Jesus? Is your full faith in what He did, His finished work? Right now you can pray and make sure of that. Say, yes, I'm trusting Christ and Christ alone. As my only hope, my only means of salvation. God be merciful to me, a sinner. And would you take a moment and just give thanks to God for cleansing us from our filthiness, from our sin Would you just remember how unworthy we are? And yet God in his grace not only cleanses us, but he actually calls upon us to serve Him To install us into his service. What an incredible thing. And give thanks to God for that. Father, may we be faithful in serving you. Thank you, Lord, for what you've done for us. Thank you for dying for our sins. Thank you, Jesus, for being a wonderful advocate. And the work that you continually do for us, there at the right hand of the Father, interceding for us, intervening against the accusations. Father, thank you for the wonderful blessing of being in Christ. And thank you for this beautiful Old Testament picture of Christ our Advocate. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen