Would you take your Bibles this morning and would you open, please, to the book of Ezekiel, the book of Ezekiel, chapter 18, the Old Testament passage of Ezekiel, chapter 18. And verse number one. Well Lord willing, just kind of get a kind of a survey look at this chapter here today. It's got thirty-two verses, that's a lot. And uh if it's a 30-minute sermon, that's one minute on each verse. So we'll kind of give a a bird's eye view of this chapter. We live in a culture today, seemingly, where everyone is a victim. Now, don't get me wrong, there are many people who are truly victims of oppression and injustice. We live in an evil world, and unfortunately, evil men do bad things to others. And there are real victims in this world, to be sure. Throughout all of human history, there's been people who have treated others with brutality, unjustly, mercilessly, and on we could go. There are people who have been abused by Cultures and society, and still it's going on in the world today. And as Christians, we must do all that we can to stand against evil and unjustice and to fight for what is right. The Bible tells us in Micah that what does the Lord require of you but to do justly and to love mercy? There's no question about that. But at the same time, there's some capitalizing on the injustice in our world by spreading a dangerous philosophy that I call cultural Marxism. I talked a little bit about this last week. The philosophy of cultural Marxism is where humanity is divided into two groups. You are either oppressed or you are the oppressor. And if you're not oppressed, then by default, according to this philosophy, then by default, you are an oppressor. Nobody wants to be labeled as an oppressor. And so therefore people want to identify with a group of the oppressed. So the whole culture, it seems like today, is rushing into victim status. Everybody wants to find victim status in some way. Because only victims are empowered in the culture today. Only victims have moral authority. And according to today's culture, if you're not a victim, then you have no moral authority. You don't have anywhere really to speak it, so just be quiet. Everyone has to find their victim status. This cultural Marxist idea has really taken root in our society. Now those of us who know the Word of God, we're not surprised by this because we know that from the very beginning it has been the nature of fallen humanity to blame someone else for their plight. It's the most n natural thing in the world for sinners to designate themselves as victims. In fact, this is the default mode or the default position for all Fallen human beings. It's the most natural thing in the world to do to blame someone else for our condition Blaming someone else for our issues. Blame someone else for our troubles. That's exactly what happened at the very beginning in Genesis chapter 3. You know the story. When God approached Adam after he sinned, what was Adam's response? It's the woman that you gave me. She gave from the tree and I I ate. I mean, uh it wasn't my idea to have this woman around here. I went to sleep single. When I woke up I was married. This was your idea. It's the woman that you gave me. And when What is Eve? What was her response? Well, it was the serpent. The serpent got into the garden. Who made that serpent anyway? Where did he come from? It wasn't my idea. I mean the serpent beguiled me, I ate So, like one preacher said, Adam blamed Eve, Eve blamed the serpent, and the serpent didn't have a leg to stand on But ultimately she was blaming God, just like Adam. There were only two people in the world at that time, and they were blaming somebody else. What does that teach us? What's the lesson? Fallen man does not want to take individual responsibility for his actions. And this is still very true. In fact, we've kind of taken this to a new level in our society today. The victim class is growing larger and larger. Every time we turn around, there is a new class of victims. The latest one that I've heard is called Christian Privilege. And that's this. If you're a Christian, you're part of a privileged class that has been for century oppressing non-Christians. Non-Christians then become victims of Christians. This is the new victim class. I spoke with a young lady this week who uh was fired from her job. What did a why did she why was she fired? A boss simply told her because she was a Christian. And there are other people around the job that are uncomfortable with the fact that she was a Christian. And her belief system was oppressive to those people that were around. She didn't verbalize it. She wasn't argumentative. They just fired her simply because she was a Christian. and her belief system in and of itself was offensive. It was oppressive. And so anyone who's offended by someone's words or someone's looks or someone's actions or someone's clothing or someone's opinion can designate that offense as a microaggression and they can claim that they're being victimized And one big area of offense today is the sins of our fathers. We have a generation today that is now offended at the previous generations of Fathers. We seem to have a generation that's constantly looking back and blaming all of our problems today on our fathers. I read an article recently. The title of it was The Boomers Ruined Everything. And the article basically says what the title suggests, that the baby boomer generation ruined America. That was the whole sense of the article. That's the mentality that we have in our society today. The mentality is we are victims of our fathers. Seems that each new generation wants to play therefore the generational blame game. And not just one generation back, but even farther back. We just want to blame things on our fathers. We want to point out their sins. We want to point out their failures. We want to point out their faults and their mistakes. and blame them for our plight today. Now to be sure, our fathers were not perfect In fact, they had many flaws. They had many mistakes. They committed many sins. But what does God think of this generational Blame game. We don't have to wonder. God tells us very clearly. In fact, Ezekiel eighteen is God's word to those who want to blame their play. on the sins of their fathers. What I want you to see in chapter 18 are three corrections that God gives this kind of thinking, this mentality Here's the first thing. Number one, stop blaming your fathers very clearly. Look at verse number one of chapter 18. The word of the Lord came unto me again saying What mean ye that ye use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge? Now, this blame game is nothing new. This is the very thing that Ezekiel is addressing here in this chapter. He's speaking to Jews that were in captivity. And you might remember in the history of Israel that Jerusalem was destroyed The king Nebuchadnezzar came in and carried captives away. In fact, there were three invasions. On the second invasion, Ezekiel himself was carried away as a captive. He was there in Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the city and the temple when he did that. And so Ezekiel was with the captives in Babylon, and now Ezekiel hears the murmuring of the Jews in captivity. And what were they doing? They were blaming their play on the sins of their fathers. They say the reason we're in this mess now is because of our father's sin. In fact It became a famous proverb that was being passed around among the captives. Again, look at verse number two, where it says, And this proverb was repeated so often, it becomes a byword in Israel. In fact, it becomes a belief. Now what does this proverb mean? Well, unripe grapes can cause your teeth to set on edge. Kind of gives a sour taste to it. It could even be related to the term teeth on edge or toothache. So we could say it like this, the fathers have eaten the grapes and we got the toothache. That's the idea there. And what is that supposedly saying? It was their way of saying we are suffering for what another generation did. We have all this problem because of what happened 50 years ago, 100 years ago, 200 years ago, 300 years ago or more Their philosophy was kind of this irresponsible victim status, this fatalism. And the rationale of it went something like this, you know, I'm basically a good per person. The reason I'm in this situation that I'm in is because of the bad people. that have done this to me. I'm being punished for the sins of my fathers. It's not my fault. It's the fault of my fathers. Now this must have been a very well-known proverb, because not only were the captives in Babylon repeating this proverb, but also the c the citizens in Jerusalem, that whatever was left in Jerusalem, they were also saying the same thing in the book of Jeremiah We see the same exact expression in Jeremiah chapter 31, verse 29. The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth are set on ocean. So this was very popular saying here. Everyone was saying it And God didn't like it. God saw this as a false idea. And this proverb needed to be refuted. Now, like all false doctrines, there was a kernel of truth in the teaching that made it seem plausible. I mean, this idea really seems plausible to a lot of people For example, the Ten Commandments, doesn't it say that God said he was a jealous God, punishing the iniquity of the children, or uh punishing the children, excuse me, for the sin of the fathers to the third and fourth generation of those that hate me This same thread is repeated in Exodus 34, 6 and 7. It's repeated in Deuteronomy 5, 9. But the point of these passages was that the effects of sin are serious and long-lasting. That's what he's saying. It's not that God capriciously punishes the innocent for the sin of their ancestors. Fathers can sin and Consequences of that sin can be long lasting and have adverse effects for their children But God never punishes a son for the sins of a father. God never demands that a son pay for his father's sin, nor that a father pay for the sin of his son. God never calls for a son to make restitution for the sins of a father. And what God is saying is you need to stop thinking that way. Stop that. Look again in verse number two, where he says, What mean ye that you use this proverb? God's not asking for what the proverb means. He knows what it means. He's expressing outrage. At this kind of thinking, this popular slogan is saying, stop using this. Stop saying this. When you play the victim card and you blame others for your Misfortunes, what happens is it results in a dangerous pattern of thinking and living. You say, well, I say, well, number one, by thinking like this, people live in bitterness and resentment towards others. When you start thinking like this, bitterness will destroy you. The tone of this proverb is critical. It is angry. It is cynical. It is resentful, it is filled with bitterness. The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and our teeth are set on edge. It exudes bitterness. It's kind of a cruel, it's accusing God of being uh of a cruel injustice. And so it produces a bitterness. And these people were bitter. They're bitter as people that were no longer alive. And I remind you what the Bible says about bitterness, it destroys you. It only hurts you. Maybe it's me, but I've never seen such an angry and bitter time in our country like I'm seeing it today. Number two, by thinking like this, people do not take individual responsibility for their own decisions in life. When a person is constantly trying to blame someone else, they don't see their own faults. They don't see their own sins. And this is wrong because every individual is personally accountable to God. Look in verse number three. Notice what the Lord says. As I live, saith the Lord, ye shall not have occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel. Why? Look in verse 4. Behold, all souls are mine. As the soul of the Father, so also as the soul of the Son is mine. The soul that sinneth, it shall die. God is saying this idea, this proverb needs to be refuted. It never needs to be used again This is not a scriptural idea, it's not a biblical concept. Where did it come from? It came from a wrong understanding of the law, and it came from pagan thinking. The ancient Near Eastern pagan religions thought this way that Their gods were punishing them for what their fathers did. And there are texts from the 14th century that suggests that to be the case. But God is saying, look This whole chapter is about individual responsibility. Look again in verse 4. Behold, all souls are mine. What does that mean? God is the creator of souls. They belong to Him in the sense that God created every soul. And since he's the creator of every soul, he's also the judge of every soul. And God is saying that every individual soul will give account to me, the one who created that soul. The Father as well as the Son. Those who are guilty will receive their own punishment. God doesn't punish the Son for the sins of the Father. When I go to stand before God one day, I will not be called to give an account for the sins of my fathers. I'll have to give an account for my own sins I won't be able to blame my sins on my father or the previous generation. I will have to face God on my own. I will have to give account for my own choices, for my own decisions, for my own life. But here's another reason this thinking is dangerous. By thinking like this, it puts a barrier between the gospel and salvation. If you have this victim mentality, this victim idea then what it does is it keeps you from seeing the fact that before God you yourself, like all of us, like me, we're sinners. And this is where the gospel starts. The gospel starts by rec recognizing that not only the people around me bad But the really the problem is I'm bad. I'm a sinner. And so this was a dangerous mindset This was a dangerous attitude to take because if you don't see your own sin, if you're constantly blaming someone else, you'll never come to the place of true repentance before Almighty God. It can only have a bad effect on those who think like this. So to offset this thinking, what does God do? God gives some He gives three illustrations Here in Ezekiel 18. These are kind of hypotheticals. Look at verse 5 where he says, but if a man, the keyword there is if it's kind of a hypothetical. Let's suppose he says a man. Look at verse number 10. If if he begot a son. That's another if look at verse 14. Now lo, if he begat a son. So what we see here are three different men. We see a righteous father, verses 5 to 9. We see an unrighteous son in verses 10 to 13. And then we see a righteous grandson, verses 14 to verse 18. So let's look at these. First of all, righteous father. Look at verse number five. But if a man be just and do that which is lawful and right, so here we have a man who is just. And he demonstrates that he's a true believer how? By his practical righteousness, by always doing what is right before God. You know, people in the Old Testament were saying the same way as people in the New Testament By faith in the Messiah and the work of the Messiah. Whether they were looking forward to the Messiah or looking back, they were saved by faith. And so you're not saved by works. But once you are saved, what happens? Your salvation does what? It produces works, right? And it shows that your salvation is real. Remember what James says? Faith without works is dead. Your genuine faith is revealed by doing good works. That you're truly God's child. And here's a man that reveals that he's really God's. Because he does a lot of good things. In verse number six, he doesn't commit idolatry. In verse six, he doesn't commit adultery. We don't have time to go through the verses individu uh you know specifically but just in general you can read that in verse seven he doesn't oppress anyone. Verse seven says he doesn't He doesn't defraud on a loan. He pays his debts. He doesn't rob anyone or take their goods by violence. He gives bread to the hungry. He gives clothes to those who need them In verse 8, he doesn't loan money with high interests to desperate people and thereby destroy the spirit of charity, making money off of others' hurts. He doesn't do that. Verse 8, he's compassionate, and he judges fairly between men. And verse 8, he is simply someone who does what is right before God. Boy, what a good father he was. Was he perfect? No. He was a sinner. But he was saved by faith in God. And verse nine, notice what it says in verse nine He walked in my statues and hath kept my judgments to deal truly. He is just, he shall surely live, saith the Lord. God. He will be spared from judgment. He will not suffer because of anyone else's sins. And so this man was judged on his own life. Every person is judged on his own life. This man is not anything other than accountable to God for his own life and choices. He came to God. He cried out to God. He sought God in his sin. He decl was declared righteous by faith and he lives a righteous life But now let's go to his son. Notice the unrighteous son. Look at verse number ten. And if he begot a son, that is a robber A shedder of blood, and that doeth the like to any one of these things. And so this righteous father has an unrighteous son And what you'll notice is that Ezekiel has nothing good to say about him. In fact, he lists ten offenses against God's law committed by this son. Three of them were capital crimes. He was a robber. He was a murderer. He shed blood. He was an idolater. In verse 12, he exploits the poor and the vulnerable. In verse 12, he never pays back His debts. He did all he could to make a profit off of others, even as it meant hurting those people and defying the law of God. What will happen to him? Well we'll look in verse thirteen. He hath given a forth upon usury, hath taken increase. Shall he then live? He shall not live. He had done all these abominations, he shall surely die. His blood shall be upon what? Him He will be judged, God said, and his blood will be upon him. He will be judged for his individual sins. He's not being punished for the sins of his father, or he's not being rewarded for the righteousness of his father. He stands himself before God. In God's system of social justice, one does not inherit his father's righteousness. or his father's sins. You will not be rewarded for your father's righteousness. You will not be punished for your father's sins. But let's enter in a third person here. Then we have a righteous grandson. Notice the third character in the drama. Look at verse 14. Now lo, if he begat a son that seeth all his father's sins, which he has done, and considereth And doeth not such light. So the third character is a righteous grandson. It's strange that a godly man should have an ungodly son, and that this ungodly son should have a son, and he ends up being godly. This grandson follows the righteous example of his grandfather. In verse 14, this grandson sees all the sins of his father. He's watched the life of his father, and he's determined that he's not going to do the same. He's not going to make the same mistake. Notice where it says, does not such like. He's not going to do that. Why? Because he doesn't want to be punished and suffered like his father. So he says, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to make those same mistakes. How right would it be if God would punish this young man because of the sins of his father? It wouldn't be right at all. God doesn't do that. And so in verse 15, this he lives a righteous life, just like his grandfather. And notice at the end of verse 17, where it says, He shall not die for the iniquity of his father He shall surely live. God makes it very clear. God didn't kill the grandson for the father's sin. Or even spare him because of his grandfather's righteousness, but he dealt with this man on the basis of his own individual choices and acts. That is the main point. Point. No person is being punished for someone else's sin. Not a prior generation. Not even your family. Not even your father's sins. Will God hold you accountable? for. So stop blaming your fathers for your own troubles. That's what God is saying. Stop because you're being judged based on your own individual life. Here's the second thing. Number one, God says, stop blaming your fathers. Number two, stop rejecting individual responsibility. Now, after Ezekiel gives these three hypothetical situations to prove the point that you're accountable to God yourself. What was the response of the captives? What did they say? Look at verse 19. Yet ye say, why? Doth not the son bear the iniquity of the father? They defended their position. They didn't want to give up their victim status. They wanted to be able to say it's not our fault. It's the sins of our fathers. They didn't want to be responsible for their own decisions and actions. It was very convenient for them to be able to blame their fathers. So what they're doing is essentially rejecting this idea. They're rejecting individual responsibility. Again, sinners are unwilling to let go of their victim status. They fight to hold on to this this this thing, this delusion that they have in their mind because they don't want to be held accountable. They don't want to say, yes, it's me, it's my fault. It's my own sin I need to that's not what I need to be worried about before Almighty God. And again, this seems to be the mindset. And it's dangerous. It's dangerous. Charles Sykes wrote a book called A Nation of Victims. He wrote this book because he was troubled by the rush to embrace victimism, which he suggested in his book, is badly eroding the moral character of American society, he said. He said this, quote, The politics of victimization has taken the place of more traditional expressions of morality and equality. Victimism has so infected our culture that one might even say that the victim has become the very symbol, the mascot of modern society. He goes on to say, increasingly Americans act as if they have received a lifelong indemnification from misfortune and a contractual release from personal responsibility. He says the British economist, which is a magazine, noted with amusement that in the United States, if you lose your job, you can sue for the mental distress of being fired. If your bank goes broke The government has to ensure your deposits. If you drive drunk and crash, you can sue someone for failing to warn you to stop drinking. There's always someone else to blame, he says And those who define themselves as victims claim entitlements and shun responsibility, thus they jettison any obligation they might have towards others or towards society as a whole. And this is the mindset. And this is so subtle, it's so dangerous. And so they stubbornly hold on to this. But God repeats himself. Look in verse number 19 again, the second part. When the son hath done that which is lawful and right. And have kept all my statues and have done them. He shall surely live. Look at verse 20. This is a key verse here. The soul that sinneth, it shall die. The Son shall not bear the iniquity of the Father, neither shall the Father bear the iniquity of the Son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him. So God just further emphasizes the point, despite the rejection of the captives who want to be able to blame their fathers, God said you can't. The righteousness of the righteous will be on him. The wickedness of the wicked will be on him. I don't have to pay for my father's sins. Here's the third and final thing God says. God says, stop blaming your fathers. Stop rejecting individual responsibility. And then number three, stop blaming God and repent. Stop blaming God and repent. Look at verse 25. Yet ye say, again, here's the response to the captives. God gives them a further emphasizes his uh his position, and they have to still want to argue with God. Yet ye say the way of the Lord is not equal. That is This God, you're not fair. And so the people accuse God of injustice. God, this is not right. You're not doing what's fair, what's right Do you ever notice how people want to often just blame God? God, you're not fair. This isn't right. But then God turns the table and God accuses people of injustice. God says, I'm not the one guilty of injustice. You are. In verse 25, hear now, O house of Israel, is not my way equal? Are not your ways unequal? The way you're thinking, it's not me that's not fair, you're the one that's not fair. You don't want to stand up and claim responsibility for your own actions. I'm not the one that's unjust, you're the one that's unjust. You're the one that's not thinking fair. Again, in verse 26, if a righteous man turns from his unrighteousness and does iniquity, he'll die for that. You can't stand on your past laurels. But someone who lives a life of practical righteousness and continues in that, that proves that they're saved. God won't judge them And then and let me just give you the last part because we only have a few minutes left here. God Please with people to repent. In the last part of chapter 18, this is an invitation from God for people to acknowledge their own personal sin and to repent. We see the word turn away. We see it in verse 27. Again, when the wicked man turneth away from his wickedness. Again, we see it in verse 28, because he considereth and turn away from all his transgressions. that he hath committed, he shall surely live. Look at verse number 30. Therefore I will judge you, O house of every everyone according to his ways. Saith the Lord God, repent and turn yourselves from all your transgression. So iniquity shall not be your ruin. And so God is emphasizing, look, here's what you need to do. You need to repent. You need to stop blaming others. You need to stop being a victim. And you need to realize that one day you're going to stand before me for your own sins. And you'll be judged for them. But here's the good news: you can repent. You can turn. And if a wicked man turns from his wickedness and he turns to me, what does God say? He who will live, you'll find salvation. Let me tell you what our country needs today. Our country needs a baptism of repentance. We need to repent before Almighty God. We need to stop pointing the finger at people around us. Yeah, I know there's a lot of people around us that have done a lot of bad things, but you're not going to give an account for any of them. You're going to give an account for yourself. You're going to stand before God for yourself. And those excuses aren't going to work on the day of judgment. God's not going to hear that. God says you need to consider. Look at verse 28. Consider your ways because he considereth And turneth away his transgressions. In other words, you know, see, understand what you're doing, see that this is wrong, and then turn. And that's what repentance is. It's a U-turn. Consider your sin, see your sin, acknowledge your sin, turn from your sin. It was Thomas Watson, the great Puritan that wrote the book on repentance and he said it's really six things. It's the sight of sin, you have to see your sin. And then the sorrow for sin, you have to truly be broken over it. And then number three, you confess your sin. To the Lord, you bring it to God, you feel shame, number four, for your sin, and then you hate that sin. There should be a hatred for it, and then number six, it's a turning from, and it's a turning completely to the Lord Because of that sin, and it's a turning that's so visible that other people can see it. They see that you have repented, according to Thomas Watson. And so this is what God is calling upon these captives to do. Stop blaming your fathers. And start turning to me. But look in verse 31. Cast away from you all your transgressions, whereby you have transgressed, and make you a new heart, a new spirit. For why will ye die? God said, if you turn from your sin and you turn to me, you know what I'll do for you? I'll give you a new heart. And I'll give you a new spirit. And you will not die. Because look in verse 32, for I have no pleasure in the death of him that dies, saith the Lord. Wherefore turn yourselves and live. God has no pleasure in the death of a wicked person. He wants them to turn to him. He wants them to repent. I heard about a little boy named Jimmy. He had trouble pronouncing the letter R. So his teacher gave him a sentence to practice at home. And this was the sentence. Robert gave Richard a wrap in the rib for roasting the rabbit so rare. And he had to repeat that a lot. And then report to the teacher. So some days later the teacher asked him to say the sentence for her. She said, Jimmy, will you say the sentence? And this is what he said. Bob gave Dick a poke in the side for not cooking the bunny enough. No he's done. He has he ha avoided all the Rs. Avoided the R word. There are a lot of people today, including Christians, who go to great lengths to avoid the R, the word repent, the R word. Stop avoiding it. Stop blaming others. Take individual responsibility for your own life. And say to the Lord, Lord God, I repent. I turn to you. And you know what God says? You will live. You will live. I believe this is the greatest need of our country. Can it be that simple? Yes. This is the greatest need of our country. Let's bow for prayer together Father, we thank you for your word and the clarity of it. Help us, Lord, to take this to heart. As I said before, Lord, we have so many voices shouting at us. We're hearing from so many different people who claim to be an authority. And the voice of the Word of God is drowned out in the rage From the spirit of this world. And I pray, Lord, that you will help us to stay focused on your word. Help us, Lord, to stand firm on the scripture. We know that, Lord, your word is life. And you are the only real authority. And so I pray, Father, that you'll just use your word to speak to hearts. And if there's someone here listening to the sound of my voice who just needs to repent and turn to the Lord. Stop blaming others. And realize that one day they must stand before Almighty God. They must stand before you, Father. May they not die and live in eternal punishment. May they live, may they stand before you with a repentant heart, having trusted Jesus and Jesus alone as their only way of salvation. With heads bowed and eyes closed, is there anyone here that would say, yeah, that's me? Today I want to turn to God with all my heart. I want to repent. Would you just pray? Would you just tell him right there where you are, Lord, today I'm turning to you. Tired of playing the victim. I'm tired of blaming others. It's me, Lord. I need to give an account to you. So forgive me, cleanse me. I turn to you. Save me, Lord. Father, bless this word to hearing hearts and use it we pray in Jesus' name, Amen