Now, take your Bibles and open to the passage we read a while ago, 1 Chronicles chapter 29. And I want to talk to you today, basically, as Pastor Earl said in the announcements, about this area of stewardship in our life. We have set aside this weekend to speak about this this issue, and it's a very important issue in the Christian life. And I just want to very simply today just lay out from the scripture Just six laws of good stewardship according to the Bible. We have to know and understand these laws. And then I want to talk to you about the principle of faith promise as taught in the Scripture so that we can get involved and living by faith in a greater way and seeing the kingdom of God expand. You know, the church doesn't take money from the government to uh to further the gospel. The church doesn't take money from any programs like that. The church doesn't take money from the world to further the gospel. It is God's plan, it has always been God's plan in the scripture, that God's people support the work of God. And that it go forward in the gospel. And we do this for none other than the glory of Jesus Christ. None other than the glory of God. And our text is going to make this very clear today. Now let me give you a little background. in the first chronicles twenty-nine. David is at the end of his reign, David the great king, David the man after God's own heart. And being a man after God's own heart, David wanted to build God a temple. David said, here I am dwelling in a palace, and God's house is a tabernacle. God dwells in a tent. Now I want to build a temple for the Lord. And that was always in his heart. But God would not allow him to do it because David was a man of war. God chose Solomon to do the task of building the temple. And although David could not build the house, David begins preparing for that one thing. And he brings together offerings to the Lord. Look in verse number two of 1 Chronicles 29. Now I have prepared with all my might. Just underscore that with all my might. David said, I've done everything I can, all my might, for the house of my God. The gold for the things to be made of gold and the silver for things to be made of silver and the brass for things of brass and iron for things of iron and so on. And he names many precious stones Look at verse three. Moreover, because I set my affection to the house of my God, I have of mine own proper good of gold and silver, which I have given to the house of my God Over and above all that I had prepared for the Holy House. Now David said, I have set aside all these precious metals And Jules, I've through the years prepared for this, but he said, even beyond that, I'm giving of my own, out of my own account. I'm giving of myself, he says. And he describes in verse 4 how much that he gives, even 3,000 talents of gold, gold of ophur, And 7,000 talents of refined silver to overlay the walls thereof. So David out of his own coffers, out of his own pocket, gives 3,000 talents of gold. You say, how much is that? That's 110 tons 7,000 talents of silver, that's 260 tons of silver. These are amounts given over and above. In other words, here's the point. He just gives lavishly. He just gives lavishly. And notice the people follow in his example. Look at verse 9. Then the people rejoiced for that day for that day offered willingly. Because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the Lord, and David the king also rejoiced with great So the people offered where the Bible says a perfect heart, they gave joyfully, they gave willingly, they gave worshipfully to the Lord. What an example For the people of God today, for us to follow this wonderful example here in Scripture. I heard of a man who got a sharp letter from one of his predators demanding payment. And he wrote back to the firm and he said, this, dear sir, every month I take all the bills I have and put them on the table and shuffle them and pick out six which I pay. He said, now if I have any more trouble from you next month, I'm going to take you out of the shuffle entirely Well that's one way to do it, I guess. You know, unfortunately sometimes, however, I just wonder if n if n if perhaps, and I don't know, but God knows. And perhaps some people are taking God out of their or shuffled God out of their life and their giving entirely. Someone said that if a man's religion doesn't affect his stewardship Then it's in vain. And I want to talk about stewardship today. Say, what is a steward? A steward is someone that doesn't really own everything. He has been entrusted to what is another's. He's like a household manager. And he supervises all that has been entrusted to him. And in order to be a good steward, he has to be responsible. And in the ancient days he was Perhaps here's a wealthy owner and he had vineyards, he had finances, he had other servants, he had all these things and he would put a steward over it. Trusting that steward to handle all of his goods and commodities faithfully. And friend, that's what we are. The Bible calls us many things. We are sons, we are saints, we are soldiers, but the Bible also says that we're stewards We're stewards. And I want to give you today, with all that in mind, just six laws. And then I want to talk about faith promise. First of all, if you're taking this, write down number one, the law of consecration. Just write that down, the law of consecration And here this law states this very simply. God wants all of you. He wants all of you. Now, friend, if he doesn't have all of you, then you're violating the very first principle of stewardship. He wants all of you. David said, I have set my affection to the house of my God. And verse 5, he says, who then is willing to consecrate his service? And in verse 9, the Bible says the people gave with a perfect heart. You know that word perfect means undivided. A heart, in other words, God doesn't want a piece of your heart. He doesn't want a portion of it. Friend, God wants all of your heart. He wants all of you, every part of you. And friend, let me tell you what that is. That's worship. You know, we debate a lot in churches today what worship is about. But friend, worship is giving all of you to God. Let me give you the greatest verse in worship in the Bible. Write down Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren. by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God. Now I propose to you that that is the greatest verse in the Bible on worship. It's exactly what it is. Notice the plea in Romans 12. 1. I beseech you. Paul says, I beg you. This is what you should do. Notice the people he says, brethren, I beseech you, brethren, he's not talking to people who don't know the Lord. He's talking to people who are saved, who know the Lord Jesus Christ. Those are the ones he's talking to. And notice the purpose: by the mercies of God. Now what are the mercies of God? The mercies of God are everything that Paul wrote about in the first 11 chapters of Romans. And what was that? That's about salvation. That's about we being sinners, that Jesus came to pay for our sin, that he was the propitiation for our sin, that God in his mercy Send his son Jesus to die for all of our sins. God has extended to us grace. It is all of the sum and the substance of the doctrine of salvation. In other words, when you fully understand all that God has done for you when you got saved, eternal love, eternal grace, the Holy Spirit, saving faith, comfort, strength, wisdom, hope, joy, love, all these things are the mercies of God. And we find them in Christ. What is your response to the mercies of God in your life? That's the question here. The Psalmist said in 116, verse 12, What shall I render unto the Lord for all of his benefits towards me? What shall I render? And you know the answer to that is we give ourselves. We give ourselves. Isaac Watts had it right when he wrote the words, love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. And that's exactly what Paul means when he says that you present your bodies as a living sacrifice. That's worship right there. You see, the word present is actually a temple term. You know, when a worshiper in the Old Testament would bring their sacrifice to the altar, they would, same word present, exact word there They would present their sacrifice at the altar. And this is the word that Paul's using here. We are to present what? Ourselves, our bodies, that you present your bodies. And when he says bodies here, he's not talking about just the physical body. He's talking about all of us. In other words, what do we do? What do we render to the Lord as a result of all of his mercies? We give our whole self to God. That's the idea. That you present your bodies a living sacrifice. Now, in the Old Testament there were no such things as living sacrifices because when you brought a sacrifice to the altar, it was it was put to death on the altar. But here Paul is using kind of an oxymoron. He's saying, you know, present yourself as a sacrifice, but a living sacrifice. We are sacrifices of God, and yet we're alive. Why? That we might serve Him. We might live for Him. We are a living sacrifice. Now, by the way, the verb there is a once-for-all, permanent. In other words, when you get saved, your reasonable service to God is to present your whole self as a living sacrifice unto God. You do it once, and you do it for all At one point in time, you say because of Jesus, because of his mercies, I present myself to God. I know sometimes people say, well, I want to rededicate myself. Well, I understand what you're saying, friend, but really biblically you can't really do that. You do it one time. And that's it. Once. You present yourself to the Lord once for all, forever. Forever. Let me ask you a question. Have you done that? Have you said, Lord, I'm yours? All of me, I'm presenting my body as a living sacrifice, I'm consecrating myself to you once and for all. Because I want to tell you something, dear friend. That's Worship there. That's real worship. You know, if you haven't done that, you need to do that. That's the first law of stewardship. God wants you. God wants you. Now the Bible says in 2 Corinthians 8. 5, Paul was collecting an offering to give to the people in Jerusalem, and he went by the Macedonian churches, and this is what he said of them. He said, you know what? They first gave themselves to the Lord. They first gave themselves. There was something different about the Macedonians and the way that they were giving. And Paul recognized it. He said, You know what? They first gave themselves to the Lord, their self. Friend, that makes all the difference right there. Have you given yourself to the Lord? There is the law of consecration. And friend, the consecration that doesn't reach the pocketbook, doesn't reach the heart. First, God wants all of you. He wants you. Secondly, write down the law of clarification. The law of clarification. This law states this. Everything already belongs to God. Everything already belongs to God. Look in 1 Chronicles 29. Look down at verse number 10 at this verse with me. Wherefore David blessed the Lord Before all the congregation, and David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Listen to this in verse 11. It's a beautiful verse. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power. And the glory and the victory and the majesty for all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine And thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Isn't that a great verse? Look at verse 12. Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all, and in thy hand is power and might, and in thy hand it is to make great and to give strength for Oh, notice he uses over and over again. Thine, thine, thine, Lord, it's all yours. It's all yours. Yours is the strength and the power and the majesty. Everything in heaven. And everything on earth, it's yours. It's already God's. You see, the Bible says the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. Don't you ever think that you can make God rich? That you're doing God a favor. God's not up in heaven as a bank accountant collecting and with his leisure books out. Friend, it is all his All of it. You say, well I've got my money in my pocket, it's already his. It's his tree that made the paper that made that money. He planted the tree. He grew the tree. It came out of his earth. The dirt that he made. Everything. That pew that you sit on, that belongs to God. Everything It all belongs to him. You can't add anything to God. Everything comes from him. Everything goes to him. Everything exists through him. It is all the Lord's, the Bible says. Well, if someone says, well, if it's all God's, then why does God want me to give? It's a good question. And David answers that. Look at verse 14. But who am I? And what is my people that thou shouldest be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thy own have we given See what David says there for it of of your own, we've we're giving it to you. I mean, what we're giving you really you already own. That's right. Of thine own we're giving you. But again, the question is, well then what why does God then want us to do that? Because let me tell you something, dear friend, because giving is an act of worship. That's why And God is worthy of our worship. In fact, worship does more for us than it does for God. In fact, God has to condescend to accept our worship. He's higher than that. And David is saying, Lord, who am I? Who are my people? That we get to participate in this thing of worshiping you. And showing you that all of our heart belongs to you. And how do we do that? By just giving to you. Friend, that's what worship is about. We come to church, we give our prayer, we give our praise. We give our thanksgiving to the Lord. All of that is worship. We give our attention to the Word of God. We give our submission to the Word of God. We give a portion of what God is already His. David says of mine, we're just giving back to you. You say, why give? Because I'll tell you something. I'll tell you why. Because of what it does for you. What it does for you, not what it does for God. You can't add anything to God, but friend it sure does. You know what it does? It opens your heart. It expands your love. It increases your faith. You know why you were created? You were created to enjoy God. You were created to have a relationship to him, to worship him. And friends, part of that relationship is just giving to the Lord Giving him everything and our love and our substance that shows our heart is with him. This is the attitude expressed by Augustine when he said, Who are we that thou should allow us to love thee? It is such a privilege, Lord. That we can worship you, that we can love you in this way, just to give to you, that you allow us to do that. It allows us this privilege. That's why it's a privilege that God allows us to participate in. But also God uses it to test our heart. Look at verse 17. For I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart And has treasure in uprightness. In other words, God's trying the heart. Again, friend, God doesn't want your money, it's already his. He wants your heart. He wants your heart. And he's trying your heart in this area. Does God have your heart? Does He have your heart? Now, I've used this illustration so many times. Forgive me for using it again. All right, thank you. When I was uh when Jeremiah was just a little two years old and I was uh uh going through the living room, he was eating a bag of Cheetos and I laid down next to him, said, Give me some, just to see what he would do And I know what you're thinking. Shame on you for taking that little boy's Cheetos. The front I I wasn't hungry. I just wanted to see his heart. And he'd reach in that bag and he would shove one in and he would laugh. Reach in, shove another one in, reach and shove it. And we were having great fun there. And I had to tell him stop stop. I didn't want to cheat those. I wanted to see where his heart was. Your friend, God doesn't want your money, it's already his. He wants to know where is your heart? Where is your heart? He does it to try us. So there is the law of Consecration. There is a law of clarification, but I want you to write down a third law of stewardship. There is the law of circulation. And this law states this God wants all of his wealth in circulation. Since all of it belongs to him, God says, I want all of my wealth, I want all my resources, I want it constantly in circulation. I want you to learn just to give To others. Because it doesn't do any good unless it's being used. It has to be in circulation, God says. Now, think about this. This is the nature of God. God is a giver He's a giver. He's constantly giving. He's giving us his love, his compassion, his grace. He gave us this earth. He gives us all things freely to enjoy. James says every good gift, every perfect gift comes from above. God is the giver. Look at the life of Jesus. Jesus was constantly giving, and he still is. He gave up his glory, he gave up the riches of heaven, he gave up his time, he gave up his love, he gave his life. And friend, he's still giving to us strength and grace every day. Look at the law of nature. You know, God created a world in which this n this the very nature is just constantly giving. Constantly giving. The sun gives each day of its light. The earth gives each day. It gives us fruit from the soil. Animals give constantly. All of God's creation is giving. Jack Taylor wrote this. He said, quote, I'm convinced that there is not true shortages in the world overall, just the terrifying imbalance brought about and maintained by the sinfulness of man. The world has been thrown into an imbalance by man's greed and selfishness. Any system of economy breaks down when resources are taken out or hoarded and there's not this circulation of what is God's. Where we're constantly just giving and giving. Now God doesn't expect us to give everything we have. He wants us to hold what we need for ourselves, but out of what He has given us, He wants us to scatter it, give to others. Write down Proverbs 11, 24. There is that scattereth and yet increaseth. There is that withholdeth more than is meat, but tendeth to it attendeth to poverty. So there's the law of circulation. Then right down number four, there's a law of cooperation. And this law states that God entrusts his wealth to his children, and he expects us to be good stewards. And this law sentence says, but God says, look, just cooperate with what I want to do. I want to continue to pass along What is mine? Write down 1 Peter. As every man hath received of the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God, a good and faithful steward, is one who recognizes the value of what he has, he wisely manages that for the glory of God and God says, I want you to be a good steward of everything that I have entrusted to you. Listen, everything you have, God has given to you. It belongs to Him. He has entrusted it to you. And now God is saying, I want you to cooperate with me. I want you to be a good steward of what I have entrusted to you. That's the principle. The question is, are we good stewards of what God has entrusted to us? And you realize you only have it for a time, right? Because you're not going to take it with you. Not going to take it with you. Only thing you can take to heaven with you is your faith and hopefully our family, right? But friend, other than that, it all stays here. And so you have it just for a time. And God says, I want to entrust this to you, and I want you to cooperate with me. Let me give you the fifth law. There's the law of cultivation. I said number one, there's the law of consecration. God wants all of you. The law of clarification. It all belongs to God. The law of circulation. God wants his resources in circulation. The law of cooperation. God has entrusted it to us so we can cooperate with what he's doing. The law of cultivation. What is the law of cultivation? This law says that we reap back whatever we sow. Very simple law. We reap what we sow. Write down 2 Corinthians 9, 6. But this I say, he that soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly. He which soweth bountifully shall reap also sparing bountifully. And again, it just says, we reap what we sow. There's three parts of it. We reap what we sow. That's the law of identity, the principle of identity. Whatever you sow, that's what you get back. Right? Every farmer knows that You sow corn, guess what you're going to get back? Corn. You don't sow peaches and get back apples. You get back what you sow. And then there's another part of this, and that is the principle of increase. We get get get back more than we sow. Whatever you sow, you get back a whole lot more. When you plant an apple seed, you don't get back an appleseed, do you? You get back an apple tree that bears fruit for many years. You get back more than you sow, and then you get back later. The Bible says in due season we shall reap God says, I'm going to give back to you more than you could ever give to me. You know what? Peter one time he said to the Lord, Mark 10, verse 28, he said, Lo, we have left all to follow you, Jesus. Imagine Peter saying that, Lord, we've left everything to follow you. In other words, you know the implication of that. What are we going to get? We've left all this just to follow after you? Notice what Jesus said in verse 29. Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, there is no man That have left house or brethren or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands for my sake and the gospels, but he shall receive a hundredfold. Now in this time, houses and brother and sister and months and children land, and in the world to come eternal life. You know what Jesus said, Peter, you could never give to me more than I will give to you. Both now and in eternity. I'll give to you far more than that. There's the law of Cultivation. But right down here's the last law, the law of calculation. The law of calculation. This law says that we are to give according to our ability, yea, even beyond our ability. Write down 2 Corinthians 8. 3. Again, Paul's talking about these Macedonian Christians. He says, for I testified they gave according to their ability and beyond their ability. Now that's faith, friend. Paul says, you know, they gave what they were able. And friend, God honors us when we do that, when we give what we're able to give. from our heart as an act of worship to Almighty God. But friend, these people gave beyond. So how did they do that? Friend, this is where the principle of faith promise comes in. Faith promise basically says this, Lord, my heart wants to give. I want to worship you for giving. But I look at what I can do, and it's not much. But Lord, if you give to me, I'll give that back to you. That's the promise. The faith is, Lord, if you give to me, that's faith, the promise is, Lord, I promise I'll give to you. Now, let me tell you who the mother of faith promise is. In the Old Testament, it's Hannah. And we don't have time to go there, but let me just tell you the story very quickly. You know the story of Hannah She was a woman who couldn't bear children. It was a shame for her not to be able to give her husband a child. And she prayed. She had no ability. She wanted to give, but she could not And so she prayed. She said, Lord, if you give me a child, that's faith, I promise I'll give him to you. That's promise. They promise. Lord, if you just give to me, I'll give back to you. And so she prayed. You remember the story? She went to Shiloh to the tabernacle. She prayed fervently, she prayed intensely, and Eli the High Priest came out and he thought she was drunk, because she was praying No words were coming out, but her lips were moving. She said, Oh Lord, I I'm not drunk. I'm just I'm praying intensely to God. I can't have children. I'm praying that God will give me a son And he said, go your way. I believe God's going to honor that. And you know what? God did. God gave her a son. God honored her faith. And then she kept her vow because the Bible says when he was old enough, she took him back to Shiloh, back to the tabernacle, and there was Eli and he and she said, You remember me? Remember I'm that woman that prayed? Well, here's the son that I prayed for. And now I'm going to lend him to the Lord. And the word lent actually is a word that means, this is what I've asked, I'm giving to God what I've asked. That's the promise. Now think about Hannah. She looked at her nursery. She didn't have any children to give. She wanted to give a child, but she didn't have any. She didn't have any ability to get any But by faith she said, Lord, if you give to me, I promise I'll give it to you. Friend, that's faith promise. And that's what God honors. You know why? Because it honors a worshipful heart, it honors faith. Now sometimes people say, you know, I I want to give, but I I just don't have much. Well friend, join the club But you know what? If you say, Lord, I want to give, and if you give to me, I promise I'll give it to you. And you know what? I was taught this principle when I was a teenager, and it has given me great faith to see God work in wonderful ways. To honor that faith. You see, friend, again, the question is: where is your heart? There's more than just trying to get through a week and survive here in this temporal world. This world is coming to nothing, dear friend. The only thing that matters is how many people we can get to heaven with us. And the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that takes God's people giving and and faith in what the Lord is doing and sharing the gospel. That's what it's all about, friends That's what it's all about. It's more than just living and dying here in this world. It is trying to help people know the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what it's all about. So again, where is your faith? This is what God used, and this is a principle that is all through the Bible, that if we ask in faith, God will give not just to us but through us. to support what the Lord wants to do in reaching people for Jesus. Let's bow together for prayer today So again, friend, this is the question that you need to ask yourself before you and Almighty God, you and He alone, where is your heart? Have you given yourself fully to the Lord? Fully? You understand everything already belongs to Him? It's already His. And that God wants to well He wants your heart. And He wants you to learn to trust Him. to have faith in what he can do through you so that you can get involved in what God is doing in this world. So Father, we know that you use your people in great ways. And I pray that today something that was said would just Find lodging in the hearts of your people here today. First and foremost, Lord, that we would give ourselves fully to you. That's where it starts. Knowing Jesus. Loving Jesus with all our heart. And so Lord, may that be so. May that be the thing that we see take place. A greater love and passion for our Savior and for His kingdom. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you this. Have you given yourself fully to the Lord today? Or ever? And if you're here today, maybe you're here and you're visiting and you've never heard these things about what Jesus did for you. And giving yourselves to the Lord and the mercies of God. I want to tell you, friend, based on the authority of God's word, Jesus loved you. He died for you. And he wants to save you. He wants to give you eternal life. If you'll turn from your sin and come to Jesus, he will save you. And then, friend, as a reasonable act of worship to God, we give ourselves to Him in return. Say, Lord, I'm your servant. What do you want me to do? What will you want me to do? If you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus, I'm going to invite you right where you are. Would you simply pray this prayer? Say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Come into my heart, save me. Make me your child. If you pray that and mean it, friend, he will save you today. He'll give you eternal life. And if you're here and you're a Christian and you've never fully, consciously, deliberately given yourself to the Lord, now's the time to do that. He wants your heart. He wants your heart. Let's all stand together, heads bowed and eyes closed, dear friend. Stand together, heads bowed and eyes closed. And I want you to sing that song just as I am with your heads bowed and eyes closed. And if God's speaking to your heart If there's something you need to settle here, this altar is open and available for you, friend, if you want to use it. Let's say just as I am, the first dance up. One thing, one short thing, and how many Just as I am an wave to live. We pray with you. Father, take these words, seal them in every hearing heart and use them. for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name, amen