We're going through the book of 1 Corinthians here on Sunday night, and I want you to look in chapter 4 down to verse number 14. As we continue going through chapter by chapter, paragraph by paragraph, we come to this passage here, and this is going to talk about really the influence that we have in the lives of other people. You know, we're here so that we can do that. We're here to have an impact, an influence in the lives of other believers. And Paul's going to kind of allude to that. Now you remember that as we've been studying through 1 Corinthians, that Paul has used many illustrations of spiritual leadership. He's used several metaphors that he has referred to regarding spiritual leadership. For example, he calls himself a servant. We saw that in chapter 3 and verse number 5. He said, who is Paul or who is Apollos? We're just simply ministers. We're servants is really the word there. We're simply servants of the Lord. He used the image of a farmer. in chapter 3 verse 6, I planted Apollo's water, but God gave the increase. He used the image of a fellow laborer on Building on a foundation in verse 9 of chapter 3, a builder, and then a galley slave in chapter 4, verse 1, and then a steward, of course, where stewards of the mysteries of the kingdom of God. Now Paul is going to talk about this one idea, this one metaphor of spiritual leadership, and this it is that of a spiritual father. And he's going to refer to this in verses 14 on down to the end of the chapter, verse number 21. Now, the reason he's going to use this metaphor is because Paul's going to appeal to the fact that he is their spiritual father. And again, there's a good reason for that. Because Paul has put pretty hard on the Corinthians. If you were here the last time and we looked at chapter 4, the first few verses here, you realize that Paul used sarcasm to kind of rebuke their proud behavior. And now he's telling them why he's been so harsh on them. He wants them to mature. He wants them to stay faithful to the Word of God. And so he was their spiritual father. And so there's a sense in which the Apostle Paul feels doubly responsible for the spiritual well-being of these Corinthians. And so, since he had been their spiritual father, since he led them to the Lord, he is acting as a spiritual father in the way that he is speaking to them. Now we know that uh if a person gets saved, it's because of the power of the Holy Spirit, right? It's the power of the Word of God that does it. But God uses human instruments to bring people to the gospel of Jesus. You might could think back in your own life and know that there were certain people in your life that were instrumental in bringing the gospel to you. And the reason you're saved today is because God was able to use that individual or individuals to help communicate the message of the gospel to you. And that's what Paul was here. Paul started this church, and now Paul is still concerned about their well-being He's laboring, you could say, in spiritual travail over them until Christ be formed in them. And so what we're going to see here in these verses are the duties that Paul is exercising as a spiritual father. The things that he feels like he has to do to help them to mature in Christ. And so here's the first one. Number one, a spiritual father, and we could really just call this six marks of a spiritual father, and one of them is he warns He's going to warn them. Look again in verse chapter 4, verse 14. I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons I warn you. And again, he's using this image of a parent uh as a spiritual father and and this is not the first time he's used it you remember when Paul wrote to the Thessalonians he said to them he said but I was gentle among you as a nurse cherishes her children. He was talking about a mother there. You know, there's a gentleness side to spiritual leadership. But also he said in chapter 2 verse 11 He says, you know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father does his children. So he used the same idea there, and he's going back to it right here. And by the way, let me just say that I think as a Christian you ought to pray for three relationships in your life to help you mature in Christ. Number one, is a spiritual father, a mentor, someone that teaches you And someone that is over you that can help you along in the things of God. That's kind of a Paul-like figure in our life. You know, happy is the person who has someone like that in their life Also, you should have a Barnabas. That's someone who is your peer. That's someone who can encourage you. And then also you ought to have a Timothy. That's someone that you're investing in. Someone that you are pouring yourself into, someone that you are mentoring, so you ought to f try to have a Paul, a Barnabas, and a Timothy in your life I think that's something that would be good for every Christian to have. But here Paul is taking the role of spiritual father, and again in verse 14 he says, I write not these things to shame you. Now the question is, what are these things that he's talking about here in verse 14? Well, it's what he has just said in the previous verses. Now if you remember our study before, what did Paul use to humble these believers? He said some pretty hard things But he used sarcasm to kind of bring them down. Remember the Corinthians were acting so very proud? They were acting puffed up Go back to verse number four, or excuse me, verse six of chapter four. And these things, brethren, I've uh in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollo's For your sakes, that you may learn in us not to think of men above that which is written. That no one of you be puffed up one against the other. And there's that expression puffed up, which just means to be made proud. It has the idea of arrogance. And then verse 7, for who maketh thee to differ one from another? And what hast thou that thou dost not receive? Now, if thou dost not dost receive it, why dost thou glory as if thou hast not received it Now you are full. Here's where you get sarcastic, talking to the Corinthians. You think you've arrived. You're full. Now you're rich. You've reigned as kings without us. And so he's kind of being harsh here when he's correcting them. And so later on Paul is saying, here's why I write these things. I'm not doing this to shame you. I'm not doing this to put you down. I'm not doing this because I want to be harsh or I enjoy doing this. They were acting proud and they needed to be humble. Humble, do you ever see Christians who walk in pride? Someone said conceit is what makes a little squirt thinking he's the fountain of knowledge. And that's the way these Corinthians were acting. They were thinking they had it all. They had all knowledge. And Paul said, Oh yeah, you've you've arrived. You reigning late kings. And you don't need me to teach you anything because you already have all the knowledge that you need. And so using that uh uh that uh vehicle of sarcasm Paul is trying to humble them. And here he explains why he says those things. Again, look at verse 14. I write not these things to shame you. But as my my beloved sons, I warn you. Paul's not being spiritually abusive. He doesn't want them to cringe or cower. He wants to correct them. And look at the word worn there. It has the idea of to correct, to put into mind. It's actually the word where we get how many of you ever heard of the term newphetic counseling? That was a term that uh Jay Adams came up with when he wrote his book on confidential counseling. And uh he came up with this term, nuphetic counseling. Well it comes from the Greek word that Paul is using here And it simply means to confront, to correct, face to face. And that's what Paul's doing. Paul says, I simply want to correct you. I want to help you. I want to warn you about this spiritual path that you're in. that you're on that might be destructive to you. And that's what a spiritual father does. He warns. Just like parents do, don't we, parents? Warn our children all the time, and we do that out of love, we do that out of concern, we do that because we don't want them to be in danger, and that's what Paul is saying here. I want to warn you I want to correct you. Now, by the way, on the other end of that, if you have someone in your life like that that is warning you, what do you have to be? You have to be humble enough to receive that, right? To receive the warning, to receive the admonition. And you know, sometimes I find that in the church nowadays people are so overly sensitive. That when you go and approach someone about something where they need to be admonished, not very many people are willing to receive it. And what's the problem there? The problem there is pride. So we need to be willing to humble ourselves. We need to be willing to receive what needs to be said to us to help us and correct us on our spiritual journey. Now, you know, I some of you know I grew up here in this church. I got saved as a teenager. I started working here. My first position was janitor of the church. And uh I you know, you know, I'm the pastor obviously, but I started on the lowest rung of the ladder. And I I've always enjoyed working here, but you know, under Pastor Johnson, who I would call my spiritual father, and many of you here could also say the same thing Pastor Johnson has been your spiritual father who helped bring you under the Lord Jesus Christ. And I can recall sometimes as a teenager there are times working here where Pastor had to pull me aside and and correct me on certain things And I had to be humble, had to be humble enough to receive that. And by the way, Pastor Johnson wasn't the only one that corrected me on certain things. Some of you senior saints out there are smiles on your faces. Some of you know that you had corrected me at times when I was growing in the Lord, and I thank God for that. Where would I be without those kind of relationships? So we have to be willing to be humble to receive correction To be warned about things when we need that in our spiritual wall. Children need to be corrected. And if children are corrected, then they're going to end up shaming mom and dad. And so Paul says, first of all, I warn you. So a spiritual father is someone who warns. But also write down number two. A spiritual father is someone who loves. He loves. Again, look at verse 14. I write not these things to shame you, as my beloved sons I warn you. Look at where he says, my beloved sons. Look at the word beloved there. Agapea, where we get the word of God. It's the strongest kind of love, the deepest kind of love. And this is what Paul says motivates him. It was his love for these Corinthians, his love for these people. Paul would write about this later in 2 Corinthians. He said this. He said, here for the third time, this is 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 14, here for the third time I am ready to come to you. And I will not be a burden, for I seek not what is yours but you. Paul said, I'm willing to come and visit you again to help you again, and I'm not coming for you to give me anything, I'm coming because I want to help you I'm willing to come again for the third time. And then he says this for children are not obligated to save up for their parents, but parents for their children. In other words, the obligation is that parents watch over and take care of their children. And so Paul says, I'm willing to do whatever I have to do I'm willing to come again and invest more in you so that you'll be what God wants you to be. That was the love that Paul had. He said later in chapter 12, verse 15, Most gladly, I will most gladly spend and be spent. for your souls. For if I love you more, am I to be loved less? Paul says, look, I'm willing to love you more. I'm willing to be spent for you, even though you might love me less I'm going to love you more. Isn't that the attitude of a parent? Doesn't matter how my child feels, even though they may love me less, I'm going to love them all the more. And so Paul worried over their spiritual state. Now, someone says, well, now wait a minute, I thought worry was a sin. Uh well there is a sanctified worry that is not a sin. For example, in Philippians, Paul said, be careful for what? Nothing. And the word careful there means worry. Worry for nothing. We're to worry about nothing. But later on, Paul commenced Timothy, and this is what he says, for I have no man like-minded who will naturally Worry, and it's the same exact Greek word there. I commend Timothy. First he says, don't worry about anything, but I want to commend Timothy because he's going to worry over your soul. Now, obviously there are two kinds of worry there. There's a worry for the things that are physical, a worry for things that we shouldn't worry about because they're in God's hands. But also there's kind of a sanctified worry where you worry over the spiritual condition of people. And that's the word that I think Paul's using here. He's referring to a sanctified worry over the church. A sanctified worry over the spiritual condition of people. And that kind of worry is not a sin before God. When you worry over the salvation of someone That's going to cause you to pray for them. When you worry over the spiritual walk of someone, that's going to cause you to pray for them, to watch over them, to love them Paul uses the same word to describe himself, the same word worry. You remember in Second Corinthians when Paul was talking about all the things he had to endure? He says, Thrice I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned Thrice I suffered ship shipwreck, a night and a day have I been in the deep and perils of robbers, perils of my own countrymen, and he goes on and gives a long list of dangers and weariness and painfulness, and then at the end he says that this And besides those things that are without, that which cometh upon me galley, the care of all the churches. Same exact word, the worry of all the churches. Along with all the dangers, the physical dangers I have endured, the one thing that really is difficult is worrying over all of the churches. So there's a sanctified spiritual worry, and it is born of love. It is born of a desire to see spiritual maturity and growth, and that the church do well. And Paul has that concern. So as a spiritual father, he warns. As a spiritual father, he loves. But right down, here's the third thing. As a spiritual father, he reproduces. Look at verse 15. For though ye have 10,000 instructors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers. For in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel. And the word instructors here is a word that literally means a child trainer. Because the Romans and the Greeks had well-educated slaves in the home who were responsible to tutor and train the children. And that's what he's referring to, instructors. And Paul may be referring to the teachers of wisdom that tutor children right there in Corinth. But the idea here is that Paul says, look, you might have a lot of instructors. You might have a lot of people that learn from you, but you only have one spiritual father. And again, thank God for the teachers that we can all learn from, the many teachers that God gives the church. But Paul says, look, I am your spiritual Father. I have begotten you in Christ. And so what is he doing here? He's saying, you know, there's a sense in which I have a right to be a little harsh here. I have a right to warn you like I have, because I have begotten you in Christ. There's a relationship here. There's a bond here because of that relationship that we have, that I have begotten you in Christ. Now when I read this, you know what my prayer is? Lord, give me spiritual children. Help me to see people come to Christ. People that as a result of my being used of God are coming into the kingdom here. You know, when you read about the life of the Apostle Paul, you're going to find out that wherever he went, he always had spiritual children. People that he led to Christ, people that he left behind. He called Timothy when he was visiting through the region of Galatia and he went back on a second journey. Timothy had gotten saved. And Paul invested in Timothy, and he called Timothy my true child in the faith. He called Titus, he said, You are my True child in the common faith, so not only Timothy, there was also Titus. You remember the one the runaway slave uh onesimus who went to Rome and he met up with Paul and Paul led him to the Lord. Paul called him my child whom I have begotten in my imprisonment. So everywhere he went, he was reproducing spiritual children. He was sharing the gospel with them. He was leading them to the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's wonderful that we can do that. So let me ask you a question. How many people in your life have you led to the Lord Jesus? This begs the question. Am I seeing others come to know the Lord Jesus? You know what I would like for you to do As we study this, I would like for you to ask the Lord one thing. Lord, help me between now and next year to have one person that I invest in, that I lead to Christ, that I disciple, that I can see grow in the Lord Jesus Christ. between now and next year, just one person that'll maybe be here on a Sunday night service as a result of you giving them the gospel, as a result of you sh uh discipling them and helping them to grow in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so a spiritual father is someone who will reproduce. He will warn, he loves, he reproduces, but right down number four, he sets an example. He sets an example. Look at verse 16. Wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me. Paul here tells the Corinthians, look. Follow me. And the word for follow here is a word that means to mimic. Mimic me. Now Paul wasn't on an ego trip here. Just do what I do. Follow me. No, he wasn't on the ego trip. He understood that people need to have someone they can follow after if they want to know how to live the Christian life. That's just the way God has organized it. That's the way he arranged it. We need someone, we need examples to follow And the church, we need examples to follow. The 17th-century Puritan Thomas Brooks wisely observed this. He said, example is the most powerful rhetoric. So we all need those godly, good examples to follow if we're going to grow in the Lord. I read about one little girl that was following her father through the newly planted clumps of Saint Augustine grass and she said, Dad, if you don't get your feet muddy, I won't get my feet muddy. There's a lot of truth to that As we are an example in the church, people will follow in our pattern, and they'll live the kind of life that we set as an example. That's part of influencing others. And that's what discipleship is all about. We set the example. Jesus said this, write down Luke chapter 6, verse 40, a disciple is not above, excuse me, his teacher. But everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher. Did you get that? When everyone is fully trained, you're going to be like your teacher. And that's discipleship. Discipleship is taking someone, teaching them the things of God, and bringing them to where you are spiritually. And Jesus says when a person is fully trained, he will be like his. And so Paul says, be followers of me. Later on, Paul will say in 1 Corinthians 11:1 again, be ye followers of me, even as I am of Christ. And again, this is all discipleship. Paul was following Jesus. And now Paul says to the Corinthians, if you want to know how to live, then you follow me. You follow my example. That's what it means to be discipled and to be Christ-like. I read a thought-provoking article in Christianity today. It was by the historian Bruce Shelley. And he pointed out that uh we would uh we would not have some of the greatest heroes in the church history, uh if they didn't have people that invested in them and discipled them and mentored them. Some of our greatest heroes in church history. were people who were mentored by someone else. We think of Billy Sundy. That's a name that we know very well. Billy Sundy was mentored by J. Wilbur Chapman. Jay Wilbur Chapman, uh, after Billy Sunday got saved, took him under his wing. Jay Wilbur Chapman was a great evangelist. He went around in these tent revivals. And he let Billy Sundy work with them, and Billy Sundy learned all about preaching and conducting revivals from J. Wilbur Chapman. And by the time J. Wilbur Chapman was called back into the pastor, Billy Sundy just picked up where he left off. And you know the rest, of course, is history. Martin Luther, the great reformer. We hear a lot about him. What we don't know is that Martin Luther was greatly influenced by a professor at Wittenberg And this professor invested in him. And it was this professor that said, I want you to study the book of Romans. It might help you. And indeed it did help him. Because that was what led to Martin Luther discovering Romans 117, the just shall live by faith, and the Reformation exploded. But it was one man that invested in Martin, Luther. We read about William Carey, William Carey the Great Baptist missionary, and how he went over to India and he shared the gospel. What we don't know is that there was someone, a man by the name of Andrew Fuller. That invested in the life of William Carey. And he discipled him and put the burden on Carey's heart for missions. And it was Andrew Fuller's influence that led William Carey to surrender to the mission field And on we could go. There are many others. And so that's something that a spiritual father will do. They will invest. Now, notice what Paul says here. Look in verse 17. For this cause have I sent unto you Timotheus, who is my beloved son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into remembrance of my ways which be in Christ. And so Paul, as an example, it's almost like Paul saying, follow me. And here is Exhibit A, here's Timothy, who has followed my ways, and I'm sending him to you. Because I can't come to you right now. I'm sending Timothy. And what you're going to see in Timothy, this things that I taught him. He knows my ways. So he's going to do what I would do if I were there. So here's my Timothy that I'm sending to you who will teach you what you need to be taught. And so Paul had a Timothy that he could show to the Corinthians and say, I have instructed him, I have modeled the Christian life before him, and here is an example of that very thing. And so a spiritual father warns, a spiritual father loves, a spiritual father reproduces, a spiritual father sets an example But number five, a spiritual father teaches. Look at the end of verse 17. As I teach everywhere in every church. And again, this is a major part of discipling. It's just simply teaching the Word of God, explaining the truth of God's Word. And in the case of the Corinthians, Paul was there for 18 months as he established that church. He taught them thoroughly the Word of God, and he grounded them. And Timothy's job as he went there was simply to remind them of what Paul had already taught them to reinforce those great truths of the gospel. And so this is what a spiritual father does. He just simply teaches. And he does it in a way where everyone can understand, where the word of God is made clear. And again I tell you that when I preach, my goal is just simply clarity. I want you to know what the Bible says. It doesn't help you if you walk away and you don't have any understanding. And so it's just to preach the word in simplicity, and that's exactly what the Apostle Paul did. He just very simply took the Word of God and preached it in a way where everyone could understand it and they could learn and they could grow. And so he taught them the scripture. But let me give you the last thing. The spiritual father warns, he loves, he reproduces, he sets an example, he teaches, but number six, he disciplines. And from verses 18 on down to verse 21, Paul now will talk about the discipline that these Corinthians need. There are times when a spiritual father must discipline their children. When a Christian slips into a wrong doctrine or a wrong pattern of behavior, they must be corrected. And by the way, Paul's setting up What he's gonna say, because when we get to chapter five, what's Paul gonna deal with? He's gonna deal with sin in the church. There was a man in the church that had committed a terrible sin. And the church at Corinth, rather than dealing with that sin, what were they doing? They were sweeping it under the rug. And in fact they were puffed up about it Look in chapter 5, verse 1. It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you, and such fornication is uh such is not named among the Gentiles that one should have his father's wife, and ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourned That he that has done this deed might be taken away from you. So Paul's kind of steady the stage here. And he's preparing for what he's about to do And he's going to deal with this issue of sin in the Church of Corinth because the church hasn't dealt with it very well. But he's laying the groundwork by saying, look, I'm your spiritual father. And this is what I'm supposed to do. I want to warn you. I love you in Christ. I want to set an example for you and I want to teach you. But also there are times when you need to be disciplined And so Paul's about to do that. Now look in verse 18 of chapter 4. Now some are puffed up as though I would not come to you. In other words, there were some that were displaying pride in the church. And the fact that Paul hadn't come to talk to them and deal with this issue, they were kind of saying, well, you know, Paul, he's not going to come. He's afraid to deal with us face to face. Oh, when he's away, he'll write these strong letters. But when he but he he really won't come and do anything. And when he comes, he's gentle. He's not the way he is in the letters. And so they were kind of displaying pride And Paul is basically saying, look, I am going to come. Look at verse 19, but I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will. And will know not the speech of them which are puffed up, but the power. In other words, Paul's saying, look, those of you that think I'm afraid to face you, that I won't come, that I won't deal with this, you're going to find out that you're wrong. I will come, I will deal with this, and you're about to see authority take place. And so he's getting them ready for what could happen. But notice what he says here in verse number 20: for the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power. Now Paul's laying down a principle here. He's basically saying faith that is merely words, that does not result in real living, that does not result in a powerful life, that's not real faith. The kingdom of God is not just about words saying things and not living them out. Anyone can preach or teach a good sermon, but how do you live it out? It's living. That's the key. Thomas Fuller said a good example is the best sermon. And so Paul says, I'm going to come and I'm going to correct those that need correcting. But look what he says in verse 21. What will ye? Shall I come unto you with a rod or in love? And in a spirit of meekness? Paul said, What would you rather have? Would you rather have a rod or shall I speak to you gently? Your parents ever asked you that? Would you like the belt? Or would you like just to talk about this? Let me pray about that. Uh I think let's let's talk about this. I don't want the rod. And that's exactly what Paul's saying right here. Look, should I come to you with a rod? In other words, they were acting so proud, so puffed up, as if Paul wouldn't come. And Paul says, Look, I'm coming. The question is What manner do you want me to come? Shall I come with a rod, ready to do business, or shall I speak in meekness? And what is he implying there? That if you're repented about what you've done, if you have a humble spirit and you're submissive, then you won't need for me to have a rod in my hand. You won't need the rod. I can come it with meekness. I can come in humility because there's no need to judge someone who's already judged themselves There's no need to correct someone who's already corrected themselves, who's already humbled themselves, who've already repented and gotten right with the Lord. There's no need to do any more after that. So the question is, how do you want me to handle this problem here in the church? Now, let me just say one thing here. When Paul says, shall I bring a rod, what's he referring to there? He's referring to the ancient custom of a tutor. Remember that passage in Galatians where it says, wherefore the law was our schoolmaster? Or our tutor to bring us to Christ. That's the same word used here in this chapter talking about instructors. Now most people when you think about a tutor, what do you think about it? You think about someone that helps you with your homework, right? Because that's the way we think of a tutor. Someone would help someone in their education, in their studies, but that's not a tutor here in the ancient Greek world. The Greek word actually means a disciplinarian And if you grew up in that time, in that society, in a Greco-Roman home, and you were assigned a tutor, that tutor would wake you up in the morning, get you ready, help you get you ready for school. That tutor would make sure that you had your books with you. That tutor would walk you to school with you, and that tutor would take you to class and then would sit in the back of the classroom to make sure you behaved. In fact, the the rooms back uh the schools back then had rooms just for the tutors where they could stay while the children were being taught. And if you got out of hand, it wasn't the teacher's job to correct you. The tutor would do that. They were disciplinary. And guess what they carried with them? A rod. You could spot them by the rod they had in their hand. Oh, that's a tutor right there. They had a rod with them. And so they were disciplinarians. That was their whole purpose. And Paul, I think, is referring to this ancient custom. And Paul says, Look, I'm your spiritual father. I would rather come to you in a humble way. I would rather come and love you. I would rather come with a spirit of meekness. But if I need to, I'll have a rod with me. And I'll correct you if necessary. But what's the whole idea here? Sometimes a spiritual father has to correct erring Children or erring believers. And again, we're going to see this in chapter 5. You know, as people in the church, we can't just sweep sin under the rug. You understand that? We are members one of another. And we are to help one another. We are to encourage one another. And so Paul will deal with this issue of dealing with sin in the church And correcting the church, but that's part of the duties that we have as leaders in the church. And so He warns, he loves, he reproduces, he sets an example, he teaches, and he disciplines whenever it is necessary. Now these are duties that we have in the church as leaders. And we have, frankly, towards one another. And again, the question that this passage causes me to ask is this: Do I have spiritual children that I can invest in? That I can help nurture and bring them along unto the way of the Lord to see them grow in Christ. Let me close with this. I was reading about that great evangelist George Whitfield. Most people don't realize that when he was a young student, he went to Pembroke College in Oxford, he heard about a holy club that was there. And this holy club was started by a man by the name of John Wesley And John Wesley brought him in, took him under his wing, he began to disciple him, and later on George Whitfield wrote, From time to time, Mr. Wesley permitted me to come to him, and he instructed me as I was able to bear it. And he always referred to John Wesley as his spiritual father in Christ because Wesley had invested so much into him And so again, the challenge is for us to invest our lives into others to see them grow in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let our prayer be that God will be able to use us to influence many for the kingdom of God. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, as we read these verses Let it cause us to be thankful for those who have invested in our life, for our spiritual fathers who have nurtured us along. And I am very so very thankful for Pastor Johnson and what he has meant to all of us here as being a spiritual father to this flock for many years. And Lord, I pray that the thought of these things would help us to realize that, Lord, when you invest grace in us, you expect a return. You want us to invest in the lives of others So Lord, I pray that we'll do that. I pray, Lord, that we'll have a burning desire to lead others to Christ and to disciple them And to see them be used greatly for the kingdom of God. Lord, let that be our prayer as we think about these things, Lord. We pray all this in the precious, matchless name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.