You know on Wednesday night we're doing a study in the life of David. Last week we looked at 1 Samuel 16, where the Lord promoted David to Saul's court. And now tonight, this is perhaps the most famous story in the Bible. I don't think I can tell you anything about this that you probably don't already know. But hopefully we can get some encouragement from this well-known story. I'm talking about slaying the giants in your life. So look at 1 Samuel chapter 17. And look down in verse 2, and Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together and pitched in the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines. And the Philistines stood on a mountain on one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, and there was a valley between them. So are you up for a challenge? There are times in our life when we are forced to stand up for a challenge, even though we are peaceful souls and we would rather not fight. There are times when circumstances leave us no choice. We are backed into a corner. We're placed into a situation where we must fight. There's a giant in front of us, and he does not want to be our friend. This is the situation that we see here with David, isn't it? Every one of us will face giants in this life. If you haven't yet, you will. We will all have our own Goliaths that we must face. There is simply no alternative. Goliath will not go away. And then as we are looking to this story, we're going to see that Goliath continued day by day to go out and make this challenge over and over again. He would not go away until someone would come and face him and finally David was the one that had to face them. Well, my giants and your giants are the same way. They will never leave on their own. And why should they? They will fight and they will they will stay there until we fight and we face them. Now that's a lesson I had growing up in a tough neighborhood. How many ever grew up in a tough neighborhood? You ever have bullies around? They won't go away. And uh they won't go away until finally you have to deal with them. And that's the way it is with giants. Now furthermore, God wants us to face these giants. In fact, it's no accident that Goliath is here and he stands in the field making a challenge. And it's no accident that you have a giant in your life facing you Because God put that giant there. You say, why did God put the giants on our path? Well, primarily because soldiers grow up on the battlefield. That's where they learn to grow. We will never grow up until we go out and we face that giant. There's nothing like turning like a war that turns a boy into a man. And that turns an immature Christian into a mature Christian. You have to face the giant. And it might sound strange to even say this, but giants are absolutely necessary for our lives. They're necessary for spiritual growth. Martin Luther commented that there are three things that are necessary for the development of a man of God or a woman of God. And that is number one meditation on the word. We know that. And then he said prayer. And then the third thing he he wrote he said was temptation. Now when he said temptation He didn't mean temptation to sin. He meant daily testings that we face. And so reading the Bible is good, and prayer is wonderful. But we never will defeat Goliath by just the Bible in prayer. We have to add to that facing him. We have to go and see him. And so really think of it this way. David needed Goliath. He didn't realize it, but he needed a Goliath in his life. You say why that? Well, because the people needed to see that he was a worthy leader. Now really the whole big idea of 1 Samuel chapter 17 is remember Samuel is a writer and he's showing Israel the need for a king, and that Saul is not God's chosen king. He was the one that the people chose But he's not the one that God chose. And so what we see are a series of contrasts through the narrative of 1 Samuel. We saw a contrast last week when the evil spirit came upon Saul, but the Spirit of the Lord came upon David. We see another contrast here. in this passage because what we're going to see is that while Saul will not go out to face Goliath, and he should be the one to do it because he's the king, he's the natural one to face this challenge, he refuses to go. In fact, no soldier in Israel wants to go and face Goliath, but David is the one that will. And so because of this narrative here It proves to the people of Israel that David is a worthy leader, that he is king material, and that he is willing to face the giants, whereas others are not. So God wants us to face those giants. Now, we can ask this one question, what are the giants that we face? Now, they're not the same for everybody. Each has their own giant For some it might be lust or pornography or alcohol or drug abuse, pride, self-centeredness, doubt, unbelief. the fear of man, anger, and on the lists we could go. It might be an impossible situation at work or at home that you're facing. It might be a financial difficulty or a broken relationship. It might be some task in front of you that you know that you can't handle this task on your own. It's just absolutely impossible for you to do this task on your own. It might be a dream that seems unreachable for you. Whatever. Everyone has their giants. These giants are enormous. They are threatening. They are intimidating. So the question then is, how do we slay those giants? Well, the story of David kind of gives us some direction in that regard. So let me just give you tonight five steps to slaying your giants. How many of you want to slay your giants tonight? Say amen. Okay. Me too. So let me give you five steps, alright? Step number one. Here it is. Stop ignoring the giant. Stop ignoring the giant Now, as we open up here in this narrative, we're going to see that there's a new crisis. The Philistines have gathered in battle against Israel. This is a kind of a story that's retold Because throughout the Old Testament we read of these battles between the Philistines and Israel. In fact, the Philistines were just defeated by Israel just a few months prior, as recorded in 1 Samuel 13, and now they've come back for a payback. And so here they bring their armies to the Valley of Elah. And you have to picture this in your mind. There's on one slope there is the Israelites. On there's a valley in between that skiss almost a mile, you could say, and then another slope on the other side, and there are the Philistines And they're lined up there. They're ready for battle. Between them is this valley. In the valley there's a ravine. In the ravine there's a dry. creek bed or a wadi as they're called there in Israel. But soon it would be a a battlefield because the lines are drawn. Now in these ancient wars, thousands upon thousands of soldiers normally died In fact, it was not uncommon for 20,000 to 30,000 men to die in one battle. But what we read here is something that really seems like a step towards civility. Because The Philistines come up with an idea. And this was something that was not uncommon in uh ancient days, and that is what is called representative warfare. That's what we call it. And it was simply single combat Instead of all the forces going into battle and a lot of men dying, this was the plan. We will put our champion on the field, you put your champion on the field. And let the whole battle be determined by a champion. And whoever wins, that army is considered to be the winner. The representative wins. The army wins The rest, the defeated uh army will be slaves. And so with that in mind, look in verse number four. And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines named Goliath of Gath Whose height was six cubits and a spin. Now, this is a big guy And so he goes out there and he makes a challenge. And by the way, one great archaeologist and scholar remarked about this incident. He said that in Israel The atmosphere is so thin and the air so clear that a human voice without amplification like we use today, it could be heard for over a mile. So it would not be uncommon for one army on one side to have a conversation with the other army on the other side, or for someone in the middle to talk and for everyone to hear. And this is what we see here in this situation. Goliath comes out, he makes his presence known, and he's stunning. when he walks onto the battlefield. He's intimidating. In fact, the writer slows down the narrative and gives a lot of detail to describe how formidable this giant is. Look in verse number 4 it says his height was six cubits in his span. Verse 5. He had a helmet of brass upon his head. He was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was 5,000 shekels of brass He had graves of brass upon his legs and a target of brass between his shoulders, and the staff of his spear was like a weaver's bean. And his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron, and one bearing a shield went before him. And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them Why are ye come out to s uh set your battle in array? Am I not a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? Choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me, and if he be able to fight with me, to kill me, then I will be then we will be your servants. But if I prevail against them and kill him, then shall ye be our servants and serve us. Now again, so there he is in the middle, you can picture him. Huge, gigantic According to our standards of measurement, he was nine foot nine inches tall. The NBA would love to get their hands. on this guy. Nine feet nine inches tall. He's clad from head to toe in armor. He wore a bronze helmet and a bronze coat. that according again to our standards weighed nearly 175 to 200 pounds. Kind of shows you how big he is there. He wore bronze shin guards. He had a bronze javelin slung over his back The Bible says his spear was like a weaver's beam, meaning it was like a thick shaft of wood. If you can picture that, like a small log. The spearhead itself. Now remember a spear has to be light in order for you to throw it, right? Well this one was the spearhead weighed about twenty to twenty-five pounds. And so and he not only that he had a soldier in front of him with a giant shield to cover shield uh Goliath So here's this soldier with a big shield in front of Goliath. I mean, this is just an incredible thing. And when he walked out there into that valley, that was probably the biggest man that those guys had ever seen There. I mean, Saul himself was six foot six, and Goliath would tower over him And so, I mean, he probably had to have his clothes specially made. The local uh big and tall men's stores still couldn't fit Goliath for a suit, because he was still too big for that. He was enormous. And verse eight, where he says, Am I not a Philistine? The Hebrew actually reads this. It's articular in Hebrew. It reads like this. Am I not the Philistine, meaning I am the baddest man in Philistia. In fact, I'm the baddest man on the planet. And if you don't believe me, just come on down. And let's fight. And so he issues the challenge that we see in verse number nine. And so the challenge is clear. Let's duel it out. If you want to win, submit to us. Or if I win, you'll submit to us. If if if you win, we'll submit to you. Now one can only imagine what Saul is thinking here at this point. Saul really is the one who is supposed to go out and fight him. You know, this could have been a heavyweight fight. The biggest man in Israel was Saul, six foot six. The biggest man in Philistia was Goliath, nine foot nine And so, but Saul was afraid to go out. He would not go. Look down in verse number 11. Verse 10, look at this. This is important. The Philistines said, I defy the armies of Israel this day. He was very defiant, very arrogant. And give me a man that we will we may fight together. Look in verse 11. When Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine They were dismayed and greatly afraid. They were afraid. So here's the first lesson. You have to face your giant. Gotta face them. Alright? Saul and the men of Israel, they just responded by what? They just they were afraid. They just ignored him. Ignoring Goliath was kind of a hard thing to do. He's so big, he's so massive. His his voice is reverberating through the valley. And he doesn't just challenge these guys one time. You know, this is a little detail that sometimes we miss in the narrative. Look at verse number 16 of chapter 17. And the Philistine drew near morning and evening and presented himself How many days? Forty days. Now, you know, sometimes when we think of this story, we think, you know, here the giant, he makes a challenge, out comes this little boy, takes the sling, and the stone kills him. End of story No, this didn't happen just in one day. This was over a period of time. 40 days. He came out. And the Bible says every morning and every evening, you do the arithmetic. How many times did he come out there into that valley and challenge Israel? How many times? Eighty times. Once in the morning, once in the evening. Eighty times. Let that sink in. Eighty times he comes out. Like clockwork in the morning, and he you could just almost hear him. Anybody willing to come out to fight me yet? No. He goes back. Soldiers go back to playing cards and writing letters home to mother or whatever the soldiers did. He come out in the evening. Anyone yet willing? No And he is taunting them. He is in their face. And he's using language defying God. He's cursing the name of God. In Israel, he growls, he spits, he curses. Each day was a disgrace for Israel. Uh the every soldier had to Take a reckoning of himself every day for 40 days, morning and evening. What kind of soldier are you? Saul had to eighty times decide not to go out and face this guy. And again, here's the point. And this is really the problem, isn't it? We don't want to face the giant. We just don't want to. We would rather ignore him. In fact, Israel's battle strategy was let's just ignore Goliath and maybe he will leave. If we ignore him, he'll go away. Everything will be fine. And you know, sometimes we we are that way. We have this huge giant in front of us. We don't want to confess it. We don't want to deal with it. We would rather just, you know, ignore that it's there. Go on our merry way. But you know what? That giant is not going away. And you're defeated as long as you don't face it. You see, God's plan for you is victory, not vacancy. He don't want you to run from the battle. He doesn't want you to just walk away because you know what? That giant will be waiting for you wherever else you may He's going to come back. He's not going to go away. Now, again, we see a contrast, and this is the writer's purpose, the contrast between Saul and at this point Saul and Israel and David Because just fast forward a minute, we're going to get there. Look in verse 46. This is David. David says, This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand. He's talking to Goliath, and I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee. This is David here. Notice the contrast. While other men are not willing to go out, David says, you know what? The Lord is going to take care of you. And uh I come to you in the name of the Lord. That's the spirit that will slay giants in our lives. Where you face it and say, you know, in the name of the Lord, God's going to give me victory here. That's number one. Stop ignoring the giants. Here's step two. Write this down. Refuse to give in to fear. Refuse to give in to fear. Refuse to give in to contagious fear, we could say, because We're going to see the fear is spread all throughout Israel. Look at verse 12. Now this the scene changes in verse 12. Now, this is a long narrative. We're not going to have time to go through every verse. So let me just give you the scene. The scene kind of changes. It goes from the Valley of Eli where Goliath is making this challenge, and it shifts back to the homestead of Jesse. This is kind of a meanwhile back at the ranch kind of scene that we're going to look at here from verse 12 on down. to verse 30. What's happening? Well, back at the ranch, David is being given instructions by his father. Um his brothers are professional soldiers under Saul. Jesse had eight sons. Three of them were involved in this conflict. David is still keeping the sheep, doing what his father is telling him to do. He's not a professional soldier. He's just a boy. He's a shepherd. And Jesse asked him to take the brothers some lunch. And so what does this tell us about David? Well, uh again, David is not really taken that seriously at this point yet. He's still just a young boy And look at verse number 17. And Jesse said unto David, his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched corn, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren And carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand. And look how my brethren fare, and take their pledge. That is, uh, David, take some lunch to your brothers. And uh just see how they're doing. You can imagine a father worrying over sons out in war. And he says in verse 18, take a pledge. This this basically means take some bring back some token that they're okay, that they're still alive. Sometimes in this day, this would mean bringing back a ring that one of them owned, or perhaps a lock of hair, or something that was a pledge that let the father or someone know that the person is okay. And so David obeys his father. He verse 20 gets up early, he leaves his sheep. and the keep in the hand of a good keeper, which again gives us a picture of David being responsible. And then he goes to see what's going on in the battle. Verse 21, pick up there. For Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array. Army against army, and David left his carriage in the hand of a keeper of the carriage, and ran into the army and came and saluted his brethren. So David gets there with the supplies, he leaves them into the hand of the supply keeper, and he goes and he looks for his brothers. And he salutes his brothers. And he happens to be there just at the time when Goliath comes out and he makes his challenge. Look at verse 23. And as he talked with them, Behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words, and David heard them. And so David sees this defiant challenge from this giant and You can just imagine he's looking around like who is going to answer this challenge? I mean you can imagine in his heart he's thinking surely someone is going to go out there and they're going to take care of this guy And uh David, he hears all this, and he's wondering about this, but you know what, it's not long until David is a bit disappointed. Because he's going to realize that no one is going to take up the challenge. And he has to be disheartened by that. And in verse number um 24 and all the men of Israel when they saw the man fled from him and were sore afraid. And uh look in verse 26, and David spake to the men that stood by and saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine and taketh away the reproach from Israel. He's wanting to know who's going to do this? Who's going to face this guy? You know, I think, yeah, you know, there's a famous picture that comes out of Kamiski Park in Chicago. This was during the scandal of the World Series all the way back like in the 19 uh you know twenties I think or even earlier. And you some of you might remember the story of the White Sox baseball team took bribes to throw the series. It was a huge scandal. And there was a picture that was that made the newspapers of a little boy looking up to his hero, shoeless Joe Jackson, the great baseball player, and there was a caption underneath the photograph that said this, say it ain't so, Joe. And the picture kind of captures this little boy, his disappointment when he discovered that his hero, someone that he looked up to, was involved in a scandal. That was that was this big. And you can just imagine David here, he's still young. He comes to the battlefield. You can imagine he still looks up to his brothers and even to the other soldiers and King Saul himself And you can almost get the sense that he has that kind of a letdown. You mean no one's gonna face this guy? Say it ain't so Say it ain't so that we don't have one person here that is willing to go out and face this giant and take away the reproach. from Israel. Now the men basically their response is, have you seen this guy? Have you seen him? I mean that's the thing that they're saying in verse 25. And the men of Israel said, Have you seen this man that has come up? To defy Israel. And then they start talking about all the all the wealth that'll have that they will get if Someone goes out to face him, oh man, uh listen, if someone faces him, he'll have riches and honor, he'll be tax exempt the rest of his life He will marry the king's daughter. Wow. This is a big reward for whoever will do that But nevertheless, David is let down. This had to be difficult for David. But the problem was this. There was fear, and fear was spreading all throughout the camp. You know something about fear? It's contagious. It's contagious. That's especially true if the leaders are afraid. Saul is afraid. And that spread to some of the generals they're free. And that spread to some of the soldiers they're all free. And the Bible says, it's very clear, all the men of Israel. fled from before Goliath. They were all afraid without exception. All of them. Because it spread. Now here's what I admire about David. He walks into this situation When everyone else is afraid, and here he is, he's a boy. These are professional soldiers. And David is not afraid. He is not afraid. He refuses to give in to the fear, that contagious fear that spreads around. And say that's another thing that you have to do if you're going to slay your giant. Don't listen to all the fear-mongers. Don't listen to all the negative reports that give you all the bad side. All this you you'll never be able to deal with this. You can never do this. Friend, if you give if you give in to that, you'll never slay the giants of your life. Don't listen to the fear. Now, look at verse 28. And Eliam, this is David's eldest brother, heard when he spake unto the men. And Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither, and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know the pride thy pride and the naughtiness of thine heart, for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. And, you know, Eliab really wasn't going out to win Brother of the Year with the way he's talking to David here. He's still kind of bitter about not being chosen king. And he lashes out at David. And he impugns his motives. And he questions him. You know, when a when a coward is kind of called out It's not a good situation. There's a little bit of anger there. And basically by David saying these words and being willing to take up the challenge, basically what he's doing is he's calling out all of these men around him Who are unwilling to face the giant and showing them to be cowards. And notice David's response in verse 29. And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? That sounds like a little brother's response, isn't it? What have I done now? To the big brother. What have I done now? Isn't there a cause? You know why David didn't give in to the fear? Because he was focused on the cause The rightness of the cause. This was the right thing. And that's what he was thinking about. He wasn't thinking about the giant. He wasn't thinking, he was kind of idealistic. This needs to be done. He wasn't thinking about anything else other than that. So number one, stop ignoring the giant. Number two, refuse to give in to fear. Here's number three. Look at the challenge from a spiritual perspective. Look at the challenge from a spiritual perspective. Look down at verse 31. And when the words were which were heard, which David spake, They rehearsed them before Saul, and he sent for him. Saul sends for David, verse 32. And David said to Saul, let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine. And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him. I can almost hear Saul kind of half-laughing when he says that. He sees David Now he hears these words and he's thinking in his mind, man, we finally got a warrior here, and David shows up and stall looks at him and goes, whoa, this is a boy. He says, you can't fight against this guy, because thou art but a youth. Verse 33. And he, a man of war from his youth. The word youth there, Hebrew word naer, is a word, again, it means adolescence. David is a teenager, probably 15 or 16 years old, maybe a little older. And so Saul looks at him and says, there's no way, humanly speaking. That you're going to ever be able to deal with this giant. Because you're just a youth and he has been heavyweight champion since his youth. He's been a man of war from his youth. Now, from a human perspective, this was impossible. Impossible. But again, this is the problem here in Israel. Everyone was looking at this giant from a human perspective. That's all they saw. They saw this giant. And again, the question is floating around the camp. Have you seen him? Have you seen him? With physical eyes? Noah was looking through the eyes of faith. David is insulted by the unbelief. That's in the camp of Israel. And so he responds differently to what's going on here And uh in fact uh we see this look at look go back to verse twenty-six real quick. We see kind of the difference here. And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the to the man that killeth this Philistine? He taketh away their reproach from Israel. For who is this uncircumcised uncircumcised Philistine? That he should defy the armies of the living God? Did you catch the different perspective there? He isn't just the Philistine. He's the uncircumcised Philistine. He's a pagan And the Israelites are not servants of Saul. They are armies of the living God. This is a spiritual perspective. Saul and his armies were afraid because they saw the conflict in terms of physical muscle. They saw a physical battle. David saw a spiritual battle. David saw it as a conflict between God and the forces of evil. Saul and his men saw Goliath and thought, he's so big we could never Kill him. David saw the same men. He thought, man, he's so big. I could never miss him. Saul was comparing the giant to David. And David looked like a dwarf. David was comparing the giant to God, and Goliath looked like a dwarf to David. It was a spiritual perspective. You see, really, Goliath is not the problem here, is he? Not really the problem. A rock could take care of him. The real story is the unbelief. that dominates the hearts of Saul and Israel. And so again, we see a contrast to Saul and David. David had a spiritual perspective. He looked at Goliath through eyes of faith. Saul had a human perspective, and that was it. And David's faith was rooted in personal experience. Look what he says to Saul. Look in verse 34. And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear and took a lamb out of the flock, and I went out after him and smote him and delivered it out of his mouth And when he arose against me I caught him by his beard and smote him and slew him. And thy servant slew both the lion and the bear, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath to fight the armies of the living God This is not the first time for David to exercise faith. Even though he was a teenager, he had already proven God in his own experience. He said, oh, one day a lion came and took the lamb. You know, most would have said, you know, see you later, lamb A free meal for the lion, not David. He went after the lion. This is incredible when you think about it. You know, uh one time I was in Africa, we were driving on a Jeep, going to a little town. We kind of pulled over because there were two big lions laying right beside the road with big fluffy manes. I thought, you know, I can get out of the jeep and just go over there and ask them to get out of the way. I can't imagine going out and facing a lion in the wild. I mean it gets just gives you perspective. Here's this teenage boy. He's not afraid. He he went over to the lion, grabbed him by the beard, killed the lion. He did the same thing to the bear. And he didn't he wasn't bragging about it. He wasn't saying, oh man, you know, look what I did here. He was trying to tell Saul, look, I have experience with this faith thing, because by faith God helped me to defeat that lion. And he helped me to defeat that bear. And God will help me to defeat this giant. He's the one who's defying God. This was something where David was saying, look My faith is rooted in personal experience. God has helped me before, and He will help me again. It was a practical, personal faith in the living God. Do you have that kind of faith? Well, you say, you know what, God, you have helped me before. And you know what? Every one of us can look back and we can say, you know what, Lord, you helped me there. And you know what? He will help you with this giant too. And this is what David is doing here. Do you have that kind of faith? And so not only that, but his faith was in the living his faith was not only a personal faith. Experiential faith, but also it was faith in the living God, not in human methods. Because look, look what happens in verse 37. And David said, Moreover, the Lord that delivered me out of the Paul of the Lion and out of the Paul the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. Notice Saul's response. And Saul said unto David, Go, the Lord be with you. Alright? Take care. Lord be with you, brother. Oh, one thing, David, before you go, I'd like you to wear my armor. Look at verse 38. And so armed David with his armor. And he put a helmet of brass upon his head, and he armed him with a coat of mail, and David girded his sword upon his armor, and he essayed to go, for he had not proved it And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these, for I've not proved them. And David put them off. You know, when I read this scene, you ever see a little boy dress up with his father's clothes? You ever see that puts his sh that shoes on, that's coat on, that's hat on, and of course you can't see his face, the hat's all the way down there and you know, the c he's swimming in the coat. That's what I picture with David here. They're giving him all this armor, you know, and and and the and the breastplate goes all the way down to the ground. And David takes two steps and the armor doesn't move. And he's wearing all this and he says, man, I can't use this stuff. I haven't proved this. You know what? Let me do my own thing here. You know, the fact that Saul, the first thing Saul would do is to give him his armor shows that really his faith was in weaponry. I mean that was Saul's first response. You know, some people have faith in human methods. To win their battle. They fight the enemy with all the latest worldly techniques and methods, maybe a few religious cliches and things like that. Instead of turning to God and trusting in God. And so there's David has no faith. Now let me just Qualify that and say, look, there's nothing wrong with using methodology as long as your faith is not in the methodology, your faith is in God. Everybody has a method. Everybody does it some way. But our faith should not be in that. It should be in the living God. Because no matter what method you choose, if you're trusting in God, God will make it work. As long as that method doesn't take the glory away from God, God will bless that method. And so David, he takes all that off. And look in verse 40, and he took his staff in his hand, and he chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and he put them in a shepherd's bag, which he had in a s Even in a script, and his slang is in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistine. And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David. The man that bare the shield went before him. And uh look at verse 42. When the Philistine looked about and saw David, he disdained him. For he was but a youth and ruddy, there's that word again, and of a fair countenance. Here here is David, he comes out there, and you know what? Um Goliath's kind of mad Because he doesn't have any weaponry. It's just David. Just David alone. And this really is our fourth point here. Again, stop ignoring the giant. Refuse to give in to contagious fear. Look at the challenge from a spiritual perspective. And then number four is just have a deliberate focus on the glory of God. And this is why David even goes out there on the field. He's focused on the glory of God alone. And uh notice that uh when when again the Philistine sees him, he gets angry. He gets mad. How dare you come out here to me? This, I mean, you know, Goliath gets out there in the field, he's waiting for some big warrior of Israel to show up. Here's a little boy with a shepherd's stick. And a sling, and a stone. And he's mad. He thinks it's a joke. And so he's angry. And David gives his battle philosophy. Drop down to verse 47. He says that all this assembly shall know that the Lord saith not with spear or sword or spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. And so David, again, he's looking at it from a spiritual perspective. He is not depending upon methodology, he's depending on the Lord, but also he has a deliberate focus on the glory of God. So back up, look to verse 45. And then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee and take thy head from thee. I will give the carcasses of the hosts of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air. to the wild beasts of the field, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. So David goes out facing them, thinking about the name of God. That's what his motivation was. David didn't go out there thinking, you know, here's my chance to make me look good. That was not his thought. Here's my chance to make myself look better than Saul, or here's my opportunity to really shine and become famous. He wasn't focused about any of that. He was focused on the name of God, the glory of God. David was angry that God's name was being defiled, dragged through the mud by this Philistine. That's what motivated him. You remember when Saul defeated the Amalekites, the Bible says in 1 Samuel 15, after he won the victory, he set up a monument for himself. But here, David, he's not concerned about any monument for himself. He's concerned about the name of God. Again, this is the contrast. David is concerned about God's glory. Saul is concerned about his own glory. And one of the marks of a believer is that you are consumed and concerned about, first and foremost, the glory of the Lord. And this kind of begs the question, why do you want to slay the giant in your life? What's your motivation? You want to o overcome your problems so you can be successful and happy? Wrong motive. That might happen. But that's not the right motive. You want to overcome your problem so that people will look up to you and think you're a good Christian and you have a good reputation, wrong motive. Those things may happen. But that's not the reason for it. You want to overcome your problem so you can build a large ministry or be known as some kind of great leader? Wrong mode of What's the motive? The glory of the Lord. The glory of God only. Now, notice again, just two things here. I know we read this, but I want you to see it again. There are two reasons, two things that David wants to do here. First of all, he wants to defeat Goliath. He gives us this motive in verse forty six. This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee and take thy head from thee, and I will give thy carcass unto the host of the Philistines This day unto the fowls of the air, to the wild beasts of the earth, listen to this, that all the earth may know that there's a God in Israel. So first that all the earth, that is, all the pagans, all those who don't believe in God, they might know that there's a God in Israel. He wanted all the unbelievers to see that God is real, that he is mighty to save those who trust in him. That was the one thing right there. I want all the world to know there's a God in Israel. He wants to point to God. Secondly He wanted all the professing believers who weren't really trusting God, that is the assembly in verse 47. Look at verse 47. Talking about all the Israelites, all the soldiers that are waiting there on the slope on the hill. I want all this assembly to know that the Lord saves not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give it into your hands. He said, I want all these believers to know, the ones that aren't trusting the Lord right now, that God doesn't win through military weaponry. He wins because the battle is the Lord's. And, you know, you have to remember in this day the Philistines had an edge on Israel as far as weaponry. They had the finest weapons because they were more farther along in technology as far as working with metal. I mean the soldiers of Israel are still pretty primitive with their weapons. But David said, I want all of them to know that we don't need the finest weapons to win. We have the Lord's. I want them to understand that. You see, the reason we ought to desire to slay the giants The Goliath of our life is because we want God to be honored. And God can't be honored if I have a Goliath of sin that's defeating me. That's that's pulling me down. God can't be honored in my life if that's true there. And lost people can't see God in my life if I'm constantly defeated by the giants that are pulling me down. And so our motivation has to be. The glory of the Lord. Psalm 115, verse 1. Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us. But unto your name give glory, because of your loving kindness and truth. Now let me give you the last thing. I said, number one, stop ignoring the giant. Refuse to give in to fear. Look at the challenge from a spiritual perspective. Number four, have a deliberate focus on the glory of God. But here's the last point. Don't settle for half a victory. Don't settle for half a victory. Look down in verse number 49. And David put his hand in his bag. They're out there on the battlefield now, facing one another. He took thence a stone and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone sunk into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth When you think about a stone, now I have s a stone in my pocket here. I I have a prop tonight. I don't normally do this, but I've been wait it's show and sell time here, I guess, in the sermon. I've been waiting to show this off. You know what this is? This is a stone that a lady sent me from the Valley of Elah, where this took place, and that little wadi, that little creek bed where supposedly this happened. Uh she gathered a a round stone. This is a smooth stone from that very place. This is the very stone no I'm just kidding. Uh This stone is from that very spot, that area. We we think about a smooth stone, don't think about a little pebble. Think about something like this. And of course here's the sling. And so what I'm gonna do now, no, I'm just kidding. I'm not gonna So think about this. The Bible says this stone just flew and it sunk into his forehead. And he went down. David, no doubt, learned how to use this thing by being a shepherd in the field. And he slings it into his forehead. And look in verse 50. So David prevailed over the Philistine. with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine and slew him. But there was no sword at his hand. Therefore David ran and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him And cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled. This is just amazing to me. So David he uses a sling and the stone. It's a bullseye, right between the eyes, right on the forehead. Here's this giant that just sinks to the earth. Now most would have been said at that point said, okay, I won. It's over with. You know Good job, not taze it. That would have been half a victory. You know what? David didn't want to have to deal with this guy later on So the Bible says he goes over and he gets his sword. Now this is hard for me to even picture in my mind because he probably had a hard time lifting up that sword. Here's this this teenage boy. And the Bible says he took that sword and he cut off the kid this guy's head. I believe he had to have two hands to lift up the head. And you can just see he cuts off the head and just lifts it up and shows everyone how to get ahead in life, right? Here you go. And he just shows it off to everybody. And the Philistines are on the slope and they're just shocked. You've got to be kidding me. Okay, we're out of here. Game over. And Israel pursues the Philistines and there's a great victory. You know, now when David knocked the giant out and down, he was a conqueror. But when he cut off his head, he was more than a conqueror. And the Bible says that about us. We are not just conquerors, we are more than conquerors. through him that loved us. And so here's the lesson. Don't be satisfied for just half a victory when it comes to your giant. Don't be satisfied for just one small victory. No, you don't really have victory until the giant is dead. Until that thing is gone. God wants you to have complete, total victory in your life That's his will. Don't settle for half a victory. He wants you to have the full thing. There's more I can say, but we're out of time. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So Lord, we we thank you, Lord, that you're the one who slays the giants in our life. And I know, Lord, all of us have them. There are some people here tonight that are facing a Goliath. In fact, they have been facing it. Every day, they hear the voice of this giant taunting them. And then we're going to be able to do that. And the reminded Lord. of their defeat. Lord, you haven't called us as your people to live in defeat. You've called us to live in victory. And so, Lord, I just pray for those who are here tonight that you would give them victory over the giants that they face. May they stop ignoring it. Look it square in the eyes. Refuse to give in to the fears that they have. May they look at this challenge, Lord, not from our earthly perspective, but from your perspective. And may we realize, Lord, what's at stake here is your glory, your name. You haven't called us, Lord, to be defeated. You've called us to live victorious so that the world will know that you're God. And other believers can be strengthened by our example. And Lord, may we never settle for just half a victory. We pray for victory. We trust in your name for it. How many here tonight say that's my prayer? I'm facing a giant in my life. I need victory tonight. I'm claiming it. Before God right now, I want victory. God bless you. He sees your hands. I need victory over this giant. Father, bless these, your people. Lord, you are the living God, the mighty God. All of our victory comes through you. We have nothing without your help. So Lord, help these your people. Help them, Lord, to slay this giant in their life. So that Lord, you may receive glory and they can receive victory and they can live a life of blessing and peace. May they go from victory to victory in your name. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.