Take your Bibles tonight, open to the Book of Revelation, please, chapter two, as we continue our study. In the book of Revelation, Revelation chapter two. And tonight we come to The church that is mentioned in Revelation 2, the church at Smyrna. So look down in verse number 8 of Revelation chapter 2. And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna, write, These things saith the first and the last, which was dead and is alive. I know thy works and tribulation and poverty, but thou art rich. I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews and they're not, but are of the synagogue of Satan. Fear none of these things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days, but be thou faithful unto death. And I will give thee a crown of life. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death. Now, as you know, we're studying the book of Revelation and we're looking at these seven churches. And you know that Jesus appeared to John, John the beloved who wrote this book, the author of it. under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, was in an island called Patnus, which was a penal colony. He was there, the Bible says, for the word of God and the testimony of Christ. That is, he was suffering for Christ He was put there by uh the ruler Domitian because of his faith in Christ. And while he was there on that island It was he got a vision of the Lord, and we saw that in chapter one, where the Lord spoke to John and said, What you see, write it in a book and send it to the seven churches that are in Asia Minor And so John uh is giving us what Jesus said to these churches. Now we can learn from what Jesus said to these churches. We can apply this to us because Jesus isn't speaking Just for the church back then, Jesus is speaking to the church today. Where we can find principles that will help us. Now, last week we looked at the church at Ephesus. And this was a church that was a church that had a lot of good things about it, but the one problem that they had was that they did not love Christ supremely. They left their first love, and there is no substitute for love for Christ. What do we learn as we study the church at Smyrna? What we see here is a church that is under severe persecution, a church that is suffering. And we learn from them that Christ wants his people to stay faithful and persevere through difficult times, through times of suffering. Let me ask you a question. Are you going through suffering tonight? Maybe not now, but if you're a believer and you live for the Lord in this world, you will face times of suffering. You'll face times of persecution. And so let's look at this church and let's see what we can learn for ourselves. First of all, let's think about the church. Notice where it says in verse 1, unto the angel of the church at Smyrna. Look at that word Smyrna. That's a very interesting word. And it's actually a Greek word, and it's translated many times in the New Testament, myrrh. And what is myrrh? Myrrh is a substance that comes from a thorny tree. It was used in history kind of as a perfume because it had a a beautiful smell to it. It was used as a holy ointment. People would use it in religious ceremonies. But we see it used in the New Testament several times. In fact, the word Smyrna is used three times in the New Testament. Each time it's translated myrrh. And it refers to Christ in many places, or in these places I should say. It's used at Christ's birth in Matthew 2. 11. Wise men from the east, they brought Christ gold, frankincent, and what? That was part of the gifts that they brought Christ. This is a precious, expensive ointment. At the crucifixion of our Lord, according to Mark fifteen twenty-three, when Christ hung on the cross He was offered wine mixed with myrrh. Now why did they do that? Well, because this served as an anesthetic. The crucifiers were seeking to dull his senses so the pain wouldn't be so bad And so they offered him this mixture. We also see myrrh at the Christ's burial. According to John 19, 39, a mixture of myrrh and aloes. About a hundred pound weight was used to prepare the body of Jesus Christ for his uh burial after he had died. And so it's interesting that we see Murr presented at the birth of Christ. We see it presented at the death of Christ. We see it presented at the burial of Christ. And so therefore Myrrh has kind of had a connotation of something that is associated with suffering. Jesus suffering on the cross, he was offered myrrh. When he died, he was embalmed with myrrh. And so this kind of really becomes a fitting name for this church, this suffering church. It's interesting that hundreds of years before God ever started a church in that city, he was preparing it by giving it the proper name Smyrna. And it is said that the city received its name from the fact that it was very profitable in this trade. They exclusively had rights to uh imports and exports that dealt with Myrrh. And again this was a very fragrant spice and so sometimes the city was called the port of fragrance. But again I think it's a fitting picture. It provides a beautiful picture of suffering. When Christ came into this world as a little baby, he came to suffer. When he died on the cross, he was suffering for our sins. To show the end of his suffering, he was embalmed with myrrh. Now, another thing, we had talked about the fragrance of this myrrh. When it is crushed, that's when it gives the fragrance. Until the myrrh is crushed, It really doesn't do anything. And so the crushing has to have has to happen first. And that's interesting because this was true of this church at Smyrna. This was a suffering church, and it seemed like the more that they were crushed by suffering, the sweeter the aroma. The more they uh were stomped on by the world, the sweeter the fragrance that they gave of the Lord Jesus Christ. God permitted Satan to bruise this church. God permitted Satan to crush this church in order that this church would release a beautiful, beautiful fragrance to others. And it's also interesting to see what happens to a church and and and to believers when they go through times of suffering and persecution. It's very much like a child. You know what happens when a child is injured? A child will that is hurt and wounded. Normally what's the response of that child? They'll run straight to their mom or their dad, right? And we see that with this church here. Here's a church that runs to the Lord Jesus Christ. Have you ever noticed it in your own life? When things are going good, you're not spending as much time with the Lord. You're not seeking the Lord. But when things start to happen and you go through a season of difficulty or a season of suffering, We have a tendency to run to the Lord. And that's what we see here. The church at Ephesus, everything was going good. They were working very hard, but the problem was they had left their first love. They were not really seeking Christ the way they should. But the church at Smyrna was totally different. They were being hated by the world, they were being persecuted, and they were leaning upon Christ. So we see the church, but then think about me uh with me about the correspondent. Notice again in verse number eight, unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write, these things say is the first and the last which was dead and is alive. Now it's customary in ancient letters for the writer to identify himself in the very beginning of the letter. And of course Jesus is the one that is doing the talking here. And notice how he identifies himself. He identifies himself as the first and the last, the one who was dead and has come to life. Now why did Jesus choose this particular way to introduce himself to this church in this city called Smyrna? Let me tell you a little bit about Smyrna. I think that this is the reason why. Smyrna was a thriving seaport city. It was one of the best in the world at that time. In six hundred BC, Smyrna was conquered by the Lydian king, King Attalus. He devastated this city and this once thriving A prosperous city. He left it devastated, and it became really just a small little village. And then sometimes later, Alexander the Great came through there. And while he was there, Alexander had a vision of rebuilding the city of Smyrna and making it one of the greatest cities in Asia Minor. And this is exactly what he what he did. Smyrna was restored during the Hellenistic period under the order of Alexander the Great, becoming then one of the great main cities of Asia Minor. It competed really with Ephesus. and Pergamos over the title, The First City of Asia. It became one of the spectacular cities of its day. And so the folklore of the city, therefore, was filled with references of death and resurrection. They would boast themselves as we are the city that once died and now has come to life And I think Jesus picks up on this idea when he writes to the suffering Christians in this church. In verse 8, Jesus introduces himself as the one who was dead and came back to life. And so I think he relates to the church and the city with that expression. And again, let me tell you a little bit more about the city, because by learning things about the city, it helps us better understand the church. This again was one of the most beautiful cities, a very prosperous city. It was called the crown city because it was surrounded by hills and it kind of represented a crown. It was also called the flower of Asia. And again, Smyrna held exclusive rights to exporting and importing myrrh and hence the name of the city, Smyrna. They already, they were selling much of their myrrh to Egypt, and Egypt used myrrh for their embalming and getting bodies ready for the afterlife. Again, we we see at the birth of Jesus, the wise men came and they gave Jesus myrrh. Where did they get that myrrh? They probably got it from this city of Smyrna, since they had exclusive rights on this import. Uh no wonder Jesus kind of camps on this theme and uh because some of the Christians that he is going to speak to here in this church. We're going to face death. But they would have a resurrection and a far better life after that. This was a renowned city. They were known for their patriotism. They competed as being one of the cities That would include in it uh imperial worship. They wanted to erect a temple to of ro uh to Rome, and this city was picked among other cities to be a place where The ro the worship of the Roman Emperor was to take place. In fact, there was one street that went right through this city. It was called the Golden Street. It ran from the sea all the way up through the entire city, and on either side of that uh street, the golden street, were various temples dedicated to various gods. And included in that was a temple to uh to Rome where people would come and they would throw incense on the altar. And they would worship the Emperor of Rome as part of something that all the Roman citizens had to do. And the s and the Street went all the way up and it ended at the big temple that was there at the end of the street, which was a temple that was dedicated to the god Zeus. But again, the center of this city was Caesar worship. He was worshipped there. His image was carved out and set before uh people and every once in a while people had to come and they had to throw incense on the altar and they had to say Caesar is Lord. Now this was part of what was required for a Roman citizen And now the Romans didn't mind if you worship your God. Rome w had people from all over different countries, different religions. They didn't mind if you worship your God And your religion, they allowed that as long as you included in your worship the worship of Caesar. So on certain days of the year Perhaps sometimes on the birthday of the emperor at the time, or on some marked day, it was required, if you were a citizen of Rome, to throw incense on the altar and to worship Caesar as God. Now that was the problem. Because the Christians in the city of Smyrna refused to do that. They just simply would not. They worship Christ exclusively. And because of that, they were crushed with persecution. In fact, I want you to notice three lessons from the church. First of all, notice how they were crushed. Look in verse 9, where Jesus says, I know thy works. And look at the word tribulation. The word tribulation is from a Greek word which literally means crushing, a crushing pressure This was a word that was used to speak about a man who was killed. One of the ways of torture back in that day was to take a person and they would lay them down and they would put a sheet of metal over them and then they would lay on that person heavy. weights. Sometimes they were huge boulders or rocks. Sometimes they were just simply weights that were placed on top of the man and they would just continually put more weights on Until finally this person was crushed, they could no longer breathe, and they died in that torturous way. This is the word that is used to speak about that. The people there were literally crushed. Let me ask you a question. Have you been crushed through the weight of the burdens that you carry? You feel like you just have no breath in you because you're carrying heavy burdens. And you might be tempted to think, you know, God must be angry at me because of what's going on in my life. Well, beloved, let me just remind you that God wasn't angry at these believers here at Smyrna. In fact, as we study the seven churches, what you'll find is that There's only one or two, actually two churches, I believe, that do not receive any rebuke from the Lord, and this was one of them. Jesus didn't rebuke anything about this church. He wasn't angry with his church. He never corrected them. They were faithful and they suffered for Christ. They were not willing to compromise what they believed in order to bypass suffering in their life. They refused to worship Caesar, they worship Christ alone. And again, that was the major problem here in this city or in this church is because they refused to say Caesar is Lord instead they said Jesus is Lord and Jesus is the only one that we will worship. Now there are accounts that come out of the city of different things had happened. I read of one account where a young mother refused to burn incense. Her father in tears pleaded for her to burn incense. He said to her, Think of your child. And yet she did not, and she was put to death Because she refused to worship Caesar. One aged woman named Pollyolus was seized by Roman officials. She was beaten, all of her teeth were broken out with blows to her jaw. A bonfire was built. She was threatened to be thrown into the fire unless she said those words and burned incense on the altar and she refused to do it And she was burned alive because of her faith. Now here's a church then that's going through difficulty It's going through persecution. Notice some of the weights placed on this church. Look again in verse 9. I know thy works and tribulation. And look at the word poverty there. I know thy poverty. There are two words used for poor in the Greek. One is uh a pina, which is a word that just simply means to have very little. You work very hard and you have very little in return. This word is used in verse number nine. Or excuse me, not is used many places, but it's not used in verse number nine. The word that is used in verse nine is to uh tochiah which is a word that means absolute complete destitution. They had they have nothing. The people here in this city couldn't get jobs. Uh they they were they had absolutely nothing. And again the reason is simple because the economic life at Smyrna was built around the gods and the goddesses. Every man who worked or belonged had to belong to a labor union, and in order to belong to a labor union, you had to worship the patron god of that labor union. And believers, since they worship Christ alone, Christ exclusively, were not able to get jobs. They were not able to work. And they could not belong to any union and they could not make a decent living. They were left in the cold financially. Because they stood for their convictions. They stood for what they thought was right. I had this week four people come to my office, four different people. different occasions, each of them were facing an area in their Christian life where they were being asked to compromise what they believed or face the possibility of losing their job. And they were facing this dilemma. And they came to me and they said, Pastor, we need your counsel, we need your advice. What should we do? Now, I always tell believers that you have to determine, first of all, is this a conviction with you? Because there's a difference between conviction and preferences. A conviction is a Bible-based belief or duty that God requires of us. This is something that we know in Scripture is right. This is something that we cannot compromise. We know it to be true. A believer should never compromise the word of God. They should never go against their conscience because to do that would be a sin against God. We don't compromise convictions. Is it a conviction with you? Or is it a preference? There's a difference between a preference and a conviction. What's a preference? A preference is a matter of personal taste based on your own experience. There might be some preferences that you have that are very strong. There might be some things that inwardly you feel very strong about. You feel maybe convictions from the Holy Spirit in your conscience about this one thing. You might not be able to prove it from scripture. But you feel it very strongly yourself. I call those things personal convictions. If you have a personal conviction about something, but you not necessarily can't necessarily can you prove it from Scripture. And yet it's something you feel strongly about. And then there are preferences, things that you just feel very strongly about, but it's just a preference with you. And you have to determine in your own Christian life what are the things that are convictions What are the things that are personal preferences that perhaps the Holy Spirit is speaking to you about? Or what are the things that are just simple preferences? Because to yield your preferences in many cases, that's a courtesy. But to yield your convictions, that's compromise. And you can never do that. I think of Daniel in the Old Testament, who when he was uh brought out of uh uh the city the city of jerusalem out of Judea where he his parents were killed he was carried off into captivity into exile And to neve to never under Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon. There were many things that happened to Daniel. I'm sure he didn't like. They changed his name from Daniel. Which literally in the Hebrew means God is my judge to Belthashazzar. They gave him a pagan name. I'm sure Daniel didn't like that, but he didn't really say anything about that because There was nothing in the scripture that would forbid him from having that name, nothing that he could see. But when it came time for them to eat meat sacrificed unto idols, that was uh equal to worshiping a God, a pagan God. And besides also, it was very clear in the Old Testament that you were not to eat that kind of meat. The law was clear about that. At that point, Daniel Purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. And let me just say this, beloved, if you have a conviction, you better be able to prove it from the scripture. And if that conviction binds your conscience to the Word of God, then you know what? You've got to stand for it. You've got to stand for what the Scripture says. Again, if it's a preference, it may be just courtesy yielding that preference, but if it's a conviction, you can never yield that conviction, just like Daniel, Daniel purposed in his heart. that he would not defile himself. And let me also say, beloved, that you need to make sure that you're ready to pay the price to stand for your convictions. Because just because you stand for a conviction doesn't mean everything's going to turn out all right. Now in the case of Daniel it turned out well, but there are many times when a believer will have to Stand for their convictions, and everything not turn out the way they'd hoped. And that's what we find here at the church at Smyrna. Many of these believers were standing for their convictions. They would probably be able to get a job and work if they were only take a pinch of incense and just throw it on an altar as they were walking by and whisper the words, Caesar is Lord But they couldn't do that. That was a violation of their conscience. That was a violation of the Word of God. And they refused to do it. And as a result of that, they paid the price. They were dealing with poverty in their life. And Jesus says, I know what you're going through. I know what's happening. Maybe you're here today and you're going through something like that. And if that's the case, just know this. You have the affirming, comforting presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. And you know what? He'll take care of you. But notice What else? He says, I know thy works and tribulation and poverty. But notice in parentheses, but thou art rich. I love that. Jesus says, you might be poor in one sense, but really you're rich. And I know the blasphemy of them would say they are Jews and are not. This word is usually associated with someone blaspheming God. In this case, certain Jews were literally slandering Christians. Now, did you know that the Jewish people were exempt from Caesar worship? Everyone else had to do it But Jews did not have to, they were exempt. And they were exempt a long time ago under Julius Caesar. And the reason for that is because they did some things that were favorable to Caesar, and Caesar made a law that Jews did not have to participate in this. And so they were exempt from it. And however, while they were exempt, that didn't hinder them from slandering Christians because they hated Christians. Many of the Jews that did not believe in Jesus Christ, they hated Christians, and they were the ones that were actually spreading the lies. to others about Christians. They're the ones that said they're cannibals. They're the ones that said they're anti-family. They are committing incest. They despised, they hated Christians. And so here Jesus is referring to those who said, I know which they say they're Jews, but they're not really children of Abraham. They're not really because they don't follow Christ. They don't follow the Word of God. He said, I know this blasphemy of those. I know what they're saying about you. And again, we get examples of this all through the book of Acts. In Antioch and Acts 13, 15, it says, the Jews stirred up the vow and honorable men and the chief men of the city and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas. We see them doing that to Paul and Antioch, also in Iconium, Acts 14, 2. But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and made their minds evil affected against the brethren. They created great havoc, and according to verse 5, they were even planning to stone all the Christians because they hated them. In Lysra, Acts 14, 19, and there came certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium who persuaded the people and having stoned Paul drew him out of the city supposing he had been dead. And so they were again hating Paul and Christians in Thessalonica, Acts 17, 5, but the Jews who believed not moved with envy and took unto them certain vile fellows of the baser sort. In this case, unbelieving Jews hired a bunch of thugs to persecute Christians. And here we have some of the same things that are going on in the city at Smyrna. The Jews hated the believers, and they were stirring up persecution against the Christians who were there. And so there was There was poverty. There was profanity against believers. And then there was prison. Look in verse number 10. Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days But be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. And so Jesus warned them that some of you are going to get thrown into prison. Now prison in that day was nothing like today when People went to a Roman prison. They were, it was a horrible place to be. They were not well treated. They were not taken care of. When a person went to prison in those days, they were basically awaiting execution. There was only one way out of Roman prison basically in that day, and it was to die. And the death was usually a horrible death. You might be killed by the sword, you might be killed by uh being thrown to wild animals, uh, you may be burned alive. Many were killed in that way. And that's why Jesus said in verse 10, be faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. Be faithful. How they were crushed. But here's number two. How they were comforted. And I want you to see in here how our Lord just comforts these suffering saints. He's always faithful to minister to those that are going through difficulty and seasons of suffering. Here's some tender words. Again, back up where Jesus says in verse 9, I know thy works. And I can hear the Lord say, I know what you're going through, I know it's rough. This is the sympathetic words of Jesus. I know your tribulation. I know your poverty. Remember me, I went through some of these same things. And the word for know here is not gnosis. It's the word Oda. It's the idea I know by experience, not by observation. Jesus doesn't just watch But he enters into our sufferings with us, and Jesus was someone who went through that as well. That's why the writer of Hebrews says that we have not a high priest who cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in like in all points Tempted just like us. And consequently, Jesus knows what you're going through, and he suffers with us. And so Jesus says, I know. I know what you're going through. I know your poverty. Jesus himself said one time, foxes have holes, the birds of the air have a nest, but the Son of Man doesn't have a place to lay his head. What a sympathetic savior that we have. He's not some distant deity. He is someone who is there with you in the difficult times and he goes through that with you. We see a sympathetic Savior. We see the satisfied Savior. Because I look in verse 9 again, that phrase that I pointed out already, but I know your poverty, but you are rich. And here Christ gives an encouraging reminder that though they may be physically poor, spiritually they are rich. The values of Christ are far different from the world's values. He doesn't judge you by material things, but rather your spiritual condition. And although materially these folks did not have much, spiritually they were rich, and Jesus was well pleased with their faithfulness. Robert Murray McShaney said this, I had rather Christ say that of me than all the wise men in the world. I would rather Jesus say to me, Thou art rich. Then that all the world should say it. And then notice the sovereign savior. In verse 10, he says, fear none of these things. Fear none of these things which thou shalt suffer. And Jesus tells him, don't be afraid. And the reason is because he's the one who's in control. No suffering, no difficulty comes upon us in our life unless the Lord has allowed it, He has ordained it to be used for our good and for His glory. The key word is in verse 10, where Jesus said that, again in verse 10, fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison that ye may be tried. Or tested. Just as Satan brought trials upon Job, God is allowing this church and some of the believers in this church to be tested. For his own purpose, to demonstrate again their genuine faith and to do it for the Lord's purpose, for the Lord's glory. So he talks about the season in verse 10. For ten days And that is for a certain season, you're going to go through this. When God allows these things to come on our life, it's just for a season, it's just for a time. When you go through these times, remember God is watching. He knows just how much you can deal with. He knows when to bring you out of it. And so the Lord says, this is just for a season. That's what ten days there has the idea of. It's just going to be for a time that you'll be tried in this way, but be faithful. But then here's the third thing: how they were crushed. How they were comforted by the words of the Lord, and then how they were crowned. Again we see in verse number 10 where he says, Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. Now, as we study the church at Smyrna, we know by studying history who the pastor of this church was during this time. And you know he was one of the famous martyrs in all of history, according to the early writings of two two church fathers, Irenaeus and Tertillion. The man who was the pastor of this church at Smyrna was a man by the name of Polycarp, and he was a man who was consecrated. Prayed over, put in this position by John, the writer of the book of Revelation, by John himself. And listen, on February the 2nd, 156 A. D. , Polycarp was captured and taken to prison. And history tells us what happened. Jews joined with the pagans in clamoring for Polycarp to be cast to the lions or to be burned alive. And let me read to you what one historian writes on this account. Listen to what happened to Polycarp. Quote, it was the time of the public games. The city was crowded. The crowds were excited, and suddenly the shout went up, away with the atheists, let Polycarp be searched for. Now, they called Christians atheists because they refused to worship the Roman gods or the emperor, so therefore they were atheists He goes on to say, no doubt Polycarp could have escaped, but already he had had a vision, a dream, in which he saw the pillow under his head burning with fire. And he awoke from that dream to tell his disciples that I must be burnt alive. The writer goes on to say, his whereabouts was betrayed by a slave. Who collapsed under the torture? And they came to arrest him. And when they arrested him, the captain of the uh of the guard, he did not wish Polycarp to die. So on the brief journey to the city, he begins to plead with the old man. That's what he said. What harm is it to say, Caesar is Lord, and to offer sacrifice and to be saved? But Polycarp was adamant that for him only Jesus Christ was Lord. And so when he entered the arena The proconsul gave him the choice of either cursing the name of Christ and making sacrifice to Caesar or death. And this is what Polycarp said. These are the now famous words of this martyr. He said this: 80 and 6 years have I served him. And he has done me no wrong. How can I blaspheme my King who has saved me? And so therefore the Procouncil threatened him with burning, and Polycarp said, This, You threaten me with a fire that burns for a time, and is quickly quenched. For you do not know the fire that awaits the wicked in the judgment to come and everlasting punishment. What are you waiting for? Come, do what you will And the historian goes on to say, so the crowds came flocking with their sticks of wood from workshops, and the Jews, even though they were breaking the Sabbath law by carrying such burdens. were bringing wood for the fire, and they were going to bind him to the stake. But Polycarp said, leave me as I am. For he who gives me power to endure the fire will grant me to remain in the flames unmoved, even without the security you will give me by the nails. And so they left them loose, bound in the flames, and he was burned to death for Christ. That's the story of Polycarp. The pastor there at Smyrna. Now we might not ever have to face the flames like Polycarp did. But we may have to suffer some for the name of Christ. You know, it's hard preaching these sermons to Americans, I gotta tell you. Because a lot of times when I preach about Christian persecution, people start yawning. And when I'm in an American congregation, now when I'm over in Africa. like I was years ago in Cameroon in a village that was right next to uh a village of Muslims where they had threatened the Christians in the village next to them that they would kill them if they spread the gospel. And they even brought a certified letter threatening the pastor of the church there at Cameroon, in that little village called Endu, that if he continued preaching the gospel, they would kill him. And there are other parts of the world where Christians are being persecuted all over. And to stand for Christ means their life. Here in America, we've never had those problems. So when you come to talk about this sort of thing to an American church, we kind of sit back and go, oh yeah, yeah, that's history. That could never happen to us. But you know, brace yourself, believer. You never know what the next ten years is going to hold. And we're losing freedoms. It could be that God decides to purge his church. Remember Peter said judgment must begin at the house of God I sense it in the American church. There's so much ease, there's so much um apathy for the things of God that, and I don't I don't want persecution, I don't want to be a martyr. But I can understand if God chooses to allow the church to go through a season of it. I could see why God would do that. It's hard to preach these sermons to American Christians because we've never had to face that. We've never had to go through that. But I'll tell you this. Maybe to this degree we might not ever get burned to the stake, but if you follow Christ the way you should, and you stand for truth the way God has called you to, you will get some measure of persecution from the world. And you know what the Lord wants of us? He wants us to be faithful. He wants us to stand firm on the truth. He wants us to be faithful to Him. As we study Smyrna, I see a church that persevered through suffering, that did not quit on the Lord Jesus Christ, and they were a testimony to Christ. They glorified Christ. through their faithfulness. And you know what Jesus says to them? I will give you a crown of life. Give you a crown of life. You know, again, why does the Lord use this symbol? Because remember we said that the city of Smyrna was called the crown city? Because it was surrounded by hills and it looked like a crown. And so the crown then became the image of the city of Smyrna. In fact, on their coins They would stamp a crown. And it was normally the word crown here, Stephanus, is a laurel crown that was given to victors. If you back in that day, if you competed in an athletic game and you won You weren't given a trophy or a medal like we have today. They would give you a laurel clo a crown that you would wear. Also a laurel crown was used by important citizens when they were invited to a banquet, some important function, they would wear their laurel crown. Emperors wore a laurel crown. Important citizens, athletes, emperors, they all wore this crown. But these Christians did not wear a crown. They were not very important to anyone back then. They didn't have a crown. You see, this church to the world, they look like a bunch of losers to the world. But to Jesus they were mighty victors And Jesus says to this church, I'll give you a crown, a crown of life, a crown that will not fade away if you just be faithful. And you know what? They were faithful. They were faithful to Christ. And friend, that's what God calls us to be. Just seems like sometimes believers use every excuse in the world not to be faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's ridiculous, quite frankly, sometimes, to hear some of the pathetic excuses that Christians use to not be faithful to Christ. God help us. May God help us to be like this group of believers here in Smyrna, faithful unto Christ, even unto death. Let's let's bow for prayer together. The more we are crushed, the more fragrant we give off to the world and to God that we truly belong to Jesus Christ. And you know what? Satan tried to destroy this church, but instead of destroying this church, this church actually got stronger, and these believers ran to Christ, and they were a sweet aroma to God. And it may be that the devil is trying to crush you. Or maybe you're being hammered by suffering and persecution. In your life right now. And you need the help of the Lord. You want to be faithful. This church is an example to all of us. Fact It should convict us when we ri we compare our own life to what some of these believers went through in this period and this time. And as we think of this church, would you just pray right where you are when you just say, Lord, help me? To have the same kind of faithfulness and devotion that these believers had. Forgive me, Lord, for my weakness Eddie, excuses for not doing what I should do as a believer? For not being faithful to you. Lord, help me to stand firm for Christ. Help me to love and run to Christ in these times of difficulty and suffering and persecution in my life. So, Father, take these words. May they be an inspiration, a challenge to all of us as we seek to serve you faithfully in these difficult days. We pray in Jesus' name.