It's good to see everybody here tonight in God's house. I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the Book of Romans, the Book of Romans, chapter three. Now you know that on Sunday night we uh have been preaching through first Corinthians and we set that aside for just about five weeks because I told you I wanted to deal with this issue of the five solas of the Protestant Reformation. And uh this was just a short series. I thought it would be a good way to remember and commemorate the uh the Protestant Reformation, which is this is the 500th y anniversary. In case you're wondering about the fi the uh Protestant Reformation, it was on October the thirty first, fifteen seventeen, uh that momentous event that really changed history. For for many, when Martin Luther nailed his 95 feces to the door. And out of that Protestant Reformation, there came some battle cries. Some things that were so very foundational that the church needed, and I think that we still need today to emphasize, and I just want to touch on these things for these five weeks. Now, last week we talked about sola scriptura And by the way, th there are let me just give you the five. There are sola scriptura, that's scripture alone, and then sola gracia, that's grace alone, and solafide That's faith alone and solus Christus. That's Christ alone. Now this morning the choir sang the song Solideo Gloria. So I kind of felt like I should probably preach on that tonight, you know. But tonight we preached on on oh um we didn't preach on we sang on in Christ alone. So I'm thinking we should probably get our songs and our preaching together here, you know But in a way we are kind of recognizing these things, aren't we? We're kind of touching on these things, and rightfully so. And so tonight what I want to speak about is solafide, that is faith alone. Now remember, these battle cries came out of the Protestant Reformation as a result of the corruptions that were being taught by the Catholic Church The false gospel that was being really holding people in bondage, we could say, that was being propagated by the church. And out of this came, out of the Protestant Reformation came the rediscovery of the gospel. Now last week I spoke about sola scriptura which is scripture alone. And it's the idea that um we hold to the scripture. Uh it is our ultimate authority because for so many years the Catholic Church taught that their tradition The the uh decrees from the Pope when he spoke ex cathedra were on par with Scripture or even above Scripture. And they held their traditions above the Word of God, and that kept people in bondage. But it was Martin Luther and other of the reformers that held to the principle of scripture alone because they said so often popes and bishops and priests, heir and church tradition is wrong. We need to hold to the scripture. is our final authority. And that was so foundational. And now tonight I want to talk about solofidae, which is the principle of faith alone, because out of this, when you hold to the scripture alone This frees you up to study the Word of God and to find out what the Scripture really has to say regarding these gospel principles, these foundational principles. Principles that we must hold to and that are so very important to us. Now what I want to do then is I want to basically compare In order for you really to understand how we consola fide is that principle of faith alone, you know, to us we would say this is a given, this is what we were taught and that's wonderful. But in order to really understand how important this this principle was during the Protestant Reformation and years afterward We have to kind of get an understanding of what was being taught in the sixteenth century and before that With regard to the issue of justification. And so this is kind of this is kind of a different sermon. I normally like to get right into the text of scripture. But I want to lay a foundation of what was being taught. And then I want us to look in Romans chapter 3 and see the biblical view of justification. In contrast to what was being taught for so many years leading up to the Reformation. So first I want to talk about the Roman Catholic view of justification, and then secondly, I want to talk about the right view of justification, the biblical view, the view that we hold to with all of our heart. Now the Roman Catholic view of justice What it is called, and this is a big word, but it doesn't it's really not that hard. It's sacerdotalism. You say, what in the word world does that mean? Sacerdotalism is just simply a word that comes from the Latin sacerdas, which means priest And it essentially means that salvation came by the ministrations of the priesthood. All of it came through the priesthood, sacerdotalism. And also the doctrine came out of a church Council, uh the Roman Church Council called the Council of Trent. They met in the 16th century. They met over really uh several years, but it was the sixth session Where they began to hammer out their view of justification. And again, let me tell you what the Roman Catholic view of justification is and what they taught, and why we hold to faith alone. First of all, they taught that the first step in justification is the sacrament of baptism. If you wanted to be justified You had to be baptized, and of course that meant sprinkling. Rome defined this as the instrumental cause of justification, or we would say it like this: it is justification by uh the instrument of justification. f of baptism, we could say. And of course they were you know really referring to all of those they were uh studies of causality by Aristotle in the back and I don't want to bore you with that. But they were basically saying Roman belief That the instrument by which a person was justified initially was the sacramental baptism. And when that happened, justification was infused, or is infused by grace. That is to say That when a person was baptized, what happened at that sacrament is that that person was infused with the substance of grace. That's what they would say. They would sometimes call it justifying grace. Now there is a debate among Roman Catholic theologians regarding the nature of grace. What is grace? Some would say that they described it as a kind of a substance, uh something that inhabits the soul. They would call it habitus Some kind of a substance that you receive when you're baptized, they would say. Now, we don't speak of grace as any kind of a substance, do we? We speak of grace as the activity of God. God. It is something that God does. It is something that God shows. We don't talk about grace in substantial terms. We talk about it as the love and the mercy and the gr and the favor of God towards us. But in Roman Catholic terms, this substance of grace is poured into the soul and it affects the They don't like to use the term automatic, but that's really what they say. They're saying if when you're baptized, you receive this infusion of grace and you're automatically then brought into the state of justification. But that's the first step. You're baptized, you are infused by grace. And here's the The third thing, believers then must cooperate with and assent to the grace. Let me quote to you the Council of Trent said you have to cooperate with and assent to this grace Grace that is infused in you. So as long as you're cooperating with this grace that has been infused with you within you, you You will remain justified before God and you're fine. But here's the fourth thing. A person is justified until or unless they commit a sin And the sin is called mortal because it kills the grace that God has infused in you. And the and and here in Roman Catholic theology they make a distinction between a venal sin Sin and a mortal sin. You say, what is a venal sin? It is a real sin, but it's any sin that's not mortal. A mortal sin is called that because again, it kills the grace Grace that is in a person. And so that's why it's called mortal. So in this theology, they're basically saying where we say where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. They're saying where grace abounded, sin did much more abundant. more abound because this mortal sin is able to kill that grace. They say there are certain sins Now the reformers opposed that by saying all sins are mortal in the sense that that we all deserve to die because of sin. Sin. However, there is no sin that is mortal to the Christian in the sense that it would destroy your salvation. Once you're saved, you can't lose that salvation, we would say But in Roman Catholic theology, if you commit a mortal sin and you die after you commit that mortal sin, you go to hell. And so the first thing I want you to see then about Roman Catholic j uh uh theology here with this view of justification is you can have real faith and still go to Hell. You can have real faith and still be sent to hell to be judged. But here's the fifth thing you need to know about their theology. Faith is n they would say faith is necessary for salvation, but it's not sufficient for salvation. Now what is You know, Roman Catholic theology distinguishes between what they call a necessary condition and a sufficient condition. They would say that Fa is a necessary condition for salvation, but it's not a sufficient condition for salvation. You say, what's the difference? Well, think about this. If we wanted to go out into the woods and build a fire. We would need oxygen in order for us to have a fire, right? Because you have to have oxygen before you can start a fire. We would say that oxygen is a necessary condition for a fire to occur But it's not a sufficient condition because you need more than just oxygen to start a fire. If all you needed was oxygen in order to have fire, that means that there would be fire everywhere there's oxygen. Thank God that's not the case, right? Because everything would be on fire tonight if all you needed was oxygen. And so uh you need oxygen, it is necessary, but you need more than that because it is not sufficient That's the difference. You see, you can have you can't have fire without oxygen, but you can have oxygen without fire. This illustrates the difference between necessary and sufficient. Now the Roman Catholic Church's view of faith, they say that faith is a necessary condition for justification. It's just not sufficient For justification. You need more than just faith. You can have faith and not be justified. Whereas that's, of course, not the Protestant view. We would say it's not just a necessary condition for justification, it is sufficient for justification. If you have true faith, you have true justification. Now, the Roman Catholic Church says you do need faith. Faith is part of it. They would say that faith is the initium or the beginning of salvation. It is the fundamentum. It is the foundation of salvation. Salvation, they would say that it is the radicals, it is the root of all salvation. And so when someone says that you know the Catholic Church doesn't believe in faith, that's not true. They believe that you have to have faith, it's just that you have to have more than that A lot more. They teach that it is an initial element, it's a foundational element, but more is necessary You see, in the sola fide, it's not the fide that the Catholic Church had the problem with, faith, it is the sola, it is faith alone. that they had the now with because Rome denied that faith was a sufficient condition. Now why Did they deny this? Well, because mortal sins, as I said, kills saving grace, and a person loses their justification. And here's where the problem comes in. If you commit a mortal sin and you lose your justification, those mortal sins kill or destroy that grace. And again, once a person loses their their salvation, they lose their justification. They basically say, you know, you've lost it and you have to do something to get it back. Now the question would be what are the sins that a person can commit that could cause them, according to the Catholic Church, to lose your salvation? And they list First Corinthians chapter six verses nine through ten, that list of sins there that are catalog, fornicators, idolaters and so on, all the way down to drunkards and extortioners. And then they add to that 1 Timothy chapter 1, verse 9. We would see these as being bad things. Believers don't live in these things. They don't practice these things. as a pattern of life as believers. We could fail in one of these things, but we struggle against sin, right, as believers. We we we have the the work of the Holy Spirit helping us to overcome Then you have committed a mortal sin, you are now lost, and you are now on your way to purgatory. Which means here's the next thing A second plank of justification is the sacrament of penance, by which works of satisfaction must be done. So here's what they say They say if you lose your justification, you need the what they call the second plank of justification for those who have made shipwreck of their faith. And this is the big question. If you lose your justification, how do you get it back? Now we would naturally say, well, if you got justification by baptism, did you just be rebaptized and get it back? But they would say, no, that's not the answer. Okay, your theology, they say you can't get baptized again because there is an indelible mark that you received in your original baptism. You say, Well What does that mean? I have absolutely no idea what that means. But there's an indelible mark left. And so you you can't get baptized again to get your justice. And it was this sacrament that took center stage during that time of the Reformation. In the controversy, you say, what is penance? Well, it included several things. First of all, there was confession to a priest. You would have to go to a priest to confess your sins. It can't Be attrition, they would say, which is really just repenting out of a fear of punishment. It had to be true contrition, such as we see in the life of David in Psalm fifty-one. There has to be priestly absolution where you go to confess your sin, and the priest says, absolvo, and those sins are absolved. And then on top of that, there has to be works of satisfaction If you want to get your salvation back, if you want to get your justification back, you have to have that faith. But along with that, you have to do these things. You have to do these works And again, here's where the problem resides. You say, what are some of those works of satisfaction that you would have to You would have to say so many Hail Marys. You would have to give alms to the poor. This is called congruous merit because it's congruous of God when He sees a person doing these things merits or things that a person does where God uh gives rewards for that. And if you do so many of these things, then you can earn your salvation back. By these works that you do. In fact, it would be uh God would be acting incongruously if He did not restore that person back And so they go through this process of penance and they get it back, and then what hap you know what happens after that? You commit another mortal sin, and guess what? You have to do So it's this constant cycle of trying to get it back through works of satisfaction And if you commit another mortal sin, you go through that process again. But if a person dies with any any impurity on his or her soul, then that person goes to purgatory. called purgatory because it uh because it purges you from that impurity. You spent so many years there, and again according to Roman Catholic theology, a person could spend two weeks in purgatory or he can spend two Two million years, but it's according to your sin. That's what they would teach. But you will not get to heaven until you are inherently right. But then there's another issue here, and that is this issue of the treasury of merits. Another part of this work satisfaction that a person does was the teaching that the church, regarding the treasury of merits, that there is merits Now, where did these merits come from? These merits came from other saints in the church that had so much righteousness in their life, and they had more righteousness than they needed, and so So what would happen to this extra righteousness is that they would store it up in heaven in the treasury of merit. And if you, a sinner here on earth, needed extra righteousness. Applied to you, you could get some of that merit from those saints, and you could have it applied to you. Now, how do you do this? Well, it's through the sale of what is called an Indulgence. What is an indulgence? An indulgence is really a statement or a an authoritative uh A decision from the Pope, and you're given a piece of paper with his seal on it that says that some of the merits from the saints in heaven are now being given to you because you bought this indulgence Now there were two kinds of indulgences. There was partial indulgences, and oh you can buy an indulgence for a dead loved one, or you can buy one for yourself And a partial indulgence means you get part of your sentence uh rest uh taken away from you in purgatory. Uh you don't have to spend so many years with a partial indulgence But then there was a plenary indulgence, which meant that if you buy this indulgence, you're fully pardoned from purgatory. You don't have to spend any time there And again, this is what was at the forefront of the Reformation. Because you know why? Because at that time, around the time of the Reformation, the Pope Leo of the Roman Catholic Church decided He wanted to build up St. Peter's Basilica. He was building the Vatican. And you know what he needed a lot of? He needed a lot of money. And how is he going to raise this money? He decided to have a special sale on plenary indulgences. For a limited time only. You can come and you can buy this plenary indulgence. And if you buy this indulgence, by the way, you can buy it for yourself or you can buy it for a loved one. And you can be fully relieved from any suffering that was in purgatory. Uh you you if you have a dead loved one, you can buy a plenary indulgence for them that is there in hell. And so uh Rome began this special sale of indulgences, right around the time of Martin Luther, who was a young priest at that time. And by the way, Rome also had a really good salesman. His name was Tetzel He was a great salesman as far as getting people to buy indulgences. And he was very dramatic. And what he would do is he would come to a town and he would build a bonfire and he would say, Can't you hear Hear the screams of your loved ones that are in hell and purgatory, and you can get them out, and all you have to do is buy this plenary and And they will no longer be rings hell. And he had a little jingle that he would like to say. When a coin in the coffer rings, a soul from purgatory springs That's what he would say. And it was against these abuses that Martin Luther reacted And he saw the abuse. He saw this corrupt system. He saw this false gospel. And he had already studied the Bible where the Bible says the just shall live by faith. And when he saw this corrupt system, he nailed his 95 feces to the door at the church. church in Wittenberg. These were 95 areas of disagreement with the abuse of this whole system. How that it was wrong, how that it was ungodly. So thus in Roman Catholic theology, justification is affected sacramentally. through this whole system. So just in summary, they would say that it's through the sacrament of baptism, grace is infused You have to cooperate with that grace. If you don't, you lose your justification. Faith is a necessary condition, but it's not sufficient. You have to do works of satisfaction To help you along. And a person is justified by faith plus works. And by the way, the Catholic Church anathematized this idea of sola fide to say that all you need is. Faith, they said that that was a false gospel. But friend, again, we know that that's not at all what the scripture teaches. So I want you to look in Romans chapter 3. And I want us to look again in the biblical understanding against that error, against the contrast of what they teach. Let's look at the right view of justification. As we would say faith is uh we would say that justification is uh the or regarding this doctrine of justification is that the instrumental cause of justification is faith Which God alone. Now faith is not the ground of justification, but it is the instrument which God links us up to the works of Christ. Christ for salvation. And so let me give you a definition of justification, and then I want to kind of go through the definition. Or legally declares the sinner righteous in Christ by faith alone. Think about that. It is the gracious act whereby God Forensically or legally declares the sinner righteous in Christ by faith alone. So let's just parse this definition. First of all Justification is a gracious act, meaning it is by the grace of God, the undeserved favor of God. Look in Romans chapter 3, look at verse 24. Being justified freely by his grace. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Freely, meaning a gift. It is something that God gives to us, something that is undeserved. We cannot work for. Human effort and works can do nothing. In fact, look down at chapter 3, verse 27, where it says, Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? Of works? No. But by the law of faith. We can't boast in anything. We can't boast in any work. It is by faith. Again, and this justification, it is an act, not a process. It is an act that God does, and we'll look at that. But you don't get justified over a period of time by doing certain things. It debunks that whole idea So it is an act and notice the next part whereby God a gracious act of God. Now when the word justification is used here in Romans 3, it is passive in voice, meaning the subject is not acting, but being acted upon. Again, we do nothing for ourselves. It is something that God does for us. And again, Romans 324, God being noticipied freely by his grace. is the work of God. But notice the third part where God f we we said forensically declares the sinner righteous. Now when we say the word forensic, that's a theological word. A lot of times when we hear that word, what do we We think of a criminologist doing kind of a forensic examination, but really it is a legal term. And it just simply means a declaration, a legal declaration For example, a judge at a court of law, when he uses a term, a forensic term, will say something like this, not guilty. That is a forensic declaration. A legal declaration. Or we might hear something like this: when a husband and wife take each other at the wedding altar, we'll hear someone say, I now pronounce you what? Husband and wife. That's a legal declaration. That's a forensic declaration. And so what are we saying that justification is? It is God making the legal declaration that the sinner is now righteous. You are now declared by God righteous. You are now under no condemnation. That is what is declared about you and I the moment we put our faith in Christ. But here's the next part of the definition. Notice the part in Christ. In Christ. Look at verse 24 again. Being justified freely by his grace. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in His blood to declare His righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. And so it's by the merits of Christ, it is because of Christ that God can make this declaration. Uh just for an example, how is it that God can just simply declare a sinner righteous? What would we think about a judge who took a criminal and And some people would ask this question, what about all those saints in the old Testament? How come God did not judge those saints who committed sins in the Old Testament? How could God uh declare them righteous, men like Abraham and men like David? Well this verse really kind of gives us the answer to that because in the Old Testament what we see is there's a tension, isn't there? In Exodus thirty four, when God revealed himself to Moses. He used words to talk about his grace and his forgiveness. He also used words to talk about his justice and his wrath. God is a God of wrath who judges sin, but he's also a God of forgiveness who forgives sin but there's a tension there. How can God be holy and still just arbitrarily declare a person to be righteous? In other words, the question is how can God be just and the justifier? That's the question. And we see this question asked here in this passage of scripture. when it says in verse number 24, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus And drop down to verse 26 to declare, I say, at this time his righteousness that he might be just and the justifier of him which believed. How can God be just and And yet at the same time justify. And there's a tension that is resolved where? It's resolved in the cross of Christ. You know why God can declare a person righteous? Because of Christ. Christ. Because of Christ. In Christ. Because on the cross, Christ was the propitiation for sin. He satisfied the wrath of God For sin. You see, in the Old Testament, God was looking forward to the cross. That's why the Bible says right here, He could forbear. He could be forbearing about the sins of saints in the Old Testament. Why? Why could God be patient and forbearing and forbearing forgive them because God was looking forward to the cross. And the cross was the reason why that God who is holy can still remain holy and declare others righteous because of the sacrifice of Christ. And of course, we know that that's propitiation, and that's why God can be the just and the justifier. His son died for all of those sins on the cross. And so we continue in the definition then that justification is the gracious act whereby God declares the sinner righteous in Christ. And we would say, here's the last part, by faith. Solophide. Faith alone. Now there's a lot more I can say. In fact, I have a lot more notes here But I'm going to spare you that. You know what the Bible says regarding this. Faith and faith alone. Faith Is, and by the way, the Greek preposition here, die, it means faith as a channel. Again, faith is not the ground of salvation If it were, it would be a substitute for righteousness. Faith is the channel for salvation. Faith is what links us up to God's saving power. That's what we're saying here. In order to spend a twenty dollar bill, you have to have faith and it's purchasing power. But you can't go up to the cashier and say, Where's your money? And say, Well, I have faith That's not gonna work. That's wonderful you have faith. Where's your purchasing power? Then I pull out the money. My faith is in this this is the this is the thing that I put my faith in. Our faith is in the purchasing Power of Christ on the cross for our sins. Faith in him, faith and faith alone. Solafide. That's what we believe. That's what we teach. There's nothing that we can do. And of course, we know that wonderful verse in Ephesians: for by grace are you saved through faith. Not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And this is why this was so important. Because this was not taught. And by the way, let me just say this: did you know that the Catholic still teaches those things today? They still teach indulgences, they still teach treasury of merits, they still teach penance, all of those things. It is a false gospel. It is a corrupt gospel. We believe that salvation comes by faith alone in the finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow For prayer together tonight. And so, Father, we we thank you for this wonderful principle of faith alone. And Lord, although we we know these things as your people We thank you, Lord, that you have opened our eyes to see the true gospel. That, Lord, there's nothing we can do to merit or earn our own salvation But we look to the cross. We place our faith in the cross. And the cross of Christ the world. Alone and faith alone. And Lord, I pray if there's someone here tonight that has not been to the cross in salvation, that they would see that there's no works that they could do. There's nothing else, Lord, that they could add to what you've already done in Christ. And I pray, Lord, that they would exercise faith in the faith. finished work of Christ and with heads bowed and eyes closed. I don't know, maybe perhaps by chance you might be here tonight and you've been questioning things about salvation. Maybe you've even wondered why it's so important that I have just faith. There's nothing I can do for my own salvation. You know, the pride of man wants to say that there's some contribution that I can make to my salvation. But friend, you can do nothing. It's already been purchased by the blood of Christ on the cross. What you can do is put your faith And if you haven't already done that I would ask that you do that right now where you are. Would you just pray this prayer and mean it in your heart, Lord Jesus? Thank you for dying for me on the t on the cross. And I come to you today, and I put my faith Faith in you. I know there's nothing I can do. There's no work that I can do. But just to simply place my faith in what you have already done. And friend I You'll pray that he will save you. The Bible says, as we said this morning, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Would you pray that and mean it? And if you pray that, would you let us know we wanna we want to help you? We want to encourage you in your Christian walk. Just come and talk to one of our our pastors here at the church So we can encourage you in your faith. Father, bless these words to your people. Thank you, Lord, for making these things so clear to us. Thank you for the wonderful gospel. Pray in Jesus' name, Amen.