It's good to see you here tonight. And uh I want you to take your Bibles and open please to the book of Second Timothy, chapter number three. Now I know that we've been doing a study in First Corinthians for a while. But what I want to do is I want to uh set that aside for just a few weeks. I want you to go to 2 Timothy chapter 3 tonight. 2 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 16 and verse 17, and these are very well-known passages Or verses of Scripture. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. I want to do a five-week series on a different topic called the five solas. Now, some of you may know that in 2017, this is the 500th anniversary of that momentous event in church history uh when Martin Luther nailed his 95 thesis to the door of the church in in Wittenberg, Germany. That was on October the thirty-first, fifteen seventeen. This was one of the great moments in history, let alone church. history. And this event began what we now know as the Protestant Reformation because Martin Luther was protesting the error, the doctrinal and theological errors that were being taught by the Roman Catholic Church. And out of the Protestant Reformation came what Theologians and pastors alike have called the five solas. Now, first of all, by way of introduction, let me just ask a few questions and we'll answer some of that as we get into our sermon tonight. First of all, number one, what are the five solas? Well the five soul is really is just a term used to designate five great foundational rallying cries from the Protestant reformers. We could call these battle cries And really they bring us back to the essentials, to things that are very, very important. We would say that we don't agree with everything that the reformers teach We don't agree with everything that came out of the Protestant Reformation. There's still a lot of work that needed to be done with that, however, there are some things that we need to lay hold of a fresh and anew even in our day today. And I would say that definitely these five solas are a part of that. Now what does the word sola mean? Sola is a Latin word that simply means alone, or we could say only, and it really has the idea of ground or base And so when we say the word sola, we're saying this is what is needed alone. And let me give you the five solas. They are as follows. Sola, scriptura. which simply means scripture alone, sola gracia, which means grace alone, sola fide, which means faith alone. Solas Christus, which means Christ alone, and sola deo gloria, which means glory to God alone. Now, these things are so very important. for us to grab hold on. And these five solos were really developed in response to the specific perversions that were being taught uh by the Roman Catholic Church. The church, the Roman church taught that the foundation for faith and practice was a combination of scripture plus the words of the Pope, the magisterium, uh, but the reformers said no, our foundation is sola scriptura, scripture alone. Scripture alone. The church taught that a person is saved through a combination of God's grace and the merits that we accumulate through penance and good works. And the superfluity of the merits of the saints that are already in heaven and the reformers came along and said, No, we're saved sola gracia, we're saved by grace, the grace of God alone. And the church taught that you're basically you are saved by faith, but it's faith plus your works, the things that you do, the merits, the penance And the reformer said, no, sola fide, you are saved by faith alone. And then the Catholic Church taught that you're saved by the merits of Christ plus the merits of saints And those who intercede for you, the saints in heaven, and the reformers said, no, absolutely not. We approach God and we're saved by solus Christus Christ alone. And then of course there was what the church taught regarding what they call the theology of glory, in which they said the glory for a sinner's salvation partly goes to Christ, and partly it goes to the sinner for his own works that he does. And the reformer said, No, absolutely not. Christ does all the saving, therefore he gets all the glory Solide O Gloria. Glory to God alone. And that's what these things mean. Now let me ask you another question. What do we mean by sola scriptura? What that basically means simply is this that the scripture is the primary, the supreme, absolute source of authority. It is our chief Supreme, ultimate authority. That doesn't mean that there aren't other authorities. The Bible itself affirms that there are other God-given authorities in our life But what sola scriptura means is that the Bible is the ultimate authority. If those authorities don't align with the Bible, we go with the Bible because the Bible is our chief, ultimate, final authority. And so someone wrote it by wrote it like this. This means that all other authorities are to be followed only in as much as they align with scripture, submit to Scripture and are seen as subservient to scripture, which alone is our supreme authority. Here's a third question. Why is sola scriptura so important? Because for centuries the Roman Catholic Church had made its traditions superior to the authority of the Bible You see, the Pope and the church and the magisterium stood in judgment over the Bible instead of the Bible standing in judgment over the popes and the traditions and the result of that was many practices uh that were allowed into the church that were contradictory to scripture. There were many errors, doctrinal errors, that began to seep into the church, prayers to saints and to Mary, the Immaculate Conception, which basically teaches that Mary herself was uh virgin-born. immaculately conceived. Transubstantiation, infant baptism, papal authority, and on we go. We can go down the line. Number four, let me ask this question. What does Sola Scriptura affirm? And really, this is the body of the message I want to give you tonight. What I want you to see tonight is that solar scriptura affirms at least seven. truths about the scripture and we need to affirm these things with all our heart. Here's the first one. You're taking notes right down. Number one, sola scriptura affirms the inspiration of scripture. Look in 2 Timothy chapter 3 and look at verse 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. It is profitable for doctrine, for improvement, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Now there are three words. All these words are important, but three that are really important in verse 16. The word all there is the Greek word passa, and you know what that word means? It means all And then there's the word scripture, which is graphe, and it's where we get the word graphite, which is really used to make pencils, and the word means Actually the written words, all or every written word. And then look at the word inspiration. That's another key word in that verse. The word inspiration is the Greek word theo neustos. Theo meaning God. Nystos meaning breathed out. All written words Are breathed out or come out of the mouth of God. You see, that's where the inspiration lies. Inspiration lies in the actual written words You know, when I'm speaking here tonight, I'm breathing out. Uh the the air comes through over my tongue and through my lips and teeth to form and make words. That's the idea here when we what we have is in the written word are words that came out of the very mouth of God to us. And again, inspiration lies in the written word. It doesn't lie in the thoughts. There are some people that say, well, it just simply means that God inspired the thoughts of the writers and they use their own words. No. Every written word is inspired by God. Inspiration is not the product of human genius The way the writers uh you know writings like Shakespeare and Dante we say, oh they must have been inspired when they wrote that. That's not the same as the inspiration of scripture. It is not the work of human genius. It is not limited to the thoughts of the writers. It is uh it is the act where God guides the writers, giving them the words That they're to write fully using the human element, fully using their human personality, and yet the words that they choose are the words that God had already chosen in eternity past Because the Bible says, Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Their education, their background, the uh w all of that, he so arranged that so that the words that they chose under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Were the words that God had already chosen in eternity past. And so we affirm that the Bible is verbally, that is every word plenary, fully inspired by God. This is foundational. Number two, sola scriptura affirms not only the inspiration of scripture, but secondly, out of necessity, it affirms the inerrancy of scripture. Just write down the verse, Psalm 19, verse number 7. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. When we talk about inerrancy, this is the doctrinal teaching that the scriptures are without error. You see, we have a God who's perfect, and if he wrote a book, it would make sense that what he writes is perfect and infallible and inerrant and that's what we mean when we talk about the inerrancy of scripture. Sometimes the word infallibil infallibility is used synonymously with the word inerrancy, but it simply means this. If the Bible is inspired and it is, it follows logically that what God wrote would be without error. Error, scientific error or anything else, that means that has a theological impact on that because if the Bible were in error in those things, that means we would we would question whether we could Trust the rest of the theological message. But we know that the Bible is without error. Absolutely, without error. These things work together. Now you say, why is this important? Well, this is important as Especially back in the time of the Reformation, because the Catholic Church taught that the Pope was infallible, that he was without error. In fact, let me just read to you what one Catholic scholar wrote. Uh, he said, This he who does not accept the doctrine of the Church of Rome and Pontus Pontiff of Rome as an infallible rule of faith from which the Holy Scripture Scriptures too draw their strength and authority is a heretic. Did you get that? You have to believe that the Pope is infallible, he is without error, and the scriptures themselves get their authority from him. That's what they're saying there. They believe that the Pope, whenever he spoke ex cathedral, which literally means out of the chair that when he spoke he was speaking divine revelation. He was speaking inerrant truth. Another Catholic scholar says this. Not only were the Roman Church and Pope considered infallible, but the authority of the church stood explicitly above that of the scriptures, even the authorization of the scriptures Scriptures. Now along came the Reformers and Martin Luther, who strongly disagreed, and he replied to these men and said that the Pope is not without error, only the Scripture. Is without error. In fact, there was a time when Martin Luther had a debate with a Catholic scholar by the name of Kajetin, and they met and they actually debated, and the debate lasted for several days. And Cajun said that the scriptures must be interpreted by the Pope who is above not only councils but the scripture itself. And Martin Luther, this is what he said. He said the Pope abuses Scripture. I deny that he is above scripture. And one historian said that the more Cajun insisted upon the infallibility of The papacy, the more Luther insisted upon the authority and the inerrancy of Scripture. And that essentially about and Martin Luther continued to debate Catholic scholars over this one issue, but this is the issue of sola scroll Scriptura. The Bible is our final authority. And so we can move on. Let me go to the third thing. Sola scriptura affirms inspiration. Sola scriptura affirms the inerrancy of scripture. And then number three, sola scriptura affirms the clarity of scripture. Just write down the clarity of scripture Let me ask you a question. Can the Bible be understood only by scholars? And the answer to that is no. The Bible is written with clarity. A word that is used is perpiscuity. It's written with the idea that you can understand it. God's people can understand it. You don't have to have a theological education. You don't have to be trained in a seminary to understand the scripture. The Bible is written with clarity. Write down Psalm 19, verse 7. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the wise. What? Even the most simple minded, naive person can come to the scripture and it will help them. The Bible says the entrance of your words gives light, it gives understanding Standing unto the simple. And again, this is talking about someone who is just very simply naive. They might not know a whole lot, but you can come to the scripture And you can know it, you can understand it. Look at 2 Timothy 3. Look at verse number 15. Notice what Paul said to Timothy. He said, From a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make Timothy, you have learned the scripture since you were Napos, just a little child. Did you know that little children can learn scripture Little children can learn great doctrines of the Bible. And Jesus, by the way, affirmed the clarity of Scripture. Think about Jesus. You remember all the debates that he had with the Pharisees? And remember that in Jesus' day when they were reading the Old Testament, they were reading things that were written a thousand years ago. Years before them. David was a thousand years before the time of Jesus. Moses was fifteen hundred years And so already they had scriptures that were thousands of years old and they would read these scriptures and Jesus would debate the Pharisees and he would say to them, You do error not knowing the scripture. You never hear Jesus saying, Oh, I understand why you made that error, because you know after all the Bible is so old and hard to understand. See him. He never said that. He said, You do err, not knowing the scripture. He said, Haven't you ever read this? Haven't you ever seen this? What was Jesus affirming that the Bible is clear. Anyone can understand this. The psalmist said in Psalm 119, 105, Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. How could he see say that if the scripture were unclear. If the scripture were unclear, it wouldn't be a light unto our path. It wouldn't be a lamp unto our feet. And so we understand that the Bible was written with clarity. And the reason I say this is because every once in a while I'll hear someone say, oh, you know, the Bible is such a great book, such an awesome book. I would never venture to think that I could really understand what it said. And what that is, is that is a backhanded slap against the Bible. If you can't understand what it says, what good is it for us? It's really an attack against the Scripture. No, Scripture is clear. The reformer John Knox said, You shall believe the God who speaks plainly in his word. And he does speak plainly in the scripture. Let me give you a fourth thing. Sola Scriptura affirms the inspiration of Scripture. Sola Scriptura affirms the inerrancy of Scripture. Sola Scriptura affirms the clarity of Scripture. But here's number four. Sola Scriptura affirms the effectiveness of Scripture. That is to say, that God's word will do the work of God It is effective. What did the Bible say? So shall my word be that goes out of my mouth. It will not return to me void. It will accomplish the purpose What does the Bible say in Hebrews 4 12? The word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. That's why Paul said to Timothy, Timothy, look, here's your ministry. Just simply preach the word and let the word do the work because the word of God is effective. Martin Luther said this after he had to see that never a prince or an emperor inflicted such damage upon it. He said, I did nothing, the word did it all. When he just simply preached the word, you know what? The word had that effect It it was it had a pulling down effect. It pulls down error, it exalts the truth, and it brings salvation to souls, which leads to the The fifth thing. Sola scriptura affirms the inspiration of scripture, it affirms the inerrancy of scripture, it affirms the clarity, the effectiveness. But here's number five. What do we mean when we say sufficiency? We can divine can define that like this. The sufficiency of scripture means that the scripture contains all of the words of God that He intended for us to have in order to help us live a life of godliness and sanctification. And righteousness. You have all that you need. The scripture is not merely helpful, but it is the source that we turn to in the Christian life for all of what we need. Anything God would call us to do in obedience to his will as his children can be found in the scripture. And that's what uh Paul means when he says the Word of God is profitable for doctrine and for reproof and for correction and and instruction and righteousness. that the man or woman of God will be furnished unto every good work. Again, why is this important? Because Because in the days of the before just before the Reformation, the Catholic Church again believed that the Bible was subservient to the Pope, and when the Pope would speak, he was giving Added revelation. And what does that imply? That the Bible's not enough. You need more than just the scripture. You need more than just the written word. And so he would give his people decrees and again when he spoke he spoke infallibly but what does the Bible tell us in the book of Revelation? If anyone adds anything to this revelation, this book, God will add to them the plagues that are in this book. If anything, take If anyone takes away from the words of this book, God will take their name out of the book of life. What does that verse imply? That you have already everything that you need. You don't need to add anything to it. You don't need to take anything from it. The word of God is sufficient. Let me move on to the sixth point. And the solar scriptura affirms, number six, the authority of Scripture. And again, this is something that is naturally flows from the idea of inspiration. If the Bible is inspired and it is, that means it has to be inerrant. That means it is clear because God is revealing Himself. It's a Effective because it will accomplish God's purpose. It is sufficient because it's all of what God wants us to have, but it also carries with it the authority of God Do you realize that when a preacher stands and preaches and gives the word of God, that word has all the authority of heaven behind it? So you better submit to it. It's not my authority, I have no authority, but the word of God has authority. I'm just a voice. I'm here to tell you what God says, and we must submit to it. The Bible says in Isaiah 1:2: Hear, O heaven, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. And when a preacher preaches the scripture, then God is speaking. Paul said to Titus, these things, talking about the scripture. Speak and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee. Now let me give you the last point. And you say, boy, we're going to get out early because we got 15 minutes. But I'm going to spend fift every bit of those minutes on this last point. But write down number six Sola Scriptura affirms the interpretativeness of scripture. That's a kind of difficult word to say. Interpretativeness. But it just simply means that the scripture can be correctly interpreted. The best interpreter of scripture is scripture. And this is also called the analogy of scripture or the analogy of faith. That when we're trying to understand what the Bible says, the best commentary is to go to other versions. Verses and compare scripture with scripture because this shows us again that the Bible was given to us by God, even though it was written by 40 different authors over a period of sixteen hundred years. It has this remarkable unity about it. Because it was given under inspiration. Which is why we can go to one passage after another, and it gives us light, it gives us understanding. But in the days of the Reformation, the scripture was lost. And why was it lost? It was lost for really two great reasons. First of all, again, the Catholic Church taught that the common lay people couldn't correctly interpret the Bible, and so they did not give people the Bible. In fact, there were papal decrees that said that common lay people can't have the Bible. They didn't want people to have the scripture Because they felt that it would do a lot of harm for people to have the Bible in their own language for them to read. Because they thought that you, as a lay person, you didn't have the ability to interpret the Bible That had to be done through the church. The magisterium of the church was the infallible interpreter of Scripture. The church would tell you what to believe If you had a question about theology, you would simply submit that question to the church, and the church would give you a an answer on that. And that was it. End of discussion. And you were to believe that, so all of what you were supposed to believe, you just got it handed down to you from the church. You couldn't check it out for yourself. You couldn't read it for yourself. You just believed it. And by the way, if you didn't believe it, you were in trouble. So all of your theological belief was really outsourced to the church. You believed what the church said. See if it were true, none of that, because if you had a Bible, they believe you wouldn't be able to understand it or read it or correctly interpret it anyway. But there's another reason why the Bible was lost, and people couldn't interpret the scripture For themselves. And that is because, according to them, of course, I don't believe that. You can interpret the scripture. But number two, the literal interpretation of scripture was forsaken For an allegorical method. And for this reason, the true meaning of Scripture was lost. Now, first of all, what is a literal interpretation of Scripture? This is really, when we talk about a literal approach, it sometimes is called the historical, grammatical, literal interpretation. Interpretation of the Bible, that is, I consider the passage in all of its historical context. I consider all the words and I interpret those words literally, just like I would when I read any letter that was written to me. I use this illustration this morning in Sunday school, but let me just use it here again. Let's just suppose that I got a letter from the IRS. Now, by the way, I didn't get a letter from the IRS, okay? Let's just suppose I got a letter from the IRS and it just said, uh dear Mr. Harmon, uh you are behind on your taxes. You owe this much money, and if you don't pay This much money by this date, then you will have to come to court, and it's very possible that you could go to jail. And when I got that letter, I read the letter, and I said, you know what? There's a deeper meaning behind these words here. I'm not going to take this literally. I'm going to look deeper into what they really meant because there's something here that is much deeper. I think When it's talking about the money that I owe, actually, that's really referring to the gold of my soul. They're talking about my inward character. And when it's talking about the money or or it's talking about the d the date that's due, that's really referring Referring to a season of time, a season of life. And when it refers to prison, that's really not a literal prison. That's talking about uh something that God wants to do greatly in my life And I read the letter and I interpret it and I look and I find the hidden, deeper meaning of the letter, and finally the IRS comes to me and says, Did you get our letter? And I said, Oh Oh yes, I got your letter, and I want you to know that I read it and I interpreted and I found the hidden meaning of it. And they said, Where is our money? And I say, no, wait a minute, that word money didn't literally mean money, did it? And they said, yes, it did mean money. I said, why? I look at the deeper meaning, they say, well, you're deeper in debt as a result And now you're going to be cast deeply into prison. Because what? I didn't read the letter literally. I didn't take it literally And just like we would take a letter and read it literally, that's the way we're to read the Bible. What if a Supreme Court justice decided to interpret the law, not based on a historical literal approach to law, but he decided to really twist it and fit it in his own way, then he wouldn't be administrating what was intended by that law. Well this was going on In the medieval church, there were men who were looking at the allegorical approach, not the literal approach to scripture. But the allegorical approach to Scripture, you say, what is that? The allegorical approach to Scripture really is based on the idea that beneath the literal meaning of Scripture, there is a hidden secret meaning. And you have to go deeper. You have to get that allegorical spiritual meaning. The literal meaning was the husk. The deeper spiritual meaning. Meaning was the kernel, and the husk had to be stripped away, and you had to get down to the hidden meaning. And so church leaders began to look beneath the surface To find the hidden meaning. For example, let me give you what one guy in that era, how he interpreted Genesis 2, when God took a rib from Adam and Eve This is what he wrote. He said he took one of his ribs, and when he did, he took one of the many powers of the mind, namely that power which dwells in the outward senses. And when he uses the expression he took, we're not to understand as if he had took away, but rather as equivalent to he counted and he examined. What? When it says he took a rib, you know what? What I think it means? He took a rib. That's the literal approach. But now they're looking beneath the surface Here's another example about the story in Genesis 14 about the four kings. Remember, Abraham fought the four kings in Genesis fourteen. This writer says that these are the four passions, pleasure, desire. fear and grief. And the other five kings in this passage represent the five senses because they rule over us. And in Genesis 14, the five are Subject to the four and paid them tribute. So from our senses arises passions of pleasure, fear, which dominate our senses, and on he goes And you know what's lost in all of that? All this deeper spiritual meaning, you're losing out on the literal interpretation of scripture. You see, when we come to the Bible, we are to discern what God intended to say to that original audience. We've learned that so that we can apply that to us in this day. We extract from that a timeless principle that we are to apply to ourselves today. But what happened was the real meaning was lost. Let me give you one more illustration. Here's another example of the story of the Good Samaritan. According to this one uh allegorist interpreter. He said in the story, the man who fell among the thieves, that's Adam. Jerusalem is the heavenly city. Jericho is the moon, a symbol of immortality. The thieves that he fell among are the devil and his angels. The priests and the Levite represent the Old Testament, the Samaritan, Christ, the beast represents the flesh, Christ's flesh at the incarnation, the end represents the church, the innkeeper is the Apostle Paul. The two pence given by the Good Samaritan represent baptism and the Lord's Supper. The literal meaning is lost. And all of that. And so what happened in the medieval church in this day, the Bible became like a wax nose. Where you can shape it and you can make it say anything that you wanted it to say, and as a result of that, what was lost. The consequences was that the truth was Was lost. And the gospel was lost. There was a lack of expository preaching. There was the deterioration of Christianity, the ordinance of believers, baptism quickly degenerated into baptismal regeneration. The Lord's supper degenerated into a something where you you needed to do in order to be saved. All these errors begin to creep into the church church leadership uh began to uh develop into some kind of a priestly hierarchy instead of the normal biblical government that the Bible prescribes of pastor and deacons. There was this hierarchy. And people were turning away from the truth. There was even a school in that day that trained ministers to interpret the Bible allegorically And heresy sprang up all around. And during that time the Catholic Church began to rise up, and they said now all real interpretation of Scripture has to come through us. You don't really understand. You don't have the mind to understand the spiritual meanings of scripture. And so it has to come through the church. Church because you can't understand it on your own. It has to come through the Pope. It has to come through the magisterium. And the original languages were never consulted And so people couldn't know the truth. They were in bondage to a system, a system that was a surrogate Christ, and it sucked the life out of the people because they didn't have the truth for themselves. What happened? Eventually there were some men that got tired of this approach There were some men that rose up that went back to the literal interpretation of Scripture that believed that the Bible had to be given into the hands of people, men like John Wycliffe, men like John Huss. John Wycliffe was called the morning star of the Reformation because he believed that the people of God should have the Bible in their hands. They should have it in their own language. He was the first one to translate the Bible into the language of The only problem was he didn't translate it from the original languages of Hebrew and Greek because they weren't really available in his time. So he translated it from the Latin into the English And he tried to give the Bible into people's hands, and because he tried to do that, guess what happened to him? He was killed by the church. He was martyred. He was burned at the stake And what did he believe about the literal interpretation of Scripture? Let me read to you what he said. He said, Thou shalt understand, therefore, that the scripture hath but one sense Which is the literal sense, and that literal sense is the root and ground of all, and the anchor that never faileth, whereunto if thou cleave, thou canst never err or go out of the way He shunned that allegorical approach. He said the literal approach is the right approach. And finally, just Just before the Reformation broke out, there was another battle cry that was called Ad Fantes, that is back to the Fountain. There were a certain group of men Who began to interpret the Bible literally again, and they would say, We have to go back to the fountain, which meant we have to get back to the original sources and translate the Bible for ourselves. There was a man by the name of Johann Rushlin who gave the a Hebrew Bible, the first Hebrew Bible, so that you can uh translate it into English. And then a man by the name of Erasmus gave the first new Greek new Testament. So all of a sudden now there are men who have the original languages. There was a saying back in that time that Erasmus laid the egg that Luther hatched. Because he came up with the Greek New Testament and Luther came along. And of course, you know the story of Martin Luther. He was a tormented monk. He was a as a young man, he was going to be a lawyer. His father was giving him an education, but one day when there was a storm On his way home, the storm was especially fierce. And Martin Luther's a brilliant guy, but on this night, he didn't do something so smart. He got up on a hill and he hid under a tree in the middle of a thunder, a lightning storm Which I I hear you're never supposed to do that. And the lightning bolt crashed right down next to him, and he thought all the wrath of God was falling down on him And so at that moment he prayed to the only mediator that he knew at that time as a Catholic. He prayed to Saint Anne, who was the uh saint for minors. His father was a minor And he said, St. Ann, if if you mediate to me, to God, and if God will spare my life, I will become a monk. And of course, God did spare his life And he did enter the monastery, and Martin Luther had an acute awareness of the holiness of God, and he knew that the law of God, he knew that he was a sinner, and he would spend hours to his confessor Confessing his sin. He would spend six hours one day and then he would go back and spend six hours the next day. Because he was so sensitive to sin in his life. And someone said, Martin, you must really love God. He said, Love God. He said, I hate God Here is this God who gives us these commandments that we can't obey, and then he sentences us to hell because we can't obey them. He was so afraid, he was so tortured. And his superiors finally said, you know what? Let's give Martin a trip to Rome. Maybe going to Rome will help him. So he took a pilgrimage up to Rome. And by the way, the Roman Catholic Church had all kind of relics there in Rome because they believed that if you looked upon relics, there's a certain merit that's put under your record. There's grace that is imparted to you If you look at some of these relics, you know, God will count it for you. Not sure how all that system worked. But there in Rome they had supposedly fabric from the squaddling cloth of the baby Jesus. They supposedly had 13 pieces of his crib. They had straw from his manger. They supposedly had a piece of gold from the wise man. They had some of the myrrh that was given to Jesus They had a piece of the crown of thorns. They had nails from the cross. And none of that helped Martin Luther because you know what? He could see through all that. He saw it was a scam He saw it wasn't real. He later said that in Rome they had enough nails from the cross to shoe every horse in Saxony. It was all a scam. And then there was the holy stairs there at Rome where he would go up. There were people that would go up those stairs. These were supposedly the stairs That Jesus went up on the way to the cross, the Via della Rosa. The mother of Augustine dug those stairs up, brought them back to Rome. Tradition says you could actually still see some of the bloodstains of Christ there on those stairs. Again, who knows that's true. I don't believe that, but that's what they would say. And people would go up on their knees saying a Hail Mary on their knees. When they got to the top, they would go back down and do it again. They thought all that brought them merit. And Martin Luther did that. He went up those stairs on his knees, and when he got to the top, he turned around and looked and he said, Who knows if any of this is true? There was no peace in his soul, none whatsoever, until one day he was given an assignment to Teach a class, and they said, We're going to assign you a book that you must study. You're going to lecture on this book. We're going to assign you the book of Romans. Dangerous thing to do. Because Martin Luther now he had been influenced by men like John Huss and John Wycliffe and Johann Ruchlin, and he didn't believe in the allegorical interpretation of scripture. As a matter of fact, he called allegorical method of interpreting, he called it dirt. He called it scum. He called it obsolete loose loose rags. And he rejected The Catholic hermeneutic which said that the Church should determine what Scripture means. Luther believed that the Scripture should determine what the Church believed. Please, not the reverse. And so what did he do? He began to dig deep into the letter of Romans, interpreting The verses literally, and when he did that, he finally got to Romans 1:17, where it says, the just shall live by faith. And suddenly he saw it. Like a lightning bolt from heaven. He saw it that a person is saved not by their own merits But by faith in what Christ has already done for them on the cross. Our righteousness is not a righteousness that is ours, it is what they call righteousness An alien righteousness outside of us. It's not of us. It is a righteousness that belongs to Christ that is given to us when we put faith in what Jesus Christ did on the cross. It was gloriously saved. Simple. It was simply glorious for him. And later he would write this. He said, then I grasped That the justice of God is that righteousness by which through faith and sheer mercy God justifies us through faith. And he said, Thereupon I felt And to have gone through the open doors to paradise. The scripture took on a whole new meaning. And this passage The message of Paul became to me a gate to heaven. And indeed it was a gate to heaven. And it's a gate to heaven to anyone that will believe that there was Later on Luther would say Scripture alone Is the master of all writings and all doctrines on earth. Scripture alone. Sola scriptura. That was the battle cry. And you know what? We need to hold on to that today. Because I s I sense in the church uh other things seeping in To where people are no longer holding to Scripture as the ultimate authority, the final authority. May we hold to this one beautiful principle, sola Scriptura, scripture and scripture alone. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for your word. What a treasure that we have in the Scripture. And we thank you, Lord, that we live in a day and an age where, Lord, we have the Word of God. We have the scripture. And you've given us your Holy Spirit so that that Spirit can open our eyes. To see truth. Lord, you've given us the ability to discern and to know your truth. And so, Lord, we We thank you for that. And we pray, Lord, that you would help us to affirm this with all of our heart. May we believe the inspiration, the inerrancy, the clarity, the effectiveness of Scripture, the sufficiency of it, the authority of it, the ability to interpret it for ourselves, so that we can be built up into the faith. May we be a church and a people that holds to spiritual Sola scriptura in our life. And Lord, we pray all these things in the mighty name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.