Take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of Psalms. I want you to look to Psalm chapter 115. We're not going to stay there. I want to kind of use this verse as an introduction. To our uh message tonight. As you know, we have been going through uh the five solas of the Protestant Reformation. These are battle cries that came out of the Reformation. They were developed in response to the Specific perversions and corruptions of the truth that was being taught in the medieval church at the Roman Catholic Church in the Reformers, the Protestant reformers came out of that re Reformation holding firm to these five solas we call them. And the word sola simply means only. And we talked about sola scriptura, which means scripture alone or scripture only. Sola Gratia, which means grace alone, sola fide, faith alone, and solus Christus, Christ alone. And we've talked about these four and tonight we go to the last of these pillars which is solid deo gloria and that is glory to God alone. So look in Psalm 115 and look in verse number 1 and notice what it says there. Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory for thy mercy and for thy Truth's sake. God alone deserves the glory. And that's what we want to talk about here tonight. Now I would say that This one uh sola that we're gonna talk about tonight, Sola de O Gloria, really ties all of the others together. And all these things are very core to the gospel message. We say that the gospel comes by grace alone and is all the grace of God. We just heard a great song tonight about God's grace. It is truly amazing. We are all here. We're saved by the grace of Almighty God. It was His grace that brought us unto Himself. And then by faith alone, faith is the Instrument that we use that connects us through the saving power of Christ, and we would say Christ alone. It is Christ and His cross, the work that Jesus did on His cross, that is the only thing we need for salvation, what Jesus did for us. And so if salvation then is by grace alone, through faith alone, by Christ alone, then the natural byproduct of that is that God gets the glory Alone. Because salvation is not of God. Or excuse me, salvation is not of us. Forgive me, Lord, for that last statement. Salvation is all of God. That goes counter to what I'm trying to say tonight. That God alone gets the glory. Because God alone is the one who gives us our salvation. Salvation is all of God. And so now tonight, let me just Now, number one, salvation is for God's glory alone. And with that in mind, take your Bibles and go to the book of Ephesians, chapter one, and just look in Ephesians one. I just want to origin This is such a very rich chapter. You can spend months in this chapter. But look in Ephesians chapter 1. There's one particular expression that I want you to see that is mentioned several times. In verse number three, it says this, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. And if you want to know all those blessings, you can just read through this because really it names all the blessings. Blessings we have in Christ. If you haven't underlined that, you might want to in verse six to the praise of the glory of his grace. Go down to verse number twelve, that we should be to the praise of his glory who first tried We see that phrase again and then again in verse number fourteen, which is the earnest of our inheritance unto the redemption of our We see that phrase used there again. Three times at the beginning, in the middle, and the end, we see unto the God saves us, and the reason he does it is for his own glory. For the praise of his own glory. The Bible says this right down Psalm 79, verse 9. Help us, O God, our salvation, for the glory of thy name, and deliver us and purge away our sins for thy name's sake. God does it for his name's sake. In Isaiah verse chapter forty eight verse eleven for mine own sake, even for my own sake will I do Will I do it? For how shall my name be polluted, and I will not give my glory unto another? Now God is very jealous for his glory. God saves us for his own glory's sake, for his own namesake, and God is very jealous for his glory, the Bible says. He will not share his glory with another. But that's exactly what was happening in the the Roman Catholic theology. They were taking some of the glory of God. They were and and that's it's robbing and skimming some of that glory for themselves in their theology And they were really doing what Martin Luther labeled as a theology of glory. They were trying to get glory for themselves. The second point that I want you to see a preliminary thought, and that is man is constantly seeking glory for himself. That is what man, the heart of man, is trying to do. And never is this It's more evident than in what is what Martin Luther labeled the theology of glory, and that is in opposition to the theology of the cross. And what did he mean by the theology of glory? He didn't mean that we shouldn't give glory to God. No, that was opposite. When he says theology of glory, really what he meant was the theology of self-gor Glory. The theology of trying to take any glory that belongs rightfully to God and ascribe it to ourself. That is what he laid labeled as the theology of glory, that which says that the glory of the sinner's salvation could be attributed partly to Christ And partly to the uh saints, because if you believe in that theology, the theology of the Roman Catholic Church, the only way to stay saved is by your motorious works, but also you can go to the treasure of merit and you can draw on the merit of the saints. So in order to keep yourself safe, God will save you when you're baptized. You're infused with Grace, but in order to keep yourself saved, what do you have to do? You have to do all these works, you have to do penance, you have to even sometimes appeal to the saints in heaven for their treasury of merits that can be applied to your record And so therefore salvation is partly Christ. It is partly the sinner who does works, congruous works where God would be satisfied with them, and partly to the saints in heaven, and partly to Mary and others. And so therefore the glory for salvation was not just alone to God, it was spread out to others. And that's what Martin Luther meant when he called it the theology of glory. Man is trying to take glory that belongs rightly to God, he says. And by the way, there has always been this innate desire in man to try to take glory for himself. Did you ever notice that? Man wants glory. There's just so And so he wants this. And Martin Luther says we need to replace and Back in the Reformation, I think this was perhaps one of his greatest contributions. We need to replace the theology of glory with the theology of the cross. And what did he mean by that? Well we'll show you that as we go along. But let me give you a few passages. Go to Matthew chapter 20. I want you to see that it's always been within the heart of man to try to Bring glory to himself. Look at Matthew chapter 20 and look down at verse number 20. Notice what it says. Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children. This is coming to Jesus Here comes the mother of Zebedee's children, which is James and John, with her sons. She comes to Jesus with her sons, and the Bible says in verse 20, worshiping him and desiring a servant And she said unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit the one on thy right hand, the other on the left in thy kingdom. Can you imagine that? She comes to Jesus. This is a pretty big request. Lord, when you get into your kingdom, I want my one son to sit on your right hand and the other to sit on your left. Could you please do that for me? You can just picture her asking that request. Now, Jesus Said, you don't you don't really know what you're asking, but look at verse 24. And when the ten heard it, that is the other disciples, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren. They were really mad that James and John sent their mom to argue on their behalf. They were really mad. They were probably mad that they didn't think of that idea first. I mean after all who could turn away a sweet mother? Surely that when When James and John's mother's there, surely they were thinking, you know, Mom, we'll get Jesus to let us sit on his right hand and on the left. The problem was the disciples were constantly bickering and fighting over who would be the greatest in the kingdom. And why is that? Because there is again this desire, man wants glory. He wants to be recognized. He wants to be noticed. There's this desire for self-promotion. And so they come with this request but what makes this really hard to really understand sometimes or even believe is if you look at the context, go back to Matthew chapter sixteen, if you will, please. Look at Matthew chapter sixteen. Let's kind of In Matthew 16, verse 21, Jesus is now preparing his disciples for the fact that he is going to go to the cross. He's going to go the way of the cross. And look what it says in verse 21. And from that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go unto Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders. Chief priests and scribes, and be killed and be raised again the third day. Then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee. But he turned and said unto Peter, Get thee be Behind me, Satan, for thou art an offense unto me, for thou savest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men. And then Jesus said unto his disciples disciples, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. So in essence, Jesus was preparing his disciples disciples for what was going to come. The cross was not an accident. This was all part of God's plan. Jesus was telling his disciples, this is going to happen very Soon the Son of Man is going to go to Jerusalem. He's going to be betrayed. He's going to be crucified. He's prepared. And then here's Peter saying, Wait a minute, Lord, whoa, that's not going to happen. Don't you say that. I'm not going to let that happen to you. And what did Jesus say? He spoke to Satan through Peter, didn't he? Get thee behind me, Satan. You don't savor the things of God. And then Jesus said to his disciples, Listen, if you want to follow after me, you're going to Have to do what? You're going to have to do the same thing. In that sense, you've got to pick up your cross, and you've got to follow me. And what Jesus is telling his disciples is: you need to go the way of the cross. And then later on, Jesus would talk about coming in glory, but the whole point that he's trying to make here with his disciples is this: you want the crown without the cross, but you must pick up your cross. Glory follows suffering. First the cross. And you would think the disciples understood that. That registered, right? Look at chapter 18, look in verse number one. At that same time came the disciples under Jesus saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Can you imagine them asking that question right after Jesus talked about the cross? And picking up your cross. Here they are coming to Jesus again. Who's going to be the greatest? Now this question was asked right after the Mount of Transfiguration. You remember when Jesus showed his glory on the Mount Transfiguration Transfiguration, and he took with him Peter, James, and John. And I can imagine them coming back from that beautiful revelation, that great experience. And I can just imagine Peter saying to the rest of the disciples, guys, guess what we got to do? We got to go to the Mount of Transfiguration. Guess what we saw? We saw Jesus in his glory. You guys ever seen that? No I guess we're going to be the greatest in the kingdom. And I can imagine there are a dispute breaking out among the disciples, so much so that finally they come to Jesus and they say, Lord, who's going to be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Now, how does Jesus respond to that? In verse 2, and Jesus called a little child unto him and set him in the midst of them. And verse 3, and he said, Verily I say unto you, except you be converted To become as a little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Verse 4 Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same as the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. You come into the kingdom Through humility. No one struts into the kingdom. He becomes poor in spirit, like a little child, and the greatest in the kingdom will be the one who is humble. You see, Jesus is trying to Again to get them to understand that the way is humility. That's the way of the cross. Well finally you say, Well, surely uh they got it. Uh maybe you know now it's all laid to rest. Really? Well go to chapter uh nineteen and look down at verse number twenty eight verse twenty seven rather of chapter nineteen. Notice here Peter comes What are we going to Again, Lord. We've forsaken all the following. What's in it for us? And again, this comes right after the rich young rule. Remember, Jesus said, Leave all your possessions. He was unwilling to do it. It's almost like the disciples kind of got together Peter was a spokesman and said, you know, this is probably a good time to ask that question to Jesus that we were wondering about. What question is that? What's in it for us? What are we going to get? And so the idea there is, well, this rich young ruler wouldn't walk away from his possessions, but Lord, we walked away from ours. What are we going to get? And so on the heels of that, what does Jesus do? Well, he gives some wonderful promises in verse 28. Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that which ye have thought that Which she have followed me in the in the um excuse me. Shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Every one that forsaketh Houses or brethren or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands or my for my name's sake shall receive a hundredfold and shall inherit everlasting life But there's kind of a warning really in verse 30. But many that are first shall be what? Last. And they that are last shall be first. So Jesus first gives some wonderful promises. Look, God's no debtor. Whatever you've left, whatever you've walked away from here on this earth, you're going to get back a whole lot more in the next life. And the kingdom. God's going to give you back all of that. And you will sit upon thrones. That's going to come. But they that are first are going to be last. If you're always worried about who's going to be first, you're going to end up last That's the idea there. And then Jesus on the heels of that gives a parable about the workers in the vineyard. You might remember this parable where the the the uh the uh laborers in the vineyard come at different times of the day, the owner of the vineyard hires some at the end Early day, some in midday, some in late, but he pays them all the same. They didn't like that. They kind of had this entitlement mentality. And the first shall be last. In other words, you don't have this entitlement mentality when you serve the Lord. You just come and you serve humbly the Lord. Stop looking for promotion. Stop looking for reward. Stop looking for glory. That's not why you're in this. You're not in it for that. Come humbly, serve humbly. They that are last in this life, those who humble themselves, those we could say that Pick up the cross and follow Christ, they will be first in the next life. And those that are first in this life, they're going to be last. And so the whole message that Jesus is trying to give them And shall deliver him to Gentiles to m to mock and to scourge and to crucify him and the third day he shall rise again. Just to get the message across Jesus again pulls them aside and reminds them, look, I'm going to Jerusalem, I'm going to be crucified, I'm going to be mocked, I'm going to be scourged. What was he telling them? I'm going the way of the cross. Not seeking glory for myself. I'm just going the way of the cross. In other words, we could say it like this. Basically, teaching the disciples to reject this theology of glory and receive the theology of the cross, to learn to know Now it's in that context. Now look in chapter 20, verse 20. When verse twenty then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children, with her sons worshiping. It was right after that that she comes with this request. Uh grant that my sons sit one on your right hand the other on the left. When you put it in that context, you're kind of scratching your head going, Really? Wow. After all of what Jesus has been trying to teach After trying to drill this point home, stop seeking self-glory. Stop seeking to be first. Here she comes with this request. But notice what Jesus said in verse number 22 to her. He said, But Jesus Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with? They said unto him, We are able. And he said unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of what And be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with, but to sit on my right hand and on the left is not mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my Father, and the whole message there that Jesus gives us a little bit of a few. Look, the only way you're going to have great glory, you know, you want to sit in these chief places, you want to have this glory in heaven. Well, that means that you have to go through great suffering Again he's pointing out that same idea. And then in verse twenty-five, to get his message across again, but Jesus called them unto him and said, You know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and that they are great, they that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you, but whosoever shall be great among you, let him be your minister, or we could say So over and over again, Jesus is hammering this truth to the hearts of his disciples. Stop seeking glory. Stop seeking self-promotion. Stop seeking reward. Glory comes through humility and suffering. And by the way, let me just say this. Those who serve the Lord humbly here, there will be a time when God will glorify you. He will give you praise and honor and glory. And first Peter tells us that it makes sure To tell us that when the Lord comes, then will be the day of praise and honor and glory for all those who have served the Lord faithfully here on earth. But this is not the time Time or the place to be seeking glory right now. That's not it. You say, What's the point? The point is the heart of man is not changed. Man is always wanting to skim some of the glory for himself. George Whitfield, the famous evangelist, once talked of seeing some criminals that were in a cart riding on their way to the gallows. And in the cart they were fighting on who would sit on the right side of the guy driving the cart. They were all fighting over the chief seat. And in the cart they were on their way to the gallows And how much that is like us here in this world. There are people fighting and striving for glory, and the chief seeks, but this life is only temporary. What will happen afterwards? What will happen in eternity? That is the question. But isn't that the way that Satan works? He wants us to bypass God's way. He wants us But again, uh the Bible teaches that we're not to do that. And so getting back to Martin Luther, this this same thing was happening He called it the theology of glory because he saw priests and in the ministerium in the church all seeking glory for themselves. So that their whole doctrine of salvation was taking glory which rightfully belonged to God, and they were applying it to themselves. And it was Martin Luther that stepped up and said, You need to reject this whole theology of glory. Glory. And you need to embrace what he called the theology of the cross. And and basically he was simply saying something that we know very well. And that is, you can't really know God on your own. You can't come to God in salvation through your own means, through your own works, through your own way. There's something in And we have to depend upon Christ alone. And the gospel tells us that when we come to Christ we have to come by the way of the cross. The only thing that we can do is we can come humbly to the cross and bow down again. Confess that we are poor in spirit and that we can bring nothing, we can do nothing. And Martin Luther said the only way that you can know God is through the cross. That's it. And he does the saving. And so therefore he distinguished between two types of theologians. He called the theologian of glory Who taught other ways, other means of seeking God and salvation, and then he called others, those who taught the true gospel, theologians of the cross. And he said that we must turn away from all self-glory and cling only to the glory of God alone. And that would be number three, the theology of the cross. It turns us away from all self-glory and gives glory only to God. And Martin Luther was particularly concerned about the doctrine of salvation when he spoke about this Saying that all glory then goes to God and God alone. Because God does all the saving, he does all the keeping, therefore he gets all the glory Let me show you one more passage. Go to the book of Jude. And uh we we dealt with this not too long ago, the book of Jude. I want you to look at verse number 24, verse 25. And notice these verses here. This is a doxology here. It's a beautiful doxology. And this is one of many throughout the New Testament. Look at verse 24. Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless before the presence of the Of his glory with exceeding joy, to the only wise God our Savior be glory and majesty, dominion, and power both now and forever. Again, this is a doxology which simply means words of praise. And we see many of these in the New Testament. And if you'll notice, when you read these doxologies in the New Testament, they all are referring to ourselves. Salvation. And they all have another common theme, and that is that it is God who is the author of our salvation that gets all the praise and all the glory. And this is exactly what we see here in this doxology here in the book of Jude. Where Judas basically the whole idea is, is God is the one who saves us, and He is the one who is keeping us, and so therefore He's the one who deserves all the glory. Think about this. In the doctrine of salvation, we could say the doctrine of soteriology, what is the most important truth in the whole realm of salvation? Is it redemption or the doctrine of justification or sanctification or propitiation? Which of them Among them is the most important. I would say that all of those doctrines are extremely important. All of them are wonderful and beautiful. But I would argue that the most important element of salvation is this idea of security That God keeps us. You say, why? Well, because if God didn't keep us, all of those other things really wouldn't matter much. Because if I had to keep my own salvation, I would lose all of those other things And so to me, the most important part of salvation is that idea of security, the idea that it is God who is keeping us. Because if God didn't keep us, I would lose it all, and so would you, dear friend. And that's exactly what Judah is saying here. God does all the keeping. If God didn't keep me, what hope would I have? If salvation is not all of God, then I'm not going to get there. If God's not keeping me, I'm not going to make it. And that's what Judah is telling us. God, uh He saved me, I can't save myself. And He's keeping me, I can't keep myself. I can't hold on to what I could never get in the first place And so he's keeping me. I couldn't do that in my own strength. And nobody can. Let me tell you something. If Adam in the Garden of Eden, in a perfect environment, a man who was not tainted with his sin Nature, if he couldn't keep himself from falling, do you think you can keep yourself from falling? If it was all up to you? Absolutely not. God is the one who gets all the glory because God is the one who does all the saving and he does all the keeping. Now think about it. If if all God did was give you salvation and then say to you, okay, here it is. Now you have to hold on to it You think about how hard that would be. And then one day when we got to heaven, we're s talking there in heaven, we could say, Man, it's isn't heaven wonderful? Oh yes, wonderful. Man, I'm glad I was able to get here. You say, well, you mean you're glad that God was able. Well, yeah, God, well, He saved me, but I had to keep it myself. And when you think about it, He gave it to me at one moment, I had to hold on to it for 40 years. I had to sanctify myself. If you believe that you're only safe so long as you are sanctified, as long as you're being sanctified, then you don't lose your Justification, that means that you have to hold on to your salvation and the work of sanctification is all on you. That means two-thirds of it is me, one-third of it is God, and so therefore I would deserve to get some of the glory Because it was in my own strength that I was able to hold on to it. My friend, no one here will ever be able to make that boast. You know why? Because we aren't able to do it. You say, I can't imagine anyone. Who would get to heaven or maybe think that salvation was partly due to them, unless you lived in the medieval church in Martin Luther's day. Because That's exactly what they taught and believed. That they were able to hold on to their salvation by their own merits, by their own good works. And the help of others, and so therefore, they were not giving all the glory that belonged to God. And so what infuriated the Protestant reformers, what infuriated Martin Luther, was that Anyone in any form or fashion would ever try to rob God of any glory for our salvation. God does it all From beginning to end. He even gives me the faith to believe. I couldn't do that on my own, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that's not of yourselves. It's a gift of God. God gave me the faith to believe. He's the one who holds on to me. I don't hold on to him. He's the one that will make sure that I will be delivered there securely in heaven. Look at Jude again. Look at verse number twenty-four. Now, to him that is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. And that's what God does. We are saved, we are kept, because first of all, of his saving power. Now in him that is able, notice that word able, it's God's power that keeps us. His saving power, but also notice that uh because of his securing presence to keep you from falling. God will keep you from falling. And this whole idea here is not that you fall down anywhere In salvation, but that you fall out of salvation. He will keep you from falling away. You know, I think of Noah in the Ark. Uh Noah was sealed in that ark. Now he could fall down in that ark, but he couldn't fall down And beloved, you can fall down in your salvation, but you can't fall out of your salvation because God has sealed you in Christ. And when you got saved, he placed you in And so God will keep you from falling. It's because of his securing presence, but also because of his sure presentation. Look again in verse number twenty-four. Now and him that is able to keep Keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory. God one day will present us before his throne Faultless to stand before him. Isn't that a wonderful thing to know? We stand in grace because of his power, and one day God will deliver us right there to heaven, right in his presence. And then here's the the fourth thing that we see in this verse because of his superior person, verse 25, to the only wise God God our Savior be glory and majesty dominion and power both now and forever. And that is it's because of his wisdom, it's his power. Of God do we have? We have a Savior, a merciful Savior. And all of salvation was all of God's wisdom. Man's wisdom had nothing to do with it. It's all of God. And so that's why Jude gives this wonderful doxology. And that's why we say that we stand on this one principle of glory to God alone, because it's all of him. And we all live unto that glory. Let me just close with this one illustration. When I was in London, I went to the grave of my favorite Baptist preacher, Spurgeon. And uh it had written on his tombstone these words here, beautiful words, and you know them very well. Says this when this poor lispering, stammering tongue Lie silent in the grave, then in a nobler, sweeter song, I'll sing thy power to save. You know, that's what we're going to be doing in heaven. We're going to be praising and giving glory to God for His power. Because He's done it all for us. It's all of His grace, and therefore He gets the glory. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father We thank you for this. We thank you, Lord, for saving us. We thank you, Lord, that truly salvation is in Christ alone through his work. On the cross by faith alone, putting our faith in what Christ has accomplished for us, faith in nothing else, no works of our own But just coming to you humbly, putting our faith in the finished work of Christ. And it's because of your grace, Lord, that we're even able to approach you And come before you. It's your loving favor that has provided salvation. And it's all of you. And Lord, with all our hearts tonight, we give you praise, we give you honor, we give you glory. Glory for what you've done in our heart and our life. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to just give this invitation. I don't know, it may be that you're here tonight and you don't know the Lord. as your Savior. We don't want to leave any service without giving you an opportunity just to settle this matter about your soul's standing before God. So I want to ask you tonight, do you know the Lord? Are you sure? Of your own salvation. Might be that you have to rethink some things that you've been taught. Maybe somewhere along the line, someone taught you that there's some contribution you make, some work that you must do in order to be saved. And friend, that's just simply not true Salvation is by grace through faith, not of any works. So no one can boast, no one can get to heaven and say, you know, I'm glad I was able to make it here. No, it's no works on yours. It's all of what Christ has done. So have you put your faith in the finished work of Christ? That's the question. And would you be willing to do that right now? Would you reach out in faith? Just pray this prayer. Lord Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner. I know that I can do nothing to bring satisfaction to you as far as my salvation. I know there's no work that I could do that could ever satisfy your wrath. But Lord, I recognize that Christ has already done that. And I come today humbly to the cross, the way of the cross. Not the way of glory for myself, but the way of the cross. I come and I kneel at the cross and I trust you for my salvation. I put all of my faith in the finished work of Christ. Pray that and mean it. He'll save you. Anyone here say that's my prayer tonight? Can we pray for you? Anyone here tonight? And friend, if you have any doubts about your salvation, please see us after the service. We want to help you Father, thank you again for the wonderful salvation that we have in Christ. Bless these words to our heart, we pray, in Jesus' precious name. Amen