Take your Bibles, if you will, please, and open to the book of John, chapter 14, a very well-known verse. You could quote it by memory, but I want to use this as our text verse tonight, John 14, verse number six. Now, as you know, we are basically uh we set aside our study in 1 Corinthians for a few weeks. And I was gonna and I'm preaching through the five solas of the Protestant Reformation, kind kinda just a way to kind of tip our hat to what happened in church history that was Such a momentous event. And while we don't agree with everything that came out of that reformation, we certainly don't dot our eyes and cross our T's exactly as the Protestant reformers did. Uh there are certainly areas where the Reformation stopped short uh in certain areas. However, there are some good abiding foundational principles that we can learn from this momentous event in a momentous event I should say in church history. And part of that is are the really the rally cries that came out of that reformation that are such a part of the gospel. They're really foundational issues regarding the gospel. We could call them pillars. And we talked about already sola scriptura, which means scripture alone, and that is the cry that the reformers gave when they said that the word of God is our final authority, not the church, not tradition, but the word of God alone. And then there was sola fide, which is Faith alone, that our salvation comes by faith alone, not faith plus works, not faith plus any meritorious ritual that a person may do, but faith alone. And then we talked about last week sola gratia or grace alone. And we looked through the scripture at this beautiful principle of grace. and saw that our salvation is all by the grace of God alone. Now tonight I want to address the issue of solus Christus, which is Christ. Alone. And uh this again was a a bat a ra a rallying cry, a battle cry that came out of the Reformation because the teachings of the Catholic Church Church was that a person was saved by the merits of Christ, but not just the merits of Christ himself, but also the saints And that we approach God through Christ and the saints and Mary. And so there was more than one mediator. There was more than one place to go when you wanted to go to God The Father. Some of you remember the story I gave about Martin Luther when he was in a thunderstorm one night and it was so violent that he prayed out, but he didn't pray straight to God. He prayed to St. Anne. If you'll help me. And why did he do that? Because the idea was the Catholic Church taught that you couldn't go straight to God the Father alone In fact, you were so unholy you couldn't even go through Christ. And you even couldn't even go through Mary because Mary was too holy And so you had to go to one of the other saints. You had to go to Mary's sister, one of the lesser saints. And so the idea was you pray to a saint and that saint will pray to one of uh Mary's sister and she'll go to Mary and Mary will go to Jesus and thus all the way to the Father That was the idea that they were propagating there in the church. And of course, the reformers came along and said, no, there's only one mediator between God and man. It is the man, Christ. Jesus. And so the battle cry was solus Christus. Now I want you to see tonight three basic ways that this is communicated. to us and it was communicated during the time of the Protestant Reformation. If you're taking those, just write down here's the first idea. What do we mean when we say solus Christus? Christ is the exclusive message of Scripture. Christ is the exclusive message of Scripture. Look again in John 14, look in verse number 6. Jesus said unto him, I am the way, the truth And the life, no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Jesus is the personification of truth. He is the embodiment of truth. All of the scripture points to Jesus. That is the principle of Solus Christus. He is the theme of the Bible. Friend, it's all about him. Your Bible is a hymn book because it's all about him. Everything is about the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the whole point of Do you remember when Jesus confronted the Pharisees and the scribes in John 5 39? This is what he said. He said, Search the scriptures, for in them ye think you have eternal life, but these are they which tell Testify of me. All of the scripture Jesus says testifies of me. And then there's that account when Philip When he was bringing Nathaniel to the Lord Jesus, Philip said to him in John 1. 45, he said unto him, We have found him of whom Moses and the law and the prophets did write Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. Hey, Nathaniel, we found the one that Moses wrote about, that all the prophets wrote about. We have found this one called Jesus. And then of course there's that other great passage in Luke chapter 24. I think Luke 24, it gives the account of the greatest seminary class that has ever been given on the face of the earth. And of course you know the story when Jesus the resurrected Christ met up with disciples on the road to Emmaus and they were kind of depressed about the things that had happened in Jerusalem and they were telling This person, they didn't know who it was because the Bible says that their eyes were withholden so that they could not recognize and see that it was Jesus. And when Jesus heard that, you remember what he said? He said unto them, O fools as full of heart, to believe all that the prophets have spoken Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. I would have loved to have sat in on that. To have Jesus go from every book of the Bible, from Moses, that's the first five books, and then through all of the prophets And as Jesus went through, he pointed out prophecies and pictures of himself and pointed out that all of these things had to happen. Christ is the center of the Bible. He is the theme of the Bible. He is the exclusive message of the Bible. Now Martin Luther the Reformer basically said this. Here's a quote: Jesus is the center. and circumference of the Bible. Now you remember when we study the principle of sola scriptura, I told you that Martin Luther in that day had rejected the allegorical interpretation of Scripture Which was basically you take the literal approach, uh, which is really the husk, and you blow that off and you find a hidden meaning in the Bible. And a lot of people were given to the allegorical approach to scripture and what happened was the Bible became a book that they could shape and they could say whatever they wanted to wanted to say. And basically heresy sprang up all around because of this interpretational approach to the scripture. But Martin Luther rejected it. He said it was stir. He said it was scum. He said it was obsolete, loose rags. He affirmed that scripture had one simple meaning, the literal historical sense of Scripture. But also know this that Luther also said That when you read the Bible, you must read the Bible with what he called Christocentric glasses. He said you have to read with Christocentric glasses. In fact, he had four basic hermeneutical principles. When you say hermeneutical, what does that mean? Hermeneutics is just a word that means the science of interpretation Principles, correct principles of interpreting the Bible. And Martin Luther had four basic principles that he used when he would go to the Bible to interpret it. Number one was sola scriptura. We talked about that. Scripture alone. Secondly was the scripture is its own interpreter. The scripture interprets scripture, and that's the principle of the analogy of scripture is called And then he also said he called it the spirit in the letter. That is what that simply means is that we have to be illuminated by the Holy Spirit. Let's open the Bible and read it and kind of, you know, we can use all of our logic and all of that is good and reason, but if you have only that, you're never going to really get the truth We must depend upon the Holy Spirit of God, and we must pray the prayer of the psalmist who said, Lord, open thou mine eyes that I might behold wonderful things out of your way. But then there was this one other principle that he emphasized that he hammered, and that is the Christocentric principle. He said you must look for Christ In the passage. You must look for Jesus because he is the center of the Bible. Now Luther said Jesus is not in every verse, but he is in every passage He is on every page. He is in every, we could say, complete argument, a pericopey, a complete argument. He's there somewhere And if you study the scripture and you don't find Christ, you better go back and study the scripture. Because all of the Bible is about the Lord Jesus Christ. And so use he would say that Christocentric principle because the major theme of the Bible is the Lord Jesus Christ. And haven't we found that to be true? through all the way from Genesis, all the way through the Bible. We have seen the Lord Jesus Christ starting in Genesis as Christ as the seed of the woman, all the way until you get through to the book of Revelation, where Christ is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. We see Christ in every passage of the Scripture. That's the first thing that means when we talk about solace Christus, Christ is the exclusive message of Scripture. But here's number two. Christ is the exclusive means of salvation. He's the exclusive means of salvation. Look again in John 14, verse 6. Jesus said, I am the way The truth and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Christ made this exclusive claim that He was the way, not a way. This is articular in the Greek, ho-odash, the way, not a way. He's not just one way among many ways He is the only way of salvation. This is the exclusive claim. Now, I know to you sitting there tonight, you say Well, this is a no-brainer for us, and that's good because you've been taught correctly uh through the years about Christ being the only way. But I want you to know that we are living in a time and a day when this is being challenged. And you need to understand that. We are living in a postmodern era where now the reader is sovereign over the text of Scripture. The text is not sovereign over the reader. And the only meaning that comes out of the Bible, someone will say, is the meaning that I give to it. And so people can pretty much believe what they want. They again read into the scripture. This is almost like history repeating itself, where people can read into the scripture whatever they want Where the scripture is not the final word, and where people can imagine other ways, and they can't imagine a God who would say there's only one way of salvation. There has to be many ways And so we're living in this kind of an era today, and that's why this principle is something that must be championed again and again. There is, first of all, the danger of inclusivism. Say what's inclusivism? This is the idea that one religion is best, but salvation is possible in other religions. So for example, a person who is an inclusivist would say I'm a Christian, and I think that Christianity is the most correct religion, but I also think there is saving truth in other religions Like Islam and Hinduism and Buddha. There's saving truth in those other religions. And an inclusivist is unwilling to say that all other ways are wrong. They're unwilling to confess that. In fact, and that's why we have preachers like, I'm going to pick on someone, Joel Osteen. He's probably our favorite whipping boy on this, isn't he? Because on Larry King Live, uh he basically was asked this question. He said, what happens to people who reject Jesus Christ? And uh he the the the question was given, they're wrong, aren't they? And he replied, Well, I don't know if I believe they are wrong. I know they love God, and they I've seen their sincerity And that might be a very, you know, politically correct answer to give, but it is biblically wrong. And it is damning. If Jesus said, I am the way, the exclusive way, that means every other way is wrong. And to imply in any way that another person might find saving truth in any other religion is to basically uh to damn their soul if you can get a Person to believe that. Satan would love for people to believe that there's a hint of truth. There's a tint of truth in these other ways, and that a person could find the truth in these other false religions. And so that's the danger of inclusivism. But also along with that, there's something that's equally dangerous, and that's the danger of religious pluralism. Now, this is kind of a cousin to inclusivism. Pluralism is the view that all major religions are equally valid and lead to God and the salvation. And so they would just take it another step and say, well, any other religion is as equally valid as Christianity. Whereas an occlusivist would say, I think Christianity is the best, but there There's truth in others. A pluralist would say all the other religions are equally as valid as Christianity. Judaism, Hinduism, Buddhism, all of these things are equally valid, and the metaphor they like to use is that heaven is like a mountaintop And there are many roads that lead to that mountaintop. Any one of those roads is a good road. Any one of those roads is a legitimate road. As long as everyone gets to the top of the mountain, we're all going to be fine. You can go whatever road that you want. And you say, was this still being taught today? Let me give you an example. There is a book written by a Catholic theologian. He has been hailed as a brilliant Catholic apologist. His name is Peter Kreft. And the name of the book is Ecumenical Ecumenical Jihad. And in this book, this is kind of what happens. He gives this in the introduction to the book. He says this. He was out surfing one day in California. And he got turned over by a wave, and he hit his head on a rock, and he was unconscious. He was knocked unconscious And while he was unconscious, he had an out-of-body experience. Now, how he didn't drown during this whole ordeal, I have no idea But somehow he was able to survive. But he was knocked unconscious. He had an out-of-body experience. He went to heaven. And when he when he when he went to heaven, he was amazed to find what he saw when he got to heaven And there when he got to heaven he saw Buddha and he said to Buddha, What in the world are you doing here? Uh Buddhism is not Christianity. What are you doing here? And he said, Well, you know, I'm in the contemplation and I'm in the peace and I was in the tranquility, but you know what And I uh I really didn't know about Jesus, but when I got to heaven I got it all figured out. It all came together when I got there. And then he went a little further in heaven and he ran into Muhammad and he said, What are you doing here? Um you just believe that Jesus is And Muhammad said, Well, you know, uh I I was into morality, but again when uh I had some things that were wrong, but when I got to heaven I you know I was sincere and the Lord saw that I was sincere when I got here I was able really to figure out some of the other things there. And then he went further in heaven and he ran into an atheist. And again, the atheist said, you know, I was very sincere in what I believed and And Jesus saw that and because of that, um, you know, he let me come to heaven. And then he just went and bumped into one person after another, and then he says this in the book, and this is the whole point of his book. He says Said, when we get to heaven, we're going to find each other there anyway. We're going to get there. We're on a road. Everyone's on a road to heaven, and we're all going to get there. So why are we fighting down here What we need to do is we need to get together, and we need to all come together and follow the great leader of the church who is the Pope. That was the whole point of his book. Let's all get together. Let's all follow this one great leader. We're all on different roads, but we're all going to make it And this was a a book that was hailed as a brilliant book. He was called a brilliant Catholic apologist. And you say, well that's really bizarre But let me tell you what's even more haunting and and troubling, that it was endorsed by people on the back of the book. One of the persons who endorsed the book was Chuck Colson And he basically said that he was uh he is a gifted, he said this is what he wrote about the guy. He said he is one of our preeminent apologists in America today, one are one of our most valiant intellectual warriors. They're just hailing this guy. That's troubling, friends. Also, was a quote by J. I. Packer who said this: what if he is right? What do you mean, what if he's right? That's ridiculous. I'll tell you what, if he's right, if he's right, that means Jesus is wrong. And I'm gonna lay my money on Jesus I'm going to put my faith in what Christ said when Jesus said, I am not a way, I am the way. The truth and the life. No man comes unto the Father but by me. The gospel and the message of salvation is an exclusive message. That's what Jesus is claiming here. And also write down in your Bible, Acts 4, verse 12, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other nation under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. There's no other name, there's no other way. It's not the Methodist gospel, it's not the Presbyterian gospel, it's not the Baptist gospel. It is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And it is the only way. You say, well, that sounds so bigoted. That sounds so narrow-minded. Well, you know what? It's funny how people will criticize uh a preacher for being narrow minded, but you like narrow-mindedness in other areas. For example, don't you want your banker to be narrow-minded? I don't want my banker to say two plus two equals three. I would rather him be much more narrow-minded when he adds up my paycheck. Check that I deposit in the bank. I don't want my doctor to be open-minded. I want him to be narrow-minded. I don't want him to say, well, you know, I'm not really sure what's wrong. Let's just try several things. First of all, we'll take out your kidney and see how that works. No, I would rather he be more narrow-minded. I would rather he be more specific. And so it is with the gospel. This is the eternal message of salvation and it just seems like some people just don't treat it that seriously but the Bible says Jesus is the only way. Now open your Bible look at look in Galatians Turn there with me for a moment. I just want you to see what the Apostle Paul had to say with reference to this same thing. Now, you know, we could actually say that what Paul went through is really an earlier uh Uh parallel of what the church was going through during the time of Martin Luther. Because the Apostle Paul, as you know, he went to this region of Galatia. He preached the gospel there to the people that were there. They embraced the gospel. They were saved. It was a wonderful thing that was happening there in the churches of Galatia. This was on Paul's first missionary journey. And no sooner did he get back from that first missionary journey than he already received. That people were defecting from the gospel. What happened? Well, Judaizers came in behind Paul, and you know what they taught? That the you know Jesus is good, and what Jesus Jesus did is fine and salvation by faith is good, but you need to add to that. It's not enough Jesus alone. You have to have also Moses You have to have Moses with Christ because before you can really be a Christian, you have to obey the law. You have to submit yourself to these rituals and embrace Moses. And so the gospel is not just Jesus. Only the gospel is Jesus and Moses. And that's what was happening in Galatia. And so what happened with the Apostle Paul? Well, notice what he says in verse number six of chapter one. I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ, unto another gospel, which is not another, but But there be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. Paul, when he writes this letter I think he's writing uh with a sanctified anger. In fact, if you look at the end of Galatians, you'll see that he says, You see what big letters I write? He wrote in Unsiel letters, which are capital letters, uh in in the Greek text. Um and what happens, you know, today if we if you get an email of someone sending you something with all capital letters in that email, what is what do you say about that? They're shouting at me, right? Why are you yelling at me? You know, that's the electronic email equivalent of yelling And it kind of uh conveys passion and anger, even. And when Paul writes this letter of Galatians, he wrote it in big letters. Why? Because Paul was so passionate about the gospel. And you might say he had a sanctified anger when he wrote this because these believers were so soon uh deceived and were a allowing others to add something to Christ in the gospel message. And notice what he says here. I marvel that you're so soon removed from him. The word marvel, thumaizo, strong word. I'm astounded. I'm bewildered. I'm left speechless. This is uh he was so amazed that they deserted. They were removed. Look at the word removed there. That is a military word for traitors or for turn Turncoats. Later it was used to describe anyone who converted from one religion to another. And basically the Galatians were betraying their allegiance to Christ. They were literally removing, they were in the process of deserting the gospel. This is a present Participle. You are removing yourself away from the real gospel. You see, anytime you say that it's Christ alone is not enough, then you're adding things to it, you are deserting from the truth. Gospel. And Paul saw that. And so he writes with passion. He's amazed at their desertion, but also notice his admonishment about their deception. Look again in verse number six I I'm I marveled that you're so soon removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ unto another gospel. Circle the word another there, if you don't mind writing in your Bible, you might want to just write there next to it the word heteros, which means the Greek word there is heteros, it means of a different sort And then at verse 7 he says, which is not another. Now if you read that on the surface, it might look like that's a contradiction. First he says it's another gospel in verse 6 In verse 7 he says, which is not another, but the Greek word there is totally different. It is the word alos, which means of the of the same sort. And so basically what he's saying is in verse 6 I marvel that you're so soon removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ unto another gospel, a gospel of a different sort Which is not Aloes of the same sort. In other words, he's saying it's a totally different gospel. It's not the same gospel at all. Anytime you add anything to Christ alone, it is another gospel. It's not the same And you're perverting it. That's the idea of distorting it. You're mixing in law and works with grace. And the gospel is exclusive in its operation because it does not mix with other religions. It does not need man's help. And yet there are people today that are messengers of Satan that seem to be constantly out There's something in the devil that would rather do would uh have people rather than them deny the gospel, he would rather them to believe another gospel You know, that's a whole lot easier. To give a substitute gospel for the real one is an easier way to deceive people. And that's what was happening right here. And again, I say one of the great problems we have, I believe, in America today is that we have so many different gospels. I was reading a book called Heaven Taken by Storm. It was written by Thomas Watson. And the whole book is based on the verse in Matthew 11, 12 Where it talked about the kingdom of heaven was expanding under John the Baptist, that verse that says heaven is expanding violently And the violent take it by force. And the whole idea behind that verse is that under the preaching of John the Baptist, when he pointed to Christ alone, and people were hearing the Message and they were repenting and they were entering into the kingdom violently we would we would say, but really it's the idea of they were pushing to get in. Man, what a great opportunity. They were running to grab hold of the mess Message. They were running to be a part of the kingdom. You know, that was the idea. They were violently pushing to get in. There was such a dramatic response to the preaching of Christ. Today. We don't see people pushing to get into the church, violently trying to get in, uh, you know, pushing to get through the doors to hear the message of salvation. And in that book, the writer Ask the question: why are we not seeing the same response to the gospel today that John the Baptist had back in his day when he was preaching the gospel? And he answers his own question And basically he answers it by saying the problem is that nowadays there are so many other different gospels that are being offered. That if you don't like the one true gospel that admittedly has is kind of offensive because no one likes And no one likes to be told there's nothing you can do to merit your own salvation. The only thing you can do is confess your sin and repent before a holy God. to be told that. People like in their own pride to be told that there's something that they can contribute to their own salvation. But the real gospel says you all you can do is call out to Christ. Confess your help Repent of your sin. But nowadays, here in America, we have all kinds of different gospels. And if you don't like the one true gospel, there are other churches that offer you a kindler, gentler theology. A kinder, gentler God, where it's not so offensive. In fact, Philip Braiken wrote this. He said, We worship in a church talking about The church abroad in our country. We worship in a church of many gospels. He said there's the gospel of material prosperity, which leads which Which teaches that Jesus is the way to financial gain. There is the gospel of family values, which teaches that Jesus is the way to a happy home. Which teaches us Jesus is the way to have personal satisfaction and fulfillment. There is the gospel of religious tradition that teaches us Jesus is the way to respectability, and on he goes and he lists all of these. And the truth of the matter is there's nothing wrong with being prosperous. God wants to prosper you. God wants to bless your family. God wants to bring fulfillment in your life. But all of those things are surfaced. Things and they don't deal with the real issue at hand, which is that there's a holy God, and you stand in in judgment before a holy God Unless your sins are confessed, unless your sins are paid for, and they were paid for by the Lord Jesus Christ, the sin issue must be dealt with. That's the heart of the gospel. And so there are many gospels out there that are non-offensive, and that's why people are not pushing and shoving to get in. God is looked upon as this, you know, almost this cosmic Santa Claus that will give you You whatever you want when you are ready, and God don't bother me until I'm ready to call on you. And when I call on you, then I expect you to give me what I want. That's not the way it works, friend He is the sovereign holy God. And when he preaches to for you to repent, it's not an invitation, it's a command. And you better realize that he's a holy God, and you stand already condemned before him, and your only hope is to throw your That's the only hope, and that's the gospel. Yet there are others out there preaching another. Look what Paul says in verse number 8. He says, But though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. And it's the word anathema. Paul says, if anyone comes preaching any other gospel, if anyone comes adding anything to Christ alone, let him be a Christian. Notice he says we, he's talking about the apostles here. We or even an angel in verse number eight, though we or an angel from heaven. Even if an angel comes And preaches another gospel. You know, we shouldn't be surprised that angels might do this, you know that many false religions were started by angels Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, said that one night when he went to his room, an angel appeared unto him and began to talk to him and give him Added revelation. Islam was started by Muhammad, who said when he went to a cave that he was visited by the angel Gabriel and began to give him added revelation And Jehovah's Witnesses claim to have angels ministering to God's witnesses, and so on we could go. Satan is an angel of light. And he he has no problem doing that. But here Paul says: if an angel comes, an angel from heaven comes, preaching any other gospel than we have preached, let him be anathema, and the word is devoted to destruction. It is a word that means to be absolutely damned beyond any help. Paul said, anyone that would add to this message, let him be accursed. Let me give you the last point. Number one, we said Christ is the exclusive message of Scripture. Number two, Christ is the exclusive means of salvation. But here's the third and final thing that we mean when we say solus Christus, and that is Christ is the exclusive mediator of the same. He's the exclusive mediator of the saint. Now again, the debate back in Martin Luther's day was the issue of the church. And the church The Roman Catholic Church taught that God, the only way that a person could receive the grace of God was not through Christ alone, but through the ministrations of the church. Church. It had to be through Christ and through the church, and actually that was more the church. This whole system, and I think I told you before what it is called, it's called sacerdotalism, which simply means the ministrations of priests. There were priests there that were giving it out, and this is the way it worked. The uh only the priests had the authority of the church. They were the only ones that could baptize, and thus you were infused with grace. They were the only ones that could could basically uh bestow the Holy Spirit in confirmation. Only the priests could do that. Only they could turn the element Only they could hear confession and forgive sins and offer penance. Only they could do all of these things And so basically, they were the mediators of the grace of Christ. That was what the church taught. The reformers came along and said absolutely, positively, no. That's not what Scripture teaches at all. And since Scripture now is the final authority, sola scriptura, what does the Bible say? For there is one God and one mediator between God and man, God and men, the man Christ Jesus. And we go back to our verse where Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth And the life, no man comes from the Father except through me. Christ is our only mediator. He is the one through whom we gain access to God. And he is the one who will administer and give to us grace. It is Christ and Christ alone. Let me show you one more passage and then uh We're going to have to wrap it up. But look in Acts chapter 16. You know this passage very well. Look at Acts 16 and look down at verse number 26. You remember this story? Paul and Silas are in jail in the city of Philippi for preaching the gospel. At night they're singing. I don't know what the song is. I think perhaps maybe how great thou art. Who knows? Whatever they're singing, the Bible says that There was an earthquake. You know the story. Look down in verse number um 26. And suddenly there was a great earthquake So that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were open, and everyone's bands were loosed, and the keeper of the prison awaken out of his sleep And of course that's referring to the Roman custom that if you were a prison king Keeper and you lost prisoners under your watch, you pay for it with your own life. So here's this man, there's an earthquake. He's supposing that the prisoners had left He's ready to kill himself. In verse 28, Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm, for we are all here. Then he called for a light and sprang in and came trembling and fell down before Paul and Silas. And verse 30, and brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And Paul said, You must through the church be baptized and say penance. And you must confess your sins to an official priest. We have to talk to Peter about this because after all, he's the next Pope. No. What did he say? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Simply believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ and Christ alone Christ alone. And I was just one more illustration, but I'll just say it. To me, one of the most amazing conversions in the New Testament Is the thief on the cross. At one moment he's blaspheming. At another moment, all of a sudden his eyes are opened and he sees Jesus for who he is. He sees that Jesus is sinless because he's sinned. Says to his friend, Why are you mocking him? He hasn't done anything wrong. There's no fault in him. And he's saying the same words that Pilate said that day, I find no fault in him. He realizes suddenly that this man is sinless. And suddenly he realizes that he's Lord, and he he said unto him, he calls him Lord, in verse 42. And if you're Lord, that makes me your servant. You can't have a master unless you have have a servant, so he calls him master. Suddenly he realizes that he's Lord. And suddenly he realizes that Jesus has the power to forgive sin. Because what does he say? He says, Remember me when you come into your kingdom. What was he saying, Lord, forgive me. What does he think about Jesus now? That Jesus has the power to forgive sin. Who has the power to forgive sin? Only God. So suddenly he realizes that Jesus is God And now he realizes that Jesus is a king because he said, remember me when you come into your kingdom. You can't have a kingdom unless you're a one You're a king. So now he knows Jesus is sinless. He realizes that he has the power to forgive sin, which makes him God. He realizes that he's Lord. He realizes that he's king. And he realizes that he's going to resurrect from the dead. You say, how do you know that? Because this man knew that Jesus would have to do that in order to grant his request. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. How can a dead person or a dead Savior do that? No. He would rise from the dead He is he has the power and authority to determine where this man spends eternity. And in that short little prayer, when he cried out to the Lord Jesus, what do we see There. We see genuine faith. We see solofide, faith alone. We see grace, the grace of God alone saving him. We see Christ alone. Saving him. We see the word of God alone because he believed what Jesus said. What did Jesus say to him? Today you're going to be with me in paradise. Nobody had better assurance of salvation than that. Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Friend, that's the heart of the gospel. That's the heart of salvation. By putting your faith in Christ and Christ. Christ alone. May this be the message that we champion, that we protect, that we have no apology for the gospel. We're not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It's the power of God and the salvation. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we are thankful for The power of the gospel. We're thankful for our Savior. That salvation comes through Christ alone. And Lord, in a world today, we need to champion this message all the more. We live in a world. world where there's so much error, where everything is suspect, every every preacher, Lord, that preaches the word of God correctly is Under suspicion of others. And Lord, yet we must stand for truth. And so, Lord, help us to do that. Help us, Lord, to be champions of the gospel, to not be intimidated by the things that we hear. But Lord, to boldly hold forth the message of faith alone, grace alone, scripture alone, Christ alone, glory to God alone. Lord, may that be our battle cry as well. Bless these words to our heart. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask, perchance, if you're here tonight. And perhaps you've been wrestling in your own heart. Maybe like the thief on the cross, you've been wrestling And yet, salvation is so very simple. Friend, like that thief, all you have to do is just reach out. He couldn't reach out literally with his hands, but he could with faith in his heart. Heart. And he said, Lord, remember me. Remember me. And you know that's all it took right there. Just him putting his faith in Christ. And friend, that's all you must do. Put your faith in what Jesus did for you on the cross. At that very moment, he was burying the sins of that thief right there And when he reached out in faith, he was saved. That thief was saved immediately. And friend, that's how salvation takes place when you reach out in faith. And if you're here tonight and you haven't done that, I invite you You to do that. And do you want you to be willing to pray? Just say those words. Lord, remember me. I pray that you'll save me. Forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart. And friend, if you'll pray that in me and you can have the same assurance that that thief had when Jesus said, Today you'll be with me in paradise. That that is to say that one day when you die, friend, you'll have eternal life So Lord bless these words. Father, to hearing hearts today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.