Take your Bibles tonight, open to Psalm 147. Psalm 147. And uh look at Psalm 142. This is a beautiful, another beautiful psalm. Verse 1, I cried unto the Lord with my voice. And with my voice unto the Lord did I make my supplication. I poured out my complaint before him, and I showed before him my trouble. Once when I was returning from Africa from a trip from Africa, I stopped in London. That trip happened to stop there at the Heathrow in London, and I had a two-day layover. So I decided I would uh take a taxi down to Westminster, London. This was my first time and uh uh I hadn't been to London before and I I didn't really know much about it, but I knew that there were some things I wanted to see uh in Westminster there. And so uh I caught a taxi, went down to the hotel, and then the next day I bought a ticket to a tour bus to go touring the city It was the kind of uh ticket that, you know, you get on the bus, you can get off wherever you want, and then you wait there and another bus comes. It's kind of these buses are constantly coming, so all day long get off where you want, tour, get back on the bus And it was getting late toward the evening. I got off the bus toward a certain area, was waiting for the bus to uh come back. And I waited for uh 20 minutes, no bus, 30 minutes, no bus. An hour, still no bus. Two hours, still no bus. Three hours. No bus. I found out later that because of some incident that was there in London, um that um They suspended all public transportation. And uh so that meant no more buses that night, no more taxis, no underground. Here I was in the mu in the middle of this huge city. I wasn't exactly sure where I was. I knew nothing of London. I wasn't sure how to get back to my hotel. Couldn't get a taxi, couldn't catch another bus, couldn't ride the underground. Everything was closed down. It was late at night. No place where I could go to get warm. I asked for directions on the street, but when they found out I was American, they didn't want to help me. No one was really interested in helping me out in my plight there in that city. So it was late, it was dark, it was cold, I was lonely, I wanted my mama. Felt like a lost kid. Eventually what I did is I I got hold of a map of the city of London and I figured out where I was. And um I figured out where Bucking Buckingham Palace was. I had been there earlier that day. I had walked there actually from my hotel. It's just a few blocks away. So I figured out if I could just get to Buckingham Palace Then I can get to my hotel. And so I looked it on a map that was a good distance away and figured it out. And eventually I made my way through the dark many scary places and made my way back to Buckingham Palace and then sure enough I was able to make my way from there back to my hotel. Are you impressed? Psalm 142 is about David, a time in his life when he was in darkness, he was kind of forsaken, he was lonely. He was in a a place where he was uh really not comfortable at all. And it's about how God helped him to make it out of that place In fact, Psalm 142 is a map that helped him to get out of that place. And we need to learn this because at some point in your Christian life, you're going to be there. You will feel lonely, you'll feel uh forsaken, you'll feel uh in a in a cold, lonely place And that's when David wrote this psalm. There's a lot of emotion in it if you look at it. In verse number two, he says, I poured out my complaint before him. I showed him my trouble. He felt like he was in trouble in verse number two. In verse 3, he was felt overwhelmed. In verse 3, he said, When my spirit was overwhelmed, you ever feel that way? Like I'm just overwhelmed with everything. He was feeling alone in verse number four. He said, I looked on my right hand and beheld there was no man that would know me. And refuge failed. In verse 6, he was going through a low point because he said, I'm brought very low. In verse 7, he felt like he was in prison. He said, Lord, bring my soul out of prison. And he was looking forward to the time when he would no longer be alone in verse 7 when God once again would bring righteous people around him. He will be the righteous shall compass me about, he said. Now, when did David write this? And what are the circumstances behind the writing of this Psalm? We always want to do uh see that when we um study a psalm. And if you look right above verse number one and right below the chapter uh number, you'll see a little uh subtitle Uh Mishkil of David, a prayer when he was in the what, you see that? He was in a cave. He wrote this when he was in a cave. The word Mishkil is a Hebrew word that actually means instruction. And some people translate it like this A Psalm of David giving instruction when he was in a cave. That's why I titled the sermon, How to Behave in a Cave. Because this is really what David's telling us. When you come to a cave, here's what you do. That's what he's kind of saying. He wrote this in a by himself, in a very dark Damp Cave. And by the way, this same subtitle is under Psalm 57, so it's very likely that he wrote two songs in this same circumstance Here's Psalm 142 and then Psalm 57. Now this was at a time in his life when he was running from Saul, and you remember we studied a psalm where that was the background of another Psalm, so we really know uh in a way what he's going through. But there was only two places where the scripture says David hid from Saul in a cave. One place was a place called Adullum, and another place was a place called Engedi. Here, however, the evidence is that when David wrote this, he was all by himself. That's why scholars think that when he wrote this, it was at the cave of Abdullah when he wrote this, because at that place and at that point in his life, he was utterly alone. When he was at the cave of Ningeti, he had his brothers and his men that were there with him. And so that's why most think Adullah is the place. And of course we know the background. David killed Goliath The women began to sing Saul has slain a thousand, David ten thousand. Saul got mad. David had to run for his life. And you remember the story, the first place he ran to was a place called Nob. There were the high priests there and uh and uh uh uh Ahimelech. The high priest gave him uh the sword of Goliath And from there he went into the land of the Philistines, and you remember the story when he went to Gath and they recognized him and he pretended to be crazy. And he had to escape out of there. And it was from there, from Gath, that he actually went to the cave of Adullaum. This cave by himself. Again, no one was there with him. No brothers, no men around him. This was a very lonely time for David. This was not the program that he envisioned for himself when God anointed him to be king When God came and said, You're going to be king, I think David perhaps pictured himself living in a palace, but here he is in a cave Kings don't live in dark caves with bats and other creepy, crawly things around. But let me tell you something about caves. Caves are effective classrooms. They help you to trust God and put your faith in the Lord. Spurgeon said this. He observed that David prayed when he was in the cave, but later when he was in the palace, he fell into temptation and sin with Bathsheba. And then he said this. He said The caves have the best prayers. I think that's probably true, don't you? I think we pray better when we're in a cave. And of course I'm using the term cave now, obviously in a metaphorical way. We don't literally live in a cave, but you might come to a place in your life where you're lonely, you feel all around you is dark. You're afraid, things aren't going your way. It seems like everyone has forsaken you and you're by yourself And there's a little bit of fear there. That's kind of a cave experience. And David was wanting to be king, but first God had to take him to the classroom. To be king in that classroom happened to meet in a cave, and David was the only student. And here the Lord was teaching him how to trust in him. So what I want you to see in this psalm tonight are just some things to remember when you have your cave experience. Because you mark it down at some point in your Christian life, you're going to feel this way. At some point in your pilgrimage, you're going to feel very lonely. You're going to feel in a dark place. You're going to wonder why am I here? Well, there's some things to remember if you have a cave experience. Here's the first thing that David teaches us. Number one, the Lord hears our cry. If you're in a cave, the Lord, remember, He'll hear your cry. Look at verse 1. Again, I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and with my voice unto the Lord I did make my supplication. One lesson that David teaches us is when God puts you in a circumstance where you feel trapped and alone, that what our response is is the cry out to God in believing prayer. Because this is what David does. And I say, look at these verses. This is very personal. This is very individual. Because he uses the first person pronoun I. You notice that in verse 1 and 2, I cried. And then I make my supplication. In verse 2, I poured out my complaint before him. I showed before him my trouble. This is all personal. And this teaches us that faith in God must be personal. Your young people, your parents' faith isn't going to help you all your life. You have to develop your own faith. It's not going to get you through those dark experiences that will come upon you surely, a cave experience. Husband, you can't depend upon your wife's faith. You have to develop your own. And the same is true. Wife, you can't depend upon your husband's faith. You have to develop your own faith. You must know God personally. You must walk with God personally. And so this faith is very personal, and you have to develop a strong enough faith that'll get you through these times. There's going to be times when others around you aren't going to stand with you, you're going to have to stand by yourself. There's going to be times when people don't understand you, and you're going to have to stand alone. And David was learning this one lesson. How to be alone and how to trust God by Himself. And what he does is he prays. And notice the different descriptions of David's praying. In verse 1, he said, I cried with my voice Two times he cried out with my voice. The word voice call, that's an audible sound. Remember I told you before there's different ways to pray. Sometimes we pray silently. Sometimes we can write things down in a journal, we can write our prayers out, and sometimes we just pray out loud. You ever do that? You ever just pray out loud? And this is what David is doing. And those times seem to have more emotion to it. So he's praying aloud in that cave. And then he said, I make my supplication in verse number one. Look at the word supplication. Interesting Hebrew word. It's hanam. Hanan. This is where we get the word hannah the name Hannah from. You know what the Hebrew word hannah actually means? It means grace. This same word was used about Noah. Noah found grace. Noah Matzahana is the Hebrew there. Noah found grace. Same exact word. And so what David is doing here is he's appealing to God for grace. He's asking for grace. Sometimes when we pray, we ask God to change our circumstances. But maybe the best way that we can pray is to ask God to give us the grace to handle our circumstances. Ask God to give us the grace to go through the circumstances that He's given us. Remember, that's what Paul had to learn. Remember Paul's thorn in the flesh, and Paul three times he prayed and said, Lord, take this from me. And the Lord said, No. And then he said, What, my grace is sufficient. And so Paul learned that. He said, Okay, Lord, so most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me He learned the lesson that what God wants to do is rather than change our circumstances so many times, he wants to change us. He wants us to learn to depend upon his grace. And his grace is sufficient. He wants us to learn that. And the only way you're going to learn that is to go through things by yourself. Well you're not dependent on anything else. All you're dependent on is the grace of God. John Newton learned this. He wrote the song Amazing Grace. His critics knew how much he loved his wife, and they predicted that when she died, she was very sick, and they predicted that when she died he would fall apart uh that when she died he wasn't going to be able to he was preaching all about grace, but they thought, you know what, he's gonna really learn when his wife dies, uh he's gonna fall apart. And sure enough his wife passed away, but what he did was he He did what he normally did. He went out and served the Lord. He visited his parishioners. When it came time for the funeral, he preached her sermon, and this is what he said. He said, The Bank of England is too poor to compensate for such a loss as mine. And then he said, But the Lord, the all-sufficient God, speaks and it's done. Then he said, Let those who know him and trust him be of good courage. He can give them grace according to their day. He can give them the strength that they need. It's a good encouraging thing. He knew that he could depend upon God's grace, and so can we And so he he he is asking for grace. He's crying out audibly, he's asking for grace. Notice where he says, I poured out my complaint, verse two I poured out my complaint. The word complaint here, it's not the idea of him complaining in a negative way. It's an internal concern, the burden inside your heart. But notice the expression poured out. This is the word used to speak of pouring out a drink offering. Remember sometimes the worshippers in the Old Testament would come and they would bring their sacrifice to the altar, and then they would have a cup of wine that they would pour out onto the The altar which was very hot with fire and it would immediately turn into smoke and it gave off a sweet smell. And it was an act of worship. And there's a sense in which David says, that's me, I pour out before you all of my concerns. And you know, that's what prayer is. You understand that prayer ultimately is an act of worship to God. Or we just pour out our heart before the Lord there. One thing about a worshiper, once they poured out that wine, they couldn't gather it back and take it with them, could they? Once he had poured out, they had to leave it where it was. And the same is true when we bring our burdens to the Lord. We pour them out before the Lord, and that's it. You can't take it back with you You leave it there with the Lord. And so prayer then is taking a matter to the Lord. It's an act of worship of pouring it out. Someone, some sometimes people say, How long should I pray? As long as it takes you to pour that thing out Pray yourself empty, and then allow the grace of God to fill you. That should be your experience in prayer. And then he says this: he said, I showed my trouble. Look again in verse 2. I poured out my complaint before him. I showed Before him my trouble. The word showed here is actually the idea of providing an explanation He's explaining to God what he needs. It's almost like a lawyer explaining a case before a judge And someone might ask, doesn't God already know what we need before we ask? Does he need us to show him everything? Well, you're sure he knows everything we need. Remember, Jesus said that. He said, Your heavenly Father knows what you need before you ask him. And someone might say, well, then why does God want us to pray if he already knows what we need? Because God wants us to express our trust in him. He wants us to delight in his character, knowing that God's character and God's faithfulness will take care of this. And he wants us to learn to trust him. And prayer does all of that. It teaches us humble dependence on God. So when you're in an experience like this, just remember he hears our cry. But here's number two. The Lord knows our circumstance. Just remember that. He hears your cry. Number two, he knows your circumstance. Look down at verse number three. When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knew path. The word overwhelmed is a word that means to lose courage or grow faint. Some translate it like this, when my heart is down, when my heart shrinks. Is the way some people translate that. David was just discouraged. And we're all going to go through those periods of discouragement. Someone said discouragement eats a hole in our hearts, makes us want to quit. But we're all going to go through it. We're going to go through what the Middle-aged theologian John of the Cross called the dark night of the soul. That's what David is going through right here. He's struggling with discouragement, and he needs to learn to to live above it, to overcome it. And so God is teaching him that. But here's the thing. Notice the phrase, thou knewest my path in verse number three. When my spirit was overwhelmed, then thou knewest my path. This is what helped him. And this is what will help you when you're overwhelmed and when you're discouraged and you lose heart. You have to remember that God knows where you are. He hasn't forsaken you, he hasn't forgotten you. He knows even when you're in a cave, he knows exactly where you are Matthew Henry said this, there's no cave so deep, so dark, but we may uh may out of it send up our prayers and our souls in prayer to God. So God knows where you are. In fact, notice what he says. He knows your path in chapter 3, verse 1. He says, Then thou knew. Lord, you knew the path. You knew what was going to happen to me. This wasn't an accident. What does the Bible say? The steps of a good good man are what? Ordered by the Lord God knows where you are. He's ordered your steps. The word know here, yada, it is a word that means intimate knowledge. God intimately knows your steps. He watches over your steps. And even when you're going into a dark place, when you have to go to a cave, God's ordained even that. Even the times of despondency. If you ever read the book Pilgrim's Progress by John Bunyan that traces the journey of Christian from the city of destruction to the celestial city, and it's a picture of a Christian. Traveling to heaven in this world. We're pilgrims in this world, right? We're making that journey to heaven. And there's all kind of beautiful metaphors that John Bunyan gives in that story about our experience as Christians and what we're going to experience And at one point part in the book, when Christian is making the journey, he has a traveling companion named Hopeful, and they travel down the road and they fall into this miry pit. And you know what the pit is called? It's called the slew of despondence. This is the pit of discouragement. The miry pit of discouragement. And then let me quote you what he wrote here. He says, Then I stepped to him that plucked him out. There's a guy who came along and plucked him out of the pit, and he said, Sir, Wherefore, since over this place is the way from the city of destruction to yonder gate, is that this plat is not mended, and poor travelers must go thither with more security In other words, he's saying, why why hasn't someone fixed this road? That sounds like us here in Maryland, right? How come so how come someone's fixed this road? I hear I'm making this journey from this city of destruction all the way to the celestial city, and here's this path. Why don't someone fix this path? Why don't someone mend it so others like us don't fall in And here was the response to that. And he said unto me, quote, This Myri Slough is such a place as cannot be mended. What do you mean by that? You can't mend this. In other words, you can't take this journey without at some time, at some point, falling into a pit like this. You're not going to walk this Christian life without at some point falling into the slew of despondence. It's just going to happen. And God who orders our steps knows when we're there. He's in fact ordered this even this in our life that we might learn. This was not nothing, it wasn't an accident for David that God put him in that classroom in the cave This couldn't be mended because God was teaching David something that he needed to learn, and the same is true of you and me. He knows your path. And he knows your problems. Look again in verse 3. He said, Then thou knewest my path, and the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me. He knew also that His enemies were trying to ensnare him. That was David's particular problem. And you remember the story of David that he was running for eight or nine years. Saul was hunting him down all that time. He lived like a fugitive This was one long trial. And sometimes the trials that we have in our life are long. But again, God knows David's problem. It wasn't an accident that Saul's hunting David, that David is living like he is, learning to trust God, running from an enemy. God had him in this trial. What's the old saying that when you're in the refiner's uh fire, uh the the refiner has his eye on the clock and his hand on the thermostat? He knows how hot to make it and how long to keep you in there And God knows how long to keep us in that place, in the cave, until we've learned the lessons that we need to learn. He knows your path. He knows your problems. And then also he knows your pain. Look at verse 4. I looked on my right hand and beheld, but there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me. No man cared for my soul. And you can feel the loneliness there, can't you, in that verse? The pain of loneliness. He's all alone in this cave, no fun place to be. And he looks to the right. There's nobody there. There's no one to guard him. There's no military guard to defend him against Saul. No one really seemed to care at that point in David's life. No help, no one to watch his back. This was his cave experience And again, you may have something similar to that in your own life. But again, no matter what the circumstances are, you have to remember that God does care. He hasn't forgotten. Again, in verse 4, where it says, you, God, know my path. The you is emphatic. God knows exactly where you are. He knows exactly what you're feeling. Charlotte Elliott, the woman who wrote Just As I Am, the hymn that we love to sing, she wrote another poem. She said, This: From human eyes, tis better to conceal much that I suffer. Much I hourly feel, but oh, this thought can tranquilize and heal. All is known to thee That's what can heal you at that moment. That's what can give you peace. All is known to God. He knows all about it. And so the Lord hears our cry. Just remember that. And number two, the Lord knows our circumstances. But here's the third thing to remember for your cave experience. The Lord helps our cause. The Lord helps our cause. Look at verse 5. I cried unto thee, O Lord, I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living. David got the lesson right here. This is the sense I get when I read verse 5. There's no man around to help him. And what it forced David to do is to find all his help in God. And he says, Lord, you're my refuge. There's no one around here, no one guarding me. I'm by myself. And David learns a lesson here. It dawns on him in the classroom of the cave that, Lord, you're my refuge. You're the one is you're my portion. This is where we learn real contentment and satisfaction. And this is what God wants. This is what He wants from us right here in verse 5. He wants us to learn this one thing. For us to ultimately depend upon Him and Him alone. Again, that's where our real contentment comes from when we learn not to lean on all these other things, but to learn to find our all in Him. This is the again the very thing that Paul learned. His cave happened to be a prison in Rome, where Paul wrote the words that we know very well. Not that I speak in respect of one, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am Therewith to be what? To be content. Know how to be abased. I know how to live in a cave if I need to, or in a prison. And I know how to abound. I know how to live in a palace. Wherever God chooses to put me, that's fine, because I can do all things through Christ. I know sometimes we use that to try to uh support whatever you know thing we're trying to attempt, but really the whole meaning of that is that we've learned that God is our all, no matter what where we are, what our circumstance might be. This is what David learns. He says, Lord, you are my refuge. You see, we learn that God is all that we need when we're put into a position where God is all that we have. And he has to put us there before we sometimes learn that he's all that we need. When he's all that we have. It's no accident that he puts us there. So he helps our cause, and he learns that God is his refuge. He learns that God is his portion. In verse number five, I cried unto thee O Lord, I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living. That word portion here is the idea of you're my share, you're my plot of land, if you will, you're you're the place where I camp out. You're all that I need. And that's the idea. And so David teaches us that in this psalm We learned to find our total contentment in God. But I want you to see how David um how how we can have confidence That God will do these things for us because what I see here at the end of the Psalm is David is growing in confidence. And then I think he here's what we learn. The Lord will attend to our cry. Look in verse 6. Attend unto my cry For I'm brought very low. God hears the prayers of the broken and the humble. Again, the best prayers are prayed from a cave experience in our life. You can have confidence that at this time in your life, when you cry out to God in brokenness and humility, He will hear you. He will attend unto you. And then here's the next thing. The Lord will deliver me. Remember that in verse 8, or verse 6, rather, again, for I am brought very low. Deliver me from my persecutors, for they are stronger than I The Lord will take you out of that cave, and one day you'll be living in a palace. David's persecutors will one day all be gone. Some of them will actually come under his command. They'll be in his army. God's able to take your enemies and subdue them under you. The cave is only temporary in order for God to accomplish what he wants. But notice the next thing: the Lord will open a door in verse 7. He says, Bring my soul out of prison. David felt as if he was in a prison there and he was waiting for God to open that door. But notice his motive in verse 7 when he said, Bring my soul out of prison that I may praise thy name. That was his whole motive. A lot of times we say, Lord, deliver me out of this so I can feel better. But David's whole goal was, Lord, I want to be able to glorify you. I want to be able to praise your name. I want to be able to confess your name. And so David had the right motive. And then notice the next thing: God will send me helpers in verse 7. He says, the righteous shall come past me about And what he was saying there is, Lord, you're going to send me people, you're not going to leave me here by myself. And I don't know if David knew it, probably not at the time, but at that very moment, if this is the cave of Adullaum, there were actually men that were coming to David. They were actually coming to him. Take a minute. Look in 1 Samuel 22. Hold your place here in Psalm 142. But go to 1 Samuel 22. Let me just show you here this. Because this is, I think, the point in his life. 1 Samuel 22, verse 1. Where says David therefore departed thence and escaped to the cave of Adullam Verse 1. And when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither to him. God was sending people to him. Verse 2. And every one that was in distress, and everyone that was in debt And everyone that was discontented gathered themselves unto him, and he became a captain over them, and there were with him about four hundred men. Well, he wasn't alone anymore, was he? The idea was God was sending people to help him. To help out his friends. You ever notice how God seems to put the right people in your life at the right time? To help you for whatever happens? And we need this because we can't do this alone. We need the help of God's people. That's what the church is for. Do you know that? We're here to encourage each other. You say, I don't feel like going to church tonight. You know, I don't really need it. I'll just list the Pastor Harmon on the uh on the website. Well, okay, but people need you here. They need you to encourage them. You can't get that off the website. Now go ahead and listen to the sermon on the website. Go ahead and download it and listen to it. You can give me a little offering for it if you want. No, I'm just kidding. Just kidding. But you can't get fellowship from that. You get it from the church. And so David, all of a sudden, he was surrounded with people that were righteous people. They were themselves going through troubles and that with the churches. Anybody here have no trouble at all? Would you raise your hand? We would like you to leave if that's your case. No, I'm just kidding. We're all in trouble. We all have difficulties. But we all come here to encourage one another. Suddenly David became pastor of the Cave Baptist Church of Adullam. He was the pastor of 400. They were all there. They were all encouraging one another. God had sent him help. You are to help one another. And then here's the next thing. The Lord will do good to me. Go back to Psalm 142 and look in the um End of verse 7, where it says, For thou shalt deal bountifully with me. Again, an interesting word here, bountifully, is the Hebrew word gamal. You know what this word means? To wean. Or we could say to complete. Same exact word is used in Psalm 131, verse 2, when it says, My soul is as a, come on, wean a child. Lord, you're teaching me to be weaned. It's a process where you're not depending on things. And what David is saying here is, is I know God I know that you're weaning me off of all the things that I depended on besides you, and you're going to complete this process in my life Where I'm totally, completely dependent on you. That's the good that God wants to accomplish in David's life. That's the cave experience. That's the lesson to learn from this. So when you feel as if you're in a dark, difficult, cave-like circumstance, just remember the Lord hears your cry. The Lord knows your circumstance. The Lord will help your cause. And He will, if you can just make your way to God in prayer, He'll show you the way He'll help you through all of this. And Psalm 142, again, is a math that will help you to learn how to behave if you have a cave-like experience in your life. Your troubles should lead you to go deeper in faith, deeper in prayer. And if you're not doing that, then you're missing out on the lesson of the cave. Remember I told you if you don't learn the lesson, you've got to repeat the class? You don't want to repeat this class. So learn the lesson. God wants to deepen your faith. He wants to deepen your prayer. Let your loneliness and your gloom and your despair make you cry out to the Lord. Because again, caves make the best prayers. So seek the Lord and remember these things and ask God to do that good in your life that He was doing in David's life. So that God could use David in a greater capacity in a greater way. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, I pray for these your sheep, your people that love you, that are here seeking your face, they're here, Lord, because they want to hear from you. And I pray, Lord, you'll speak to every heart. And you'll use your word, the message tonight, to encourage some who may be in a cave experience right now, and they're wondering what to do. And Lord, help us to take the advice of your servant David. And help us to remember these things. That in such times, Lord, you're there, you're with us, you haven't forgotten us. You hear our cry. Lord, you know our circumstance and you're helping our cause, whether we realize it or not. You're doing good in us. And so, Lord, help us to be submitted to that And to trust you in it. Help us, Lord, to learn the lesson that you're all that we need. And we are content in you and you alone. How many say that's my prayer tonight? That's what I want to learn before God, to find all my contentment in Him. Father, bless again these words to the hearts of your people, and we thank you for it in Jesus' precious name. Amen.