Now go to first Peter chapter one, and we're going to be dealing this morning with verse six down to verse nine. And the title of my sermon this morning is Sorrowful Sorrowful, yet always rejoicing This is what Peter is going to teach us as believers, that is, that there are times when we go through times of sorrow, but yet at the same time we can learn to rejoice even during the sorrow. You know, there seems to be a lot of confusion among Christians about how we're supposed to deal with suffering. For example, there are some that say if we suffer, it's because we lack faith. We're supposed to claim healing by faith and deny all negative thoughts. Now this is clearly unbiblical, yet it seems to persist out there today. And then there are those who were say that we're really to deny the grief that we go through. There are some that say Christians must go through suffering, but they're supposed to do it with a smile on their faith And they always quote verses like, Rejoice always, and everything give thanks, all things work together for good. Now, all those verses are indeed true. However, this view seems to say that we should deny the grief and the pain as if there's something unspiritual about grieving. as if there's something unspiritual about crying. And this approach to suffering, I think, leads to kind of a hypocrisy and an emote and emotional problems in my opinion, because people put on a phony smile And they mouth cliches like praise the Lord, but inside they're deeply hurting. And they're supposed to deny that You deny the sorrow, you deny the grief that is there. I think this is neither biblical nor is it emotionally healthy to approach suffering that way. I know many of you are suffering, and many of you cry tears. There's nothing wrong with crying tears during times of suffering. I know that some of you have prayed for my daughter and prayed for Carolyn and I while we ha in the loss of our granddaughter and we have suffered, we've grieved through that uh every day. Uh there's not a day that goes by that I don't cry tears over that. And I'm sure many of you are the same way. I know many of you have suffered the loss of a loved one and you're in times of sorrow. There's nothing wrong with grieving. But then there's another there's another extreme and there are those that say that we should express grief And in fact, we should even express anger against God. This is an opposite extreme and a reaction against the approach of you know, not suffering grief at all. There are those that say we must pour out all of our grief and sorrow. We're supposed to work through all the stages of grief. We're told to vent all our anger, our rage, our bitterness. In fact, if we don't feel it, we are in denial. And people, under this view, there are some that encourage people to even rail at God. They're given the assurance, well, God can take it. So go ahead and be angry at God. Go ahead and tell God how angry you are at him. Tell God that you're ticked off at him. because of what has happened. And we're told if we don't do this, we're creating emotional problems for ourselves. Uh in fact I've had people uh not from necessarily here, but people have come to me and said, you know, when they heard about my granddaughter going to heaven Aren't you angry at God? Aren't you angry that the Lord did that? I mean there are all kind of people out there that are not living godly lives and they're having healthy children in here Your daughter is living a spiritual life and yet the Lord takes her baby. Aren't you angry at God in that? And my response is this: I'm not angry at God in the least. In fact, I praise God more than ever. And I trust in His sovereign wisdom. It doesn't mean that we don't grieve. We do grieve. As I said, not a day goes by since that happened. Has gone by where I have not cried and I've prayed. But you know what? It doesn't mean that I'm angry. And I, again, I praise God. I thank God for his faithfulness. And so, on one hand, there are those who say you should deny the pain. You should deny the grief. On the other hand, there are those who say that you should vent your sorrow and grief and anger and bitterness against God. These are two extreme views. I think that neither view is biblical. And that doesn't really match what the scripture has to say about sorrowing and suffering. You see, the biblical way is not to deny pain and grief. We accept it, we understand it, but at the same time, did you know that while you go through real sorrow, you can have genuine joy? You can have genuine joy from the Lord. Now this is what Peter is telling us. This is what Peter is saying. Look in verse number six. Remember, he's writing to suffering believers. He's running to believers that have gone through a deep dark valley and they're in pain. Look at verse six, wherein ye greatly rejoice So notice first of all he says that you can rejoice. And by the way, the word for rejoice here is a word, a very strong Greek word, which literally means to leap for joy. It's the idea of a person who is excessive in their joy. They're leaping, they're skipping. Barclay wrote this: it is the joy which leaps for joy. This is an excessive joy. Peter said, You can rejoice with great joy. But yet at the same time, look again in verse 6, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, you are in heaviness. Through manifold temptations. Look at the word heaviness, Lupeo. This is a deep grief of the heart. This is a passive participant, but we can say it like this: you having been put to grief. And the idea is that there is something that happened in your life, something that was out of your control that came upon you. And when this event happened, it brought to your heart incredible grief Intense grief. You didn't necessarily cause it. It just happened. It came and it s it shattered you. It broke your heart. And so what we see here then in this verse is that these two things dwell side by side. Happiness and heaviness can dwell in the same heart. Gladness and at the same time, sadness. Peter is saying that both of these things can be true When he says greatly rejoice, this is not an imperative. He's not commanding you to rejoice, he's just simply saying it is a fact that when sorrow comes, you can at the same time have great joy. You can rejoice greatly. Now this seems to be a paradox to us. How can we have joy and rejoicing and gladness at the same time when heaviness and sorrow come? Well, Peter, or excuse me, Paul spoke of this. In fact, he modeled it. He said this in 2 Corinthians 6. 10, sorrowful yet Always rejoicing. Paul said, I'm going through trials and my heart is heavy, yet at the same time, I am rejoicing in God. And perhaps this was modeled better than anywhere else in the book of Acts, chapter sixteen, when Paul and Silas, remember they were arrested. They were beaten. And what do we find them doing in the prison? Were they crying? No, they were praising God. I'm sure they hurt. I'm sure they were in pain. I'm sure there was some sorrow there. Yet at the same time, the Bible says that at midnight they were singing praises to God. Spurgeon, the great preacher, asked this question, can a Christian greatly rejoice while he is in heaviness? And then he says this, yes, most assuredly he can. And then he says, mariners tell us that there are some parts of the sea where there is a strong current upon the surface going one way. But that down in the depths there is a strong current running the other way. He said there are two seas and they do not meet or interfere with one another, but one stream of water on the surface running in one direction And another below in the opposite direction, he says, that's what a Christian is like. On the surface there is a stream of heaviness rolling with dark ways, but down in the depths There is a strong undercurrent of great rejoicing that is always flowing there down in the depths. And remember, this is again what Peter is saying. He's saying that while on the surface there is heaviness, there is hurting, underneath in the depths of our soul, there is rejoicing that we have. Now, how can this happen? How can this be true? Well, in these verses, Peter gives us five reasons why this is true. And here's the first reason. We kind of looked at it a little bit last week, but let me tell you a little bit about it again. Number one Because, first of all, our protected inheritance. Look at verse number six, wherein ye greatly rejoice. Now what is Peter doing when he says wherein he's pointing back to the verses that he had just talked about Where he's talking about the blessings of our salvation, specifically the inheritance that God is guarding for us in heaven. Now we can greatly rejoice even in sorrow because you have a great inheritance in heaven. And as I said last week, do you understand that you're rich? Not going to be rich, you're already rich. That inheritance is already there. God is already guarding that inheritance. It's there, it's real. And remember what Peter said about it in verse 4. It is incorruptible, it is undefiled, it fadeth not away. This treasure that you have in heaven is secure. Many of you think your treasure on earth is secure. Um probably not. I mean I hope that you get it. But anything can happen to our savings. I mean the bank could fail, Wall Street could go under, all these things could happen. The only real security is our inheritance that's in heaven. Because it's guarded by God. That's why Paul said in Colossians 3:2, set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth. Our affections are to be set on things above. You say, now wait a minute, how can I live in this world and be thinking constantly about heaven? We think of that expression, he's so heavenly-minded that he's no earthly good Well, I would say that if you're really heavenly minded the way the Bible says, you are good for the things of this earth. And the way that we do this is on the outside we live in this world, but on the inside, we're thinking on eternal things. We're heavily minded on the inside, while we live outwardly on the outside, but our focus is on that eternal inheritance that God has made up for us. You remember that Jesus reminded his disciples often about this during his earthly ministry. One time Peter came to Jesus, and Peter said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all to follow thee. What shall we have therefore? Peter was saying, Jesus, we're following you. We've left our businesses. We've forsaken everything. What's in it for us? And remember how Jesus responded? He talked about when he comes again, and he said, Everyone that has forsaken houses or brethren or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands for my name's sake shall receive a hundredfold And shall it inherit everlasting life. And then Jesus said this, but many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be first. You know what he meant by that? You know, the world looks at us Christians today, those of us who put our faith and trust in God and are willing to sacrifice and walk away from the things of this world to focus on eternal things. They kind of give us a sympathetic smile. They kind of think we're crazy. They don't get the Christian today. The world doesn't understand believers today. We're hidden with Christ and God. There's a sense where there's a part of us that is hidden from the world that they don't get, they don't understand. And they think they're in first place. They're living for pleasure, they're living for wealth, they have nice things, and this is what consumes their life Whereas the believer is focused on eternal things, and it looks like from the world's perspective, they're in first place and we're in last place. But when Jesus comes, we're going to be in first place and they're going to be in last place. That's what Jesus meant when he said the first shall be last and the last shall be first. It looks like that missionary that walked away from uh possessions and family and went to a field and sacrificed his life for the gospel. People will look at that and say, Oh, that poor person, he's in last place. Maybe today. But one day he's going to be in first place. And the first shall be last. Why is that? Because of our eternal inheritance. Because of what God has laid up for us. There's going to be a huge reversal. Remember what the writer of Hebrews said about those Believers in Hebrews chapter 11, he said the world was not worthy of them. They were tortured, they were stoned, they received scourging, they were mocked. They were able to go through all kinds of suffering. Why? Because they had their focus on their eternal inheritance. It says this in Hebrews 11:16. But now they desire A better country that is a heavenly. Wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. They were focusing on the eternal. So we can have joy because of our protected inheritance But here's another reason. We have joy even in the midst of sorrow because of our proven faith. Look at verse number 7. That the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Peter tells us another reason we can rejoice is because that during these times that our faith is being tested, it is proven to be real and authentic. Here's what Peter says about trials. First of all, they're temporary. If you look in verse 6, he says, though now for a season. Something about seasons that don't last forever. They're temporary. You might be going through a season of suffering right now. It's not for long. They're temporary. Salvation is eternal. In a short while, Jesus will return in glory, and we will spend eternity with him. So no matter how deep your trial is, remember that it's not forever. It's just temporary. But also they're purposeful in verse 6. He says, When you greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be. That is, it's needful. When God brings a season of trial or suffering, it's not arbitrary. God is using this season to accomplish his divine purpose in our life. He might want to humble us He might want to redirect our focus. He might want to do a deeper work in our heart. Through trials, God separates the sin that he hates from the soul that he loves. God might want to prepare us for some greater work. That's why He brings us through the trial. If Joseph had not been Egypt's prisoner, he would have never been Egypt's prime minister. If the chains were not around his feet, he would never have golden chains around his neck. God prepared him for a greater work. God might want to build our character. One of the elementary principles in spiritual growth, the ABCs of spiritual growth is adversity brings character. And God might want to build our character. But God's trials that He lays upon us is never just arbitrary. I think of the hymn that we sing, how firm a foundation. There's a line that says, The flame will not hurt thee. I only design thy draws to consume and thy gold to refine. God wants to refine us. And later Peter will write, but the God of all grace who has called us into his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that you have suffered a while, make you perfect. Establish, strengthen, and settle you. Another thing Peter says about trials is they come in various forms. Look at verse 6. Now for a season, if need be, you're in heaviness through manifold temptations, and this is a word which means multicolored, it's the idea of diversity. They're in various forms, various intensities. God gives different trials to different people for different purposes. But here's the most important thing I think about the trial. They prove whether your faith is authentic. Look at verse 7. That the trial of your faith. Now the word trial here is a Greek word dachymos This is a banker's term. Let me tell you why, because back in that day there was all kind of counterfeit money floating around. So they had to develop a test To determine whether the gold was real or was it counterfeit. And the word that they use for the test is this Greek word here, dachymos. It is a test, it is a trial. You know what's worth more than money? Your faith? Peter said that, that the trying of your faith, which is much more precious than gold. You see, just like there's a test to see if gold is genuine, there's a test of our faith to see if our faith is genuine. And God will bring us through that. If a person goes through a deep, dark trial and they get angry at God, and rather than getting better, they get bitter and they walk away from God, they walk away from the faith You can rest assured that their faith was not genuine from the beginning. Like one person said, the faith that fizzes before the finish had a flaw from the first. If they walk away, then their faith wasn't genuine. But if a Christian goes through a trial, and rather than getting bitter, they get better. They end up clinging to the Lord more, and God is accomplishing his purpose. You know that that faith is a genuine faith. Fiery trials make golden Christians. Look at Job. I think one of the greatest declarations in Scripture is Job 13, 15. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. And then he went on to say, But he knows the way that I take, and when he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold. When faith is proven to be genuine, that is a source of incredible joy. It brings great joy. If God were to come to me today and say, Jerry, I'll give you whatever you want, I would not hesitate. I would say, God, here's what I want. I want all of my children to have true faith in Jesus Christ. I want my children and my grandchildren to walk in your ways. I want them to love you. I want their faith to be a real faith. I don't want them to imitate their father's faith. I want it to be real in their own hearts. And you know, when I was over in London with Abby, when she lost her baby, I was wondering how that would impact her. I was wondering, would she get angry at God? Would she get bitter? Would she get resentful? And I watched her grief. I heard her sobs in the next room at night. And I remember the day that we laid Matilda Grace to rest in the cemetery, laying her in that grave, that little beautiful little white coffin. And Abby got down on her hands and knees and she sobbed like any mother would in that situation. But that night at the service When she gave the eulogy that she and Will wrote together, she said when she uh wrote the wrote it out, she said in the eulogy that God, you are good. And you are good in taking Matilda grace, and I trust you. And I stood next to her when she sang the song with all of her heart, raising her hands to heaven, It is well with my soul. And you know what that did for me as a father? It gave me great joy. You know why? Because it revealed to me that her faith is a genuine faith It's a real faith. When you cling to the Lord in times of trial, that reveals that your faith is real. And I know that's the same for many of you. I've seen that in many of you. I've been encouraged to see many of you go through Hard trials, and yet you praise God. You trust God. You hold on to God. I can't tell you what an inspiration you are to the rest of the body of Christ when you do things like that. So we can rejoice because of our protected inheritance, because of our proven faith But here's the third thing, because of our promised reward. What does God say about that? Look at verse 7. It says that the trial of your faith be much more precious than of gold that perishes though it be tried with fire might be found under the praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. What's the result of going through a trial and demonstrating real faith in God? When the Lord Jesus Christ comes, he's going to reward those that have trusted in him. Now, when he says might be found under praise and honor and glory, he's not talking about the praise and honor and glory of Jesus. He always has praise and honor and glory. We praise his holy name. But the praise and honor and glory is to the Christian. Who has persevered through the trial. And they have maintained their faith. What Peter is saying is: one day when Jesus comes, that believer will receive from the Lord praise and honor and glory from him. You see, we want the glory that comes from Jesus. We want the praise. An honor that comes from Jesus. Write down 1 Corinthians 4:5. Therefore, judge nothing before the time until the Lord come, who will bring to light the hidden things of darkness. and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts. Then every man shall have praise of God. You know what Paul is saying there? that there are many people here in this earth right now and their sufferings and their faithfulness to God is pretty much hidden because we don't see it. We can't know it, and they don't go around advertising it, but very quietly they suffer Very quietly, they just remain faithful to the Lord. The greatest sermons I have ever heard were not preached from a pulpit but from a sickbed. From people who have maintained their faith and they've praised God and they've given me Deep spiritual truths from the seminary of affliction that they have attended. And they've been faithful to the Lord. One day when Jesus comes, you know what? He's going to reward them openly. All the hidden things that were in darkness, those things that happened when no one else could see, the Lord Jesus will bring them to light, and very publicly he will praise and honor them. That is a source of joy. And so we have joy even in sorrow because of our protected inheritance, our proven faith, our promised reward. But here's another thing: our personal fellowship. Look at verse 8. Whom ye have not seen, ye love. And whom though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory Now here, Peter commends the believers he's writing, because despite the fact they have not seen him face to face, they love him And they trust him. And despite the fact that they have been suffering and enduring the fiery trial without seeing his face, they still love him. And they still trust him. And as a result of that, there is a beautiful oneness and a beautiful fellowship that takes place between the Lord Jesus and that believer. And this fellowship is so rich, it's so great. That it's unspeakable. There are no words to describe the joy that comes in that personal fellowship that that believer has. When they're going through trials and they're loving Jesus still, and they're trusting Jesus, it brings a joy unspeakable, and it's full of glory. When I was in London and we were waiting for the service, the memorial service, which was taking some time because the hospital was running all kind of tests. I decided to go and visit a few things, and I went to Spurgeon's College. Some of you know that Spurgeon is kind of a hero of the faith for me, a Baptist preacher, a great preacher of the word. And I went to the college and when I was greatly blessed when I walked in. In the foyer, there's a beautiful stained glass window. And on the stained glass window, there is a motto that is written in Latin, which is eteo, et teneor, which simply means uh I hold and am held. I hold and am held. And there was a picture on that stained glass of a hand holding on to the cross. That was the idea. And the idea is this: when we cling to the cross, when we hold on to the cross, he holds on to us. I hold and he and am held. And when I hold on to Christ, when I hold on to the cross, he will hold fast to me. And he will help me through any trial. When I continue to preach the cross and take care of his business, you know what? He will tend to my business. When I preach his wounds, he will heal my wounds. I hold and am held, and that's a reminder that during the trial, when we hold on to Christ and we love Christ, he holds on to us. And there's a beautiful fellowship that takes place between the believer and Christ. Let me give you the last reason we rejoice. We rejoice. Because of our protected inheritance, our proven faith, our promised reward, our personal fellowship. But here's the last thing: our present glory Our present glory. Look at verse number 9 where he says, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your Now, what does Peter mean by that? Receive is the word to obtain. We obtain the end, the telias, the completion of our salvation. What's the goal of our salvation? Future glorification. There's a sense in which, and this really links back to verse 8 where it says, full of glory, we receive that, and a sense right here on earth. In other words, you can experience today some of that future glory. Did you know that? You can have a taste of heaven right here and now. That's what Peter's saying. A little faith will take your soul to heaven, but great faith will bring heaven to your soul. You can experience a little bit of heaven right here and right now. When you reach out to the Lord, when you hold on to the Lord, there's a sense in which you can experience that future glory. The Lord will fill your soul with a glory right now. And again, it's something that is unspeakable. It is something that is beautiful for the believer. So that's why that even in heaviness you can greatly rejoice, Peter says, because of all of these things. Now, again, I know some of you are going through a trial. And Peter's not saying that you deny your sorrow. The Bible doesn't say pretend like you have no sorrow or try to exist as if it's not there. That's hypocritical. No, that sorrow is real Go ahead and weep. Go ahead and cry. We don't weep as those who have no hope, however. We cry. Go ahead. It's okay. But also remember that you also can rejoice with a joy that is unspeakable and full of glory. And so I want you to think about that. I want you to lay hold to what Peter has to say. There are some here this morning that need to say, Lord, I've been going through this trial, but I haven't tapped into the joy that you make available for me. Well, I'm going through this trial. I want you to realize that's yours, beloved. Remember all these things. Hold on to all of these promises. Let's bow for prayer today. And so Father, bless these words to every hearing heart here today. I know there are some that are And in great heaviness this morning. And I pray, Lord, for you to just bless them and remind them that although the stream of heaviness flows on the surface, there's a fountain of joy underneath. And may they tap into that. May Lord you remind them of this wonderful inheritance we have. And may we be reminded that the trial is not arbitrary, Lord, you're you're testing and proving faith. You're bringing about character. And we have a reward that's coming. And may we tap into this wonderful fellowship that's available to us. Bless hearts today, Lord. Minister to hearts Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And let me just ask this question. Friend, do you know the Lord Jesus? I don't know how you can get through sorrow without knowing Christ. He's there to help you through. First thing you need to do is turn to him and trust him as your Savior. Call upon him and say, Lord Jesus, save me and make me your child. And there may be you're here and you're a Christian and you are going through sorrow. And maybe this morning what you need to do is just hold on to the cross a little tighter And ask the Lord to give you joy. Even in sorrow, you can have joy. We're going to stand together with heads bowed and eyes closed. I'm going to ask Pastor Earl and Pastor John to come up on either side. As we sing the invitation hymn, this this altar is open for you. If you have a spiritual need, we're here for you to help you in any way that we can. Maybe you just want to come and pray at this altar. Maybe you just want to come and say, I'm going to hold on to the cross of Christ a little tighter. But I'm going to ask God for that joy that's mine. You do what the Holy Spirit says as we sing the song, just as I am, without one plague. May we sing it together.