Book of Genesis, chapter thirty-seven. We've been looking at the life of Jacob, and I think I'm gonna do one more sermon from here and we're gonna leave. I do reserve the right to change my mind, but I think this might be the last one, but I want you to look in Genesis 37. And we're talking a little bit about some things that happened in the life of Joseph, but really this is a continuation of things going on in the life of Jacob. And I want you to look in chapter 37 and uh look down at verse number 23. It came to pass when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stripped Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colors that was on him. This is chapter 37. We're looking at verse number 23, and then verse 24. And they took him and cast him into a pit. And the pit was empty, and there was no water in it. The title of my sermon tonight is this, if God is sovereign, then why am I in this pit? If God is sovereign, then why am I in this pit? Now, Genesis chapter 37 teaches us that God is sovereign over the sorrows that we must endure sometimes in life. And it teaches us that there is a purpose for the sorrow in our lives. It would be impossible to live in this world and not be hurt by someone else. In fact, you may be here tonight and that might be your condition. I pray not. I pray you're well. But the truth of the matter is we know that at times we're going to be hurt. And you may be here tonight and you may be hurt, you may be grieved, you may be wounded, because for some someone at some point in your life has wounded you, has hurt you, perhaps verbally, perhaps physically You may have been damaged by someone's drinking or drug abuse by someone. Or perhaps you were married and your spouse left you and devastated you. Or perhaps your children have rebelled against you and have caused you great pain in your life. Or it may be that you at some point in your life were a victim of crime by some person's malicious actions or violent actions against you. Well, when this happens, perhaps you've had this question come to your mind from time to time. Where is God in all of this? If God is all powerful, if God is loving, then why does he allow these things to come into my life? Why does he allow these sorrows? to invade my peace. Why do, it seems like from our perspective, do wicked people seem to get away with the things that they do? If God is sovereign, then why this sorrow? Well, Joseph could have asked that very question As we know in Genesis 37, and I know that this is not new to you, I know you know the story of Joseph. We're going to look at it just from this perspective tonight. But Joseph, you know, because of his brother's sin, because of his brother's malevolent actions against him, he was suffering. He was in a pit From there, things didn't get better. You know the story. His brothers didn't kill them or kill him. That was the original plan to kill Joseph. They basically ended up selling him when he was 17 years old into slavery to go into a foreign land. While he was there in that pit, a caravan of Midianites came by and Joseph was sold into their hands And then, of course, you know how they framed a lie for their father Jacob. And we see all this happening here in Genesis chapter 37. It's interesting, as some people have mentioned about this chapter, a skeptic might say, you know, God's name is not mentioned at all here in chapter 37. So a skeptic might say, see there, God is not there when you need him. But even though God is not mentioned by name, his sovereign providence runs throughout this whole chapter like a river that runs downstream into the purposes of God. We see God's fingerprints all over what's going on here in the life of Joseph. We see his sovereignty and we see his providence. Now you might be saying, now what is exactly is sovereignty? Sovereignty really has three ideas to it. When we talk about the sovereignty of God We're talking about the fact that God, really three thoughts, ownership, authority, and control. So when you think of sovereignty, think of those three things. Ownership, God created it all, he owns it all. And then authority, God is over all. And then control. He controls it all. So when we talk about the sovereignty of God, we're talking about that. He created it all, he owns it all, and he controls all. Write down Psalm 135, verses 5 and 6. I know that the Lord is great, and that our Lord is above all. And whatever the Lord pleases, He does in heaven and in earth. I love that verse. He does whatever he pleases. That's being God. Psalm 115, verse 3. Our God is in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. Beloved, we have a big God, and He's beyond the universe. He's so very big, and He's in complete control. He not only controls the movement of the galaxies and the trillions of stars, he controls Everything that happens in your life and everything that happens in my life. That means when we look around and we may at times have this sense that things are out of control, that our lives are out of control, we would be wrong. When we think that our the things in our life have jumped off track and that they're heading over the cliff, they're not. Everything is moving according to God's plan Everything is moving according to God's divine purpose and his providence. That's the second thought I want you to think. We talked about God's sovereignty, but in order to understand what I'm going to say here, I want to also talk briefly about providence. What is providence? Providence is simply this. Providence is God's ability to execute all of His sovereign plan. What good would it be to have a sovereign plan if you don't have the power to execute it? God in his providence, when we talk about providence, we're saying that not only does God have a plan, but God has the power to execute that plan. And to get all of his purpose accomplished, to get everything done he wants done. Again, write down Psalm, or excuse me, Isaiah 46, verse number 10. My counsel shall stand And I will accomplish all my purpose. That's Almighty God. God says, my counsel will stand. I will accomplish all my purpose. And again, you've heard these perhaps you've heard this saying here, the devil is in the details. Have you ever heard that expression? Well, I want you to know that's absolutely incorrect. God is in the details. He's the one who takes care of the details. And the Bible again says this, Proverbs 16, 9, the heart of man plans his way. But the Lord establishes his steps. And Jesus said it like this in the New Testament. Jesus said in Matthew 10, verse 28, the very hairs of our head are what? Numbers. God is so detailed that each hair of our head is numbered by God and is important to him. And Jesus is saying there that there's nothing in our life that happens by luck, or it happens by chance, or by coincidence. And you've heard me say this before, there are no accidents, only acts of Providence. God is a micromanager. He numbers the very hairs of our head. Job said it like this Job 24, 14. He performs what is appointed for me. He performs what is appointed for me. To sum it up, John Murray said this. The plan of God is perfect. The plan of God is exhaustive. The plan of God is for my ultimate good. The plan of God is secret. And God hides it from me until it happens. I discover it day by day as it unfolds. And that's why sometimes The best way to understand God's providence is not by looking forward, but by looking backwards to the things that He has already accomplished in our life. That's exactly what Joseph did. Later on in Genesis 50, verse 20, Joseph will look back on all the events of his life, and Joseph will say to his brothers, you may have meant this for evil against me. But God, he meant this for good. He saw the hand of God by looking backwards. Now here in Genesis 37, we see God's plan for Joseph. We see God's sovereign hand behind all of the the events that are found here in chapter 37. Now you might say, well now how do we know What basis do we have for believing that this is God's sovereign plan in the life of Joseph? Well really, it all goes back to the life of Abraham. You remember in Genesis chapter 15, God, in a vision, God came to Abraham and said, This is what's going to happen in the life of your family. In fact, hold your place here in Genesis 37. Go back to Genesis 15. And I want you to look at this. Genesis fifteen, look at verse number thirteen. And this is after Abraham sees this vision And verse 13, and he said unto Abram, this is God speaking, know of a surety, Genesis 15, 13, know of assurity that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them And they shall afflict them 400 years. And also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge. And afterwards shall they come out with great substance. But drop down in verse sixteen, but in the fourth generation they shall come hither again, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full. And so we see here that God says to Abraham, Abraham, your family, let me tell you what's going to happen in the future to your family. They are going to go into the land of Egypt and they're going to Be there, and they're going to be slaves for 400 years, and then I'm going to call them out of Egypt, and they will be my rod of judgment against the Canaanites. the Amorites, when the iniquity of the Amorites therefore is full. And so this was God's plan from the very beginning, that God's people go to Egypt. But now the question is, how is that going to happen? How is God going to lead his people into the land of Egypt? And why would God do this? We're going to see later in chapter thirty eight, we won't look at it But if you study it, you're going to find one of the reasons why God wanted to get his people into the land of Egypt is because they were being corrupted by the people in the land of Canaan. And God wanted to uh isolate his people and kind of polarize his people and make them one people together, and by in order to do that, God had to take them out of the land of Canaan, and there in the land of Egypt, they would be birthed Together as a people, and they would later come forth as a nation. But that was God's plan. And so in order for God to put his plan into effect, this includes Joseph. And this means that Joseph is going to have to have some bad things happen in his life for God to accomplish that plan. This is the overall picture. And so the bad things that we're going to see here in Genesis 37, this is a story of evil, this is a story of sin in the family. You see hatred, you see envy, you will see violence. You see deception in this story. But all these things that happened here, really, this is an Old Testament picture of the New Testament truth, Romans 8. 28. All these things are going to work together for good Because that's how God is working. That is what He's going to do. And now some people might say, well, doesn't that make God responsible for man's sin? And the answer to that is absolutely not. God is never responsible for sin. And this is another concept in Scripture that I see all over, and that's the concept called concurrence. Man is able to do what he chooses to do. of his own free will and yet what he chooses to do is exactly what God determined would be done, yet God doesn't force anyone to do anything And yet in a mysterious way, what man chooses to do of his own free agency is according to the ultimate purpose of Almighty God. You say, well now wait a minute. That kind of doesn't line up in my reasoning, I know. That's one of the mysteries of theology. Let me quote to you from a man. His name is George Bush. And not the president, okay? He is a 19th-century commentator. And this is what he talks about. He says, talking about God's providence, he says, it is that overruling power Which is wonderful in counsel and mighty in operation, which controls the free and voluntary action of intelligent creatures, even when prompted by a spirit of malevolence and rebellion. so as to render them subservient to the accomplishment of those very plans which they are intended upon defeating. While the guilt of the agents remains resting upon them in all its unabated aggravation. You say, what does that mean? In other words, what he's saying is God doesn't coerce God doesn't manipulate. God doesn't force people to do things. He doesn't do that. What they do, they do of their own free will and free agency, and they are responsible for their choices. Everyone is responsible for their choices, so much so that one day we're going to be judged by God according to the choices that we make. Yet In these matters, what man chooses to do of his own free agency, God uses to accomplish his own purposes. Now again, that's some deep theology there. That's heavy th heavy theology. We could say like this, when an event happens, man is 100% responsible for that event, yet God will use that for his own good. This is called concurrence. Both things are happening. God is accomplishing his sovereign purpose, yet man is doing what he wants to do. And both things are happening at the same time, so much so that God is working in those events. To give you an illustration and then we'll move on here very quickly. Remember the story of Jonah? Remember when Jonah was on board and the mariners knew that he was the cause of the storm? And what does the Bible say? The mariners picked up Jonah Jonah. In fact it says this, let me quote you the verse or read it to you, Jonah 1. 15. So they took up Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging. Yet, listen to this, only five verses later, Jonah is in the belly of the whale, and Jonah acknowledges God's providence in their actions. And this is what he says: you Cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas. So the scripture simultaneously affirms that men threw Jonah into the sea, yet God threw Jonah into the sea. Now let me ask you a question, who did it? Man or God? And the answer is yes, they both did. This is concurrence. Men do what they want, and yet what they do, God conforms it to his own purpose and plan in our lives. That means that we can trust God even when bad things come upon us. Even when difficult things come upon us, others might mean it for evil against us, but God means it for good. And God will use it in our life. Now with that in mind, just very quickly I want to give you just a few principles from this story. We're not going to look at the whole chapter because we don't have time But I want to give you just a few principles that encourage me, and I hope and pray that it's an encouragement to you tonight. I hope that this encourages you through any difficulty that you might be in tonight. A few lessons. This is in regard to the sovereignty and providence of God in our life. God is sovereign in spite of the foolish and sensitive things that other people may do to us. Look in verse number one. And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob, Joseph being seventeen years old. was feeding the flock with his brethren, and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and the with the sons of Zilphah, his father's wives, and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colors. And when his brethren saw their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and they could not speak peaceably unto him. Again, God is sovereign over sometimes the foolish and insensitive things that people may do to us. Now let's just face it here in these verses that we read. Jacob isn't doing a wise thing here. He's showing favoritism to Joseph. And as we see in the story, it kind of inflames animosity from the brothers against Joseph. Joseph is one of the younger sons. Next to the youngest son, Joseph is the son of Rachel, Jacob's favored wife. And it's very obvious that Jacob favors Joseph. Now we've already seen in the life of Jacob, if you've been with us, that he's made several mistakes as a parent. Uh you remember that he allowed his his uh wives to be engaged over warfare on who could give the most children. He really sat passively and allowed that to happen. He allowed his daughter to be uh uh uh uh unchaperoned as she went into a very difficult and dangerous place and the result was that that she was raped And then later on, his sons to revenge against that rape carry out a very brutal plan of killing many of the men that were in Shechem And yet Jacob doesn't do much about that. And now here he makes another mistake by showing favoritism because again it causes resentment. And he gives Joseph a coat of many colors. This was kind of a royal coat. And what this really signified is that now Joseph is the one who will get all the inheritance. He's really the lead son now, even though he's one of the youngest son. And the other brothers are angry with him. And so they treat him in that way. Reuben wouldn't get this inheritance because he forfeited it by his actions. So did Simeon and Levi, and later, excuse me, and later Judah will do that in chapter 38. And so basically, uh he makes a mistake here by favoring this youngest son. And this puts Joseph in a very difficult position. Again, and look in verse four. And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him. And they could not speak peaceably unto him. That is, they could not so much as greet him as one person translates this, translates this. They loathed his presence. Now again, this is a mistake from Jacob. Now before we carry too much animosity and blame Jacob too much here, let me ask you a question, and I'll ask myself this question as well. How many of us as parents have made mistakes? Yeah, I've made a lot of mistakes as a parent. And you know what? Uh my parents, even though they're wonderful parents, And and we don't get to choose our parents, do we? But if I did, if I could choose parents, I would choose my father and my mother. I wouldn't want anyone else. But you know what? Here's a shocker. Mom and dad, I love you. But they weren't perfect. We all make mistakes. And this is what happens here. Jacob is responsible for these mistakes. But God's still in control. God's going to use this He's going to use the animosity that's created here to accomplish his purpose, yet mistakes were made. Maybe you're sitting here tonight and maybe you haven't been able to get over some animosity of some things that happened in your past life or some mistakes to perhaps you now look at and say, my parents My parents made these mistakes, these things happened, all these things were because of them. You can blame them for all those mistakes, or you can trust that God is working sovereignly in your life. And put aside all of that bitterness that you might have in your heart. You can ask him to take away that bitterness and say, God, I realize that you put me in the situation I was in with my parents And that you worked all of that out for my eventual good. That's what we see here. God is sovereign over mistakes that are made in our past. He will use it. He will use it in the life of Joseph But here's the second principle I see. God's sovereign over the foolish things that we do personally in our life. Not the things that others do, but the things that we do. Look at look in verse number five. And Joseph dreamed a dream, and yet and he told it his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. And he said unto them, Here I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed, for behold, we were binding cheese in the field. And lo, my sheaf arose and also stood upright, and behold, your sheaves stood round about and made obeisance to my sheaf. And his brethren said unto him, Shall thou indeed reign over us? And shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more. for his dreams and for his words. Well, dreams, as we know, came from God, and so they were prophetic, especially the dreams here that Joseph has. Later on, this will be fulfilled when he becomes prime minister in Egypt. But what the point I want you to see here is Joseph has these dreams. He dreams of the sheep And these verses five to eight, and then he dreams of the sun, moon, and the stars. And all these dreams are basically how his family, his father, his mother, and all his brothers are going to bow down to him And be under his authority and be obedient to him. I suggest to you that no younger brother should tell your siblings and parents that. That wasn't a wise thing for Joseph to do. Now God gave him this dream, of course. It put would have been good for him maybe to tell his father and mother only Or tell some trusted friends. But Joseph being naive, being just 17 years old, what does he do? He goes around and he tells his brothers. And what does that do? It causes his brothers to hate him all the more. Now Joseph, he's innocent of any wrong motives. He actually is kind of naive here. And when he goes out to meet his brothers in the field, you know what? He expects that they will be glad to see him. But they were anything but glad to see him. These were hostile stepbrothers who had already committed genocide, who were very violent. And Joseph goes around telling them how that one day they will all bow to him. That is not wise. And so Joseph here seems to make, he overlooks this. He makes a foolish mistake, and yet God is sovereign even over that mistake. God is going to use even that mistake. to accomplish his purpose in Joseph's life. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever made a mistake? I've made plenty of them. I was joking to a friend not too long ago that, you know, sometimes God just can't help stupid people talking about myself. And of course, he can help stupid people, even me. Sometimes the stupid mistakes that I make. I make mistakes all the time. I've told you as a parent I've made mistakes As a Christian, I've made mistakes. I've tried to do the right thing, but I've made mistakes. And you know, sometimes I'm regretful over those mistakes that I've made, over the foolish things. Sometimes I look back and say, why didn't I see that. How come I couldn't have better judgment in this situation? It wasn't intentional on my part. But you know what really gives me a lot of comfort? God is so sovereign in my life. That even the unintentional mistakes that I make, he can still use them to accomplish his purposes in my life. And that gives me great comfort to know that. Did you know that the great missionary David Brainer was expelled from Yale for doing some foolish things? How many of you ever heard of David Brainer? Great missionary, one of the greatest missionaries America ever produced. Did you know that while he was a student at Yale, there was a revival that was breaking out among the students at Yale? And the university had Jonathan Edwards, the great preacher, come in and preach. And Jonathan Edwards was preaching a sermon about how what was happening was really of God. Even though some of the students were in their zeal, uh it lacked some of uh wisdom in some of the things they were doing, Edwards was still saying, still, but despite that. This was still a true move of God. And some students became so zealous in that revival that they began to, sometimes we do this in our zeal, say things that you probably shouldn't say. Maybe not a good idea to say And David Brainer was one of those students. Some of the students were actually pointing a finger at some of the faculty at the university because some of the faculty there were carnal. They weren't walking with the Lord. And on one occasion, David Brainerd was overheard saying to his friends, talking about a certain faculty member, he says, that faculty member has no more grace than this chair over here. And what he meant by that is that he's no more saved in this chair. And that was overheard. And what was happening was that what happened was that was reported to the officials. And David Brainer was called in, and David Brainerd, because of that foolish comment at that moment was expelled from Yale. And you know what that caused It caused his life to change its direction. In his heart he wanted to be a pastor. He simply wanted to pastor a New England church and and just have a small church and be surrounded by his people and his books. That was his dream. That's what he wanted to do. But because he was expelled from Yale, he could no longer be a pastor because a law had been passed that you had to be a graduate. If you wanted to be a pastor or a minister in that area, you had to graduate from Yale, Harvard, or a European university. Back in that day, these were all universities that were used to prepare preachers. for the preaching of the gospel. It's changed a lot since then. It's no longer that. But back in that day, that's what it was about. And because he was expelled and he would never graduate from one of those schools, he could never be a pastor Well, some men felt sorry for him, so two men decided to start a new college and let David Graynor be their first student. That new college they called the College of New Jersey. Later that college would be named Princeton. Perhaps you've heard of it. Princeton was started because David Brainerd was kicked out of Yale And not only that, David Brainerd realized that he could no longer be a pastor, and so he decided therefore that he would go to the people that no one else really is are ministering to. He decided that he would be a missionary to the Indians the neglected people. So he surrendered his life to do that. And while he was out as a missionary to the Indians, he kept a careful journal. of all that the Lord had done. He was a godly, passionate, zealous missionary who led Indians to Christ. And he died as a young man doing that. You know what happened after Jonathan Edwards discovered his diary? Jonathan Edwards printed it. And that diary was first printed in 1749. Since then, it has never been out of print. It has constantly been reprinted over and over again. In fact, of all the books that Jonathan Edwards wrote, that book has outsold all the rest of them. And it was the diary of David Brainerd, what he had done, how God, how he would chronicle what God was doing in his heart, in his life. And that one diary is responsible for influencing generations and generations of missionaries. In fact, you name a great missionary, and I'll and they will all tell you the same thing. I got my inspiration from reading the diary of David Brainerd. And later on Another man picked up that diary and read it, a man by the name of Eliza Wheelock, and he decided that he would minister to the Aroki Indians in his region, and many of them got saved, and he decided to start a college. For Indians and whites, that college later became Dartmouth College. See you say what's the point? You see the significance? If Brainerd had not been expelled from Yale, These two universities would have never started. That uh diary, that missionary diary would have never been written. And other missionaries would have never gotten their inspiration to go on the field. It has caused more missionaries to surrender because of it And all that came out of one mistake, one careless word that David Brainert spoke in haste, and he thought that his life had fallen apart before his eyes, but God had another purpose. God said, I can use even your foolish mistakes to accomplish my will. Let me give you a third principle. And and we'll pretty much be done. But God is sovereign not only the things that other people do, foolish things other people do in regard to us, and the foolish things that we do. But even over the incidental people that we meet, God's sovereign even over that. Look at Genesis 37. Look at verse number 12. Now Jacob sends Joseph out to look for his brothers. Look at verse 12. And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem. And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? Come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to them, Here am I. And he said to him, Go I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks. And bring me word again. So he sent him out of the Vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. Now Jacob knows that his sons are feeding the flock in Shechem. Does Shechem sound familiar? That was the place where the brothers did those terrible things to the men of that city. So it's only natural that Jacob now is what is afraid. They're in Shechem. Maybe there's some kind of revenge that may take place. Joseph, go and check on your brothers. They're up there by Shechem. And Joseph goes, as his father said, he was an obedient son, and when he gets there, they're not there in Shechem. Now what what do you think would happen next? They're not there. So Joseph can turn around and go back to his father and say, Father, I went to Shechem, they're not there, I don't know where they are. And had that happened, the rest of the bad things in Joseph's life would have never taken place. But why there was something happened to change that. Look at verse 15. A certain man found him. Now the Bible doesn't give his name, it just says a certain man. A certain man found him, and behold, he was wandering in the field. That is, Joseph is wandering here in the field. He's looking for his brothers. And the man asked him, saying, What seeketh thou? In verse 16, and he said, I seek my brethren. Tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks. And the man said, They are departed hence, for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren and found them in Dothan. Now think about what's happening here. Here's Joseph in the field. He's looking for his brothers. Can't find them. And there happens to be at that certain time, in that certain place, this man, this unnamed man And Joseph says to them, Have you seen my brethren? And this man says, Yeah, I happen to overhear their conversation. I happened to overhear that they said they were going to go feed in Dosim. Now think about that. If that man had not been there at that certain place, at that certain time, and if that man had not overheard the conversation of the brethren, Joseph would have never gotten this information, and he would have never gone to look for his brothers in Dothan If that had not happened, then he would have not gone there, and then therefore they would have not thrown him into a pit And the rest of the things that happened would have never taken place, and Joseph would have never gone down to Egypt and had all those things happen to him if it had not been for this certain man that is in this certain place at the very same time Joseph was and happened to overhear this conversation at that very moment. You think oh that's an accident It's not an accident. All of that was planned by God because it was going to fulfill the purpose of God. God is sovereign even over the seemingly insignificant people you meet, which no one that you meet is insignificant. There are no insignificant coincidences of people that happen to come in your life at certain time. God uses all of those things to accomplish his purpose in your life. It wasn't an accident. You know, has that ever happened to you? Can you think back in your own life? I'm sure you can if you s if you think about the the the times in your life where your life made a turn, the direction of it just seemed a turn on a hinge, and there was just a certain place, uh at a certain time, a certain person that you happened to meet at that time. That you realize as you look back now, that was God. God arranged all that. God did all that. That he might accomplish his will in my life. This has happened to me in my life many times I remember one time I was candidating for a church in New Hampshire. New Hampshire. Can you believe that? They had me up there to preach. The big church. They flew me up there first class. Man, that's one of the only times I ever flew first class. Spoiled me for all the rest of my plane trips. But they flew me up there twice, first class, and I preached, and they were all ready to bring me on. Everyone on the pulpit committee, all the deacons, yes, yes. And they were getting said, we're going to just pray about this. We're going to give you a call. And then at the last minute, they called me and said, there was one man on the board that said, I don't have peace about it. And that shut it down. Just one man, and it was over. You say, oh, what does that mean? I'll tell you what it means. It means God never wanted me in New Hampshire. That's what it means. I could have been up there right now, frozen to death. Thank God. Thank God he overrules Thank God God changes things. He changes directions. He uses people in your life to do that. One time a certain man We don't really know his name, happened to be at a certain church at a certain time to hear a young man give a Sunday school lecture, and he was so impressed with that young man that he went back to his church And said, you ought to consider this man to be the pastor. And they brought him in and they had him preach and they brought they made him his pastor. The young man who gave the lecture was named Charles Spurgeon, and he became pastor of the new Park Street Church, which later became the Metropolitan Tabernacle, that was not an accident. That happened. These are called hinge people. People that God brings in our life. And it seems to change the course. Because God is sovereign over all these events that happen to us in our life. I want to share a personal illustration. My daughter Abby is married to a guy over in Britain. I'm still trying to deal with that. Wish she was here in the U. S. But actually we look, my wife and I look and we see that he was the perfect person for her. He's a godly young man. We rejoice to see how the Lord did all that. You know how he did that? Let me tell you how it all started. The president of my seminary told a group of men called Answers in Genesis, you ought to ask Cherry to come down the canyon with you, go rafting through the canyon. And then later on they called me and said, Would you come and do this with us? And I said, No. I'm a pastor of a large church. I don't have time to go on a glorified youth activity. Rafting through the canyon. And then they called me again and said, would you please reconsider? I'll think about it, I said. Then they called me again, and then again. And finally I said, okay, I'll come. What really what caused me to go is they said, we're going to pay your expenses. I said, okay, I'll go. All right, I'll go. And you know what happened? They put me with another man from London, whose last name was Haslum. They grouped us alphabetically, Harmon Haslum. They put us in the same hotel room And he ended up being the pastor of Westminster Chapel where my daughter's working now. And that's where the connection came. Where she applied for an internship. He became my friend. She applied for an internship. Over there, she happened to meet this guy, and now she's married to the person that God intended. All because I decided, okay, I'll go Just that one little thing there. And it changed the direction of her life. You think all that's an accident? No. It's a sovereign providential God. Thank God for his providences in our life. Thank God that He controls the direction of our lives. He even controls the change of plans. That take place in our life. Let me just show you this one more thing and we'll be done. He's sovereign over those changed times. Look at verse number 25. Now they threw Joseph into the pit. They were going to kill him But look at verse 25, and they sat down to eat, and they lifted up their eyes, and they looked, and behold, a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead with their camels, bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to where? To Egypt. Joseph said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? Come and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites. Let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother. And so that's exactly what they did. Change of plan. But what they did, that last minute change of plan, was exactly what God wanted to happen. That little idea there that Judah has, of all people, Judah. The Bible says the heart of man Plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps. Go ahead and make all the plans that you want to, but realize it's the Lord that will establish the steps It's the Lord. His will will take place. And that's comforting to know because there are times in our lives when we find ourselves, our future may be under the hands of people that are over us. And we wonder if we have control or if they have control. A person over us uh like a government that denies a visa Or a professor that doesn't give the academic grade that you want that's going to promote you to the career that you want. Or a supervisor that can block your advancement in a company It might seem like from our perspective that we are at the mercy of man's hand, but we're not. Because the Bible says the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord, and as the rivers of water, he will turn it. whatever way he wants. Our life is not in the hands of any man. It's in the hands of Almighty God. And God, let me just one illustration. When George Washington was 17 years old. I love this story. You probably heard me tell it before. Just pretend you didn't. When he was 17, he signed up to be a part of the British Royal Navy. He wanted to fight for the British in the Navy And because he was 17, he had to get consent from his mother. And so she agreed verbally. Yes, I'll I'll sign the form, I give my consent. So he packed up all of his things, he rushed down to the harbor, to the dock He was loading his things on a frigate, ready to go to the boat, when a messenger came and said, You can't go. He said, Why? He said, Because your mother changed her mind at the last minute. She refused to sign the paper Had she signed that paper, George Washington would have been fighting for the British instead of for America. You think that's an accident? No. Because the Most High rules Because the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. And he will turn it whatever way he wants. And so you may be here tonight and you may have had some bad things happen to you lately and you may be tempted to say, man, my life is over. What's going on? It just seems like everything is out of control. It just seems like nothing is adding up. It doesn't make any sense. Why do I have to go through this? I imagine Joseph probably had some of those thoughts. If only I had not met that guy in the field, I wouldn't be here in Egypt. If only I had not asked him where my brothers were. If only this had happened, or only that, we can't sit around and live in regret of those things. We have to realize that we have a God who is sovereign, who is doing great things in our life. Whose wisdom is way beyond ours, and he doesn't have to explain himself to us. We have to trust in his sovereign hand and know that no matter what happens to us in our life, he has a loving purpose. He has a good purpose. And we have to trust in that when these type of things happen. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for these reminders in your word that teach us that you do rule. That you are working your plan. Even sometimes when we don't understand. And Lord, I have to confess there's times in my own life when things happen and I say, I just don't understand. Lord, it's at those times when theology just can't be some theory. It has to be something that we embrace in our heart. And we believe and we live according to. May we here tonight, those who are here tonight that may be going through difficulty in their life, may they acknowledge and believe and trust in you, that you are a sovereign and a good God. And that all things do indeed work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. May we be able to stay like Joseph as we look back on our life Lord, you meant this for good. They may have meant it for evil, but Lord, you, you meant this for good to bring about the salvation of many, many people. So Father, help us And bless your people tonight. Remind them of this truth, those who are going through difficulty. And we pray in Jesus' matless name. Amen.