Your Bible should fall open automatically to that chapter by now, because every Wednesday night we've been going through these stanzas, twenty-two stanzas of Psalm 119 tonight. We're going to look at verse 161, one down to verse number 168. This is the next to the last sermon from in Psalm 119. No amen. I say that. Uh 'cause we have been going through each of these sections, each of the stanzas. And as we said before, the twenty-two stanzas are based on the twenty-two Hebrew letters of the alphabet. And uh Psalmist is Teaching us to love God's Word from A to Z, you could say. And so tonight I want to talk about standing in awe of God's Word. Verse 161. Princes have persecuted me without a cause, but my heart standeth in awe. of thy word. When the Dead Sea Scrolls were discovered in 1947, a little shepherd boy threw a rock into a cave and heard a ping. some glass shattered and he went in and found these scrolls in these uh clay jars. And of course that was an incredible discovery uh to the to the uh sc scholarly world, those who know the Word of God, the archaeologists and scholars all uh were kind of holding their breath to find out what these uh scrolls basically contain. And uh I remember a Old Testament professor telling me one time he was in a room full of scholars when they unrolled the Isaiah scroll, which was one of the big discoveries in the Dead Sea Scrolls a full complete scroll of Isaiah. And some of these scholars were taught that um I there were two writers of Isaiah. In fact I had a a Hebrew professor down at Johns Hopkins who taught that there were actually three authors of Isaiah. And um so uh you say where'd they get that from? Well that's another story for another But so these scholars were you know expecting to see a division in uh the first part of Isaiah. They believe that Chapters 1 and 39 was written by one guy, and then chapter 40 to chapter 66 was written by someone else. And when they un unrolled the whole Isaiah scroll, and there was no division. There was just a continuation between chapter 39 and 40 and on. He said that the room literally gave a gasp. They were just uh they were just amazed at that. And what they were amazed at is the preservation of God's word, word for word, line for line, Scripture had been faithfully preserved. Now uh now by the way if archaeologists and scholars have kind of an awe of scripture, how much more should we as God's people have an awe of God's word? Now, in Psalm 119, verse 161, the writer gives us, I think, the key expression, the key thought in this whole section: my heart standeth in awe of thy word. In this context, the idea of all is a word that means fear, a reverential fear, we could say, being overwhelmed by the majesty of what is spoken. I think a nice parallel verse is Isaiah 66 verse 2. God says that, to this one will I look, to him who trembles. at my word. To stand in all of God's word is to realize that the Bible is indeed God's revelation. It is God's word. And also to respond with humility and a desire to obey it. As God's people, we should have a reverence and an awe for Scripture. Now there are some people who don't have this reverence for God's word. They don't tremble or fear at the Word of God. Some people use the Word of God for their own purposes. by misquoting it or some people just neglect it entirely. They don't really pick it up. But to lack due reverence in all of Scripture is spiritually dangerous. Because it reveals that you have a low view of God Himself. And of course, the psalmist, as we have been studying in Psalm 119, doesn't have that problem because over and over again he has expressed his love for God's word. His rejoicing over God's word, his delight in the truth of God's word. His heart is captured by his truth. His whole life is directed by the light that he has been receiving from the word of God. Now I know there are some people out there that may accuse us of regarding the Bible too highly, and uh I've heard of the uh the term bibliol uh uh idolatry or the bib bibliolatry or something like that. I can't even speak it, which is a good thing I think. But listen to the words of H. B. Charles. He kind of addresses this. He says, some warn against bibliolatry, the worship of the Bible. And then he says this: Who do you know whose regard for Scripture is too high? The Word of God is the Word of God. Reverence for the Word of God expresses reverence for the God of the Word. And I think that he's exactly right in that. We honor the scriptures, and when we honor the scriptures, we are actually honoring the God who spoke When we tremble before God's word, we are bowing before the King who gave his word to us. Now, with that in mind, I want you to see seven reasons. that the psalmist will give us here, that I see in here, that causes us to reverence God's word, to stand in awe of God's word. First of all, it relieves us of the fear of man. It relieves us of the fear of man. Look at verse 161. Princes have persecuted me without a cause, but my heart standeth in awe of thy word. Now remember I I I told you that I think the author of this chapter is not David. The the big big uh scholarly opinion about this chapter is that It was written by David. Some say it was written by Hezekiah. Some say it was written by Jeremiah. is a young uh exile who is carried away into captivity into Babylon. Uh some Old Testament scholars suggest it could have been Daniel or Hananiah, Mesha, or Azariah Or perhaps even Ezekiel. All of these have been suggested as possibilities. Some say perhaps maybe even Ezra. I re I believe whoever it was, it was someone who was taken in captivity At the when when Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the city of Jerusalem and he carried them away into captivity, I think that was in 586 B. C. , the third deportment. And uh so all of the all of what I have been studying, and I of course we've been studying this together, and I've showed you this over and over again, seems to point to that very thing. That the surviving Jews were taken in exile and they were forced on that long march to Babylon, 500 miles through the hot desert. And uh Chained to the neck, just a difficult time, let out of the ruins of the city. The city was destroyed, ultimately, completely destroyed at that time. Jeremiah the prophet wrote the Book of Lamentations from a cave. facing the city of Jerusalem. And uh he had prophesied all this was going to happen. And I think that uh part of what he told the people to do when this happened was to remember the word of the Lord. And this is what this young Jewish exile is doing. He is remembering the word of God. So we see a young man whose heart was wholly set on the word of God. And Psalm 119 is his meditations, the diary of his meditations. Now remember, as he's being carried away, he's surrounded by princes, he's surrounded by persecutors. And the Babylonians demanded loyalty to their gods. They wanted all these exiles to forsake their gods and to worship the gods of Babylon. But this young man has determined in his heart that he's going to be loyal to his god. He's going to be focused on his God. And they could kill him at any moment. Yet he did not live in dread of them. Why? Because he feared God's word more than he feared man's wrath. And that's what I think we see expressed in verse 161. Princes have persecuted me without a cause, but my heart standeth in awe of God's word or of or of thy word. So he had a fear of God. And when you fear God more than you fear men, it sets your heart free. You're able to be free in the Lord. So the Bible teaches us to fear the Lord. We fear the Lord through the reverence that we give of the Word of God in Scripture. And so uh I I I read of uh churches today that meet in hostile countries. I read of uh uh churches that meet in China. where people who meet together, they are risking their life disobeying the orders of the government, but meeting and worshiping anyway, and someone asked the pastor, over there, why do are you willing to risk so much? And he said this, it's better to have the approval of heaven and the jail of men than to have the freedom of men and the judgment of heaven. That is the essence of the fear of the Lord, fearing God more than you fear man. And so the God's word teaches us to fear the Lord more than to fear men. But here's number two. It enriches us with spiritual treasure. Look at verse 162. I rejoice at thy word as one that findeth great, spoiled. And here the psalmist gives us a vivid picture of how the believer should respond to God's word with joy, as if you discovered an unexpected treasure. I mean how would you feel if you got a phone call when you got home that you had won uh some sweetstakes and you got a million dollars? Uh would that make you happy? I think it would make all of us happy. And but you know what? This is the way our hearts should be when we think about the great treasure that we have in God's Word. Great spoil here refers to a plunder taken after a battle. In ancient warfare, victors often carried away gold and silver. They carried away all kind of weapons and clothing and cattle. All of these were the spoils of war. And he's not talking about just spoil, but great spoil. So this is a huge treasure that he's thinking about here. Maybe he's thinking about the Babylonians when they destroyed Jerusalem and they carried away all of the treasures that were in the temple. And they were rejoicing over the spoil that they took out of the city of Jerusalem. He may be thinking about that, but then he's thinking, you know what? I rejoice more over what I have. I have the word of God. I rejoice over the great spoil, the great treasure that I find in Scripture. That was his what where his heart was, on the treasure of God's truth. In 2 Kings chapter 7, there's a story of four lepers. Remember reading the story? The city of Samaria was under siege by the Syrians. They had surrounded the city. People were starving inside. And there were four lepers at the gate and they were uh thinking, you know, we're gonna die. So instead of sitting here and just dying, why don't we go over to the enemy camp and see if they'll be merciful to us, see if they'll just give us a meal or or be kind to us. And so they went they went over to the enemy camp, and guess what they found? That God miraculously had stirred up some sounds that made them think that they were under siege by a superior enemy. And all the soldiers in the Sy Syrian camp, they ran. And they left the camp completely unguarded, and all the spoils was there in that camp. To their amazement, the Lord causing them to flee. uh had left them with food and silver and gold and clothing. I mean can you imagine these guys just walking into camp and seeing all this stuff? I mean they had a blast You know, that's kind of the idea here of Grace Foil. You know, that's exactly how the psalmist feels when he opens up the scripture Every verse was another tent filled with provision and treasure. And the psalmist says, I just rejoice at your word, like someone who finds great spoil. And so we again we can relate this to our own Christian life. Um the spoils that those lepers had had are more than they could carry. And the truth of the matter is, the truth of God's word, this the treasure of God's word, it's more than we can really comprehend. It's more than we can really mentally carry. I've been studying the Bible for many years and I tell you, I feel like I haven't scratched the surface. of all the treasure of God's word. It is so much more than I can comprehend or carry. And so these lepers expected to find death. Instead they found life. And so it is with anyone who comes to God's word. It gives us life. It enriches us with spiritual treasure. But here's number three: it teaches us the danger of lying. It teaches us the danger of lying. Look at verse 163. I hate and abhor lying, but thy law do I love. And the psalmist doesn't merely dislike lying. He says he hates it. He abhors it. That's strong language. Why? Well, because lying goes against the very character and nature of God. And the more that you love truth The more you're gonna hate lies. Titus one two says this, God, that God cannot lie. Every word that God speaks is true. So to lie is to behave in a way that is completely opposed to God's nature or truth. And God hates lying, by the way. Just write down Proverbs 12, 22. Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord, but they that deal truly are his delight. And we could also say lying reflects Satan's character. Jesus said that Satan, or the devil, is he is the father, he is a liar and the father of lies. So every lie, no matter how small, aligns with the enemy of our souls, which is Satan. Martin Luther said it like this, very bluntly, lying is the devil's own work. It is his native speech, and when men lie, they do the devil's business. But also another thing about lying is it leads to judgment. And God's word teaches us all this, right? This is why it teaches us to hate lying. It teaches us all these things that lying leads to judgment. The Bible says in Revelation twenty-one eight, all liars shall have their part in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone. God takes lying seriously even when the world does not. Remember in 2 Kings 5 Elisha's servant Gehazi lied to Naaman to get silver and garments, and God judged them with leprosy. In the Old Testament, the false prophets were severely judged by God for their lies. Ananias and Sapphira We see in the New Testament God took their life to establish a pattern of how He hates lies and hypocrisy in the truth or in the church, excuse me. And uh all of these teach us how that God hates lying. That he hates that sin. But also another thing to think about, and God's Word teaches us this, that lying opens the door to temptation. This is one of the reasons why we need to have a hatred for lies and lying. Because it will open up the door of temptation You see, that's what makes it especially dangerous. Lies hide sin But if a person and I I've counseled this and many times with married couples that are struggling at times, that if you make a determination that you'll always tell the truth to each other, that you'll never lie, that will keep you from a lot of temptation. That'll turn away temptation. If you just make a determination that I will never lie. Then friend, that is like a shield around you. But you think about it like this, if someone just easily lies, if it's not a hard thing for them just to to a lot of people lie anyway, is to cover up the what? To cover up the truth That's why people lie. If a person will just easily tell a lie, it just swings open the door of temptation. It's almost like saying, Satan, here I am, I'm a target. And what will happen is a person will reason like this in their mind. When they're tempted, they'll just yield easily and they'll just say, Well, I'll just lie and I'll cover it up with a lie, no problem. It'll never be found out And that in itself is a lie, a delusion. Because God always exposes liars. He's faithful to do that and bring about the truth. But if a person in their mind, in their heart will say, I will never lie, when someone asks me, I will tell the truth, you know what happens when a temptation comes? You'll reason in your mind like this, I'm not going to yield to that temptation. Why? Well, because if someone asks me if I did it, I'm going to have to tell them that I did And I don't want to be embarrassed. I don't want to be ashamed by telling them what I did. And so, you know what? I think I won't do it. That's how lying will open up the door of temptation, but telling the truth, refusing to lie, will help seal you from yielding to temptation. If you just make a determination, that's why God hates lying, because it will lead to worse things in your life. David tried to cover up his sin with Bathsheba, and what happened? It caused his iniquity to be greater and greater. And we see this many times in society as well. I don't need to give you all the illustrations because you already know. And so the psalmist says this, I hate and of whore lying. The more you study God's Word and the more you study the truth, the more it should develop in you a hatred for lies and lying. We should be people of truth. People of truth. So here's the next thing. I said it relieves us of the fear of man. It enriches us with spiritual treasure. It teaches us the danger of lying. But here's number four. It stirs us to continual worship. Look at verse 164. Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments. Now the psalmist just cannot help but burst forth in praise at the beauty of God's word. Seven times a day. I don't think this is a literal bookkeeping uh expression here like, yeah, okay, I've got it marked down, you know, his alarm clock, his Apple watch is set to go off seven times a day. that he's going to stop and just start praising the Lord. I think what he's really doing here is just using a poetic expression of saying constantly I'm just continually praising God because of his word. And he's actually worshiping God. He's praising God for who he is because it's through the Word of God that we learn about the greatness of our God. The greatness of his character. It reveals his holiness. It reveals his mercy. Praise and and thank God and worship God. You ever have that happen when you're reading your Bible in the morning or whenever your time is that you set aside to be in God's Word, that there's just something that jumps off the page. about the character and nature of God that just leaps into your heart and you just stop and you just want to praise God at that moment and worship the Lord. All theology should lead to doxology, as one professor of mine used to say. All theology should lead to doxology. Do you ever notice in the New Testament that when the biblical writers are writing down some deep truths about God, some theology about God, that they'll just begin to write a doxology. For example, in Romans eleven, Paul he's kind of talking about he's been talking about God's plan of salvation and uh sin and justification and and Israel and God's mercy and all of that. And Paul just stops and it just he breaks forth with a doc a doctology. He says this, oh the depth Of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory for ever The police is overwhelmed with awe. His heart stands in awe, and he bursts forth with worship to God. And we see this several times in Paul's epistles. We see it in the book of Ephesians. We see Peter doing this. We see Jude unto him. who is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless. All of these are just doxologies where people are people understand the the great character of who God is and they just burst forth with worship. Where do we learn about that? It's only through God's Word. God's Word teaches us about the greatness of God. It provokes us to worship. And our worship should be constant. It's not just coming to church. It's who we are every day. That's what this verse teaches us. Seven times a day do I praise thee. Every day is a day of worship. Every moment is an opportunity to worship and give God true praise and worship from our heart. So here's number five. It gives us an inner peace in spite of the words and actions of others. Look at verse 165. Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. And the word offend here uh means uh just what you would think it would mean, to to be offended, but also it has a deeper sense of to stumble. To be shaken, perhaps by insults or hardship or opposition. And the principle then is that when you love God's word, it will anchor your heart with peace. No matter what the outward circumstances are, no matter the outward insults, no matter the outward trials and difficulties, God's word will anchor. your soul and give you peace in the midst of all of that. Now this verse uh I can't is in my mind, it's kind of riveted into me and I'll tell you why, because when I was in college we played some football and we had a coach that uh before every game he would line us up at the 50-yard line, the whole team, and he would make us shout out loud, Psalm 119-165. Now I think he was trying to prevent penalties on the field. And we would have to quote out loud, Great peace have they which love thy law and nothing shall offend them. We have to shout it, all of us together. That was our battle cry going into the a football game. And he would just throw out different scenarios. He would say, if a guy comes up and gives you a cheap shot, will you retaliate? And we would all say, No, sir. And he would say, why? Well because Psalm 119, 165, you know, and then we'd have to go shout. The whole verse. And he would give several litany of things that could happen on the field, and then we would go through that. So and this was every game. So I had this verse in my heart. It's a good verse for pastors to remember anyway. But it's and it's so very true. When a person is easily offended or they allow the least little thing to upset them, it reveals that they're not anchored in God's word. Now, why is that the case? Well, because the fruit of loving God's Word is just this inner stability It's just the automatic fruit of loving God's word. It's going to give you this inner stability. Again, in Isaiah 26, verse 3, thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee. And when our mind is saturated with God's word, we interpret life through his promises, not through our hurt feelings, not through our circumstances. We interpret our life through the promises of God's Word. But also being easily offended shows a heart, again, disconnected from truth. When we're easily offended, quick to stumble, when we lose our spiritual footing very easily. It reveals that our heart is not ruled by peace. Remember in Colossians, Paul said, Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. And it's no accident that right after that he says, Let the peace of God rule in your heart. Because those things are connected. When you let God's word dwell in you richly, then the peace of God will rule in your heart. You see, God's Word repeatedly commands us to forgive. It commands us to overlook offenses, to love our enemies. And if we truly love God's word, we're going to obey that, which means we won't nurse grudges, we won't pick flights, we won't be touchy or irritable in our lives. An easily offended spirit is evidence that our heart is not being shaped by the forgiving and forbearing spirit of scripture. But then another thing just to note is that the mature Christian is just hard to offend. Those who love God's word develop a fiercely thick skin, you could say, without becoming hard-hearted. They develop uh a thick skin. They know that their identity is in Christ, and so personal slights do not shake them. They know God's providence. They know they can trust in what God's doing, and they and they turn it over to the Lord. They know God's commands, so they They're patient instead of retaliating. I once read of a massive oak tree that stood firm for two hundred years on the property of a of a family farm. It endured countless storms. It endured countless lightning strikes, even a tornado that destroyed the barn, and yet that tree was still there. And when the farmer's grandson asked him, he said, Why ha why does this tree Never fall. And the old man said, Well, because its roots run deep. You see, storms can shake the branches, but they can't move the roots. And so it is for a person who's rooted in God's word. We cannot be shaken. And this is what Psalm 119 is 165 is teaching us. But here's number six, quickly. It fuels us to trust in God for deliverance. You may be in some circumstances where you're waiting for God to act in your life. You're waiting for God to sort out something, some trial. You're asking God to give victory over a certain thing. You're waiting for an answer to prayer. What is it that helps us to continue to hope? And wait on the Lord. That's the strength that we get from God's word. God's word strengthens that hope. Look at verse 166. Lord, I have hoped for thy salvation. and done thy commandments. The word hope means to wait expectantly, to look eagerly. The salvation that he's talking about here is just deliverance or rescue. Lord, I'm waiting expectantly for you to deliver me. And while I'm waiting for you, I'm going to obey your word. He's not waiting reluctantly. He's not waiting with anger. He's waiting with trust And saying, God, no matter what happens, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to obey your word, but I'm waiting because the word hope here has the idea of a confident expectation. He believes that God is going to bring the answer. He believes God is going to bring his salvation. Therefore, he's willing to just continue to obey and just do the will of God because his hope is in God's word. And it's God's word that fuels us to live that way. It fuels our trust in God's delivering power. And again, I I think about the circumstances that the psalmist was in. If he's in exile, being carried off into captivity. He was constantly being treated with contempt. His life was constantly in danger. He wanted God's salvation. He could die at any time by the hand of his enemies. But yet he continued to hope in God. He does not forsake the Word of God or his hope in God's Word. But then let me give you the last thing here. Again, it relieves us of the fear of man. It enriches us with spiritual treasure. It teaches us the danger of lying. It stirs us to continual worship. Gives us an inner peace in spite of the words and actions of others. It fuels us to trust in God's deliverance, but the last thing, the seventh thing here, it trains us to live obediently in the presence of God. Look at verse 167 and 168. My soul hath kept thy testimonies, and I love them exceedingly. I have kept thy precepts and testimonies, for all my ways are before thee. You see, God's word not only informs our mind, but it shapes our will. It trains us to live with that continual awareness of God's presence. Notice how he's expressing his Commitment to obey God. And what is that based on? Because he he says, All my ways are before thee. He understood God was watching. Theologians call this quorum deo. That's a expression that they use. They came out really out of the Reformation times. Quorum Deus, the Latin quorum is in the presence of, Deo is God. So to live quorum deo is to live one's entire life in the presence of God, under the authority of God, for the glory of God. It's recognizing that God sees everything about us. Everything about our life. God sees it. And that's precisely the spirit here of this verse. The psalmist recognizes That there's no thought that God does not know. There's no word that God does not hear. There's no set that God does not see. Our entire life unfolds before the presence of the Lord. Write down Hebrews 4 13. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. And so he lives his whole life with this sense of awareness of God's presence. So there should be a sacredness about our life, understanding that. I guess I would compare it to, you know, when I was over in England And g uh went into some of these old cathedrals. You know, we don't build churches today like they built them back then. I mean if you look at some of those older uh churches, they they they really in a way express a theology because they really show a a a high view of God, not saying that this building doesn't show that. I'm just saying that the architecture back then Even in the way they built buildings, they wanted to express a high view of God with uh with the rooftops and the steeples pointing upward. To do what? To to express that God is a transcendent God. He's a high God, He's above all. And when you walk in cathedrals like that, I don't know about you, but when I walk in, what's the first thing that you do? You start speaking in whispers. You know, you don't speak out too loud because there's a sense in which when you walk in there, you suddenly are overcome with, I'm in a I'm in a place of worship I'm in a place of worship. This is not just like any other place. This is a special place. And I relate that to living Quorum deo for a believer every day. You don't have to be in a cathedral in England to have that kind of sense of awareness of God. We should have that with us everywhere we go. No matter where we are, we are in the presence of God. And that's the idea here, when he says, For all my ways are before thee. All my ways are before It was said of the uh the great artist Michelangelo that when he was painting the Sistine Chapel, that he was working in one obscure corner, and he spent days and days on that one obscure place. And when some some clergy came along and they saw him spending all that time there, they said, How come you're spending so much time there? No one will see it. And Michelangelo responded, God will see it. God will see it. And that's the idea here. God sees all. He knows all. And we want to live all of our life in that awareness of the presence of God. And so to stand in awe of God's word is to live in awe of God's presence every day of our life. So, this is seven reasons here the psalmist gives us to stand in awe of the Word of God. And we can relate all this to Christ as well. Christ, the living word. We can relate all these principles to him. He relieves us of the fear of man. Jesus said, Don't be afraid of those who can kill the body, but be afraid of the one who can kill your soul in hell Jesus relieves us of the fear of man. When we fear him and we know him, we don't have to be afraid of man. He enriches us with spiritual treasure because in Christ are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. He teaches us truth. He is the way and the truth and the life. He reveals the beauty of righteousness. He gives us peace. He secures our salvation. He trains us to live obediently. All these things are a reflection of the living word Jesus Christ. And to stand in awe of the Word of God is also to stand in awe of the living word. Jesus Christ. And this is the way that we are to live our life each and every day. God's word is the voice of our Savior. It is the treasure of the church, the anchor of our soul, and the pathway to Christ's likeness. And so may we join the psalmist in saying, my heart stands in awe of your word. My heart stands in awe of your word. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, thank you for the treasure that you've given us. Help us, Lord, to love it as we should. to realize what you have given us in the written word because it teaches us of the living word Christ. And to love Scripture is to love Christ. Because all of the scripture testifies of Christ So Lord, help us not to treat the Bible casually. Help us, Lord, to stand in awe and to each day reach for the scripture. Knowing that it does all these things for our soul and more. These are just a few of the wonderful works that God's Word does in us. But Lord, it does so much more. Through Scripture, we see the glory of Christ, and it lifts us to new levels of glory. So, Lord, help us to grow into Christ-likeness as we continually reverence your word. And we reverence it in the way that we treat it, in the way that we read it, meditate on it, but most of all, obey Scripture in our life. So Father, it may it be so for all of us we pray in Jesus' name.