It's good to see you in the Lord's house. I invite you tonight to take your Bibles, open to the book of Colossians, the New Testament Epistle of Colossians, chapter number two. And we're going to be looking tonight at verses 1 through 7 of Colossians chapter 2. And I want to talk tonight about standing firm. in your faith. I heard of a pastor who was conducting a series of meetings in uh the Carolinas, and uh he was staying at the home of some close friends in Asheville. But he had to travel at night sometimes to speak at meetings. One meeting was at Greenville. He had some friends that took him there and after he got done preaching, they brought him home later that night. It was of course late And uh as they drove to the house of the friends he was staying with, he noticed that the porch light was on. So he said to his friends, you can just drop me off here at the edge of the uh uh the property and I will walk up. I'm sure they're waiting for me. And uh and so they did drop him off. It was a very cold night. He started to walk towards the house. It was some time some distance away and by the time he got there His ears were cold, his nose was cold, it was one of those frosty nights. Uh he knocked on the door, there was no answer. He knocked a little harder, there was no answer. He went around the back door, knocked on the back door, there was no answer He knocked on the window, there was no answer. And so he thought, well, I'll just go next door and I'll t uh ask the neighbor if I can call them. And he started to walk next door and he thought, you know, it's not a good idea for a stranger like me. And uh late at night to be knocking on someone else's door. So he thought, I'll just walk down to a gas station. Surely there has to be one close by. Well there wasn't one close by. He walked several miles and was looking for a gas station. While he was walking, he slipped down a side of a grass bank that was kind of wet and slipped into a creek of water about two feet deep. So he was now he kind of crawled out of the creek, crawled up the side of the hill, and now he was really freezing. And finally he was able to make it to a little motel. The owner of the motel uh was very merciful and allowed him the usaphone. He called his friend And he said, Look, I tried knocking on the door, but there was no answer, and I'm here miles away. I'm wondering if you can come and get me because I can't get in the house. And he said, Don't you remember I put the key to the door in your pocket before you left? And sure enough, he reached into his pocket and there was the key to the door. And so that whole story illustrates kind of the predicament of Christians. who try to gain access to God's blessings through human means, all the while possessing Christ, who is the key to every spiritual blessing. I love the songs that we sang tonight that pointed to the Lord Jesus. Jesus. I always love songs that do that. He alone fulfills the deep longings of our heart, does he not? He is the one who supplies every spiritual resource Believers have in Christ everything you will ever need for any trial that you face, for any craving, for any difficulty that you may encounter in this life. He has all resources for us. We are sufficient. Or I should say Christ is sufficient, and we are in him. And so therefore we have in Christ all that we need. Someone wrote this. So every Christian is a self-contained treasury, a divinely bestowed spiritual affluence. There is nothing more, no greater transcendent secret, no ecstatic experience, no hidden spiritual wisdom that can take Christians to some higher plane of spiritual life. And that's so true. We have in Christ everything we need. We have the key because we have the Lord Jesus Christ to see for something else It's like knocking on the door frantically, seeking what you already have possessed. You already have it. If you have Jesus, you have all that you need. And that's really the whole message of the book of Colossians You ever notice that when Paul writes his letters, there always seems to be one major theme in that letter that he really tries to emphasize in Ephesians, it's the mystery of Christ and his church in Philippians. The theme is joy. In Romans, we learned that as we spent a lot of time in Romans. It's justification by faith, the gospel itself. But the real theme of the book of Colossians is the absolute sufficiency of Jesus Christ. That's the whole theme of this letter. Now Paul writes this letter, and when he wrote this, keep in mind that Paul had never himself visited the city of Colossi. Actually, it wasn't really a big city, it was more like a small town And uh how did this how did the Church of Colossae get started? Well it kind of came out of Paul's me uh ministry in a in Ephesus. He was there for a long time. And a hundred miles west of Ephesus is the city of Colossae. And some men came over to hear Paul and they were converted and they went back and they started the church in Colossae. And God began to bless that ministry there in Colossi. However, there were some things that were happening around about that really caused some concern for some of the people that were there in Colossi. There was a heresy that was That was being preached and taught that Christ is good, but you need more than just Jesus. You need Christ plus other things. We need more than just Jesus himself. And so this heresy was so uh dangerous that a man named Epaphras Decided to take the trip to see the Apostle Paul. Now, when uh he takes this trip to see Paul, you have to remember Paul is in prison in Rome. This is one of Paul's uh prison epistles, they call it. Because Epapharis went to found Paul in Rome. Remember, Paul was under house arrest. He was waiting to appear before Caesar in Rome. Epaphras tells him what's going on and the danger of this heresy, which was really a mixture of philosophy and Gnosticism and Jewish mysticism, all that's saying that you know you need Christ, but you need all these other isms. As Dr. R. G. Lee used to say, isms, it ought to be wasms. These things that people think that they need besides Christ. And so Paul picks up a pen and he writes this letter of Colossians. And really the whole theme of this letter, the whole aim of what he's trying to get across is their the s their sufficiency that Christ uh their sufficient in the Lord Jesus Christ, that Christ is all that they need. Look in chapter one, look at verse number twenty-eight, just a few verses above, chapter two, verse one, whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we might present every man Perfect in Christ Jesus. The word perfect telios, fully mature. We could say without need of anything, really it's a philosophical term. It's a term probably used by some of these uh false teachers, the Gnostics used to describe what they achieved through their special knowledge. They they arrived at teleos, uh completeness. And the Apostle Paul is trying to tell them, listen, you know what? You don't need any of that because you are complete in Christ. Christ is everything that you need. Look at verse 29. Whereunto I also labor. striving according to his mighty or to his working, which worketh in me mightily. So Paul is concerned about the church at Colossae. His desire for this church is that they be not led away from the sufficiency that is in Christ. He doesn't want them led away by persuasive arguments of false teachers. He doesn't want anything to hinder them as they are progressing on their way to spiritual maturity, spiritual completeness, and he wants them to stand firm in Christ. Now, beloved, this is a message that we need today because those isms are still around. There are still ideas and philosophies out there that subvert the idea that Christ is all that you need. And we even have churches and ministries that say that, you know, the Bible is good and Christ is good, but we need other philosophies to help us along. We need man-made wisdom to kind of bolster up the weak areas in the Bible and in Christ. But let me tell you, friend, there are no weak areas. So this is very needed. This message that Paul gave to the Colossians is needed today because if we're not careful, we can allow some wrong idea to get into our mind And we can lose out on salvation. Remember, I told you you can never lose your salvation, but you can lose out on your salvation. You can be seriously hindered in your Christian life. And Christians can be beguiled and pulled away from the sufficiency that is in the Lord Jesus Christ. And of course, Paul doesn't want that to happen to the Colossians, and I don't want that to happen to you. And so I want you to see tonight just three truths about this. Number one, the prayer for standing firm. He prays that they would stand firm. Look at chapter 2, verse 1. For I would that ye knew what great conflict I have for you. And for them at Laodicea. For as many as have had not seen my face in the flesh. Now, when Paul writes this, he just has a burden and a heart desire for them to stand firm. Now he never met these people face to face. But he knows that they're God's people and therefore he loves them. So he says, I have great conflict. The word for conflict is the Greek word agon, is where we get the word agony. It's a word used in athletic competition. You can kind of tell the struggle, the striving that's going on in Paul. And back up actually to verse 29, it really starts there. The argument starts there. This is agonizomai. Again, kind of the same word. Agonizemai. According to his working, he is really striving. He is really agonizing. And this is again an athletic term, an athlete that's really working hard, that's laboring hard, that is using all of his might, all of his energy. And this is what Paul is saying about these believers here. He agonizes over them. He is working in verse 29, energy, where we get the word energy. You know, ministry can be hard work and it involves a lot of conflict. A lot of times that conflict is inward. And it's because Paul loved God's people so much that He was agonizing inwardly that they would be conformed to the image of Christ, that nothing would subvert their faith and keep them from being what God called them to be. And so he prays for them in agony. He's praying that the Lord would just keep them standing firm for the faith. He's agonizing in prayer. A lot of times we call prayer a quiet time. Sometimes it should be anything but a quiet time. Sometimes it should be a time when we're really just crying out to the Lord. Have you ever agonized in prayer over someone? I mean just agonized. I mean just with tears, uh praying for them, praying for their soul, praying for their salvation, praying for their spiritual edification. Uh just imagine Paul was doing that all the time. He was praying, and again, some of these people he had not met face to face, but he knew that they were the Lord's people and he wanted the church to go on. So what does he pray for? He prays for encouragement. Look at verse 2, that their hearts might be comforted. The word comforted here is the idea of encouragement. He wants to encourage them. Uh you know, when you when you come to church to hear God's word, you know, you should be encouraged. And he's encouraging them to uh Make progress, but also endearment, look again in verse 2, that their hearts may be comforted, being knit together in love That means you're just unified in love. So he's praying for that in the church, and certainly the church needs that. They need to be encouraging one another. They need to be loving one another. And then enrichment, look again in verse 2, that their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding. Now, Paul mentions the riches of Christ earlier in this letter. In fact, look in chapter 1, look in verse 27, just to go up a few verses, to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Now Paul wants these believers to understand the riches that they have. The spiritual riches that they have in Christ. Do you understand all that you have in Christ? Do you understand it And that's what he's praying for because a lot of believers really don't comprehend and understand. That's why he prays. Here's the next thing, enlightenment. Look in verse 2 again, where he says Being knit together in love unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding. And we could translate this until they are rich in the assurance of their understanding. He prays that the Colossians would have a complete understanding of all the riches that they have in the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, you know what he's praying? He's praying that you understand that the key is already in your pocket. That you already have all the riches that you need in Christ. Do you understand how rich you are? You know, a man who drives a Cadillac and understands what he has, it will not be tempted with a Volkswagen, right? If you understand all that you have in Christ, you're not going to be tempted with all these other philosophies. that can't in any way compare to the spiritual wisdom and resources that you have in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so understanding is a word that literally means to place together. It's the ability to access things. It's the ability to grasp all that you have. To understand all the riches that you have. The great Scottish expositor Alexander McLaren, he wrote this In Christ, as in a great storehouse, are the massive ingots of solid gold, which when coined into creeds and doctrines, are the wealth of the church. All which we can know concerning God and man, concerning sin and righteousness and duty, concerning another life uh concerning another life is in him who is the home and deep mind where truth is stored. You're rich. You're spiritually rich. You have all the resources that you need. You say, well, if I have it, how come I don't have it? It's because you don't realize you have it. You have to realize what you have Alright? I recently read of a homeless man in Salt Lake City, Utah. He was a millionaire and he didn't know it. Here's how the story goes. This is how the story I read. It says he was 60 years old, living on the streets, pushing around a shopping cart. His family had been trying to find him to tell him news that his brother had died, and left him an inheritance that made him filthy rich. But the man refused to answer the messages given to him. So for years he lived in poverty. Finally, the family hired a private investigator to hunt him down and convince him to call home. Well He did and received the news that he was rich because of the death of his older brother. Now we have an older brother named Jesus, and you know what? His death made us rich. And we have to understand that. We have to grasp that. You won't make progress. You won't stand firm in the faith. Until you understand this. Look at verse 3, where it says, chapter 2, verse 3, in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. In Christ you have all those treasures. Now, where it says hidden, the Greek word here is apocryphos. You've probably heard of the word Apocrypha. which is a word that means hidden or hidden writings. And here it's Apocryphos, which means hidden from common gaze. Something that you don't see commonly, since it's hidden. Therefore it is a secret. Now, this word here, and I think a lot of times when the Apostle Paul is writing and he he picks certain words under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit to really communicate some ideas. Now this word that Paul uses in this occasion is a word from the vocabulary of the Gnostics, some of the false teachers that were trying to tell these Christians that we have hidden wisdom, we have hidden knowledge, and they called it Apocryphos The knowledge that they had was set down in books. In other words, these Gnostics believed that salvation and sufficiency was through knowledge. It was esoteric. In order for you to have it, you have to have all this hidden wisdom. You know, therefore that's why you had to have this this secret knowledge. And they were kind of had this elitist attitude, we have this secret knowledge, you don't. We are complete because of this secret knowledge. If you want to be complete, you have to have this apocrypha. You have to have this secret wisdom that we have written down in this book. And by using this one word, Paul is saying, look You already have all what you need in Christ. You already have that wisdom, in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Where is it found? It's not found in some esoteric, mysterious book that has writings in it. All the wisdom and knowledge that you need is found in Christ. That hidden wisdom. was given to you when you received Jesus Christ as your Savior, you already have it. You have all the wisdom you need. That wisdom is in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul is praying that they understand this. Prays that they get it. This is the prayer. For standing firm. But I want you to see number two, the pitfall of standing firm. Look at verse number four. And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing And again, this was Paul's fear was that a lack of understanding of their riches in Christ could cause believers to be open for deception. Again, if you don't understand how rich you are in Jesus and that you have all that you need in Jesus, it's going to open you up to ideas, philosophies, things that are outside of Christ. And it could lead you away from the sufficiency of Christ. And that was Paul's fear. Look at the word beguile, lest any man should beguile you. This is an interesting Greek word here. It's pera. Logizomai. Per, which means alongside. You heard of a paralegal. This is a person who works alongside of a lawyer. He's a paralegal. This is the word paralogizomai. Logizomai means to reason. And so literally this word means to reason alongside. It has the idea of miscalculating or to reason falsely. And so it's the idea of arguing alongside of truth to the point that people are pulled away from the truth. And you know, error has some truth in it. Did you know that Someone said that rat poison is made of ninety-eight percent whole wheat and two percent poisoning. And people who beguile you, they will give you a lot of truth. They will speak alongside the real truth, but then they will, with enticing words, pull you. You away from the truth. That's the idea here. With enticing words. Again, another interesting Greek word, pith analogia. A word that was used in the secular law courts, Greek law courts, and it refers to the lawyer's persuasive speech. It's the power to influence an audience to a verdict that is not right. A verdict that is not just. And so Paul's point is that even though the argument might seem sound, it might seem to make sense. You know, there's a lot of philosophy out there. There's a lot of teaching out there. When you hear it, it seems to make good sense. It seems to be very enticing, very sound. But it will lead you away from Christ. And that's what he's warning about. These false teachers will always be very persuasive in their logic. They have reasonable sounding words, and you need to be aware, be careful about that. Do you know the devil is a smooth talker? And his ministers are the same. He's very convincing. In the Garden of Eden, that's what got Adam and Eve into trouble. The devil came in and he had a congregation of two, and he was preaching a very convincing sermon. And they began to believe. He convinced them that there was something outside of God. That would help them find answers to some of the deepest needs that they had And so he beguiled them. And so it is today. And this is what Paul is warning about. There's all these ideas, these isms out there. That you need to be aware of that would lead you away from the sufficiency that is in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me give you the last thing. Number one, we talked about the prayer. Paul prays that they would understand all they have in Christ. And he prays that they would stand firm and they wouldn't be beguiled from these enticing words of false teachers. But then number three Notice what I call the portraits of standing firm in verses 5 to 7. And in order to really emphasize his admonition for believers to stand firm, he kind of gives some vivid pictures. in words here I think to illustrate his point. I think the word pictures are in these words. Look at verse 5. For though I be absent in the flesh, Yet am I with you in the Spirit, joying and beholding your order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ. See that phrase order and steadfastness? This is really an army term. We could say he's comparing to a church to like an army. Order and steadfastness, these military terms describe an army that is solidly unified against the enemy. And Paul's saying, look, even though I'm not with you, I've never met you, I'm with you in spirit, and I'm beholding your order and your steadfastness. Now What had taken place in Colossi was wonderful because this was a church that was growing well. It was a church that was progressing well, and God was doing great things there in that region of the Lycus Valley. And I think Paul, when he heard this report and it came out as a result of his own ministry in Ephesus, I think he was filled with tremendous joy and he heard about the great things as the word of God was spreading in that region, and he compared them to an army, their order and their steadfastness. The word order means rank. Refers to kind of a single file. In other words, the idea you're still holding rank. The enemy might attack you, but he hasn't broken the lines. He hasn't broken your rank. The word steadfastness speaks of a solid front of soldiers ready to stand under the attack. And Paul says, I rejoice about that. Now remember, beloved, we are in a spiritual war. You understand that And you know where the battle is. The battle is for the mind. I have sadly watched some younger Christians. and young people that grew up learning the truth. They were rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ, rooted in the Word of God. That once they kind of got away from the church and sometimes they go to college, sometimes they go other places, and all of a sudden they're bombarded with all these ideas. All these philosophies. And if they're not careful, they begin to embrace those things. And I've watched young people begin to believe some of those lies. And what it does is it just totally subverts their faith. It totally pulls them away from the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the battle is the mind. We can't allow lies to enter into our mind. That's why Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter 10, it's a verse I refer to often. He re he kind of pictures the s the mind as an ancient city with a wall around it and the enemy's trying to get in and back then they would put ladders up and try to scale the wall and get in and open the gate and the army enemy army would flood in And Paul compares us to standing at the top of that wall, casting down the ladders, casting down any enemy soldier from trying to get in, and Paul says, casting down any imagination, any high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. You see, the the devil is constantly bombarding your mind and my mind in this world and the mind of our young people with all these lies and philosophies that are against Christ. And if Satan can just get one enemy thought in that mind to take root, you better be careful because he's got you. That's why Paul says, cast them down. Don't dwell on those things. We are an army and we need we don't need to break rank. Stand firm. But then we're like pilgrims. Look in verse number 6. Notice what he says: as ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. Just as you receive Jesus, even so you walk in Jesus. Again, I think this is a metaphor that Paul's using of the Christian life Walking in the same direction. We're pilgrims. We're on a journey. We're walking. And the way that we walk is the way that we have received the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul's telling us to walk worthy in the Lord. He already kind of used this image. Look in chapter one, verse number ten, when he says, that you might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. Notice chapter 3, look in verse number 7. Chapter 3, verse 7, in which ye also walked sometimes when ye lived in them. This is the way you walked before. Look at chapter 4 and verse number 5, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. And so we're to walk in Christ the same way we originally received Christ by faith. Okay? Just the way we receive the Lord Jesus Christ. Chapter 4, verse 5. Walk in wisdom towards them that are without, redeeming the time. So, Paul says we're to continue to walk the way we receive Christ. How did we receive Christ? Repentance and faith. How are we to walk in him with continual repentance and faith? I was teaching on repentance this morning in Sunday school. But one idea that I didn't really get across yet this morning, but we're going to, and that is this that repentance is not something that a person does once and then you never do it again. Repentance is a continual state of mind. It's a continual thing for a believer. I'm constantly repenting. You see, the moment that I trusted Jesus, I turned away from the world, I turned towards Christ, and I'm continuing to walk in that way. I'm not turning back. I'm not repenting of my repentance. I live every day with repentance and faith. I didn't repent at one time. I am repenting continually to the Lord. I'm walking in continual repentance and faith to the Lord. And so that's what Paul is telling us here. As you have received the Lord, even so walk in him. Your pilgrim's on a journey. When you heard the gospel, you turned away from the world and away from sin, and you're walking towards Christ. You're walking towards, as I said in the sermon this morning, towards our heavenly city, Mount Zion. Don't turn back. Just keep walking in Christ the way you have received him. But then also he gives the image of a tree. Look in chapter 2, look in verse number 7. Rooted and built up in Him, and established in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding therewith with thanksgiving. And this is obviously an agricultural word. The word rooted, the verb is perfect tense, which means once for all You have been rooted in Christ one time in your life when you were saved. You were planted. You were rooted in Jesus. And the idea of a perfect tense verb, remember what I told you? It's an action that takes place at one time But then it has continuing results or continuing impact or influence. You see, when you got saved, you were rooted in Jesus Christ, and we're still seeing the impact in our life today. To get back to this agricultural image, we're bearing the fruit of being rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ. So Christians are not tumbleweeds that have no roots. You know, going from place to place, being blown around by every wind of doctrine. No, we are planted firmly. Rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ. Just like we read in the Old Testament in Psalm 1, talking about a believer, a godly person, like a tree planted by the rivers of water. And we are rooted in Christ and then built up in verse number seven. This is a uh architectural term. Being built up, and uh it has the idea of a building, a strong building that has a good, solid foundation, rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith. So that is the idea of the word here is edify. It's often found in Paul's letter to be built up. Our lives as Christians were like buildings. The foundation is Christ, and we're building on that foundation. We're building higher and higher. And so this all these I think are pictures that Paul gives us that tells us to stand firm and your faith. Don't allow yourself in any way to be beguiled, to be uprooted in any way. And then he says this and we'll close. In verse 7, he says, abounding therewith with thanksgiving. Have a thankful heart for all that God has done for you in your life. Now, friend, are you standing firm? This is a warning that all of us need to receive. And remember that when you received Christ, you received it all. You don't need to look anywhere else. To help for anything that will help you in this life and spiritual growth and sanctification to help you through the trials of this life, all that you need is in Christ. So don't even bother looking. Again, just to use an illustration, I read one time where um William Hearst, a great newspaper man uh was a collector of art and he read in a paper of a precious piece of art that was the envy of all the art world and uh he thought man I have to have that I want to add that. I need to get it. So he sent his men out to look all over for this tr this treasure. And after a few weeks they came back and they said, sir, we've got good news. We found this precious piece of art. He said, wonderful, where is it? They said, you already own it, sir. It's in your warehouse. You already own it. You just don't realize you have it. Now, friend, there's no use to look around because you already have the treasure. It's called Jesus Christ. In him you have all the wisdom, the resources, the blessing that you need. You just need to learn about what you have in Christ and stay rooted, stand firm in the Lord Jesus. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, help us to take heed to the warning that the Apostle Paul gives. This loving apostle who was so conflicted, who agonized in prayer for God's people. That they would have an understanding of all that the riches that they have in Christ. And Lord, I pray that you'll open our eyes to see that. I pray the prayer of the Apostle Paul for every one of us here tonight that we would come unto the riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the acknowledgement. That in Christ are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. That in Christ He's all that we need. Lord, remind us of that. And may you, Lord, protect your people from being beguiled, from straying away from the truth. And Lord, I would also pray that you use us. To perhaps reach out to those who have uh been beguiled and to help bring them back into the understanding, the full assurance of realizing that in Christ is all the treasures that we need. Help us, Lord, to do that, to reach out to those around us. And if there's someone here that's never placed their full faith in Christ, may they do it. It without delay. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I just want to ask you tonight, friend, do you have this key already? Do you have Christ? And are you sure of that? And if you're not, would you make sure tonight before you leave? Would you just pray simply and say, Lord, I'm trusting you. I'm receiving you. With repentance and faith, I turn from the world, I turn from sin, my sin, I turn to Christ, I put my faith in his finished work. And I ask you to save me. And friend, if you'll pray that, he'll save you. He's a gracious, wonderful Savior, and He loves you and He wants to save you. Would you come to him tonight? And then friend, if you are a believer, would you pray that the Lord would open your eyes of of understanding to understand all the riches that you've been given in Christ? Because once you understand that, friend, you'll stand firm in Christ no matter what happens. You won't go after other treasures when you realize you have the greatest treasure. Ask God to give you that understanding. Father, open the eyes of our heart and help us to see and apply these truths to our life. That we may be blessed, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.