Well it's good to see you in God's house tonight. I want you to take your Bibles tonight. Open to the book of Philippians, chapter number four. The book of Philippians, chapter four And I want to talk about standing firm in the faith. The Bible tells us that as Christians we are called and the call of salvation includes standing firm for what we believe against the onslaughts of the world, the flesh, and the devil. How many know that um that the world is going to attack us The devil's s certainly going to or is, and of course we also have to to uh strive against our own flesh and we need to learn to stand strong against all of these forces. Not too long ago I received a phone call from a Christian who was in tears basically because his life was in shambles Uh he has been kind of hit and miss in his Christian walk. Uh he hasn't been really faithful in a lot of the things he should be faithful with and live he was living an unstable life. And that instability uh caught up to him, and uh he basically it overtook him and he's paying a huge price for that, and now God's speaking to him about getting serious and becoming a stable believer. Now, the God who calls us to Himself is a God who calls us to be strong in our faith. And it just seems like as we look around the world today that there are many believers that are not standing firm And uh they remind me of the Reuben in the Old Testament. You might remember in the Old Testament Reuben, Jacob's oldest son, uh is a A classic example of spiritual instability. Jacob his father said to him, Unstable is water, you shall not excel. talking about Jake uh Reuben and he said basically because of your instability you're not going to be able to excel in your life and sure enough later on if you read about the life of Reuben you'll find that he committed terrible sins And um eventually, like Esau, he lost his birthright. And so as I said this morning, as a believer, you can't lose your salvation, but beloved, you can lose blessings and you can lose ground in the Christian life. And so I want us to look at a passage here tonight that really helps us to learn to stand firm in our faith That's our objective in ministry. That's one of the reasons why I preach the Word of God, because I believe it's the Word of God that makes us strong and stable spiritually. Amen. And that's why you come to God's house to hear God's word. But that is one of the goals of ministry is uh is to make you strong in the faith and keep you strong in the faith. And um And and I heard about a little boy who fell out of bed one night and is was crying. His mother went in and she said, What happened? He said, I fell asleep too close to where I got in. And sometimes believers are that way in their Christian walk. They get into Christ, but they kind of fall asleep too close to where they got in. And so spiritual stability and steadfastness is certainly something that is majored on in the New Testament. In the life of Barnabas, the Bible says that with resolute heart. He encouraged the church to remain true to the Lord. And Peter said this in 2 Peter 3. 17 be on your guard, lest being carried carried away by the error of unprincipled men, you fall from your own steadfastness. Peter didn't want them to fall away from their own stability and steadfastness. The Apostle Paul wrote this to the church at Thessalonica, 1 Thessalonians 3. 8, for now we really live if you stand firm in the Lord. I love that verse. Paul said, you know what really gives me, I really live, we really live, we really are filled with joy when we see you standing firm in the Lord. Lord. And that's true. That's really the expression of a pastor's heart. His great joy is seeing stability in the lives of believers. Now the situation here in Philippi was a situation that endangered the spiritual steadfastness of the believers that were in that church. I believe that Paul truly loved the church of Philippi. I think of all the New Testament churches, he was probably closer to this church than any of the others. He calls them his beloved brethren. Look in verse 1. Therefore, my Brethren dearly beloved and long for. He had a great love and a holy affection for these believers. It was manifest in his desire for them to remain true to their faith and for them to continue on. And he called them his joy. Look in verse again, verse 1. For my joy You're my beloved, you're my joy. Um and when he said long for, actually that's a Greek term there. It's only used here in the New Testament, and it refers to a the pain of separation from a loved one You know, if you have to live away from loved ones that you love so dearly, there's kind of a pain that goes there. This is the word that describes that. Paul missed the church So he called them my long for. You're the ones that I long to be with. You are my crown, my joy, he says here And uh when he uses the word crown, he's talking about a laurel wreath that normally um an athlete would wear when he won a competition, but they weren't reserved just for athletes Did you know that if someone was honored by his peers, he too would receive a laurel um crown as a a sign of honor, as a symbol of their success. And as Paul was saying about these believers, you are the proof of my success in the gospel. To see you, to see that you're saved, to see that you're continuing on in the faith. You are my reward. You are my crown. So Paul's concerned about this these people that he loves so dearly because there were certain elements that were stirring around in the church at Philippi that threatened them to fall away from their steadfastness. What was it? Well, persecution. But Paul mentions this in chapter one, verse twenty-nine, that there was probably some persecution going on. And chapter 129 he says, For unto you it's given in behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer, but also because of dissension. There is a problem where there they may be dividing in the church and there may be some division going on. That's why Paul wrote chapter 2 and said, Fulfill ye my joy. That you be of the same mind, that you be unified. And another problem he was dealing with, I think, is false teachers. We talked about that this morning, but look at chapter three, look at verse number two Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe. Paul didn't remind repeating himself. We need to hear the truth over and over again. Verse 2, beware of dogs Now I've seen that scripture verse on gates, haven't you? Beware of evil workers. And who is he referring to here? He's referring to false teachers. He says, beware the concision. He's talking about those that would use rituals to mutilate, mutilate the flesh as a religious ritual. And he was talking about these false teachers. And you know, as I said this morning, false teaching and false teachers are a destabilizing force in the church. So with all these forces at work. At Philippi, the persecution from without, dissension from within, false teaching that was abounding, and false teachers, Paul gives them a strong command. And chapter 4, verse number 1. And notice what it is. Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved, long for my joy and crown. Here it is So what? Stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. That's the main idea in this whole Paragraph here. This is the main thing that Paul's trying to communicate. He wants them to stand firm in the Lord. Don't fall from your steadfastness. Don't become unstable. The Greek term here, stand firm, is a military word. It pictures a soldier standing his ground in the midst of a battle. And as I said so many times and have reminded you, the Christian life is a fight. It's a spiritual war. You're soldiers in a fight, and God wants you to stand firm. This is the same metaphor Paul uses in Ephesians 6. 1 when he said, put on the whole armor of God that you might be able to what stand. And it's so we're in this spiritual war and God wants us to stand against the schemes and the wiles of the devil because the devil is aggressively attacking Christians to undermine their stability in Christ. Their steadfastness in Christ. And so we are to be on the alert. Notice in verse number one the word therefore. This is characteristic of Paul's writings to always start off first laying a solid foundation of doctrine and then Based on that, he gives application, and you always see this, therefore, it's kind of transitional word. Because of all that I said, here's the foundation of doctrine, therefore this is how you live. This is what I expect of you. And he points really it points really back to chapter 2 and chapter 3, specifically to chapter 3, where the Apostle Paul taught them to diligently pursue Christ-likeness. This is what we are all to strive for. This is our goal. And since our goal is to be like Christ, we need to ask ourselves, did Christ stand firm? You better believe he did. Did he ever waver? No. The Bible says he was without sin. And so our pursuit of Christ-likeness is the basis for our standing firm in the faith. Because that is the prize, that is the goal, that is what we strive for, that is what we long for. So based on that, Paul's going to give us some exhortations here. And I just want to just give these to you some ways in which we stand firm in the faith. And here's the first one. Stand inseparably. Look at verse number two. I beseech Yodius, I beseech Senechi that they be of the same mind in the Lord. He's basically saying, don't let anything divide you. Satan's motto is divide and conquer. And the idea is we need each other. We need the constant encouragement that we give each other. And I've said this before, one of the reasons why we all come to God's house is because you know why? We all need to encourage each other. Someone says, Oh, I don't I don't go because I don't I don't really need it. Well maybe someone needs you Maybe someone needs you to encourage them. Hend it upon our fellowship in the church. And that's why fellowship and unity and love is so very important in the church because it helps us. I believe that Christians cannot grow in isolation. I believe anytime the word saint is used in the New Testament, it's never singular, it's always plural. Saints. Because God intends for us all to grow together. And I think a Christian who isolates himself is never in God's house. And I and I know that there are Christians out there that feel like, well, you know, I I you know I'm a Christian, I'm saved, I don't really need the church. Well, actually, actually, you do need the church. You can't grow and be all that God intended you to be if you're not with God's people in the church. It's all about holding each other up. It's all about accountability. It's all about caring for one another. It's all about mutual love and harmony. It's having our lives intertwined together I can't, I don't have the time to tell you how that you, the believers here in this church, have enriched my life. Through the many years that I've been a part of Grace Bible Baptist Church. I just don't have the time to tell you of all the stories of saints, some who are here tonight, and some who are already in heaven that have enriched my life as a part of As a result of being here in this family of believers. We need one another. I couldn't be the person I am. Some of you look at me, well, you're not much, I know, but But whatever good you do see, I couldn't be that without your help, without you helping to enrich me in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this is God's design, that we be interdependent on one another. Vince Habner said this, Christians like snowflakes, are frail, but when they stick together, they can stop traffic. like that. And so we need one another. And so this is why Paul addresses these two women in verse number two. I beseech Yodis. I beseech Senechi that they be of the same mind. Paul goes right to the heart of the problem. He names two women in the church that were having a disagreement. And by the way, in the early church, women played a very prominent role, just like they do today. Thank God for godly women in our church. Thank God for the great role that they play in church ministry. But here, and even in the New Testament and the early church, they were so very prominent in the beginnings of churches. You realize that the first convert on European soil was a woman. It was Lydia, the seller of Purple, became the first convert on European soil under the ministry of the Apostle Paul. And so Here are two prominent women in the church at Philippi. And Paul says of them, verse 3, I entreat thee also true yoke fellow, help those women which labored with me in the gospel. Paul says, these women here that he just named, they labored with me in the gospel. Now we're not exactly sure what all that was, but whatever it was, they were very important to the Apostle Paul Paul says they were with me there at Philippi. They helped me. The term that Paul uses here is a gladiatorial term. We could really render it like this. They fought side by side with me Whatever conflict Paul had, they were right there with him. They fought side by side with the Apostle Paul. So these were not weak women. Thank God for uh for women and their service in the gospel, strong women of faith, and that's what they were here. But at this present moment there was a problem, there was a contention that was coming along Perhaps from a really small issue. Paul doesn't really even name the issue. You ever notice that when Paul deals with the vision in the New Testament, he never really names what the issue is. You know why? Because the issue is irrelevant. What's important is our attitude towards one another and our attitude towards God. And that's what he deals with here. He just says to them, be of the same mind, in verse number two, that they be of the same mind in the Lord. Again, often the problem really isn't the problem. The real problem is much deeper than some superficial surface issue And the problem really is selfishness because Paul deals with that in chapter 2. I don't need to have time to go back to that, but he was saying, you know, think of others before yourself. It had the mind of Christ who was constantly thinking of others and not himself. And then notice where he says in verse number three. I entreat thee also, true yoke fellow, help those women which labor with me. Now what's Paul doing in verse 3? He's speaking to another individual at the church. You know, he's saying, hey, go help these women Go help these ladies out. Help them to get along. In other words, he's calling upon this person that he labels in verse 3, true yoke fellow, to be a peacemaker in the church. You see that these two dear saints that can't get along, go over and help them, he says in verse number three. Help them which labor with me in the gospel. And with Clement also, and with other my fellow laborers whose names are written in the book of life. Now who is this person? One possibility Is that this is an unnamed individual, and that's the way the King James renders it. True Yoke Fellow. There's some person there. We don't know their name. And they Paul calls upon them. Hey, you true yoke fellow, go and help them Another possibility is that this is used collectively to speak about the whole church. But then the third possibility, and I think this is the best explanation, is we can translate this Greek word as a proper name. The Greek word suzugos is could be a name of a person in there and and rather than giving it as a proper name, they're giving the translation of what that name means, which is true youth fellow. And I think this is what's going on here And I think that what Paul is basically saying is, hey, you Suzuka, live up to your name. You're a true yoke fellow. Go and help these women get along. And he's asking for their help. And so there are times when conflict between two believers needs intervention by a spiritually wise person. That could come along and help them. What did Jesus say? Blessed are the peacemakers. And then he mentions other co-workers, the rest of these fellow workers whose names are written in the book of life. And he talks about these other believers. Help one another to get along. And that's what part of our calling is in the church. We grow together, we stand fast together, and we need each other's help, so we can't allow any division. If we see it, we need to come together. Take care of it. Get rid of it. We need to stay together. Why? That's necessary to stand firm. So we stand inseparably, but then secondly, stand joyfully. Look in verse 3 again where he says Verse 3, I entreat thee, true also, true youthful Lord, help those women which labor with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with others my fellow laborers, whose names are in the book of life. Verse 4, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. So to stand firm, we have to maintain a spirit of joy. We have to maintain that spirit of joy. Now this letter consists of just 104 verses. The word rejoice is used nine times. The word joy is used five times. To rejoice is used two times. And Paul is telling them, look, maintain this spirit of joy. That's the way we are to live. Now the Philippians were being experiencing difficulty. They were experiencing terrifying things. Paul said earlier that they were living in a perverse and crooked world. So they had difficulties, and yet Paul says, in spite of that, you are to maintain a spirit of joy And again, this is what God calls us to do. And remember, I said that joy is not the same thing as happiness, because whenever I say that, some people think, well, you're telling me to be happy all the time? No, we can't always be happy. But we can always have joy because joy goes deeper than just outward happiness. What is joy? Where can true joy be found? It can't be found with just circumstances It's not in pleasure, it's not in money, it's very simple, beloved, or any of those things. It's not in glory. Where is it found? The answer is very simple, beloved. It's found in Christ. It's found in your relationship to the Lord Jesus Christ. It is a fruit of the Holy Spirit when you're walking with the Lord. We could say it like this. I love this definition of joy. Joy is the settled assurance that God is in control of all the details of my life. It is the quiet confidence that utterly everything is going to be alright, and the determined choice to praise God in every situation. I like that. And let me say it again. It is the settled assurance that God is in control of all the details of my life. It is the quiet confidence that ultimately everything is going to be alright And it is the determined choice to praise God in every situation. It is a choice, it is a decision that we praise God, that we thank God in every situation. And I think we see this here in this letter to the Philippians. It is, I see the word I thank several times. And notice where Paul says, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. Notice he doesn't say rejoice in your situation. He doesn't say rejoice in your circumstance. You don't have to rejoice in your circumstance, especially if it's bad. But friend, you can rejoice in the Lord in your circumstance. You can rejoice in the Lord in your situation. Joy is a decision that we make. That's why Paul says, I will rejoice. Even when they were criticizing him. In chapter 2, verse 17, where Paul says, he says, Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice. There is a decision Paul made. Paul says, I am going to rejoice in the Lord. In chapter 1, verse 18, when others were criticizing him there at the church at Rome, Paul said, So what? As long as Christ is preached, I rejoice. I therein do rejoice and yea will rejoice. It doesn't matter that it didn't matter if he was in prison. It didn't matter that there are others criticizing while he was in prison. As long as Christ was being preached, Paul says, You know what? I'm going to rejoice. rejoice. It's just a decision that we make. We maintain that spirit of joy. But then here's number three, stand graciously Look in chapter 4, look at verse number 5. Let your moderation be known unto all men, the Lord is at hand. Now, Paul is basically saying, learn to accept less than your due. Learn to accept less than you're due. The word here for moderation, we can translate this word gentleness, or we could say forbearance It's the Greek word epikes. There's no real English equivalent for this word. It's a very difficult word to translate. Um to really capture the diverse meaning of the word. It's very, very hard William Barclay feels that this is one of the most untranslatable words in all of the of all the Greek words. Some say it speaks of contentment. Some say it refers to gentleness or generosity or goodwill. Others say it refers to mercy or leniency. Still others say it speaks of patience. referring to someone who submits to injustice or mistreatment. I think the best translation would probably be a graciousness. Because in the Christian sense, that word embodies all these other meanings here, if you ask me. A kind of a big-heartedness, a sweet reasonableness. That's the idea here And so the word suggests that we're able to have a humility about us that submits to any injustice, any disgrace. any mistreatment, any disappointment, any loss, any animosity, any bitterness or anything, we're able to submit. It's kind of the purest kind of graciousness. And Paul is saying everyone should see this kind of humility in you. It should be manifest everywhere. There should be this humble graciousness that people see when they see you as a Christian. It should be very evident because you're really not seeking anything for yourself. You're really not demanding your due. Or, you know, we live in a society today where everyone says, I want my rights. This kind of spirit kind of foregoes that and says, you know what, I just want to please the Lord and I'll settle for whatever God in his sovereignty allows me to have And I think it's illustrated. Remember the story in the Old Testament, Abraham and Lot, they each had big herds and a lot of cattle, cattlemen, we could say herdsmen that were serving them, and they ran out of room. And Lot's herdsmen stri strove with Abraham's servants, and there was this big conflict. And you remember? Now in that situation, Lot's a lot younger. Abraham's his uncle. Abraham graciously took Lot along on this journey. Lot has been benefiting from it. So in that situation, the the younger should yield to the older. But if you read that story, you're going to find Abraham stepped forward and he said, Look, I don't want there to be any conflict, so whatever you want, I'll choose the other. I'm going to forbear, I'm going to put you ahead of me. I'm going to humble myself and if you go this way, we'll go this way. You remember that's the idea here. What mattered to Abraham was not his rights. What mattered more was his family relationship, his love towards And I think that's the idea here. And the Bible says we need to do this. We need to have this sweet graciousness about us But look at the rest, Paul saying, um, look at what it says, let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. This is what I say, stand confidently would be the next point. Paul is saying, rest in the presence of the Lord. This is why we can have this spirit because the Lord is near. The Lord is near. And notice the next thought here. Where he says, be careful for nothing. I think those two thoughts go together. In verse number five at the end, where it says, the Lord is at hand, and then verse six at the beginning, be careful for nothing. We can be anxious for nothing because we rest in the fact that God is near. The Lord is with us. Now the word for near here is a word that refers to space. Spatial nearness, like saying, you know, that chair is near. It's not talking about a chronological nearness like Monday is near. It's about a thing that is near, and here it's the Lord. And that's the idea of spatial nearness. It's the idea that the Lord is here. He's near. His presence is right here with us. This is why I can have a humble spirit. This is why I don't need to be anxious about anything because the Lord is with us. He encompasses us with his presence. In Psalm 73, verse 28, it says, the nearness of my God is good. And so we have this sense of the Lord with us, and that gives us confidence. But then let me give you the fifth thing. We stand inseparably, we stand joyfully, graciously, confidently because the Lord is near, but then we stand prayerfully. Look again in verse number Where it says, Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Verse 6, be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God This is the way we stand firm, it's through prayer. We pray about things. We don't allow ourselves to worry. When worry comes, we determine we're going to just commit this to the Lord. Now, I know that there are people that say, you know, worry is a sin, and indeed it is, if we dwell on worry, then there's a sense in which that's faithless I think there is a sanctified word. In fact, the same word that Paul uses here about being anxious, the exact same Greek word, he uses it to commend Timothy Earlier in the letter he says, I commend Timothy to you because commend Timothy. But here is Timothy's same word. So he uses the same word to commend Timothy, but here he's saying, Don't worry. So I think there's a sanctified worry, and I think there is a sinful worry. The sanctified worry is worrying over the spiritual things of people's heart, where they are, the church. Paul certainly had that. Timothy certainly had that. But there's a sinful worry where that we worry about things where we should be trusting God in. And this is what Paul is saying. You when you when that comes, just go to the Lord in prayer. And he uses three different three different words to describe prayer. Prayer is the general word by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Supplication is sharing the needs and the problems with God. Thanksgiving is an expression of gratitude to God. And so Paul in a and he lays the emphasis on Thanksgiving here, this is the key. Paul is saying whenever there's a problem, whenever there's a Something that causes anxiety in your heart, you go to God and you lay it out before the Lord with a grateful heart. With a thankful heart. This is thankful prayer. No matter what the problem is, no matter what the difficulty is. You take it to the Lord and you lay it before Him with thankful prayer. And what does God do as a result of that? Look down in verse number six. And the peace of God. Like your request being made note unto God, verse six, and the peace of God. Which passes all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through or hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Now I mentioned this verse a little bit on Wednesday night, but this is a promise of an inner calm. An inner tranquility to the believer who responds to whatever crisis might come with thankful prayer to God. God in return will give this peace He'll guard your heart with it. And remember I told you this word for guard or shall keep your heart. That's the idea. The word keep is the word guard. And it is again a military word. It has the idea of a army guarding over something, surrounding an area, keeping it at peace. And I think this is a word that the people of Philippi could relate to because they were a Roman colony and they had Roman soldiers all around, and these Roman soldiers were dispatched to protect this colony of Rome there in that Macedonia land. And so when Paul uses this term, I think that they could relate to that because that reminded them of those Roman soldiers guarding them. But in this case, what will be guarding you is the very peace of God It'll be watching over you, it'll be guarding you, Paul says. So we stand prayerfully. But then let me give you the the sixth thoughts, stand thoughtfully. Look at verse 8. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just. Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. And there again is the command. Think on this. Focus on godly virtues. This is what he's saying. In order to have spiritual stability, focus and think about godly virtues. Think on those things. Because it's like I've told you before, the battle really is in our mind. This is where the battle takes place for the Christian life. It's so very important. And if you don't win the battle in your mind, Then you're not going to win the battle. So many times I'll counsel people that are suffering with depression and we'll begin to talk about things that they think about, and all they think about are the negative things. All they think about are the what ifs. And they had a tendency to be afraid of things that happen and then they say, Well, I'm depressed. Well no w- Oh and those things obsess their mind. And then they say, Well, I'm depressed, well no wonder you're depressed. If those are the things that occupy your mind, then you will be depressed. And Paul here is saying, look What you need to do is think on these things. Now this is not the power of positive thinking. That's kind of a doctrine that's not based on the Word of God What Paul is talking about is simply focusing on Christ, focusing on God. When we're faced with a threatening situation, bring your mind under control. We are to set our minds to work contemplating the spiritual resources that God has given us, all the things that we have, so that we understand that no matter what we have to deal with, what we have to go through, God is going to help us through it. We don't allow ourselves to go to to be so stressed out that we become depressed and defeated. So we dwell on whatever is true, whatever is honorable, and whatever is of good report, excellent things Praiseworthy things. That's the things that we dwell on. And we allow those things to permeate our mind. Looks look at this list, truthful things. That's things that are of the Word of God. What sort of things are true? Things about Christ. Things about the Scripture. Meditate on God's Word. And then what else does He say? Whatsoever things are honest, or we could say noble, honorable things, worthy of respect. Whatsoever things are right. These are righteous things. And this is the righteousness that defines the character of God. Right thinking about God is the idea there. Pure things, things that are morally clean and undefiled. Don't allow your mind to dwell on sin and things tainted with evil. Gracious things Where it says, what sort of things are lovely? And this word means pleasing, amiable, and then praiseworthy things. What sort of things are of good report good report That's the idea here, things that are praiseworthy. These are the things that we should be focusing on. So let me give you the last thing here. We stand inseparably, joyfully, graciously, confidently, prayerfully, thoughtfully, but then finally obediently. Look at verse 9. Those things Which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me do. And the God of peace shall be with you. So here's one final attitude to stay strong. You have to put into practice all that you've learned. And notice what he says, do these things. And this is uh President Indicative constantly do these things, these what things? All the things that you've seen in me, Paul says The things that you see in my what you've learned from me, what you have received from me, the teaching, the word of God, what you have heard, what you've seen in my life. Those are the things I want you to do. Now, Paul wasn't on an ego trip when he said, Be like me. He was just saying, look, if you want a model to follow, I present myself. Paul wasn't saying he was perfect, but he was following Christ. And by the way, any leader or teacher in the church needs to be a model of spiritual virtues. Or they're not worthy really to be a leader And Paul's saying, look, all those things that you've seen in me, you see it lived out in the lives of other godly people. Those are the things that you're to do. And then he says finally in verse 9, and the God of peace shall be with you. Shall be with you. So stand firm. As believers, we need to stand firm. We need to be together. We need to help each other. That's part of our calling. I heard about the redwood trees in California. They're amazingly big and tall. Some are as tall as 300 feet high. Some are over 2,000 years old. But you know what I read about them? The roots don't go very deep into the ground. But when they grow, they grow in clusters, and their root systems, they all get intertwined. So when the wind blows, literally these trees are holding each other up Because they're so intertwined. And the same is true in the church. We literally hold each other up, help each other to be stable in our Christian walk as we stand firm in the Lord. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Lord, help us to heed all these things. This chapter is so very rich, Lord. So very helpful to us. How we need, Lord, to be together, to be of one mind. To maintain our joy, to be gracious and humble Confident, Lord, knowing that you're with us. That's why we don't have to worry. We can bring things to you in thankful prayer, knowing that, Lord, you will give us peace. And help us, Lord, to focus on those things that are praised. worthy that are honorable to focus on you and just to apply these things in our life. Help us, Lord, to stand fast. I pray, Lord, for the soul that's here tonight that may be someone who's been just struggling. They haven't really stood firm. And they need this word from you tonight. Lord, help them strengthen them. Help all of us to be there for one another, to strengthen one another. And these difficult days. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, friend, I just want to I don't want a service to go by without giving you the opportunity to examine your own heart. And to know that you're saved, that you're in Christ, you really can't stand fast in the Lord if you're not in the Lord to begin with. The first thing you must do is you must ask yourself, do I know Jesus? Am I sure if I die today I'd go to heaven? Am I trusting in Christ, in Christ alone, for my salvation? And if you're not and you're not sure of that, would you pray right now? And would you just say, Lord Jesus, save me? Forgive me for my sin Help me to stand on your promise of eternal life that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, if that's your heart's desire, would you let us know? We want to help you. We want to pray for you. We want to encourage you in your faith Father, bless again these words to your people tonight for your glory's sake. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.