Would you take your Bibles tonight? I want you to open to uh the book of Philippians. We were there two Sundays ago, but I want you to look at it again tonight, and I want you to look in chapter number two. And uh chapter number two, we're going to look at verse 14 down to verse 18. While you're looking for that, I heard about an old lady who went into a department store one day. And she was surprised that when she went in the band began to play and uh they came over and they put a orchard on her dress and they gave her a thousand dollars and They uh there were TV cameras there and they announced they said you're the one millionth customer to our store. And uh congratulations. And they said, by the way, why were you coming here to our store today And she said I was on my way to the complaint department of the store. But I wonder if there's been a secret if there was a secret video camera following us around uh this week. How much uh would they catch of us perhaps complaining or grumbling? Tonight I want to talk about uh that one issue. The Apostle Paul addresses it in in uh Philippians chapter 2 verse 14. The title of the sermon tonight is uh Now Is the Time to Shine. Or we could uh call it Stop Whining and Start Shining. That's really the message that Paul gives us. Look at verse 14. Do all things without murmurings and disputings. Verse 15. That you may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke. in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world. Paul said, We are to shine as lights in a dark world. We are not to complain. Now, uh several things about this command, actually in verse 14, you see it where it says, do all things without murmurs and disputing. This do here, this verb is a present tense imperative. If you've listened to me preach, you know that I talk about Greek verbs and sometimes they're in the imperative mood Which is the mood of what? The mood of command. And so this is not a suggestion, this is a command. And he's commanding the church at Philippi to not complain. Now why would they be tempted to do that? You remember the last time we talked about Philippians, we gave you a little bit of the background. Paul is in a Roman prison. Talk about being quarantined. He was there for two years a government forced quarantine for Paul. He was going to appear to defend the gospel. The church of Philippi that had been looking for him and finally found him in the prison in Rome, they were concerned about him and worried over him. They were anxious about um his how he was doing, uh that the gospel wasn't going out, their greatest missionary was in jail. There was the tendency in some in the church to perhaps look negatively on that. But Paul already said in chapter two, look, the things that have happened to me have fallen out rather to the furtherance of the gospel. As a result of me being here, the gospel is not being hindered, it's actually making an advance The gospel is getting into places it normally wouldn't go, going even into the upper echelons of the Roman government. Soldiers were getting saved that were chained to Paul and his house arrest, and the gospel was spreading in many places. So one of the things that Paul tells them is says, Look, you know, don't complain. Do all things without murmuring and disputing. Look at the word murmuring there in verse number um fourteen. It's an interesting word. It's a word that's designed to make uh to make the sound of uh what it's describing. It's a word um that gives you the actual sound. You know, when I was a kid and I watched Batman and Robin I always w anticipated the last part of the show, you know why, because they always got into a fight with the bad guys. That was the big part of the show that I liked And always in that show, whenever Batman would take his fist and hit somebody, there was always uh cartoon letters on there bam or pow. Or when there was a shot, there was a bang. Those words were spelled out to make the sound. And that's exactly what's happening here in the Greek with this word murmurings It's a word that's spelled to help to make the sound of someone who is who is growling, someone who is grumbling, and obviously is talking about just outward complaining. Stop, don't grumble Don't complain. And the next word in verse 14, murmurings, from a another interesting Greek word, die, which is the preposition through, logimas, logic, or to we could say reason through. And it's the idea of mulling things over in your mind and doing it in a argumentative way. Where there's displeasure in your mind. It could be complaining inwardly, a skeptical kind of intellectual rebellion. You can be quiet and still complain. Heard about a monk that was in a monastery. He took a vow of silence. That all the monks that went in there had to take that vow. But you were allowed to speak two words after a year, and after the first year they brought him in and they said you got two words, and he said, Bed hard After the next year they brought him and they said you have two more words. What are your two words? The next two words were food, bad. They brought him in another year, and after another year they gave him two more words and they said, What are your two words? And he said, I quit. Well, they said, well you may as well leave you've done nothing but complain ever since you've been here. And to tell you the truth, um you don't have to really talk a lot to be murmuring or to be complaining. You know God can hear our thoughts or know our thoughts. He knows what we're thinking, he knows our inward attitude. And so Paul says all things. This is the next thing I want you to look at in verse 15. Do all things Without murmuring and disputing. I I wish that Paul would have been a bit more realistic and down the earth. Are you serious, Paul? All things He could have said, try to do most things without complaining. That would have been pretty hard. But all things, is it possible for us as Christians to not complain in all things and circumstances of our life. By the way, this is emphatic in the Greek. He's really emphasizing all things here. This wasn't hyperbole. This was something that Paul expected for us to take literal. All things. Do you know why God says do all things without complaining? Because the truth of the matter is, as Christians, as children of God, we have nothing to complain about. Listen to Lamentations 339 and write this down if you want to look at it again. It's a great verse to look at over and over. Just two lines, but they are very profound. Why should any living mortal or any man offer complaint in view of his sin? That's powerful. Why should any living mortal or any man offer complaint in view of his sins? Who in the world are you to complain in view of your sins? How can we complain in view of the fact that we sinned against the Holy God and He has Forgiven us. You know, if we got what we deserved, and I know you heard this a thousand times, but we need to ponder it. If we all got what we deserved, we would go to hell. We have nothing to complain about. Someone said the trouble with this world is, is we have too many people to begin their sentences with the trouble with this world is. The poor complain about the money they can't get, the rich complain about the money they can't keep. One man who was married for 30 years said, I got married 30 years ago before a justice of the peace, and for 30 years I've had neither justice nor peace. And another person said the reason uh people are dog tired is because they growl all day. Well, with all that in mind. I just want you to know that Paul is going to give us some reasons here why we should never complain as children of God. If you're taking notes, would you please write down here's number one. Why should we never complain? Well, here's the first reason. Complaining dishonors your father. Look at verse 15. That you may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God. without rebuke in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation. When Paul uses the phrase sons of God or children of God, he really is referring to an Old Testament reference. He's really speaking specifically about Deuteronomy 32 verse 5, where it says this, they have corrupted themselves. Their spot is not the spot of his children. They are a perverse and crook crooked nation. Now the children of Israel at that time were not acting like children of God. They were just constantly grumbling about one thing or another. There are many verses in the Old Testament that refer to the complaining that God's people, the Jews, did during that time. Psalm 106, verse 4 25 says, They murmured in their tents, and they did not obey the voice of the Lord. Here's some other verses. Exodus 14, 11, then they said to Moses, Because there is no graze in Egypt, have you taken us away to die in the wilderness? Exodus 15, 24, and the people complained against Moses, saying, What shall we drink? Exodus 16. 2, then the whole congregation of the children of Israel complained against Moses and Aaron. And then in Exodus 17, 3, and the people complained. But it doesn't end there. There's a lot more verses. In Numbers 11, 1 to 3, it says the people complained, and when they complained, it displeased the Lord. One thing is for sure in these Old Testament passages, what we do see is that God hates complaining. And it's calculated by some Old Testament scholars. That about one million of the children of Israel died in the wilderness by God's judgment because of their murmuring and their complaining. And so that's why when Paul talks about this verse here, when he quotes Deuteronomy 32, 5, he's referring back to that at that time when God's children were acting rather than not like God's children, but rather that they were acting like a perverse nation. They were acting like pagans, the outside world. They weren't acting like children of God. And so Paul kind of turns that around and says that, look, we are children of God living in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. In other words, the idea is, look, when we are constantly murmuring and or complaining, then we are acting more like those who don't know God than those who do. What's the difference between an unbeliever and a believer if the believer is going to complain the same way that an unbeliever does? The idea is there, look, you represent your Heavenly Father. You should be so different from people of the world. Children reflect their parents. You should reflect your heavenly father. A child's attitude is either a good reflection or a bad reflection on their parents. And so complaining is a bad reflection on God. Because if the world sees you complaining, they're going to say, what difference What's the difference between a a person who is a Christian who calls himself a Christian and someone who does not? They complain the same way anyone else does. And if they're complaining, that means they're not happy with their Heavenly Father. That must mean that they're not really all that thrilled with him. And so why should I become a Christian? Uh they don't seem to be any different than you, than me And so when you complain like that, you are in a way, you are taking God's name in vain. You call yourself a Christian? then you should honor the Lord with your your words, with your attitude. But if you don't act like a Christian, then you wear that name in vain because you're not um You're not honoring the Lord before others. That's a very important thing. We're here to honor God. We're here to glorify God. If in the midst of all these things that are happening, if we're complaining and grumbling like everyone else, we're not glorifying the Lord. And so complaining dishonors your father. But here's the second thing. Complaining dims your testimony. Look at verse 15 again. Look at the last phrase. Among whom ye shine as lights in the world You're in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, and Paul says, you're to shine like lights in the midst of a dark Now, Paul uses a metaphor for the Christian here, and the metaphor he's using is from the world of astronomy. And the idea is that we're like stars. And we're to shine against the darkness, against the backdrop of a dark night. The darker the night the greater the star shines. The greater the difficulty that we face in life, the more opportunity for you and I, as children of God, to shine like stars. And again, we're talking here about glorifying God. That's what what does it mean to glorify God? It's to make God look good. And w when we shine against the backdrop of a dark world, we are glorifying God. I remember when I went down through the Grand Canyon on a trip with uh Andrews and Genesis. We went seven days through the canyon and uh we slept over on the banks of the Colorado River. And at nighttime you could look up and I tell you, I've never seen the star so bright as I did when I was on that trip at nighttime. And I found out later that we were down in that deep dark hole called a canyon. And the darker the circumstance around you, the brighter the stars shine. I know that many of you have gone through a lot of difficulty. We all have. The whole world has. But this is the time right now to shine as God's people. This is the time to show the contrast between those who don't know God and those who do. The darker the night, the greater we can shine for the glory of God. And God will oftentimes put us in these positions so that we can shine for Him. You know when the children of Israel went through the wilderness they complained because there was no water. But you know that in that wilderness, did you know that many years before Abraham made the journey from the um from uh where he was uh to from Egypt to the promised land. And you know what he did while he was in that wilderness? He dug wells. And by the way, we know that those wells were still there in the time of Jesus because the Bible speaks of Jacob's well in the Gospel of John. Those wells were still there. And you know what? God knew where the wells were, but when he led them through the wilderness with his glory, God led them away from the wells. God on purpose led them to some of the dry places. Why? Because God was testing them. And all Israel did during that time of testing, it seems like, was to complain against God. And again, that made God look bad. uh to all the pagan nations that were around. But God will often test us. Uh we've been tested, haven't we, through what's been going on. Does the world see a difference in you? Do the people that you come in contact with, do they see a joy? Do they see a peace? Because you are different. God will allow you to be tested that you might show forth his glory in a dark circumstance. And again, this we're talking about the Apostle Paul. Paul was being tested. He was in that prison for two years. He was chained to a Roman soldier. Many of them, as we had learned before, we talked about before, they had come to Christ. Do you think those men would have come to Christ if Paul was in that jail complaining constantly? If he was whining constantly about his circumstance, I don't have enough clothes to wear, I don't have enough food to eat, I don't have this, I don't have that, I doubt that he would have led anyone to Christ. if he was complaining. But the fact that he had joy, because he knew that God was in control and all his circumstances were in the hand of God And he exhibited that joy he was able to share Christ with others that were around him. Complaining dishonors your father. Complaining dims your Testimony. But here's the third thing. Complaining destroys your witness because look what Paul says in verse 16. Holding forth the word of life, that I might rejoice in the day of Christ. And when he says holding forward, some translate this to mean holding on or being faithful to God's truth. But the context of it, I think, makes clear that the point here is not believers remaining faithful to the word, but rather it's sharing the word with others Of course, the gospel is the word of life. The idea is that we have the word of life in our hands. We have to hold it, but also we have to get it out to others. We have to hold it forth So that others may see Christ and may hear the gospel in us. That's why we have to have a blameless testimony. Paul tells us about that. When he says, holding forth the word of life that I might rejoin in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither have labored in vain. And then he says, actually backing up in verse 15, where he says that we might be blameless and harmless, the sons of God. This is the idea of blameless is what others think of us. Harmless is the idea of that which is pure, unmixed with water. And all this is referring to the believer's character. That the world sees in us someone with a good reputation. Someone that is living a life that is a righteous life, a godly life, as much as possible. It means that no one can put a finger at you because of the way you're living. If they investigated your life, they would find that you were blameless. And again, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, the word crooked here, scolios. Where we get our medical term scoliosis, that which is um twisted or bent. And again, Paul is talking about, using in a metaphorical sense, that we are living a life that is straight. A crooked would be metaphorically speaking of an unrighteous life, a corrupt life. A perverse has the same basic idea So in this world, God's people are to be blameless. They're to be above reproach. Why? Because that's all part of holding forth the word of life. The world is watching. The world is listening. And the world is seeing if what we have doesn't really work for us. Martin Lloyd Jones says an unhappy Christian's to say the least or a poor recommendation for the Christian faith You can't hold forth the word of life and be an effective witness if you're joyless and you're constantly complaining. And so complaining then dishonors your father. Complaining dims your testimony. Complaining destroys your witness. But here's the fourth thing, complaining discourages your co-labourers. Look in verse sixteen again, holding forth the word of life that I might rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain Now, what we notice in this text is that Paul is using one illustration after another, one metaphor after another Here he's using now the metaphor from the athletic world. We already saw one from the world of astronomy where we're to be like stars against the dark night and we're to shine. But here is the idea that we're running in a race. This is the metaphor he's using. No runner wants to run in a race only to find out that all the running that he has done has been in vain, that he has been disqualified that all the effort and the energy that he's put fort forth, it has no purpose to it. Now I think that the idea here, the race that he may be referring to was the relay race, where runners would pass a baton between each other. This is a race that we're very familiar with as Americans. When we watch the Olympics, we see our American track and field teams run this race, the four by one hundred meter relay where a man will run a hundred meters past the baton Another man will run the other hundred, and then so on until all four have run the race and they see which team crosses the finish line first. Normally the USA win this competition. But in 2008, they did not, because in the midst of their running, the baton was dropped between two of the runners. And so therefore the USA were disqualified What was disheartening was those who ran the first two legs of the race, all the running that they did was in vain. Because the rest, the whole team was disqualified, because someone dropped the baton. And this is kind of the idea that Paul's giving us here. Paul's saying, look, I I'm running the race, but I don't want to run in vain And if I've invested all this the gospel in you and all the teaching and the word of God in you and you're not growing and you're not showing forth the glory of God in this dark world and you're complaining and you're murmuring then it just seems like to me that all the work that I have done has been in vain. For a Christian to, after they've been they've learned the word of God, have been saved, to continue to complain and be a joyless Christian to the world. It's very discouraging to those that are around you, those who are laboring for the gospel. Paul wanted to be able to rejoice over this church. He wanted to know that the labor he bestowed on this church was valuable, that it was not in vain. And so that's another reason why we don't want to complain. We don't want to discourage others around us. I think complaining and murmuring That's contagious. Not only is it unbecoming of a child of God, but it spreads throughout the body of Christ. Spreads throughout a family. It spreads throughout whatever community that you're a part of. And it discourages other people around you. And then here's the last thing I would give you. Complaining dishonors your father. We saw that. Complaining dims your testimony. Complaining destroys your witness. Complaining discourages your co-laborers. But here's the last thing. Complaining diminishes your sacrifice. Look what Paul says, look in verse 17 Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all. For this same cause also do ye joy and rejoice with me. And so yet again Paul switches to another metaphor here. He used the analogy of a father and children. He used the analogy of from astronomy of stars shining in the sky. He uses the analogy from the world of athletics, runners in a race. And here he's using the illustration of a worshiper giving a sacrifice. And Paul uses himself in this analogy. Not only did Paul not complain about his situation, but he rejoiced in it. Now remember, Paul's in a Roman prison This is a just a dark dingy hole basically. He had been there for two years. Remember he's gonna Defend the gospel before Caesar, and he's been waiting and waiting, and he knows that he could die or he could live. And he said, For me to live is Christ, to die is gain. And he noticed that if he dies, he compares it to being uh like a uh poured out like a drink offering. He says, If I be offered, yea, and if I be offered in verse seventeen, this is spendo to offer as a drink offering, to make a a libation. And this is a technical word for a certain part of a pagan sacrifice offering that would be popular in the Roman world, especially sometimes When an offerer would offer their sacrifice before their God, they would take a cup of wine and they would pour it on this sacrifice And the fire would consume the wine and it would go up in smoke and there would be a sweet smell as a result of it. That was called a libation offering. It was poured out at the altar. And Paul was saying, you know, I know you're all worried about me, and I know that I could die, and I know that I could suffer martyrdom. I could soon be offered on a pagan altar, but don't worry about me because I rejoice. I rejoice that I can make such a sacrifice on the behalf of the gospel. And not just the gospel, but for you as well. And so if I'm offered, you know, I I I rejoice, I'm poor, I'm rejoice that I'm being poured out Like a drink offering. That would be my sacrifice to the Lord. Paul's basically saying, you won't hear me complain about that. You won't hear me complain about being poured out unto the Lord. In such a manner, making such a sacrifice before my God, that's the least I can do for Christ and others, is to give my very life You would defile the sacrifice if you brought your sacrifice to the altar complaining. How can a worshiper really worship God if when they bring their quote unquote sacrifice to the altar, they're whining and they're complaining about it the whole time. There are times when God calls upon us as his children. To do things that are very difficult, to suffer on his behalf, to sacrifice. All those things when we do it with a spirit of joy, that's a f that's a A fragrant smell in the nostrils of Almighty God, as if a drink offering has been poured out It's a sweet smelling savor before the Lord. When we go through suffering and trials and we do it with joy, this is pleasing to the Lord. But if when we are going through these sacrifices We're going through these difficulties. We're going through these trials, and all the while we're doing it, we're complaining. And again, you don't even have to talk to complain. You can have that inward murmuring in your heart and in your soul. And you know what you're doing at that point? You're defiling the sacrifice. You're making the worship unacceptable to God And therefore, it serves no purpose. It does no good if you come with that spirit in that manner. Paul does not want to defile any sacrifice that he's giving. So that's why he says, I joy And I rejoice with you all. In other words, I want you to rejoice with me. Rejoice with me that I have the opportunity to make this sacrifice. God is worthy of it. And if this happens to me, I do it with joy. So for this same cause also do you rejoice with me, please, Paul saying, rejoice with me. This is again, this is the next imperative that Paul gives, the first imperative that we saw in this Passage was don't complain. But now here at the end of this this particular argument, Paul says, and then not only do I not want you to complain, I want you to not complain, make sure I say that right, but I want you, next command, I want you to rejoice with me. I'm commanding you to rejoice in the sacrifice that I am able to give. Never complain. Always rejoice. Don't whine. It's time right now to shine. to shine as lights in a dark world. Let me close with this poem. I kind of like it. I think that it hits the spot, the point. There's a family nobody likes to meet. They live, it is said, on complaining street, and the city of Never are satisfied, the river of discontent beside. They growl at that and they growl at this, and whatever comes, there is something amiss. And whether their station be high or humble, they are always known by the name of Grumble. The weather is always too hot or cold. Summer and winter alike they scold. Nothing goes right with the folks you meet down on that gloomy complaining street They growl at the rain, they growl at the sun. In fact, their growling is never done. And if everything pleased them, there isn't a doubt, they growl that they have nothing to grumble about. But the queerest thing is not one of the same that can be brought to acknowledge his family name. For never a grumbler will own that he is connected with it all, you see. And the worst thing is that if anyone stays amongst them too long, he will learn their ways. And before he dreams of their terrible jumble, he's adopted into the family of Grumble. So it were wisest to keep your feet. from wandering into complaining street, and never to growl whatever we do, lest we be mistaken for grumblers too. And let us learn to walk with a smile and song, no matter if things do sometimes go wrong, and then be our station high or humble, will never belong to the family of Grumble And that's essentially what Paul is saying. That's a family we don't belong to. We don't belong to that family. We are children of God. We shine as lights in a dark world. We hold forth the word of life We don't discourage others around us. We encourage others around us. will not allow whatever sacrifice God calls upon us to make to be defiled with a joyless spirit, with a complaining spirit. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, thank you for these words from the Apostle Paul. Lord, help us to apply them. We so desperately need to do that in our heart and in our life. We have nothing to complain about. We have everything to be grateful for. You've given us joy. That's a part of our birthright. Just to know you, to know that our sins are forgiven, that we're on our way to heaven. This world is not our home. This isn't permanent. Whatever difficulties or sacrifices we are called upon to make here, it's just temporary. Lord, help us to do it with a spirit of joy. Never complain. Help us to have this spirit of the Apostle Paul, who said, I want you to joy and rejoice with me. May we that be our testimony to a dark world. They see our joy, and they're drawn to the beauty of Christ. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.