I invite you tonight to take your Bibles open, please, to the book of Jeremiah, Jeremiah chapter number one. I want to speak out of that this chapter here tonight from the prophet Jeremiah. While you're finding that, I s uh an insurance company was uh Talking about some excuses that people had given them for the accidents that some of their customers had been in. These are some of the more popular uh excuses that were given to them And let me just read to you a few of them. One of them said an invisible car came out of nowhere and struck my car and then vanished. Another one said the other car collided with mine without warning me of its intention Here's another one. I had been driving my car for 40 years when I fell asleep at the wheel and had an accident. And here's my favorite. I pulled away from the side of the road, glanced at my mother-in-law, and headed over the embankment. You shouldn't laugh at that. Just kidding. Alright, and then there's some more so many more. You know, we're good at coming up with excuses. Someone said excuses are tools of the incompetent. And those who specialize in them seldom go far. It was Ben Franklin who said, he that is good for making excuses is seldom good for anything else. Why are we talking about excuses? Well, because when you come to Jeremiah chapter 1, this is the record of God's call to him to serve him. You know that God calls all of us as sh his children to serve him in some way. And what we see here is Jeremiah's response to God's call. When God came and called Jeremiah to be his prophet, What you're going to see is that Jeremiah was very reluctant. In fact, he comes up with some excuses why he could not do what the Lord was calling him to do. And every time he came up with an excuse, you know what God would do? God would counter that excuse with a promise. And so we see Jeremiah's excuse. throughout the first chapter, uh why he was so reluctant to do what the Lord was calling him to do. And then we see God's answer to that. This is something that can help us because I don't know about you, but there are times when I feel kind of inadequate at serving the Lord. There are times when I can be reluctant to do the thing that God is calling me to do, or perhaps the Lord has placed on my heart to serve in some capacity or do a certain thing Sometimes the first things that pop up in our mind is that we're reluctant. Lord, we're insufficient for these things. Lord, uh I'm adequate. How can you use somebody like me? I think all of us, if we're honest with ourselves, we could say that we've had those kind of thoughts. And so we could use what God said to Jeremiah for ourselves. We need the encouragement that God gave him. Now let me give you a little context. Jeremiah was a preacher's kid. He grew up in a the uh the home of a priest, a priest by the name of Hilkiah. He was a young man that loved God's word. If you're taking notes, write down Jeremiah chapter fifteen, verse six sixteen, where Jeremiah said, Thy words were found, and I did eat them, and thy word was unto me the joy and the rejoicing of my heart You remember the story of Josiah when he re re renovated the temple and a priest found the law of the Lord? You know who that priest was? Hilkiah? That was Jeremiah's father. So I kind of imagined it in my mind like this Hilkiah finds the book of the law, he brings it home, Jeremiah looks at it and says, What's that? And he says, This is the law of Moses, and Jeremiah began to read it and devour it. And he loved God's word. Thy words were found and I did eat them. That doesn't mean that he took the scroll and stuck it in his mouth and started chewing. It means that he devoured the scripture. He read it. He loved it And Jeremiah would say, for I'm called by thy name. Well, he was already called as a priest. He was already growing up in the home of a priest. And being in the home of a priest, his grandfather was a priest, his father was a priest, it was expected that Jeremiah would follow in the same footsteps. Because that was the family calling. He too would be a priest. And did you know that in the Old Testament a priest could not actually begin to do his service until he served until he turned twenty years old. And Jeremiah was not yet twenty years old. He wasn't yet old enough to be a priest, but he was ready to be a priest and just before He's ready to turn of age, 20. God comes to him, and God says, you're going to be not a priest. I'm calling you to be a prophet. And you're going to be a prophet unto the nations, God said to him in verse number five. You're going to be a prophet to the nations. You're going to warn Not only Judah of impending judgment, but you also you'll reach out to the other nations. And if you read through the book of Jeremiah, the first thirty chapters are his messages to the nation of Judah And then when the judgment comes, the next ten chapters is Jeremiah ministering while Jerusalem is under siege and falls. This was the 9-11 for Israel. When Nebuchadnezzar came in and he destroyed the temple and so on and carried people away into captivity, and Jeremiah ministered in that time, and after they were carried away, he ministered many more years. Preaching to other nations like Egypt and Philistia and Moab and Edom and Syria and Babylon and so on You're going to be a prophet to the nations. Now, again, when God came to Jeremiah and said, I want you to do this, he was reluctant. He didn't jump into it In fact, he kind of would shrink back from it. He felt very, very inadequate. Again, I might be preaching to some people here tonight where the Lord has laid on your heart a certain ministry, a certain mission, perhaps. a certain calling that God has for you to do. You know that God has not called us just to, as one country preacher said, sit, soak, and sour. He wants us all involved in serving him. We've been singing here tonight about how great our God is. He's great, isn't he? And he's worthy of all of our service. He's worthy of all of our devotion. He doesn't want us just to come to church and sing about how great he is. He wants us to show others how great he is. by serving him, by getting involved and doing what the Lord lays on your heart to do. And so sometimes we might just say, well, you know, let somebody else do it. But somebody else, I mean, I feel so inadequate. I think a key verse in this whole chapter, look at verse number 17 in chapter one. Thou therefore there therefore gird up thy loins And arise and speak. You know, at the end of all of this, God's going to say, Jeremiah, get busy. I've given you the call, girt up your loins. What does that mean? You know, back in the Old Testament, men wore robes, they came down all the way past their knees, mid-shin, and sometimes when they were getting ready to do some serious labor, they would girt up the end of that robe underneath their belt that they wore around the midsection. If they were getting ready to run or to do some serious labor, they would gird up their loints You know, what's the expression we would use today? Take off your coat and roll up your sleeves and get busy. That's exactly the idea here. Okay, Jeremiah, I've given you the calling. Now I want you to get busy. I think sometimes God wants to say to his people, roll up your sleeves and get busy. Serve me. Get busy. There's so much to do. There's so many people to be rid of There's so many burdens that we can help carry. There's so much that we can do for God. Get busy. And so that's the idea here behind what God's going to tell him. What I want you to see are the reasons why Jeremiah is so reluctant. And these might be some of the same reasons why we're reluctant. To serve the Lord the way he calls us to. Here's the first reason if you're taking notes, the times are too difficult This is the first kind of reluctance or reason we could say or excuse we could say the times are too difficult. Now look in verse number two, to whom uh talking of of Jeremiah To whom the word of the Lord came in the days of Josiah, the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign. It came also in the days of Jehoiakim. The son of Josiah, king of Judah, unto the eleventh year of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, unto the carrying away of Jerusalem captive in the fifth month. You say, well, I'm sure that's all important, but what does that mean? You know? There's a bunch of names here. But what this actually does in these first few verses, it kind of gives us the historical setting. It kind of gives Gives us the time frame about when this call came. This call came at a time in the history of Judah that was not a really good time. Things were in decline. I mean, things were really bad. In fact, the kings that are mentioned here in these verses, with the exception of Josiah, all the rest of them were evil kings. The Bible says that very specifically. Ammon was an evil king. Jehoiakim was an evil king. And Zedekiah was definitely an evil king. I mean, there was, you know, let me just be honest. Serving the Lord is never really easy. If you really want to do something for God, it's always going to be a challenge. If you're waiting for an easy way to serve God, guess what? You're not going to find it However, there are some times when it's harder than others. And in the history of Israel, this would be a difficult time to be a prophet. This would be a difficult time to be uh someone preaching the truth because of the men that were on the throne Because of the rebellion that was going on. In fact, let me give you three reasons why it was so hard. There was rebellion instead of obedience. Just write that down. There was rebellion instead of obedience to begin with. You know, Jeremiah was born during the reign of King Manasseh. Does that name Sound familiar? Manasseh was the most evil king in all of the Bible. The Bible says about of him that when he began to reign, by the way, he started when he was 12 years old And the reason he was so evil is because the evil men around them influenced him. And the Bible says that when he was on the throne, he seduced the people Who was that? The people in the land of Canaan. Can you imagine that He provoked the people to do more evil than even the Canaanites that were in the land. Boy, that's bad And he was on the throne when Jeremiah was born. Well, he died, and his evil son Ammon continued his father's evil practices. And so this was a time when idolatry was just going on When there was child sacrifice. It was just a terrible time. And there was Jeremiah growing up in a small town, just North of Jerusalem. In fact, that's from his town he could see the walls of Jerusalem But it was a time of great evil. They were not obeying the Lord. It was a time not only of rebellion instead of obedience, but reformation instead of repentance. What else happened during this time? Well, eventually Ammon was assassinated. Remember, he was the son of Manasseh. He took the throne. He was evil He was assassinated by some of the men that were there, and his son Josiah took the throne. Now we know the name Josiah because the Bible says when he was eight years old, he began to reign. He was a good king And after twelve years he began to renovate the temple, and while he the temple was being renovated, that's when the book of the law was found in the house of the Lord. And you remember that story, and Josiah when the words were read to him, he had such a tender heart that he rent his clothes because he realized that the nation of Israel was so far from what God wanted them to be And the and he went to the prophetess Holda and asked about what the Lord was going to do, and God was going to bring judgment, but God said, you know, Josiah, because your heart is tender, I'm going to withhold judgment. And because you want to obey me, and Josiah made a covenant, and he led the nation in revival. But you know what we find out It was very superficial. Now it was real for Josiah. And it was real for a core group of people that were in there in Judah. But for the most part The whole nation really didn't turn to God with all their heart. There was outward reform, but there was no real inward change. There was reformation without real repentance. And so this was very disappointing. I'll tell you another thing about this time. It was a time of politics instead of principle. We these kings that were on the throne, rather than leading according to conviction and according to the principles of God's Word, they led out of convenience. They were typical politicians. They would just do whatever was expedient for them, and the people suffered. Several of the kings raised the taxes to pay tribute to nations like Egypt and Babylon, and the people suffered, and they made promises to Nebuchadnezzar and And to Nebo, the king of Egypt, but they would break those promises and then armies would come in, the people would suffer. It was a time of politics instead of principle. But here's the bottom line. It was just hard. I mean it was a hard time. It was a very difficult time to be a prophet. Now I want to tell you there's some parallels. You can look around in our world today. You know what? It's not easy to serve God. God is it? And but and guess what? It's not going to get any better. I'm not trying to be a doom spreader here. But we have to believe what the Bible says, right? What does the Bible tell us? That before the time when Jesus comes, evil seducers will wax worse and worse. Worse, it's going to be difficult. If you're waiting for an easy time, for a good season to serve God, you're not going to get it. You're going to have to say, you know what? It doesn't matter what it's like. I'm going to roll up my sleeves and I'm going to serve God. I'm going to do it. Doesn't matter how difficult the time is. But what was God's response? This was the first. Reason he was reluctant. The times were just so difficult. What is God's response to that? Look in verse number 8 of chapter 1. Be not afraid of their faces, for I am with thee to deliver thee. Saith the Lord. God says, Jeremiah, don't be afraid. I'm with you. I'm going to be with you. Don't be afraid of their faces. I you know for many years I didn't understand why God said that until I became a pastor and I started preaching. Started getting in front of people. Now I know it's not pleasant for you to have to look at me all during a service. service. But I gotta look at you. Now I'm saying you all have very sweet faces. You have you have it's easy to preach here. I've been in some places where I've gotten some really bad looks. Well I can tell it was very obvious that they didn't like what they were hearing. And you know, if you're not careful, that can be very intimidating. You can allow someone's expression To cause you to be afraid or to be intimidated in some way. And God said Jeremiah, look, don't be afraid. Remember, he was going to a very rebellious nation Who didn't want the truth. They didn't want to hear God's word. And God said, don't be afraid of their faces. Why? I will be with you. Let me give you the second reason. The time is too difficult, and God said, you know what, I'm going to be with you. But here's number two. The task is too demanding. Look in verse number five at the end of verse five where it says, I ordain thee a prophet unto the nations. God, you want me to be a what? A prophet? Are you serious? You mean I'm not going to be a priest like my father and my grandfather? You singled me out to be a prophet. And again, it was hard to be a prophet. You know, I think most men back then, if they'd had their choice between prophet and priest, most would say, I'd rather be a priest. You know why? It was so much easier to be a priest. For example, the priest's duties were predictable. Everything was written down in the law. All you had to do is just follow the instructions. I mean, that was the life of a priest. Day after day they offered sacrifices, they officiated over ceremonies and feasts, they taught the law, it was safe, it was predictable. The prophet never knew from one day to the next what the Lord was going to tell him to do. I mean it was different all the time. He had to wait for his instructions. And if you're reading the Old Testament, God would tell his prophets sometimes to do things that were kind of dangerous. In fact, if you read through the book of Jeremiah, you're going to find that God told Jeremiah to do some things that were hard. Some of them, from our perspective, would seem as if they were kind of bizarre, but God had a reason for everything he did. There was no predictability in the life of a prophet. It was much harder. The priests worked primarily to preserve the past. The prophet, he labored to change the The present so that the nation could have a future. That was much harder. When a prophet saw the people going in the wrong direction, his job was to call them back. And that meant even if it were a king. The kings were accountable to keep the law, and the prophets were there to remind them You're to obey the word of God so that the nation can have a future The priests they dealt with externals, with rituals, with sacrifices, with offerings and services. Whereas the prophet, he couldn't just deal with the external, he was aiming at the heart His job was to change hearts. In fact, if you read through Jeremiah, you're going to find that at least 66 times the word heart is used because a prophet is to preach to the hearts. Can't be satisfied with just external changes. He's got to go deeper than that. Priests minister primarily to individuals with various needs. Prophets On the other hand, they had to address the whole nation, and normally it was to a group of people that really didn't want to hear what they were saying. Especially true here for Jeremiah. Priests, they belonged to a special tribe of people. Therefore, they were respected. They had authority because they came from this certain tribe. Prophets, however, Could come from any tribe, and normally they had to prove they they had a divine call. Priests were supported from sacrifices and offerings. A prophet, he never knew how he was going to live He had to just depend on God. So it was a lot harder. No wonder Jeremiah says, Are you sure, God? I mean, you know, I'm okay with being a priest here. You want me to be a prophet in this time, right now, really? This is going to be hard. And again, if you read through Jeremiah, you're going to find God commanded him to do many difficult things. And so Jeremiah, what was his excuse? This this Is just too difficult. I mean, the task is just too much. Are you sure you got the right person? What was God's answer to Jeremiah? Here's God's answer: Jeremiah, I made you I made you. First, I'm going to be with you. I know the times are hard. I'm going to be with you. Secondly, I made you for this In fact, look back in verse number four. God already answered really his objection. Then the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee And before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctify thee, I ordain thee a prophet unto the nations Boy, this is good. God says, Jeremiah, look, I knew you all the way back in eternity past Before you were ever born, I already knew you. And guess what? I'm the one that formed you. You know, you ever hear a child say to a parent, where do babies come from? And the parent says, Well, God God makes them. That's good theology. Because that's exactly what God says. I formed you. Birth is not our beginning. Our beginning is in the mind of God in eternity past. And then God Forms us. No baby is ever an accident. God formed you. Look at the word form there. It means to make, to fashion, to shape an object Did you know this is the very same verb that is used of God in the book of Genesis when it says, and God formed Adam. Out of the dust of the ground. You might read that and think, wow, it must have been really something for Adam to be formed by God directly. Well, guess what? You were too Every baby in the mother's womb is formed by God. They are created in the image of God. They are the handiwork of God. And when God was making Jeremiah, guess what he was forming? He was forming a prophet. He said, I'm the one that made you. In fact, I made you to be a prophet. I put this special call on your life, knowing all the way in eternity past. That you were going to be my prophet, this is my call for you. And again, I say for every Christian here tonight, God has a calling for you God has a mission for you. God created you for that. If you're here, you're saved. You are to serve Him in that calling. in some capacity. F. B. Meyer was very eloquent when he said it like this From the foot of the cross where we are cradled in our second birth to the brink of the river where we lay down our armor, there is a path which he has prepared for us. I like that. You might be here tonight and say, well, how do I know that God is calling me? Perhaps you're still trying to figure it out How do I know the call of God? What should I do? Let me just give you a few suggestions quickly. I think first of all, just do everything you already know God wants you to do Just be faithful with what you know you should do. That includes prayer, includes Bible study, it includes faithfulness to being in the house of the Lord, remaining active in the worship, being a witness in the world. And you know what? If you're just Faithful where you are doing what you know you should do. God's going to come to you and He'll let you know. He'll let you know what He wants. Secondly, just ask Him for His will. What does the Bible say? If any man lack wisdom, let Him what? Ask. God, what do you want me to do? And you know what? If you're honest and you're open and you're willing, he'll show you. He's not trying to withhold his will from you. But the other thing is just be ready, be submitted to do what he tells you to do, because when he reveals His will. You know, a lot of times Christians take a step back and say, You want me to do what? That's exactly what Jeremiah is doing here. But God's reminding him, look, I made you I created you for this. Let me give you the third excuse here. First of all, the times are too difficult, and God said, look, his answer is I'm going to be with you. Well, the task is too demanding. Look, I I created you, I made you to be a prophet. But here's the third excuse. My talents are too deficient. My talents are too deficient. Look at verse number six. Then said I, Ah, Lord God, behold, I cannot speak, for I am a child. Now again when this call came to Jeremiah, I think he still was not yet twenty, he's still a teenager, and he he couldn't even yet minister as a priest, and he says, Lord, I'm just a child I I mean I can't even minister yet as a priest, and here you all are calling me to be a prophet. And not only that, I'm not eloquent, I can't speak Maybe maybe Jeremiah was thinking about the fact that you know you want me to be a prophet to the nations. That means I have to learn Egyptian, Akkadian, Ugaritic. I mean, I can't speak those languages I can barely speak Hebrew. We would say today I can spare barely speak English, you know. I can barely talk as it is. I just don't feel up to the job. Calvin Miller, a pastor and author, wrote this about his call. He said, quote, I was so inferior, even the neighbors noted it and pointed it out to my mother as I grew up In my late teens, one of my sisters felt led of God to help me get in touch with myself by telling me that in her opinion, which was as inerrant as the King James Bible That if God called me to do anything, he must have the wrong number. When I told my preacher I was called to preach, he didn't necessarily feel that God had a wrong number, but he was concerned that I might have a poor connection. A lot of people feel that way. Very inadequate. You know, God has a way to overcome our weaknesses. And our insufficiencies, doesn't he? In fact, I've learned that the person who's most aware of their inadequacy is the person who will most often depend upon God's all-sufficiency. You see, our weakness, when we recognize it and confess it to God, becomes a strength. Because we depend upon the Lord. Isn't that what Paul said? My strength is made perfect in weakness. So how does God answer them? Jeremiah says, you know, my talents are deficient, too deficient. How does God respond? I will equip you. Look at verse 7. But the Lord said unto him, Say not I am a child. For thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee thou shalt speak. Look at verse nine. Then the Lord put forth his hand and touch my mouth and the Lord said unto me behold I have put my words in thy mouth what isn't that isn't that an incredible thing there God says look I'm gonna equip you look Jeremiah you just go where I tell you to go You say what I tell you to say. You know, Jeremiah, he sounds so much like Moses. Remember Moses when the Lord called him, he said, Oh Lord, I I'm slow of speech. And what did God say? Look, who made man's mouth? God didn't accept that excuse from Moses, and he's not accepting this excuse from Jeremiah. In essence, what God says in verse 7 is, look, don't give me that stuff. Don't tell me that you're just a child. I just got done telling you that I made you. I know exactly how old you are to the very nanosecond. I made you. Don't tell me that you're too old, you're too young And sometimes we use those excuses, oh you know, I'm too young or I'm too old or I'm too this or I'm too that. God says, I don't want to hear that. And then what does he do in verse 9? God touched Jeremiah's mouth. Wow. That reminds me of Isaiah when God took the live coal from the altar and touched his lips. And he said, your iniquity is purged. And Isaiah went preaching, and now here is Jeremiah, and God touches his mouth. What an awesome experience that must have been. What was God doing there? God was putting his words In Jeremiah's mouth. In verse 9, behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. In other words, God was saying, Jeremiah, my word will do the work. I'm not asking you to come out and invent a message. I'm not asking you to be clever or original or use pop psychology or do any of that. All I'm asking you to do is to Preach my word and be courageous about it. Because my word will do the job. My word will take care of things. You know, it was the word of God that created the universe. You understand how powerful the word of God is It created the world. The Bible says, by the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. In fact, the whole universe is upheld by the word of God. He upholds all things by the word of his power. But God also carries out all of his purposes through the word of God. Because what does the Bible tell us in Isaiah? It's not going to return void. It's going to accomplish all my purpose. You know what accomplishes God's purposes in the world today? The Word of God. When it's unleashed, when it's preached, God's Word accomplishes his purpose. And so God is Saying, look, you're my all you have to do is go where I tell you to go and just say what I tell you to say. In fact, here it is. I'm going to put it right in your mouth. You don't have to invent anything You just have to preach the word and you just have to be faithful to do what I tell you to do. Now let me give you the fourth Reason he was reluctant, or the fourth excuse we could say. He said, the times are too difficult, and God's answer was, look, I'm going to be with you. He said, Well, the task is too demanding, and God said, Look, I made you And he said, Well, my talents are too deficient. And God said, Look, I will equip you. I will put my word in your mouth. Here's the last one: the truth is too divisive. The truth is too divisive. Jeremiah knew that his ministry wasn't going to be easy. Look at verse 19. And they shall fight against thee. But they shall not prevail against thee. They're going to fight against you. Now the Lord didn't give Jeremiah a joyful message of deliverance to announce, but rather his ministry was going to be hard because it was a tragic message. of judgment that he had to preach. Nobody likes to preach judgment. I would rather get up here and preach a sermon about heaven than about hell. I would rather preach something that's very uplifting. I would rather preach the love and mercy of God than the wrath of God any day. But if we only preach half of the truth, we're not being faithful to all the truth. I mean I would rather be uplifting. I would rather build up than tear down any day. Who wants that ministry? I I would rather build than demolish. But the ministry that Jeremiah is going to have is going to be difficult because he's going to have to preach a message of judgment. And the people, excuse me, they're going to call him a traitor. They're going to misunderstand him. They're going to persecute him. They're going to arrest him. They're going to imprison him. He's going to be in danger a lot. He's going to be thrown into stocks. He's going to be beaten with stripes 39 times save one. He's going to be put into high places where people can come by and see him in those stocks, and they're going to laugh at him and they're going to spit on him. Because he's preaching the truth And this wasn't going to be easy. This was going to be a perilous thing. You know, when I was over in England this last time, uh we had the opportunity to get out of London. We went to visit my son-in-law's mother who had cancer. And we wanted to spend some time in minister to her and Will's father. And so that meant we drove five hours south and And saw some of the countryside of England. And we happened to stop uh one day at Oxford, England, and went into the famous pub called the Eagle and Child Pub and had lunch And this is the pub where C. S. Lewis and J. R. Tolkien would spend their days each day and they were compared their stories if they were going to write, you know, C. S. Lewis being a great Great writer and G. R. Tolkien writing the book Fellowship of the Ring. I'm sure you've read the book. If not, I'm sure you've seen the movie. But there's one phrase in the book of the Fellowship of the Rings where the hobbit named Frodo has been chosen to take a long distance journey With a quest to destroy the one ring, the ring of power. And he didn't want to do it. And there's a line in the book that says, I am not made for perilous quests. That was his excuse. I am not made for dangerous things, you know. That's sometimes what Jeremiah was feeling. Look, I'm not made for these dangerous things that you're calling me to do, God. But how does God respond to Jeremiah? You know what his answer is? I will make you invincible. I will make you invincible. And then you know what God does in the last part of chapter one. He gives Jeremiah three promises. To prepare him for this dangerous mission. Now, the first two promises were actually visions. And so look at the first one. This is the almond tree. Look at verse 11 of chapter 1. And Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Jeremiah, what seest thou? And he said, I see a rod of an almond tree. And then said the Lord unto me, Thou seest well, for I will hasten my word to perform it What's God showing Jeremiah there? In the Holy Land, almond trees blossom in January before any of the other trees blossom and really it's kind of like a Uh a natural alarm clock that shows the rest of creation, we could say, or those in that land, that the spring was coming. The blossoms would grow very white as an indicator of spring. Now look at the word um in verse number 12 where it says, I will hasten my word. The word for almond tree is there's a play on words here is what I want to show you. Is is in the Hebrew, saked, and the word for hasten is Soakhead. And so they sound almost exactly alike. And so what God's doing here is he's kind of giving a play on words to Jeremiah. And really the whole message is this look, just like the almond tree It's kind of like an alarm clock that lets you know that spring is coming. I'm going to watch, so head, I'm going to watch over my word to make sure it's fulfilled. In other words, everything you say. Is going to happen. If you want confirmation, if the people around you want to know that you're my prophet, you know what they're going to find out? Everything you said. I'm going to watch over my word To make sure that it happens. Secondly, not only is there the almond tree, there's another vision, the boiling pot. Look at verse 13. And the word Lord came unto me the second time, saying, What seest thou? And I said, I see a seething pot, and the face thereof is toward the north. Then the Lord said unto me, out of the north, an evil shallow Now God uses the image of a boiling pot to communicate his coming wrath. You see, in Jewish homes, they would have a fairly large, wide-mouth. Washing pot or cooking pot. It was so big they would use it for either. It's just a big pot, and they would boil water in it for whatever And in this vision, Jeremiah sees one of those big pots. But the unique thing about this pot in this vision is it's tilted It's not level, it's kind of tilted, like it's getting ready to spill over, and it's it's coming from out of the north and going to spill out onto the south. It's getting ready to to just spill over this scalding water. That's the picture there. And this is a picture of God's impending judgment. What does the North talk about? Out of the North, there's gonna come judgment Judgment. Who's going to come out of the north? The Babylonians. If you look on your map, just north is the land of Babylon. And God was going to bring Nebuchadnezzar down. And he was going to be God's rod that he was going to use to punish Israel for their idolatry. And so it was like a boiling pot that was ready to spill over. The wrath of God was getting ready to spill out You know, when I think about this, I read things like this in the Bible. Sometimes I think about our own country, I can't help but think about it. I just wonder if the pot is about to spill over. sometimes because of the sins of our country. Got this is what God's doing to Israel. And God's telling Jeremiah, My wrath is coming. And this is what you have to tell them This isn't going to be fun, but this is what I'm calling you to do. But then there's a third image that he uses look in verse number 18. For behold, I have made thee this day a defense city and an iron pillar and brazen walls against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, against the princes thereof, against the priests thereof, against the people of the land And and in these images here, God was going to make Jeremiah invincible, he's saying. Surrounded by his enemies, the prophet would be like a fortified city. This is a city that you can't break into. The defenses around the city are so formidable you can't break in. God said, Jeremiah, that's what I'm gonna do to you. I'm gonna make you like a fence city. I'm gonna make you like a s a pillar. You're gonna be forced to stand alone, but you know what? You're gonna be like an iron pillar. You know what? You know what you can do to an iron pillar? Very little. Can't hurt an iron pillar. Can't damage that. You're gonna stand alone, but I'm gonna make you like iron And then the idea is you're going to be attacked from all sides by kings and princes and priests and people, but you're going to be like a bronze wall They're not going to be able to do anything to you. When you're standing for truth and you're battling for my word, you are going to be invincible No one's going to be able to hurt you because I'm going to be with you. Isn't that a great promise? I'm going to make you invincible. You know what? God's people and the church Are invincible in this world. Do you understand that? The gates of hell are not going to prevail against the church. That's why you know what we are called to be? We're called to be the pillar and the ground of We stand for truth. When someone in this community or in this city says, you know, I I want to go someplace where I can hear the truth, they ought to think about this church right here This is where I'm going to go. If I want to really hear the truth, this is where I'm going to come because they're going to give it there. We are to be the pillar and ground of truth. We stand for the truth of the gospel. We stand for the truth of Jesus Christ. We stand for the truth of the inerrant word of God. We stand for the truth of what is right and what is just in the eyes of God. And you know what? The world's not going to like that, but that's okay because we're going to be like an iron pillar. And we're going to be like a defense city, and we're going to be like a bronze wall, and the world can do whatever they want to do, but guess what? They're not going to be able to You know why? Because when God's people stand for truth and do the truth, we are invincible because God makes us that way. So, with all that said, what does Jeremiah do? Well, you know the end of the story. In fact, Jeremiah, he surrenders to the call He becomes God's messenger. He understands his own deficiencies, but he knew that God was going to be with him, that God was going to equip him. He knew that God was going to watch over whatever he spoke to make sure that the word came to pass. And so he becomes the prophet of God. And if you measure his ministry by human standards, you know what we would have to do. I have to say according to human standards, he was a failure. Because you don't read about a lot of converts. Jeremiah has no miracles. He's pretty much hated and he's beaten, but I want to tell you, in the eyes of God, his ministry was a success. And you know why? Because he was fa Faithful. And he did what the Lord called him to do. In the final chapter of his book Henry David Thoreau wrote this, if a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. That's Jeremiah. He was totally out of step. But you know what? He was marching to the beat of a different drummer. And there's a sense in which God calls us as Christians to do the same thing. We're not to march to the beat of the world's drum. We march with a different drummer. Jesus said, if any man will take up his cross and follow me, he has to deny himself. He has to deny the world, if you want to follow me. What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole what? The whole world and lose his own soul. We're called to march to the beat of a different drummer. And so Jeremiah surrenders and God uses him. He becomes a man that God uses greatly. But again, what's the message for us? Again, go back to verse 17. Thou therefore, and then guess when God says, Thou therefore, gird up thy loins and arise and speak unto them. Go, Jeremiah. Go and do it. Get busy. Roll up your sleeves. You got a lot to do. You got a long ministry ahead of you. But I'm going to be with you. I made you. I'm going to be with you. I'm going to equip you. I'm going to make you invincible. So you know what? By the end, Jeremiah had no more excuses left. There were no more excuses. You know what? The honest truth is, we really don't have any excuses why we don't serve the Lord. There really are no excuses. What is God calling you to do? Let's bow for prayer together. tonight. And so Lord, we are encouraged by Jeremiah, your servant. And Lord, we see just this tremendous perseverance in his life. And Lord, it was because of the promises that you gave him. And Lord, we know that what you said to him, you're saying to your people today. What you spoke to Jeremiah, Lord, applies to us today. That Lord, you are with us. And I pray the Lord that there may be a person out here tonight that needs to hear that particular Message. I'm with you. That might be your word to them tonight. Or someone needs to hear, Lord, that I have made you. That what you have in front of you might be difficult, but I've made you. And I've created you to be able to do this. And that, Lord, you will equip us for whatever task you call us to, that we'll be invincible. I pray, Lord, we'll take these words. words to heart. That Lord will get busy for you serving you, worshiping you, giving you the honor that and the glory that's due onto your name. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.