Good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of 1 Peter, chapter 2, as we continue our study on Sunday nights through 1 Peter. Tonight we're going to be dealing with 1 Peter 2 from verses 13 down to verse 17. And I've titled the sermon tonight, Stopping the Mouths of Critics. Now the whole theme and idea that Peter deals with here, the central emphasis, is really in one word, and it's the word submission. Submission. This is certainly not a popular topic, especially in a day in which we live today. We kind of live in a day of lawlessness and liberation. And we Americans live in a country that was basically founded on a revolution and a defiance against a a tyranny. Um in fact it was Ben Franklin uh one of the founding fathers who said the motto for um our country should be on the he wanted this to be on the uh the reverse side of the great seal of the United States, this motto, rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God. And um so such is the spirit of our beginning here in America. But really the question that we deal with here is what is the proper relationship of citizens We should say Christian's citizens towards government. And this is an issue that Peter is dealing with here in these verses. Look in verse 13. Where he says, Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as supreme, or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God that with well doing you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, as free, not using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. So these are Peter's words. Now Let me just say this. Peter, in this letter, just stated the general principles that, and we talked about this last week, that as Christians we are to live as pilgrims. in this world. Remember we talked about pilgrim living that we're just passing through. This world is not our home. Our home is in heaven. Pilgrims are headed towards their home. And so this world, while we're in it, we certainly want to make it better, but this is not our home. Our focus is on our eternal home, it should be, and that is heaven. And so we're not predomin uh permanent resident residents here. We're journeying towards our home. Now it would be easy for readers when they read this to conclude that since this is not our permanent home, and we're pilgrims, that we therefore have no civic responsibility here on earth. Perhaps they could conclude that We could disregard, since we're just passing through, you know, this Jesus said, My kingdom is not of this world, we're not to be of this world, it would be easy for us to conclude that we can disregard or disobey human government. You know, since we're citizens of heaven, not on earth, then we don't really need to pay tribute to those things here like human government. And so Peter is kind of anticipating, perhaps, this kind of thinking This kind of argument that perhaps some of the Christians there may conclude, because you have to remember who's he writing to? He's writing to believers in Rome that are going through fierce persecution. They're having a difficult time. Who is the man on the throne during this time? It is a man by the name of Nero. And you don't need for me to go over again how cruel Nero was, especially to Christians at this time. And so Peter is going to talk to these believers about their relationship to government, even to men who are in charge, like Nero. And the whole idea, the big idea of these verses here is that Christians must live as good citizens. We have to submit to human government. In fact, the word submit is used a lot. In these these chapters. It's used here in verse 13. It's used in verse 18. It's used in chapter 3, verse 1. And in verse 5 of chapter 3 and on into chapter 5, we see this word subjection or submission used over and over again. And despite what some people might teach, submission is not suppression, it is not slavery, it's not subjugation, it is simply recognizing God's authority in our life. You see, God has established authority in this world. He established authority in the home. He established it in the church. He established it in human government and in society. And God has the right to tell us how we should submit to these institutions that He has placed in our world. And so Peter is writing to remind these believers that are going through persecution, that are really living under unjust government, that they are to be model citizens. And they must submit during this time. And in fact, what was going on was there was a lot of evil speaking that was against the Christians. Again, they were being persecuted, and part of that persecution was ridicule. slander and evil speaking. It was really open season on them. In fact, here are some of the ideas, and and and most of the people back then assumed that Christianity was just kind of a uh nothing more than another sect of Judaism. And so uh they were very malicious towards them. Believers became the object of slander. And malicious rumors, just like they would make rumors and attacks against the Jews. For example, here's one I'm quoting from Apion. He made this false accusation He said, In the reign of Antiochus Epiphanes, the Jews every year fattened a Greek, and having solemnly offered him up as a sacrifice on a fixed day, in a certain forest, ate his entrails and swore eternal hostility to the Greeks. That was a false accusation against the Christians. They were viewed as same as Jews. Believers were accused of insurrection against Rome They were said to be against all human authority. Believers were also accused of being atheists because they refused to worship the Roman gods. They would not worship or burn incense to the gods of Rome. There were many of them. They would only worship Jesus Christ. They were accused of cannibalism because their enemies distorted the teaching of the Lord's Supper communion. They didn't understand what they were doing. Believers were accused of immorality They were accused of having incestuous relationships because in the church they were calling one another brother and sister. And they were talking about greeting each other with a holy kiss. That was malign In addition, believers were accused of damaging the trade of idol making. They were accused of that. They were accused of destroying family life because what would happen is one person in a family would come to know Christ And it would cause problems in that family because others were worshiping the other gods. And this Christian now was standing for Christ. And so they said, this person is dividing Families. They were accused of fostering rebellion. They were slaves would get saved And they were accused of now being free and encouraging those slaves to throw off the shackles that they were wearing. They were accused of hating people because they would not adopt the world's ways. And so all of this slander, all of this evil talking was going against Christians. And a lot of it was coming straight from the top Some of it was coming from Roman officials and from Nero himself. So, what is Peter's response to this? Look down in verse number 15. For so it is the will of God That with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Back up to verse number 12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, the word Gentiles there simply means he's referring to those who are lost who don't know the Lord. That whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they shall behold. Glorify God in the day of visitation. And we saw this last week. The day of visitation means when they come to know Jesus Christ, when they get saved. In other words, they should see your God of living, they should see your good life, and one day when they come to know Christ, they're going to remember That you had an influence because of the way you live. But Peter said in verse 16, by doing good and through your submission, you will put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. You see, those who call themselves Christians, some of them were harming the testimony of Christianity by the way they were behaving towards authority. And so, although believers are to set their affections on heaven, we are to be godly citizens here on earth. And so Peter says You know, just live a good life. Live a godly life. Be in submission to these authorities. And what this will do is this will put them to silence. Look at that expression. Put them to silence. This is a word that means to close the mouth with a muzzle. This same word is used in 1 Corinthians 9 9 to speak of muzzling an ox. Or muzzling uh is used in classical literature to talk about muzzling an animal that was ferocious, kind of rendering that animal helpless, we could say. You know, growing up in Baltimore, in South Baltimore, I remember that on occasions we would see the dog catchers come by, maybe someone called the dog catchers, I don't know, but they would round up these stray dogs that were potentially harmful or dangerous. And the first thing they would do to those dogs is they would put a muzzle on the dog. And so a ferocious dog would then be rendered helpless and weak. And that's the idea here behind this word. With your life, with your good works, with your submission, you can put to silence all the evil talk And it will be pleasing to God, and God will use it. God will be glorified, and others eventually might come to know Christ. The day of visitation might come for them. And so then live a life that is in submission. Be submitted to authorities. And by the way, he'll speak about government in chapter 2, verse 13. He'll speak about bosses In chapter 2, verse 18. He'll speak about husbands and wives, that relationship, wives being in subjection to husbands, in chapter 3, verse 1. He'll talk about church leadership in chapter 5, verse 5. And so he covers all of these. with reference to learning to be submissive. So let me just give you some ideas here that we're going to talk about. First of all, we're going to talk about the exhortation, then we'll talk about the extent. And then we'll talk about the explanation and then finally the exception. So let's talk about these things. First of all, the exhortation. Look again in chapter 13, or chapter 2, verse 13. Submit yourselves And this is who potasmeo. It's a military word, and it has the idea of a soldier under the rank of a commanding officer. We could say it like this: put yourself in an attitude of submission. And this should include in our actions. People should see in our life submission. That should be something that we live out with the way that the things that we do. Now let me just say this: that you're never more like the Lord Jesus Christ than when you live in submission. Because I want to submit to you that the most submissive person to ever live and ever walk the earth was the Lord Jesus. He submitted himself to the Father. Always, Jesus said, there's many things I can say, but I always say those things that the Father has given me to say. I always do those things that please the Father. He himself, who was the creator of all things, submitted himself to authorities. Live the constant life of submission. You're never more like Christ than when you are in submission. You're never more like the devil than when you're living in constant rebellion. And let me just say this, if you have a problem being submitted, you're going to have a problem all your life. Because every day of your life, you're going to have to learn to be to be submissive. We get up. We d we uh go out and get in our car and we drive and we are have to submit to uh the traffic laws. At least we should. All right. Often say, you know, for me, my life is very easy. I just do whatever my wife tells me to do. Then when I get to the office I do whatever the secretaries tell me to do. When I get into my car, I do whatever Siri, my uh GPS tells me to do. Um but all of life is learning to listen and learning to be submitted. It's just a principle of life and it shows in our actions. Now, in the Old Testament, in the book of Jeremiah, and Jeremiah 29, Jeremiah gives some instructions for the exiles that were just carried away into captivity. You might remember Nebuchadnezzar came in there and carried them away into captivity. And Jeremiah writes to these exiles. And this is what he says. Now remember, this is applicable to this situation here with Peter. They were now in Babylon, they were living under an ungodly king in a foreign land as strangers. And this is what uh Jeremiah said. He said, and seek the peace of the city, whither I have caused you to be carried away. Here's God speaking through his prophet Jeremiah, and God says to those captives that are now living in Babylon, God says, seek the peace of the city. You mean this pagan city that we're living in? We're to seek the peace of this city? God, that's what God said. Whether I have caused you to be carried away. God said, I am the one that puts you in this situation. I put you in Babylon Now while you're living there, seek the peace, pray unto the Lord for it, for the peace thereof shall ha shall Shall ye have peace? In other words, if you seek peace and you live in submission and harmony, then peace will come to you. You'll have peace. And the word for peace here is shalom, and it actually means welfare And so basically what God was saying is that he was saying, look, settle down there, build houses, plant gardens. Rear godly families, be in submission to the authorities that are over you, because I'm the one that puts you there. I place you where you are. that you might be good model citizens where you are. And that's what Peter is saying to these believers here. Look, it's no accident that you you are where you are, you're here in Rome, you're under an unjust government, but despite that, you are to be model citizens. And you are to obey in all that you do, in all of your actions. And that means You know, for us as Christians here today, we are to live, we're to be model citizens, we're to pay our taxes. When it comes time for us to pay our taxes, we are to calculate all of that correctly. We are to render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's as Jesus taught us, and unto God the things that are God. And that also means that we are to obey the laws We are to obey the traffic laws. You know, with regard to traffic laws, some Christians take the strict constructionist view. They never exceed the speed limit. I take the loose constructionist view. I just get in the fast lane and go with the flow. But I would just say this, if you are constantly getting tickets, you probably need to change the way you drive But the idea is that we need to I I heard of one minister who got stopped for speeding and he told the officer, he said, I I'm doing the Lord's business And the officer said, I read the same Bible and I'm doing the Lord's business. The Lord said, Go out into the highways and bring them in, and that's what I'm doing. I heard about another minister who was pressed for time and not finding a parking space. He parked in a no-parking zone. But he put a note on his windshield, and this is what the note said. I circled the block ten times. I have an appointment to keep. Forgive us our trespasses. When he got back, he found a citation along with a note that says this: I circled this block for ten years. If I don't give you a ticket, I lose my job. Lead us not into temptation. Submission means just obeying the law. As best we can, obeying the law. In our actions, we should reflect submission and in our attitudes. Submission means showing respect to governmental authorities. I know that we don't like to hear this, but notice what Peter says again in verse 17. Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. And the king there represents the person who's in charge, the government that he talks about, or the governors that he refers to in verse 14, are all those that are under the king. You say, well, but what if he's a scoundrel? Even if we can't respect the leader because he's corrupt or maybe he's immoral, we could still respect the office. Again, this is an American tradition. We like to make jokes about our political leaders. We like to portray them as buffoons and idiots. Political satire is accepted. And I have to confess that some of the things that politicians do do invite that. I'll be honest with you. And I see some things that politicians do and I think sometimes they paint a target on themselves. Uh and and you know I think of the passage in scripture where even Jesus you remember how he referred to Herod? He called Herod that fox. But that was as far as Jesus went. By the way, this doesn't mean that as Christians we don't cry against sin. We should cry against sin. In fact, I would say that the church is to be the conscious, a conscience of the state. And when we see sin, we see wrong, we need to be bold enough and true to the Word of God and cry out against sin with no fear. But we need to make sure that we do it in a way where we're not being disrespectful to God-ordained institutions. I have no problem preaching against sin. by anyone who commits that sin and sets the wrong example. But I'm not going to speak evil of someone. There's a difference between that And so submission means showing respect for governmental authorities. It means that we don't have malicious attitudes towards those that are in leadership. Look at verse 16. As free, not using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness. But as servants of God. In other words, the attitude that we are to have as servants of the Lord is not one of maliciousness, our freedom now and what he's talking about is our freedom in Christ. Now that you're saved, you are the Lord's servant. You have great liberty. You have great freedom. But you don't use that freedom, Paul said, as a cloak of maliciousness. That's referring to a veil. Maliciousness again is just to this evil speaking, evil intent, you know Angry, ugly attitudes towards someone, uh he says, Don't do that. That's not the coming of a servant of the Lord. In fact, as a servant of Christ We're not to act that way towards anyone. The Bible says in 2 Timothy, the servant of the Lord must not strive But be gentle unto all men. You know what the word strive there is? It's macho my in the Greek. What does that sound like? Macho man. You know, the servant of the Lord must not be a macho man, you know, with this attitude like, I dare you to cross this line, I dare you to provoke me, you know This might be describing my age, but there used to be a a commercial out where a guy put a battery on his shoulder and said, I dare you to knock it off. You know, any of you remember that? Any of you old folks remember that commercial? I always when I saw that I wanted to knock that battery off, but I couldn't get to it, you know. But it's that attitude where you're daring someone to cross you. This malicious attitude. The servant of the Lord is not to be machamite, he's not to strive, but he's to be gentle unto all men. And here Paul and Peter says the same thing as free men, don't use your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness, but as servants of God. I've heard people say things like, I don't pay my taxes because I'm a citizen of heaven. I don't obey laws because everything belongs to my Father, and all that is his is mine. And that's just wrong reasoning. Believers are free to obey and to serve God, not themselves. And by being model citizens, we are serving God. Paul, right down Galatians 5. 13, Paul said, You are free, you are called to freedom, brethren. Only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve. one another. Our citizenship is in heaven, and our freedom in Christ does not allow us to disobey the laws. And so there is the exhortation. But now let me talk to you about the second thing. The extent of submission. The extent. Notice what he says again in verse 13. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. And the word ordinance here has the idea of the institution. We have to submit ourselves and obey the institution. Now let me tell you what that doesn't mean. That doesn't mean that if this institution makes a law that goes against the Word of God or goes against my conscience, that I have to obey that law. I can still obey the institution without obeying the law. Because I'll talk about this when we get to the point of the exception. There is a time for civil disobedience on the part of God's child. The Bible's clear about that as well I can still obey the institution. I can still be respectful towards that institution. But if that institution sends out a law that is asking me to disobey or violate the word of God in my conscience, then I will not do that. And even in that situation, I'm not being rebellious. I'm submitting to a higher authority, and that's God. We ought to obey God rather than man. But other than that, Peter says we are To obey, to be submitted to every institution, ordinance of man. In fact, look down to verse 17. He says, honor all men. All men refers to humanity. And the idea here is to we are to be respectful and have a spirit of meekness and kindness and submission really to all men. There's a sense in which we honor all men Everyone around me. As Christians, you know what they should the world should see of us? Kindness. They should see love and kindness from us. Everywhere we go, when you're in the line at Walmart, and someone may not be very kind, don't return evil for evil. Just be kind, be gracious, be gentle to all men. We show respect to all humanity, knowing that all men are created. What? In the image of God. By the way, friend, that's why racism is such an evil. Because it's an attack against God Himself. And by the way, let me just say that racism is not a biblical concept. That's a concept that comes from evolution. Evolution is the one that teaches, you know, races. The Bible says there is one race, it's the human race. We all come from Adam We are all created in the image of God. And so therefore we are kind and we honor all men as believers. Every person deserves respect regardless of who they are. And so we say to all mankind, and Peter says to Christians, look at verse 17. Love the Brotherhood, and we don't need to really dwell on that. We love all believers. And then he says this, fear God We're to fear God is to trust God in all situations. No matter how difficult the situation might be, we trust and we fear God. We know that God is sovereign in whatever situation I'm in. He and his sovereignty allowed me to be in this situation, and I'm going to trust him and I'm going to fear God. We're reverent to him as the sovereign God who walk works all things by his perfect An unrestricted will. And then he says to all authorities, we're in verse seventeen, when he says, Honor the King That is in respect to ruling authorities or leaders. We are to submit to all civil authorities, whether to a king As the one in authority or two governors. Again, the king was referring to the person in charge. And again, when Peter wrote this, who was in charge? Nero. Nero was in charge. And governors refers to officials under the king. We're to submit to them. You say, but wait a minute. You know, governments are corrupt. Well you're right. Human governments are corrupt. In fact, show me a government that isn't. And again, Peter's writing to uh Christians who are suffering at that moment while he's writing injustice. So we see the extent. Then number three, the explanation. Why? Well, he gives several. Look in verse 13 again. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man. Watch this: for whose sake? For the Lord's sake. We do it for the Lord and for His sake. Why? Because the Lord has to ordain civil authority. So when a believer submits himself to it, he is obeying ultimately the Lord. He's placing himself under God's authority. When civil authorities say do this and it doesn't violate the teaching of God's word, we do it. We should do it. God's kingdom doesn't benefit from disobedience. And so we do it for the Lord's sake. We also do it realizing that we're following in his example. Now look what let me drop down, we're going to get to this later, but look down in verse number twenty. Let me just see let me just read this. For what glory is it if when you're buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently But if when you do well and suffer for it, you take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. If you if uh if you're treated In a wrong way, and you take it patiently. Peter said, this is acceptable with God. So that just doesn't sound right. Well, who's our example for this? Look at verse 21. For even hereunto are you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow what? In his steps. Following the steps of Jesus. Now, what Peter does here is something very unique. Because every time in the New Testament, whenever the cross and Calvary is referred to, it's always referred to with respect To an evangelistic purpose. Whenever a writer of the New Testament talks about the cross and the suffering of Jesus on the cross, he's always referencing that with evangelism in mind. But Peter doesn't do that here. When Peter is referring to the cross here, he doesn't have in his mind evangelism. When Peter refers to the cross here, he's using it now as an example of how to suffer injustice in a way that pleases God. How to suffer injustice under a corrupt government. And that's exactly what happened with Jesus Peter says, you know, you need to follow in his steps. Well, what did he do? Look at verse 22. Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. They railed on Jesus, but he didn't rail on them. Look at verse 23. Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. Jesus didn't issue threats to anyone around him. It was a kangaroo court. The court of Jesus started way early in the morning, three in the morning. It was an illegal court that was called. You ever heard of a court trial starting at 3 in the morning? They were anxious to get him crucified. They had false witnesses. They they s they smote him, which was against the law. It was totally illegal. You talk about an injustice. Jesus suffered all that, but he didn't revile, he didn't threaten, didn't issue threats, he didn't do any of that. But look at verse 23. But committed himself to him that what? Judges righteously. During all of that abuse that he had to suffer, what did he do? He said, Father, I'm committing myself to you. I commit myself to you. And verse 24, who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being deadness should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. And so when we submit and we obey, we do it for the Lord's sake, knowing that there's a sense in which we're following in the footsteps of our Lord And the way that he submitted himself. So we do it for the Lord's sake, but also we do it because it's God's will. Look at verse 15. For so it is the will of God that with well doing Again, we do this because it is God's will. We do will that we can put to silence the ignorance that is out there. And this idea of ignorance is not just unknowing, it's hostility towards someone. We do this because it's God's will that with our well-doing we can put to silence even the hostility that is against us When they see our good life and our godly living. It's the will of God. Again, to silence men. We want to silence the ignorance of men. But let me give you the fourth reason in verse 14. Because government is necessary to punish evil. Look at verse 14. Or by unto governors as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well The reason that God gave to mankind, to fallen men, human government, is to basically punish evil. It's to restrain evil that is in the heart of man. In our theology class over here at 6 o'clock, we're talking about the doctrine of homartiology, which is basically the doctrine of sin, the fact that man is a sinner. All men are born sinners. And because of this sin, that evil is still in the heart of men. And God, you know what God did? He basically gave several things to restrain the sin that is in the heart of man. Right after Adam fell in the garden, God gave to mankind certain things to restrain now that sin nature that is in man. You know what they are? One of them is the conscience. God gave us a conscience so that we would learn to restrain that sin nature, so that we would obey that inward light, that inward traffic light of the soul I say, and sometimes it flashes red and tells us, don't do this, don't go beyond this. Sometimes it'll flash yellow to tell us to be careful. Sometimes it'll flash green to affirm what we're doing. But God gave man a conscience. to restrain his sin. But you know what? Sometimes the conscience can get hardened. And in fact it does Lost men a lot of times will ignore their conscience and it'll get hard. But there's another thing that God gave to man, and that's family The institution of family is one thing that God gave to mankind. Why? Because family basically can help restrain evil. Why? Because you have parents that are charged with this thing of teaching right from wrong, teaching children to do what is right, teaching them the Ten Commandments, all of that restrains evil in man. But when parents don't teach their children to do what's right, the family can fail. And then you know there's the ultimate gift, I think, which is the church. And when we preach the gospel, and the power of the gospel changes the heart of a person, friend, that's when you see the power of God in action. The gospel can take an evil man and make him righteous. Make them loving. Make them good. But one of the things that God has given to society to restrain evil is human government. And that's what the Bible is telling us here That in verse again in verse 14, for the punishment of evildoers. You see, friend, we have human government. God gave us that to keep The depravity of man from lashing out and reaching its full potential. Humanity is depraved, but But men don't always live out the full measure of that depravity. It's constantly being restrained by a lot of these forces, and one of those forces is human government And the major reason God gave human government is to restrain that sin nature, that depravity, that evil. But what happens if human government doesn't do It's part. What happens if they just give up and say, We're not gonna we're not gonna do anything? We're not gonna, you know, do our job. Well, it doesn't suit its purpose. It doesn't help. So that's why we have it. God wants it to restrain evil. You say, well, you know, even even corrupt government, as bad as it is, still is able to restrain evil. We have to understand that What would happen if there were no governor? What would happen in our city if we just if the police just said we're not going to do this anymore? We had no police force? The mayor walked out of their office, city council walked out, senators said we're done. We had no government whatsoever, no human government And every person was a law unto themselves. Can you imagine what chaos would take place in our world if that's the way it was? In fact, you know, when I was uh living in Memphis, uh we had a man in our church named Marty Kula who was uh high up in the Memphis Police Department. And he asked me on several occasions to go and speak to the police. We they would have occasions where they would gather together and they would give these men and women awards for serving well. And I had the opportunity to go there and just encourage them and speak to them and uh also just to just to be there and see uh you know their desire to to do well to do well as police officers. And Marty Cula his job was to train Those police officers. And he did a great job doing it. In fact, I had the privilege of serving as chaplain of the city of Bartlett and ministering in that way. When I came here to Baltimore, I got a call one time from Marty Cola. Marty said, Look, I'm coming to Baltimore. He said I'd like to get together with you. Let's try to get together for dinner. I said, sure. And we got together. I said, Why are you here? He said, Well, I'm here because I was invited by the the police department here in Baltimore uh to help give some training ideas and tips to work with the police department here. I said, well how's it all going? He said, well it's not going very good. I said, well why not? He said, well, because uh I have to tell you the police here are just disheartened. He said they want to quit. He said, in fact, many of them have quit. They walked off the job. And he said the ones that are there, they're just discouraged There's no camaraderie. There's a lot of work that needs to be done. That was a few years back when I met with Marty. And you know, since that time, I'm sad to say that Baltimore has now been declared one of the most dangerous cities in the nation. It's because the murder rate has gone up so high in this city. In fact that was that's not me. That's according to an article. in in uh by the USA Today that has declared Baltimore to be the most dangerous city in the nation because of the murder raid. And then just three days ago I was reading the USA today, and there was an article, here's the title of the article that I read three days ago. Baltimore Police Stop Noticing Crime. A wave of killings followed. That was the title of the article. Let me just read you an excerpt of it. This is what the article says. Just before a wave of violence turned Baltimore into the nation's deadliest big city, a curious thing happened to its police force. Officers suddenly seemed to stop noticing crime. Police officers reported seeing fewer drug dealers on street corners. They encountered fewer people who had open arrest warrants. Police questioned fewer people on the street. They stopped fewer cars. In the space of just a few days in the spring of 2015, as Baltimore faced a wave of rioting, officers in nearly every part of the city appeared to turn a blind eye to everyday violations. They still answer calls for help, but the number of potential violations they reported seeing themselves drop by nearly half. It has largely stayed that way ever since. The article goes on to say what officers are doing is that they're just driving, looking forward. And here's a quote from a retired police detective. They've got horse blinders on, says Kevin Forrester. The surge of shootings and killings that followed has left Baltimore easily the deadliest large city in the United States. And it goes on to give examples of just terrible, terrible killings. That have taken place in our city. And again, what is the point? Human government is given by God to restrain evil. To restrain the evil that is in man. And if they're not, and if human government is not doing its job effectively, then the evil of man is going to run rampant. And if there's no respect for that human authority, things are going to get worse. And as Christians, we need to be the example of this in submission and supporting. That God given institution. Now let me give you the last thing. We talked about the exhortation, the extent, the explanation. Number four is the exception. For submission. Look again in verse number 17. Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. And I think Peter makes a difference between God and the king. We're to fear God. We honor the king, but we fear God. The king deserves appropriate honor, but he's not on the same level as God. God is higher. And again I say, That the exception here, we do not have to obey human government if that human institution is causing us or making us or asking us to do something that's in violation of the Word of God. If there was a law passed that you can't preach the Word of God anymore, you would find me here the next Sunday preaching the Word of God. I would do it as under the Lord. And I would not do it in a spirit of rebellion. I would do it in a spirit of submission to God. I obey God rather than man. If there's any law out there that the government passes that again violates my conscience, It keeps me from being able to fear and worship and reverence and serve God the way He's called me to, then I will respectfully not do that law. I'll just obey the Lord And we see examples of this in Acts fourteen when the Sanhedrin commanded Peter and John not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. They said, you know, we ought to obey God rather than man. And they just keep on preaching about Jesus. When Daniel and Daniel 6 knew that the law was signed, that you cannot pray to any other God other than the king, you know what Daniel did? He went back to his room, opened up the windows, and prayed just like he always did. And the Bible says he knew the law was signed. And Daniel was a model citizen. He had an excellent spirit. But he just simply said, I'm going to submit to God first. He's my top allegiance. And we see other illustrations of this in the scripture. When Pharaoh commanded to kill the babies, the midwives refused. We're not going to do that. Again, that's the fear of the Lord. So there is a time for civil disobedience, even you know, when we're submitting We submit to God ultimately, and we do it out of conscience and conviction as Christians. But even when we do that, we're to do it in the right spirit. In the right frame of mind. And so that's why Peter says, look, you put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Let's let's pray. We're out of time. And so, Lord, I pray that you would help us to hear your word and to heed your word And Lord, to live is the way you've called us to live in this world, this less than perfect place, with less than perfect people, and in places of leadership. And Lord, help us to realize that even though it's less than perfect, these are institutions, Lord, that you've given to mankind for the good of man. And so, Lord, help us to follow in the footsteps of our Savior. And to live a life of submission, a godly good life, that when the world looks at us, they see something different. And they will be able to behold us and they will glorify you in the day of visitation when they come to know the Lord. Lord, may we live in a way That is attractive to those who are hungry to know truth. May our lives be a testimony of your greatness, your grace. And so Lord help us. This is not easy, Lord. Honestly, this is not easy. And we need your grace to help us. And so, Lord, do so. Lord, for your honor and for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, Esther.