Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Judges, chapter 14, as we uh continue our study in Judges tonight? Just find Judges chapter 14. And uh tonight we're continuing the life of Stampson. This is the section where we're in here in the book of Judges. And while you're finding that, I want to read to you what Lois Chaney wrote in her parable She wrote a parable actually in a book called God is No Fool. And she says this, once a man said, if I had some extra money, I'd give it to God. But if I had but I just have enough to support my family. And he said, the same man said, if I had some extra time I'd give it to God, but every minute is taken up with my job and my family and my clubs and so every single minute. He also said if I had talent I'd give it to God, but I have no lovely voice, I have no special skill. I've never been able to lead a group and I can't think cleverly or quickly the way I would like to And God heard that and God gave him money and gave him time and gave him glorious talent. And then God waited and waited and waited. And then after a while God shrugged his shoulders and he took it all back, the three gifts that he gave the man. And after a while, the man sighed and said, If I only had some of that money back, I'd give it to God. And if I only had some of that time, I'd give it back to God. And if I could only rediscover that glorious talent I once had, I'd give it all back to God And uh I'm quoting from the parable here, and God said, Oh, shut up. And the man told his friends You know, I'm not sure so sure I believe in God anymore. And thus the way people treat God. We're reading the story tonight about Samson. God gave Samson some amazing gifts, and yet he seemed to squander all of them And all of the victories that Samson had, as we read in the book of Judges, they were really all personal victories. They really were really selfish victories. Of all the judges, God gave Samson more ability and talent and strength than any of those judges, and yet he seemed to do less for God than any of the judges. Uh Daniel Bloch put it this way. He said on one hand he's born and b and buried as a hero, but on the other hand he is abandoned, a trickster, and one who uh frivolously furthers away his extraordinary gifts and calling. So this is a good ill uh illustration and a story for all of us because all of us here tonight, if you know the Lord, God has given you gifts and talents. The question is What do you do with the talents and the gifts that God has given you? Someone once said talent is a got is God's gift to you. What you do with it is your gift back to God. And Samson's life illustrates great potential and great giftings and talent that were wasted. The Spirit of God moved mightily upon him. We read about this. Again, he seemed to have more natural ability, and yet he used all of his strength rather than for God's glory, he used it for himself. Now as we come to chapter 14, the first thing I notice is that there's a a distinct uh uh contrast between the spirit of Manoah and the spirit of Samson. And I think that this is purposeful on the writer's part. I think the writer wants us to feel the tension here. in this contrast. Manoah reveres God's presence and Samson is going to ignore it. Manoah felt small before God. Samson will feel strong without God. And uh Manoah responded with worship at the presence of God. Samson will respond with self-indulgence. Manoah received assurance through grace. Samson will presume upon God's grace. And so he will repeatedly show that he has no real regard for the grace and the gifts that God has given him. And so really tonight what we're talking about is despising the gifts and the calling of God, or we could call it strength wasted on selfish desires. And what I want you to see are just three ways in which Samson wasted his gifts and his calling. Here's number one, when we choose our own way instead of God's way. When we choose our own way instead of God's way. Now in verse number one, Samson went down to Timnath. This is a Philistine city. Look at verse one. And Samson went down to Timnath and saw a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines. And so he saw a woman that caught his eye. Now Samson lived on the border right there at the tribe of Dan, so he was constantly going over into Philistine territory. territory. In fact the expression went down and went up occurs often in this in the Samson narrative. We see it in verse 1, Samson went down. We see it in verse five again. And then then went Samson down. We see it in verse number seven. And he went down, and we see it again in verse number nineteen. And in this in in the Hebrew this verb is at the beginning of the sentence which And so he's going back and forth across the Philistine border. He's spending a lot of time in Philistine territory And notice verse number two, and he came up and he told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines, now therefore get her for me Now in that culture, parents arranges arrange the marriages, and so he says to his father, get this woman for me. Now you can imagine how Samson's parents felt. Samson was born to have a special devotion to the Lord. You remember he was a Nazarite from his mother's womb, and so he has this special call of God upon his life He really you could say he had a miraculous birth. For years they prayed for him. They thought he had something special deliverance that he was going to bring to Israel. And now here he is, and he wants to marry one of the daughters of the enemy. This was a betrayal of his calling. It was an act of disobedience to God's word. Now his parents protested. They reminded him that what the law said, look at verse number three. Then his father and his mother said unto him, Is there never a woman among the daughters of thy brethren and among all my people that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? Now, uh it was against the law of God for Samson to do this. Deuteronomy 7. 3 forbids this. But Samson wanted what he wanted. And really in verse number three, Samson says, you know, get her for me because she pleases me well. And that one verse, that single sentence, epitomizes the whole life of Samson. Samson was sensual. Apparently he had not even met this Philistine woman. He just saw her. And so he's going by what? His sight. He's going by what he sees. He's basing his decision solely on physical appearance. Samson knew nothing about her inward character, knew nothing about her personality. His life is governed by fleshly desires. And Samson is doing what? He's doing what is right in his own eyes. Whatever he sees he wants, that's what he gets. And so this is really the lust of the eyes. He said, She pleases me well. Essentially he liked what he saw. But he was also a selfish man. This was all about Samson. This is what he wanted. Notice how many times the word me is used here. In verse 2, he says, get her for me And then in verse number three, get her for me, for she pleases me. Me, me, me. Reminds me of the bird, the rare bird in the South Sea Islands called the Mimi Bird because he just flies around saying, Me, me, me, me, me. Now I've never been to the South Sea Islands, but I've seen that bird in churches a w uh a little bit. All they say is me, me, me. And so here he is. He's just he he's all he cares about is what he wants And Samson, again, he's doing what is right in his own eyes. And in this we have to see that Samson is really a perfect representation of the whole nation of Israel. Really, he's a mirror of Israel, when you think about it. He personifies the whole nation. That's the key to understanding the Samson narrative. Samson is a mirror of the whole nation. Samson is miraculously born of the will of God. Israel is miraculously born of the will of God. Samson is called to a high life of separation and devotion to God, just like Israel was called to a high life of separation and devotion unto God. Samson is rash, opportunistic, and immature, even so the nation of Israel has those same Quality. Samson is drawn to foreign women, like Israel is drawn to foreign gods, committing spiritual adultery before the Lord Samson experiences bondage and oppression at the enemy. Israel will experience bondage and oppression at the enemy. Samson cries out to God and his oppression and Israel cries out to God. in their oppression. Samson is blinded and even so Israel is blind. And Samson is abandoned by God and doesn't seem to know it. Israel is also abandoned by God and doesn't seem to realize it. Samson disregarded the law of God and Israel disregarded the law of God. Samson refuses correction when it comes. Israel refuses correction when it comes. Sometimes God will give a nation a leader to mirror that whole nation. To show what the nation is. And this is what Samson is. He's sensual, he is selfish, but another thing we see about Samson, he was superintended. Look at verse number four, very interesting verse. But his father and his mother knew not that it was of the Lord that he sought an occasion against the Philistines, for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel. That's an interesting verse. His father and mother did not know that it was of the Lord Now the first question we ask when we read that is, does this mean that God approved of Samson's sin and disobedience? And the answer is no. Providence does not equal approval. This doesn't mean God approves of Samson's lust and his disobedience. It means that even Samson's disobedience can be woven into the overall sovereign plan of God. God can overrule sin. But he never excuses sin. God can use the sinful choices that other people make and use it to accomplish his glory, but at the same time, he doesn't approve it. He doesn't say it's okay. God can use sin to accomplish his purposes all the while hating that sin and never approving of it. We see this in the cross of the Lord Jesus, don't we? Did the Father approve the sins that were committed against his son? Of course not. But did God use those sins to deliver us? Yes, he did. He used the sinful choices of men to do his will. And God overruled Samson's impulsive decisions and used them to advance his own purposes we see that right here. This is another illustration of a concept that I've talked to you about before, which is called concurrence, where you have two things that are happening at the same time. And how they work together, we don't know. There's se a seeming mystery there, but yet they're both true. Samson is doing what he wants to do, what he chooses to do of his own sinful impulse, and yet what he chooses to do doesn't overturn the will of God. It fulfills the will of God This this God is going to use this for his glory. And Matthew Henry says this, God did not implant evil in Samson's heart. but by his secret counsel directed this occurrence so that the oppression of Israel might at last be challenged. And so Samson's personal desire becomes the means by which God begins the work of judgment. But what I want you to see that all of this reveals Samson's heart Again, he's sensual, he's selfish, he only cares about what he wants. Strength is wasted when we insist on our way instead of God's way. And uh I meet and counsel people f from time to time where they'll say something like, Well we I know what the Bible says, I know about this, but Then they go in to rationalize why they need to do what they need to do, which is not in harmony with what God's word says, thinking that somehow Their rationalization makes it okay for them to do what they want to do, only years later to discover that decision really undid them in many ways. Discernment, or excuse me, desire, I should say, in that particular situation, overruled discernment. The essence of sin, said A. W. Tozer, is the will to have one's own way. So we waste strength when we choose our own way instead of God's, but here's number two. When we cross boundaries God is set When we cross boundaries, God is set. Now in this section, we see that Samson does not have much regard for the boundaries that God set in his life. And there are three indicators in the text that tell us this. First of all, what I call the detour through the vineyard. Look at verse five. Then went Samson down and his father and mother to Timnath, and came to the vineyards of Timnath, and behold a young lion roared against him. Now notice Samson takes a trip down to Timnath with his father and mother, and as they draw near, Samson seems to take a detour where his separates from his parents. He's by himself when he goes through the vineyard, so apparently Samson leaves the main road, leaves his parents, and decides to detour through this vineyard. Now the reason I say that he's by himself is because in verse six it'll say that after what took place with the lion, he didn't tell his father and mother, so obviously they're not there with him when he goes through the vineyard. So I can just picture Samson saying to his parents, hey, there's a vineyard here. I think I'm going to take a detour. I'll meet you there. Now the question I want to ask is, what is a man with a Nazarite vow doing in a vineyard? That's a dangerous place for a man that's supposed to have nothing to do with grapes. A man who is a Nazarite who takes that vow is not supposed to eat grapes, he's not supposed to eat anything that is produced by grapes In fact, in Numbers chapter 6, verses 1 to 4, if you read it carefully, he's not supposed to get anywhere near grapes. So why is he going through a vineyard? I mean that's not a wise thing to do, and that already kind of shows us his careless attitude towards the vows that God has given him. It reminds me of the story of the man who was found standing outside a bar peering through the window and someone said, What are you doing? He says, Oh, I'm just resisting temptation. Well, if you're going to resist temptation, that's not the best place to do it. And here Samson is careless in his calling. He's walking through the middle of a vineyard. And, you know, it would be very easy for him just to reach over and take some grapes. uh as he walks. And so this is the first inkling of his carelessness with the vows and the calling that God has given him. But secondly there's the defilement with the lion. As Samson goes through the vineyard, the Bible says a lion roared against him. It leaps out on him. And here we see the first demonstration of the incredible strength that Samson has. The Bible says in verse number six Well actually it's back up to verse five. Then sent went Samson down and his father and mother Timnath and came to the vineyards of the Timnath, and behold a young lion roared against him. Verse six, and the spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him, and he ran him as he would rent a kid. But he had nothing in his hands. And the Bible says the Holy Spirit just came mightily. That is the word that means to rush. It took control. And Samson had absolutely nothing in his hands, but here's this lion, and the Spirit of the Lord comes upon him, and the Bible says he rips them, he rents them, just like it was a little baby goat. Just incredible strength. Now, you would think that he would be gloating about this, but he doesn't tell his father and his mother anything about it. And then he goes to Timnath, and look at verse 7. And he went down and talked with a woman. This is evidently the first time he actually talks with her. And it says, and she pleased him well. The implications again that this is him getting acquainted with her. Again, his choice was based on what he saw. And after a short time he goes back, look at verse 8. And after a time he returned to take her. And he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion, and behold, there was a swarm of bees and honey in the carcass of the lion. On his second journey, he goes back through the vineyard. He takes that trip there because he wants to really look at it the his trophy And gloat over what he had done previously. And uh as he sees this lion, there's something surprising that he sees. There was a swarm of bees and honey in the carcass of the lion. Now bees do not normally inhabit cadavers. That's not something that you normally see. That's normally something that you you would see flies or maggots do that. And that's a disgusting picture. But that's the insect you would see that would inhabit a dead cadaver. But apparently this lion's carcass had dehydrated and decayed quickly and dried up and provided a hospitable environment for these bees to live and produce honey. And so here Samson sees this carcass with this bees honey in it, this hive of bees there. And the question arises immediately at that time, will he be true to his Nazarite vow? This is a temptation that is facing Samson at that time. We already saw that he gave way to the lust of the eyes, right? Will he give way to the lust of the flesh? Well he desires the honey, even though he had to take it out of a dead carcass. And verse 9 makes clear, and he took thereof in his what? In his hands. And so with his hands he takes the honey out of the dead carcass and then he ate it. And he took there up with his hands and he went out on eating. By doing this, he's purposely violating his Nazarite vow where he's not supposed to touch a dead carcass, a dead body And again, Numbers chapter 6, verse 6 makes this very clear. He's not even to go near a dead body. It was forbidden. So he violates that vow just to have a taste of honey. Just for that one moment to have that sweet taste of honey. And here again is an example of Samson placing his fleshly appetites above the call of God. This is the lust of the flesh. He valued the taste of honey drawn from this dead carcass more than he valued the vow to God. He places satisfaction above separation here. And so again, this is another compromise for Samson. And you know, failure begins with small steps. It begins with small compromises that we that people make. People don't start out outright denying God. They start out by walking through a vineyard, going someplace they shouldn't go, being around things that they shouldn't be around and putting their hands on things that they shouldn't be putting their hands on. That's how it all starts here. We place ourselves in tempting cer circumstances and wonder why we fail and we compromise Charles Spurgeon said, We seldom fall suddenly. Sin is a downgrade, and we slide with our eyes open. And that is so very true. David didn't fall into adultery with Bathsheba overnight. First he began little compromises in his life. Now, so here we see Samson, the defilement with the lion, but there's another indicator of Samson not respecting the boundaries that God placed in his life, and that is the disrespect of his parents. Verse nine tells us that not only did Samson eat the honey, but also in verse number nine, it says, And he gave to his his father and his mother, came to his father and mother, and he gave them, and they did eat, but he told them not that the honey that he had taken the honey out of the carcass of the lion. So he gives them to his parents and they ate. Now an ordinary Israelite wouldn't eat this. Even an ordinary Israelite, not to mention someone who had a Nazarite vow, but an ordinary Israelite would have feared defilement, this would have been unclean to them So they wouldn't have done it. If Samson's parents had known about this, they I dare say they they probably wouldn't have taken all this honey. Daniel Bloch, the commentator, says Samson's perversity knows no bounds. His parents had sanctified him, now he desecrates them. Think about that. They sanctified him, he desecrates them. But this is not the first time he dishonors them. He dishonored his parents when he actually asked for this marriage to begin with. And he didn't just ask, he demanded. And even when his parents tried to counsel him and and and correct him, he again demanded. He wanted what he wanted We live in a dangerous way when we do not respect the boundaries and the authorities that God has placed in our life We put ourselves in a dangerous position. And it's only a matter of time when you don't respect those boundaries that God has given, then you're going to endanger yourself and you'll reap the bitter consequences of that later. And so we see Samson then uh crossing these boundaries. So we despise the gifts and the calling of God when we choose our own way instead of God's way. And then number two, when we cross boundaries, God is set. But here's number three. When we care more about ourselves than God's glory. We care more about ourselves than God's glory. Now from verses ten down to verse number twenty, the rest of the chapter revolves around Samson's wedding. And again, I see three indicators that Samson cares more about himself than God's glory. And where we saw Samson fail with regard to the lust of the eyes and the lust of the flesh, I think in this section we're going to see Samson fail with regard to the pride of life. He's going to succumb to pride. So notice first of all what I call Samson's revelry. Look at verse number 10. So his father went down unto uh so his father went down unto the woman, and Samson made there a feast. For so use the young men to do. So Samson, now this is the wedding feast. He's preparing to w to to marry this Philistine woman, and he prepares a feast. Now this all seems innocent enough But you if you look at the Hebrew word for feast here, it's the word which means a seven-day drinking party. And this would no doubt have involved drinking wine. And so this too is a violation of his Nazarite vow to abstain from wine. And during and it's the custom, the author explains to us that it's the custom at that time for the Philistines to involve select young men of the town The word for young men here, the Hebrew word, is used elsewhere in the book of Judges to refer to select warriors. And so this the writer here lets us know that these thirty men are just not young men. They're warriors. that they s that are handpicked to supposedly be attendants to at Samson at this feast, but actually what they are are they're guards. They're a little suspicious of Samson because look in verse eleven. It came to pass when they saw him that they brought thirty companions to be with him. I think when they saw them they were afraid of him. They're like, look, uh you better you better get about thirty guys for this guy here. It it tells me he kinda was a formidable guy in the way that he looked. They saw him, they were afraid of him, they were suspicious of him. In in the guise of, you know, having attendance, they they called these thirty men that I think were select warriors. And so Samson is there, and he thinks he's in the in the company of friends. But he's not, is he? He's in the company of enemies. A lot of times Christians make that mistake. Don't think that the world and the ungodly people of this world are your friend if you're devoted unto the Lord. They're not. Samson thinks he's among friends. But he's really among bodyguards. But just one a little side note here. This this scene parallels the previous scene. There's a pattern Because Samson took honey from a corrupt environment, and Samson is going to take a wife from a corrupt environment of the Philistines. So this really touches on a wider theme in the book of Judges, and that is Israel trying to coexist with that which is unclean and that which is forbidden. We see this pattern over and over again. So we see Samson's revelry, but also write down Samson's riddle. Now, when these bodyguards are appointed to Samson, he doesn't seem to worry. He kind of makes light of the situation. And basically he kind of gives them an offer that they can't refuse. Look at verse number 12. And Samson said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto you. If you can certainly declare it me within the seven days of the feast and find it out, then I will give you thirty sheets and thirty changes of garments. But if ye cannot declare it me, then ye shall give me thirty sheets and thirty changes of garments And they said unto him, put forth a riddle that we may hear it. So he kind of makes an offer they can't refuse. Hey, I'll give you a riddle. If you can find it out, I'll give you each a brand new suit. If you can't find it out, all thirty of you give me a brand new suit. And they said, okay, we're in. So look down at verse number 14. And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. So Samson composes this riddle out of the sin that he had just committed in his previous experience with the lion and the honey. But the riddle itself, and when you think about it, reveals a lot about Samson's spiritual condition and character. It reveals that he he doesn't really take sin seriously. He doesn't value his vows and separation. It's just a game to him He's making light of it. He's making light of the compromise that he had just committed when he touched that dead animal. Ralph Dale Davis excuse me, Dale Ralph Davis, let me get his name right in case he hears it says this. Davis emphasizes that Samson has the dangerous habit of playing with sin rather than fleeing from it. In other words, Samson just makes a joke out of what should have humbled him, what should have caused him to be uh you know, fearful before the Lord. And again, what it demonstrates is that consistently Samson is treating holy things carelessly and casually Now when his Philistine companions couldn't solve the riddle, what do they do? They begin to coax the answer from his wife. And uh so so notice here next that uh we see look down in verse number uh uh fifteen. And it came to pass on the seventh day that they said unto Samson's wife, Entice thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire. Have you called us to take that we ha what we have? Is is not so? So we see here then that these men, they come, they give a threat to Samson's wi uh wife, they tell her, look, give us this riddle If not, this will happen to you. So she turns and she does what women are very good at. And that is, she begins to persuade her husband. So look down at verse number 16. And Samson's wife wept before him and said, Thou dost but hate me, and lovest me not. Thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people and hast not told it me. Why are you holding secrets from me? And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father nor mother, not a good answer And shall I tell it thee? And she wept before him the seven days while their feast lasted, and it came to pass on the seventh day that he told her, because she lay sore upon him. And she told the riddle to the children of her people. Now, again, this whole story exposes a flaw in Samson's character. He's physically strong, but he's morally weak. He can tear apart lions, but he can't resist the wiles of a woman. And so Daniel Block again writes, Samson's display displays a tragic inability to recognize spiritual danger in intimate relationships. And so Samson tells his wife the riddle, she tells her companions, friends, and they come back. And the way that they re they come back to Samson and they give him the response to the riddle humiliates Samson in the way they did it. Look at verse 18. And the menace of the city said unto him, on the seventh day before the sun went down, right before the final buzzer is going to go off. Right before the very end they come and say, oh, you know what? I think we have an answer. Right at the very end, when Samson's hopes are all high And the way they answer Samson is really a mocking way. Instead of giving the straightforward answer and telling him about the lion and the and the and the carcass of the lion and the honey. They answer him in a way where it humiliates him because their answer is a reference to the fact that Samson is unable to resist a woman. So how do they respond to him? Look down in verse number 18 where it says, What is sweeter than honey, what is stronger than a lion? They answer with a little riddle of their own. And what is the answer to that? What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion? Well the answer is Samson's wife. Because Samson is unable to resist her. He was defeated by a woman. He couldn't overcome her desire to know the truth. And so the love he had for her was sweeter than honey And she's also stronger than a lion. Samson can overcome a lion, but he can't overcome her. So they answer in a way that humiliates Samson being defeated by a woman. So his pride is deeply wounded. And Samson's pride turns into rage. And so we see next Samson's revenge. Look down in verse number 18. He gives them another riddle. This was not a real friendly one. He said unto them, if you had not found my heifer, you'd not find out my riddle. Gentlemen, it's not a good idea to call your wife a heifer. Just for the note of that, just want you to know that. And so he kind of uses an agricultural metaphor here And he's implying, you know, you exploited the situation, you cheated. Samson is so angry that he loses it. And yet the Bible says, look at verse 19, and the Spirit of the Lord came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and he slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave change of garments unto them which is found to the riddle. And his anger was kindled and he went up to his father's house. You want thirty game changes of garments? All right. He goes down to Ascalon, he kills thirty Philistines, takes their garments, goes back, throws it down in front of them, and says, There's your thirty garments. And so this again, this is interesting here, because what we struggle with in verse 19 is that Samson in his rage and his anger The Spirit of the G God comes upon him in that condition. And the question you you ask Is how can the Spirit of the Lord come upon Samson in this condition? And honestly, commentators wrestle with this question. But we see in the book of Judges that the Holy Spirit often comes upon men not for the purposes of holiness, but for the purposes of fulfilling God's purpose of deliverance. That's really what we need to see here. And also another thing, God is fulfilling his purpose through Samson, not because of him, but in spite of him. So in other words, God empowering Samson does not again mean that God endorses everything that Samson does. This is again the fulfillment of what we saw in verse number four, where all of this was of the Lord because God was going to fulfill his purpose. Samson's lustful desires, this is what he chose to do, and yet through that God is going to fulfill his purpose. And now Samson is filled with rage, and yet God is going to fulfill his purpose through Samson. God is acting for Israel despite Samson's motives. And so we need to understand that. The Spirit's coming. really highlights God's grace, not Samson's worthiness. And that's what we need to see here Uh Samson might act in anger, but God is going to use that anger to judge the Philistines and begin the work of delivering his people through that one event. Now, a parallel that we could think of in Scripture where is when Joseph said to his brothers, You meant this for what? But God meant it for good. And we see the same dynamic here. Samson is filled with anger and rage. He may have meant it for evil, but God is using all of this for good to fulfill his own purposes in this. But Really, what this does, and I've pointed this out in other stories of judges, it again reminds us of the failures of these judges. They all are flawed men. And it also points forward to the need for a greater deliverer. Every judge is flawed. Gideon compromises. Jephthah is rash with his vow. We already saw that. Samson now, he's morally unstable. He doesn't take seriously the calling that God has on him. He's more concerned about himself and his own sensual appetites than he is the calling of God on his life. And this pattern creates a longing, a need for a righteous king, a need for a perfect deliverer that will come. It points forward. to the Lord Jesus Christ, who will be perfectly endowed by the Holy Spirit, empowered by the Holy Spirit. He will practice perfect obedience to his Father And he will be perfectly holy. Now the chapter here ends with a broken relationship in verse 20, but Samson's wife was given to his companion. whom he had used as his friend. So basically Samson uh he goes back to his father's house. He abandons his wife. After that episode it's all over with. He doesn't want her anymore. So he goes back to his father's house, his wife is given to a companion, and Samson ends up empty-handed. But oh it but note this, whenever we use our strength, our giftedness, what God's given us for our own selfish purpose, we're always going to end up empty. Always you'll end up empty. Again, Samson was all about him. It was all about him addressing his wounded pride. He wasn't concerned about the glory of God. He was concerned about his own pride. Samson's strength had become a tool for self-expression, not for God's divine purpose. And so we need to be careful not to make the same mistake. We despise the gifts and the callings of God when we choose our own way instead of God's way, when we cross boundaries God has set, when we care more about ourselves than God's glory. And so the lesson is clear. It's not enough for us to be gifted, to be strong with what God's given us. We must be surrendered to the purpose and the will of God for our life. We must be concerned about his glory, not our own selfish desires. And again, Jesus shows us the better way. Where Samson lived for himself Jesus lived completely for others. Where Samson will follow his own will and his own passion, Jesus followed the will of his Father. And he was selfless in everything he did. Samson's strength was wasted on his selfish desire. Christ, his strength, was poured out for our salvation. That's the pattern that we want to follow. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, help us as we read this narrative and meditate on this story. To examine our own heart in life. And to make sure that the gifts and the calling that you've given us is not wasted on selfish desires. Help us to understand and realize, Father, you've given us these gifts. Not for our own selfish exaltation, but so that we can use these gifts for your glory to help others. Help us, Lord, not to waste. The grace that you've given us in our life. Help us, Lord, to realize that our strength, used to satisfy our own desires, will wound ourselves eventually and will leave us empty. But when we surrender our strength to your will, it turns into lasting victory for your kingdom. So Father, help us to do that. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.