Thank you so much. Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Hebrews, chapter twelve, as we continue our study in Hebrews, and we're really dealing with the Hall of Fame of faith, living by faith, and we looked at chapter 11 and now we're looking at chapter 12 because I think really these two chapters are tied together. And uh there and it really finishes up the whole context of the message when you get to the end of chapter 12. So look in chapter 12, but look at verse number 4. The writer writes this, She have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin. What if you had a son or daughter who just learned how to drive and you you gave them a secondhand car and they they drove that, but Did you just say that uh you you and your wife are going to decide to go uh take a few mini mini vacation go away for a few days and your BMW, your brand new BMW that's in the driveway You give them strict instructions. Don't drive it, keep it right there, just as it is. You go on vacation and you come back. And you pull up to the house and the car is totaled. It's totaled. You go inside, first thing you want to do is make sure your your your child's okay. Everything's okay. No, they're not hurt. Now it's not okay. Let me ask you a question. Are you going to be upset? Are you going to be angry? Yeah. Are you going to disown that child No. No. In fact, we would say that there's nothing our children could do that would ever cause us to disown them. But are you going to discipline that child? Oh yes. Disown them, no. Discipline them, yes. You see, uh, this is what the writer of Hebrews here is really talking about, because this is exactly the way God is. Many times we disobey God, we do foolish things, we sin against him, but you know what? God will never disown us. He never will. If you're God's child, however, he will discipline you. So this is the point of the writer of Hebrews in this section of the letter. As children of God, we must remember that there are times where God must discipline us. And the proper response to that is for us to submit to God's hand of discipline. Again, God will never disown us, but He will be involved in our life drastically. And He will discipline his children. Now verse number four that we just read, let's read it again. Now this verse teaches us that sin is a serious matter and we ought to fight against it. We ought to strive against it in our Christian life. Some believers give in so easily to temptation as if sin is not a big deal, but it is. Some pe some people remind me of the lady who said, I can resist anything except temptation. But sin is a very serious thing, and we have to keep short accounts, and we have to confess our sin and deal thoroughly with our sin. There's a threefold judgment For sin. First of all, when God judges, he judges us as sinners. That's a past judgment. And you know, all of God's judgment for our sins fell on Jesus Christ two thousand years ago. Thank God for that. Amen. Instead of God judging us, God judged his son Jesus. Jesus was our substitute. He took all of our sins upon himself on the cross and bore the wrath of God for our sins. That's why the Bible says in Romans 8. 1, there is therefore now what? no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus because that past judgment was taking place. But then there's not only not only is there a judgment uh as sinners, there's a judgment that God has as servants. We're judged as servants. And that is, if you are a child of God, you're his servant, this is a future judgment. This will be one day when we are in heaven. We will be judged based on how we serve the Lord here. If servants are accountable to their master for their caliber of service, and one day when we go to meet the Lord in heaven, we will be judged based on the caliber of our service that we render to. the Lord Jesus. This is called the judgment seat of Christ. Write down 2 Corinthians 5. 10, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to what he hath done, whether it be good or bad. So you and I are going to have an examination day when we face God and we are judged based on our works. The Bible says that in 1 Corinthians 3. Now if any man have built upon this foundation, this is verse 12, gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, and stubble. Every man's work shall be manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and that the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. And so the question is, will my works burn up at that time when God examines the quality of my services? The quality of my service, gold, silver, and precious stones, or is it wood, hay, and stubb stubble, the fire will determine that. You've heard me say Many times before, I don't as a child of God, we don't fear the fire of hell. We fear the fire of heaven. We want our works to stand in that time. But then also there's a judgment not only as sinners, and that's a past judgment, and as servants, that's a future judgment. But God judges us as sons. And this is a present judgment. God deals with us as his children. Now, when we sin as believers, we're members of God's family. And as God's children, the Bible teaches us that we are to judge ourselves. When we sin against the Lord, what's the proper response of a believer when we sin against God? Well the Bible says if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And in fact, the fact that you're now a believer means you're more conscious uh conscious of sin. Uh you are more sensitive to sin in your life Uh you know, when you get something in your eye, you ever walk down the street and get something in your eye? How many of you just walk around the rest of the day with your eye closed in? I'll get it out later. Yeah you don't do that. You say, no, I gotta stop right now, whatever I'm doing, and you go and you try to wash it out with water and cleanse it out. Why? Well because the eye is so sensitive And that irritant will is so bad, that irritation is so bad that you have to deal with it immediately. Well, that's the way it ought to be for the believer in sin and our soul. Because what what dirt is to the body, sin is to the soul. And so the so our response to sin should be that we confess that sin, that we judge it. We judge our own sins. We confess. The word confess homo leggeo to say the same thing. When we confess our sins, we're judging it. We're saying the same thing about our sin that God says about it. It is evil in my sight. We say, God, my sin is evil in your sight. I've sinned against you. Please cleanse me and forgive me with the precious blood of Christ. And you for you confess that sin, you forsake that sin, that is judging your sins. And uh you can't lose your salvation. As a believer, you'll always be saved. Remember, God doesn't disown you. But there's a lot of other things you can lose in the Christian life. You can lose your joy. You can lose your fellowship. You can lose your reward. You can lose blessings. There's a lot of other things you can lose if you don't judge your own sin. Sin is unspeakably harmful, damaging to the life of a Christian. And so that's why we have to judge our sins. The apostle Paul said this to the Corinthians, for if we would judge ourselves, this is 1 Corinthians 11, 31, for if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened though the Lord that we should not be condemned with the world. That is to say that God says to us, look, if you judge your sins, I won't need to step in and judge him. If you discipline yourself, if you confess that sin, if you forsake that sin, and you judge that sin yourself, Then God says, I don't, there's no need for me to step in and judge it. If we would judge ourselves, Paul said, we would not need to be judged. You see, uh there's no God doesn't judge a person who's already judging themselves. And uh illustration I'd like to use is when we had a Christian school here and I was the administrator. uh they would bring students to me for discipline and every once in a while a elementary school teacher would bring a child in and uh I had this reputation for being a mean disciplinarian. I don't know where that came from I'm I'm one of the nicest people you'll ever meet in your life. But every once in a while they would bring a child into the office and he was already crying. You know, scared to death. Just little shoulders bumping up and down and just big old crocodile tears and you know and the teacher, you know, she wanted me to throw the book at him. And uh she would leave and I would say, Uh are you okay, bud? Yeah, yeah I'm all right. All right, go and sin no more There was no need for me to judge him. He was already judging himself. Alright? And and God says the same thing. Look, if you judge yourself If you're already broken over your own sin and you're confessing your sin and you're mourning over your sin and you're disciplining yourself and you're trying to perfect holiness, there's no need for God to step in and judge you if you're already judging yourself. But the problem is, when a Christian doesn't do that, when we don't judge ourselves, then God has to step in. And if you're a child of God, you can't just sin and live in a pattern of sin and think that you can get away with it. Because if you're a child of God, God is not going to let you get away with it. And so the writer of Hebrews is saying, you can't just walk away from Christ. You can't just do what you want to do. You can't live the way you want to live if you're truly a child of God. Do you actually think you can live in perpetual disobedience to your Heavenly Father and him not do something about that? That's not going to happen if you belong to the Lord. And so the writer of Hebrews is going to remind us to submit. When God has to step in and God has to do the discipline, he's telling us to submit to God's discipline. And he's reminding us of three important Facts about the discipline of God. Three important truths that we need to learn about God's discipline. Here's the first one. First of all, it's a forgotten truth. It's a forgotten truth. Look at verse number five. And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children. My son, despise thou not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. And here the writer of Hebrews is quoting from the Old Testament, from Proverbs chapter 3, verse 11 and 12. And this is something that the Hebrews that he was writing to should have already known, because if they know the Old Testament scripture, they they know this verse But they just seem to have forgotten this. And he's saying, have you forgotten what what the Old Testament scripture has already taught you that God will discipline his children, God will chastise his own Some people seem to forget about that today. There are some people that just seem to have this strange idea that they can just sin and get away with it. Uh some who maybe maybe name the name of Christ think that you know God uh you you can sin oh it's just a little sin and surely God will look the other way. Well earthly parents may do that, but your heavenly father will not do that He will not look the other way. God is a God of love. You say, well, yeah, God is a God of love. That's why He's going to look the other way. No, God is a God of love. Therefore, he will not look the other way. We have a warped view of love today. You know, God will not let you continue in a destructive pattern of behavior that will harm you. Why? Well, because God loves you. He will not overlook sin in your life. He will not overlook sin in my life. He will not sit back as a passive heavenly father. And just say, yeah, I'm going to let that go. That is not love. Again, God chastens us because he loves us And he hates sin, and he knows what sin can do to us. Like a doctor hates cancer. Even more so, God hates sin. Again, notice in verse 5 where it says, And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children, my son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord. Nor faint when thou art rebuked of him, for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourges every son whom he receives. And so um He's basically saying, look, don't forget that if you do come under the discipline of God, remember that the reason he does that is Because he loves you. That's what you're forgetting. Really here he's giving us two extreme reactions to the discipline of God that are not proper reactions. First of all, some despise it. Despise thou not the chastening of the Lord. That is, the word despise means to think lightly of it or not to take it seriously. And then there's the other extreme where some faint, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. Uh stay here has the idea of wanting to quit. They want to get depressed. They want to just they just lose heart when they're chastened of the Lord. I can remember these two extremes when I was a child growing up and I needed discipline and my mother she would uh she would uh spank me and she didn't hit very hard to be honest with you, beloved. She was kind of gentle and uh, you know, so when she spanked me, I was just like, okay, whatever, all right. Thank you, Mom. I appreciate that. I needed it. Um and I kinda would think lightly of it. But then sometimes she would say, Wait till your father gets home. Then I wanted to run away. I wanted to resign from the Harman family after that. Those are the two opposite extremes. You either take it lightly or you want to quit. And the writer of Hebrews is saying, look, those are not the right responses to the discipline of God. When God disciplines you, don't think lightly of it and don't quit. God might discipline you in a gentle way, and when he does that, don't think lightly of that, because our God is such a gracious and patient God. And uh he will speak to us, he will gently discipline us to remind us to get back on the way. And if you think lightly of it, there may be something more serious coming along. And then he says, and don't faint when God is severe. Some people might say, well, I'm done with this Christian life I'm through with the Christian life. And again, both responses are wrong. What is the correct response? The correct response is that we simply submit. to the discipline of God. Because it demonstrates that God loves us. That's the writer's point in verse 6. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens. And his chastisement, his discipline in your life is an expression of his love. He loves us and he's a perfect heavenly father. He knows exactly what we need. Exactly. He measures each stroke that he gives us, and he gives us the exact chastisement that we need. God never flogs us in blind rage. But in divine wisdom, God will measure out each stroke that he gives his children out of love. You know what God's trying to do? He's trying to protect us from sin. He's trying to protect us from something far, far worse. Remember when your children were little? Uh you wouldn't let them play around the electric socket, would you? No, of course not. You wouldn't let them play around a hot iron and that little hand would reach out and you would say no, no, no, and pull it back, and they'd reach out again and you'd smack it and they'd Well up in tears and cry, they have that little bit of discomfort, but you're protecting them from something much worse. And that's exactly the way it is with our Heavenly Father. He is protecting us from something far more serious, something more damaging in our life But another reason is because he it demonstrates that he has received us. Look again in verse six where it says, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourges every son whom he receives, the Greek word here, paradecomai, to intimately receive. That's the idea. God is so involved in our life and he wants to be close to us and he wants to know that we are in his family and he's not a passive heavenly father that's not interested in the things of uh uh in our life. No, he is involved in every part of our life. You know, every once in a while we'll counsel a frustrated teenager who will say their parents really don't accept them. And the whole basis of their argument is because their parents never really seem to take any interest in them They never really get involved in any of the things that are going on in their life. And so therefore they feel like that they're not received by their parents. But God, our Heavenly Father, his chastisement is a sign that He intimately has received us and we are His. And so That's what we have to remember when God will uh bring chastisement into our life. So it's a forgotten truth. But here's number two. Chastisement is a family truth. Look at verse 7. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? So to be chastised by God. Reveals several things. And this is the good side of it. This is a thing that we should take pleasure in, and that is it it results in assurance. It results in assurance. If you ever doubt that you are a child of God, well when you experience the chasing of the Lord, that should remove any doubts. Because God will only chastise his own. This is evidence of sonship. Nothing gives greater evidence that you're a child of God than to be a partaker of the discipline of God. I mean one of the reasons you know that you're saved is because God doesn't let you get away with things. I mean He doesn't let you get away with it Um, you know, um when my kids were growing up they hung around other kids and sometimes those kids would get out of line. I didn't go over to those other children, my neighbor's children, and spank them saying, Come here, I'm gonna spank you. That's a good way to get thrown in jail. You go around spanking your neighbor's children. No, I I wouldn't spank my neighbor's children, but if my kids got out of line, now I will spank them. Because they're mine. They belong to me. And even so, when God chastises you, that reveals that you belong to And the writer is asking a very good question in verse 7. What child is there that never gets correction from his father? Now back then that was unheard of. Now today it might not be unheard of. Because we live in a day when parents don't believe in correcting their kids. That's another sermon for another day. But back in this day, this was a the thought of a child never getting correction from his father, well, that was unheard of. Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction will drive it far from him. The Bible says in Proverbs 13, 24, He that spareth his rod hateth his son. But he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes. When you correct your children again, that's a sign of love. You don't spare the rod, you use it The Bible says in Proverbs 2313, withhold not correction from the child, for if thou beatest him with a rod, he shall not die. I love how practical the Bible is. Knows children, doesn't it? Children, you know, children are great actors, did you know that? Some of them deserve an Academy Award. Especially when it comes time to correction, uh to spank them. Oh, they cry out like you're gonna kill 'em. But the writer Hebrews says that will be all right. They'll be all right. You know, God's prepared a place for you to spank it where no bones can be broken. If he if that listen to what it says, thou beatest him with a rod and shall deliver his soul from hell. And so chastisement was part of growing up in a home. A father chastises his own. Look at verse number eight. But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. And the writer is very clear here. If you can live in sin and not be disciplined by God, what does that reveal about you? That you're not a true child of God, that you are a illegitimate child spiritually, that you don't belong to God. If you can just live in a pattern of sin and there's no chastisement. You have a worse judgment coming, unfortunately. And I pray that no one here is in that condition. Um if you think that you can sin and get away with it and everything's all right, and God never chastises you And you never judge your own sins and everything's just fine in your life, then you need to get saved. You need to get to become a part of the family of God. Well you say, well, I know a Christian who sinned and sinned and they never repented and God didn't chase uh chastise them. I can remember when they got saved. Well, you may have seen them make a profession. You may have seen them go through the motions of being a Christian. But the truth of the matter is you don't really know who's saved or who's not, and I don't either. And that's why you need to examine your own heart before the Lord. But the Bible says if a if a person doesn't get chastised, it's because they have a greater judgment awaiting them. And so it results in assurance. When you're chastened of the Lord. But here's the second thing: it results in reverence. Look at verse 9. Furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence. And again, the argument the writer uses here is designed to get us to submit to God's discipline. And again, he's using the illustration of earthly fathers. Our earthly fathers disciplined us. And by the way, they weren't perfect in the way that they administered their discipline, their chastisement. But you know what, uh sometimes I g hear, you know, people getting angry at well-meaning parents and I want to say to the kids, you know, hey, give them a break. You know, parents are doing the best they can. Um We're not perfect in the way we administer our punishments to our children. But and and I know I've I've made my share of mistakes with that, and I know you have too, we all have. But the writer here says, look, our earthly fathers, they uh they corrected us. And even though they may not have been perfect, there have been times when they may have corrected us too much, they may have overcorrected us Or maybe they may not have corrected us enough. But the fact fact of the matter is, we look back on them now, and you know what? We give them reverence. We thank God. How many of you, you don't have to raise your hand, but you say, I thank God I had a good mom and dad that that that that disciplined me, that gave me what I needed. You didn't like it at the time. But now we kind of look back. Even even when they would over uh correct, which uh you know I rem you know you ever hear a bunch of men just standing around talking about their father, kinda like a macho man talk Well my father when he man when I got out of line he would take a big old leather belt and boy he would he'd let me have it. Another guy said, Well that's nothing my father, he'd use a two by four And then they keep up in the annie. Well my dad he used a four by six and he it just sort of gets bigger and bigger, you know. Well, wha what what are they doing when they when they're doing that? You know what they're actually saying? I ha I had a good dad. I had a good father. You know, he wasn't perfect, but you know what? He chastised me and we and we give him reverence. And here's the point that the writer is giving. Look, if you give your earthly fathers reverence Even though with in the way that they administered chastisement to you, it wasn't perfect, how much more should you reverence your heavenly father? who when he chastises us is perfect every time in the way that he administers his chastisement. Shouldn't you much more submit To his chastisements and give him reverence. Look again in verse number nine. Shall we not much more rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and Live, look at verse ten, for for they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure, but he for our prophet, that we might be partakers of his holiness. And so if we reverence our earthly parents for correcting us, how much more should we not submit to and reverence our Heavenly Father who chastises us perfectly when we need it? So discipline is a forgotten truth. God's discipline is a family truth, but also here's the third and final thing. God's discipline is a fruitful truth. It's fruitful. Look at verse eleven. Now no chastening for the present seems to be joyous but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Now God chastens us so that we might bring about We might produce character in our life. That's why we correct our children, right? We want we want to build their character. We want them to learn right and wrong. Well That's why God does it. God is trying to produce in us the fruit of holiness. Again, he's trying to make us more like the Lord Jesus Christ. And so God will chasten us so that first of all we'll grow up Some believers just need to mature. That's what we see in verse number 11, where he says, you know, you know, when chastening is happening, it's not fun. It's not fun for a child. I don't ever remember when my father was thanking me saying, hallelujah, Dad, thank you so much. This is fun. No, none of us ever felt that way. Of course not. Dad, can we do this again sometime? And by the way, it it's not fun for the parent either Parents don't like it either. No parent enjoys chastising their child unless you know they're they're kind of demented. Um but parents don't enjoy that. We don't rejoice in the process of discipline, but we rejoice in the product. We rejoice in what it produces. Look again in verse eleven, the latter part which says, Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness. Unto them which are exercised there by. I love that word exercise. This writer, you know, obviously knew that it wasn't easy sometimes to spank your children. It's a lot of exercise. The word for exercise here is the word gymnazo, where we get the word gymnasium. Gymnasium. Um so you know and uh it takes work sometimes uh to to spank your children, especially if you know they're hard to deal with. Uh I I again that's another sermon for another time. But but here really the idea here, however, is that in in in that world, in the Greco-Roman world, a gymnasium was a place where athletes would go to do all of their vigorous training So that they could get ready for the the uh competition, whatever event that they were entered into, and the Olympic Games or or the other various games they had back then. They would they would go through rigorous training, rigorous exercise in in the gym. And chastisement kind of has the same effect. What it's doing is it's it's taking us through a period of training in our life so that we'll be ready. Now what I want you to see here in this chapter Some of you might be asking, what does all this have to do with Hebrews 11? You know, the the uh you know we saw in Hebrews 11 all of these Old Testament characters that all live by faith, and the writer of Hebrews is saying, man, look at them. Follow their pattern, model yourself after them. And then by the time you get to Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1, he says, we're surrounded by this great cloud of witnesses. Let's lay aside every weight and sin which easily besets us. Let us run with patience the race that is set before us. What he's saying is, you know, you have all these people that have run the race before you, and now it's your turn to run the race And now you need to j to do it, you need to look unto Jesus. That's your encouragement, that's your motivation. You need to take uh courage from those who have already run this race and look to Jesus. So he's been using like an athletic kind of metaphor there, isn't he? Now what he's suddenly doing is he's switching back. He went from an athletic metaphor to kind of a family metaphor, and now he's switching back to the athletic metaphor. That's what he's doing here. Very subtly we see this happening here. The word exercise is the idea of an athlete training And that leads to the next idea. God chastises us so that we'll grow up, but also so that we'll go on. Look in verse number 12. Wherefore Lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees, and make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way, but let it rather be healed And what is that those verses there, pitcher? A runner finishing a race, but he's not really finishing all that well. He's got his hands hanging down and he can't run in a straight line. You ever see these guys run a marathon? And some of 'em that, you know, just barely make it across the finish line. They stagger across. They can barely walk straight. And they're they're they're weak And and they're they're you know they're they can't hardly walk, stand straight, they're staggering as they get to the finish line. God doesn't want us finishing the race that way. All of us in the Christian life, we all have a race to run. It matters how you finish. It matters how you finish the race. He doesn't want us barely staggering across the finish line. He wants us to finish the race strong. That's the whole point. And how's that going to happen? Well, the the better disciplined you are. The better you've trained, or we could say the better the chastisement has been in your life, the stronger you become. You see, God is not only our Father, He's our coach. He's our coach too. And when God disciplines us, it may not even be because of sin that's in our life. It may be because God is just preparing us for something great, for some competition, some event in the Christian life that we need. God wants us there, and we have to be strong. And so therefore, God will be rigid in the way that He deals with us. Why? Because He wants us to be strong. We're runners in the race. And he wants us to finish this race with uh successfully with being strong. You know, running was one of the most popular events in the Olympic Games. I already talked to you about that. People that would run the race would uh have their lanes and um they would fix their eyes on the the prize. The opposite end of the stadium was a goal where the judge sat and held the prize. And a lot of times the eyes of the runner would be fixed on that prize. And so the goal as well as the starting point was marked by a square pillar. It was a and a third was placed midway between the two. The goal Is referred to in actually in the book of Philippians, chapter 3, verse number 14. It talks about this very thing. But in order to enter this race, we have to be disciplined. We have to go through severe training. And God, who is our father, is also our coach. And he's saying, you know what? I'm dealing with you in a very stringent way, in a very strict way, because I want you To win, I want you to be strong. What's what's the old saying? No pain, no gain. You know You ever you heard of the football coach who had a scout? He sending them out to find players for him, and he brought the scout in. He goes, I want to tell you what kind of player that I want you to look for. He said, Well, okay, coach The coach said, you know, there's a there's a player out there and you you know i i you hit him and he goes down and he doesn't get back up. He said, we don't want him, do we, coach? He said no. He said then there's a player if you if you knock him down he gets back up and you knock him down and he gets back up And then you knock him down and he stays down. He goes, do we want him? He said, no, we don't want him either. He said, then there's a player, you knock him down and he gets back up. You knock him down and he gets back up. He just keeps getting back up. He gets knocked down and he keeps getting back up. He said, that's who we want, right, Coach? She said no. He said, I want you to find that guy that's knocking everybody down The picture here is where God is saying, I want you to be strong. I want you to be the one knocking people down. I want you to be knocking down the kingdom of darkness, not it knocking you down. I want you to finish strong. When you get to the end of the race, I don't want your hands to be hanging down. I don't want your knees to be feeble. I want you to run straight. I don't want you staggering from side to side because you didn't train hard enough or you weren't disciplined enough. And so God is exhorting us to be strong. And then to be straight. Again, verse 13, and make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is laying be turned out of the way, but let it rather be healed. And so God is saying, that's why I deal with you in the way that I do. Because I want you to finish strong in the Christian life. Let me just give you this illustration we'll be done. In 1945, I was reading where it was an absolutely great year for young evangelists. This is if you're using the way the world measures things. There were three young evangelists that were well known in that time. They would pack out stadiums. Um they were just tremendously gifted speakers. One was named Billy Graham, you've heard of him. He was 27. He was a gifted preacher for Youth for Christ. But then there were others that you probably haven't heard of, a man by the name of Chuck Templeton and Braun Clifford. Templeton was actually said to be even more gifted than the other two. He would he would pack out stadiums when he preached. He was called the most gifted and talented young man in America for preaching. In 1946, there was an article about the men who were best used of God. The article highlighted the ministry of Chuck Templeton. It never even mentioned Billy Graham. Templeton was called the Babe Root of Evangelism. The other evangelist, Braun Clifford, he was 25 years old. Others said he was the most gifted. One time he preached in uh to an auditorium of thousands in Miami, Florida, and uh he preached for hours. He kept young people mesmerized with the way that he would preach But all three of these guys came out of the running blocks, you know, running a great race, like rockets. They blazed out in that year. But you you've heard of Billy Graham But you've never heard of Chuck Templeton or Brian Clifford. Why is that? Well, because just five years later, after that, Templeton left the ministry. He decided he didn't want to be in ministry anymore. He decided he was no longer a believer in Christ. He didn't want to hold on to those orthodox doctrines anymore. He said he wasn't a Christian in the orthodox sense of the word. And so by 1950, the Babe Ruth of Evangelism wasn't even wasn't even in the game anymore. And then what about Clifford? Well by 1954 Clifford lost his family, he lost his ministry, he lost his health, and then he lost his life. He became an alcoholic, he became financially irresponsible. Uh he he left his wife. Uh he became an auto car salesman and he died of cirrhosis of the liver in a rundown motel on the edge of Amarillo, Texas. He died, as one person wrote, unwept, unhonored, and unsung. Here were three young men. That fired out of the starting blocks in the race of life, the Christian race, they all started out well, but only one really ended well. You see, it really doesn't matter how you start out in the Christian life. What matters is how you end. How you end. Are you going to run a strong race all the way up to the finish line To the end, until the time when the Lord says, it's time for you to come home. You've run the race. Like the Apostle Paul said, I've I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. I fought a good flight. I finished my course. I've kept the faith. That's what God wants from us. And that's why God brings us through this whole thing of discipline Discipline. Now, one more thing I would point out. I see three levels of chastisement in Hebrews. In Hebrews 12, 5, he uses the word rebuked. He'll rebuke that speaking, Hebrews 12, 6, and then chasten, that's spanking, and then in Hebrews 12. 6, and then scourges, that's another level. You see, when God begins to To discipline us, he'll first speak to us. He may convict us through the Word of God. It might be through a preacher. It might be through you reading the Bible or maybe another believer. God will speak to you first. And if you don't submit to God's discipline, then the next level is spanking. God will take it up a notch and He'll spank you. It might be some providence in your life that God brings along where God is rebuking you. He's uh chastising you like Jonah who disobeyed the Lord, ran from God, and God chastised Jonah, didn't he? And he ended up doing exactly what God wanted. Might be some circumstance. God is able to put you into a storm, able to put a whale on your trail to get your attention. But then also There's speaking, they're spanking, and then there's a whole nother level, and that is scourging, scourging, where God has to be severe. And we see that also in Scripture. And so again, the whole point that the writer is really emphasizing in this whole passage is look submit to the discipline of God that's the right response Don't don't think lightly. Don't quit. Just remember why God's doing it, because you're his child. He loves you. Give him reverence and submit to his hand because as much as he's your father, he's also your coach. And he wants you to finish strong in the Christian life. Let's bow for prayer together. tonight. Father, again, thank you for your word and how clear it is to us. Lord, help us to take heed to these words from the book of Hebrews. To submit to your loving hand of discipline when it comes. To submit to it, knowing, Lord, that you're trying to produce in us the fruit of holiness. You're trying to get us to grow up. You're trying to get us to go on and to finish strong in this race of life, so that one day when we stand before you we'll hear the words Well done, well done, good and faithful servant. And we pray in Jesus' name.