Job chapter 1. Look at verse 1. There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job. That man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and escured evil. Once uh a person who lived in the White House during the time of Abraham Lincoln Said that he happened to see the president come in one day and he was very dejected. He sat down on the couch, his hands were in his face. And he knew he knew that he had come from the War Department and the news was not good. But then he said he saw the president reach that long arm of his and grab a book from the shelf and he happened to notice that it was a Bible And he said in 15 minutes he looked at the president and the president's countenance was totally changed. He went from one of dejection to one of hope. with a new resolution in his heart. And the man was curious as to what he was reading in the Bible that gave him such hope. And he kind of looked over his shoulder and looked down and Abraham Lincoln was Abra Abraham Lincoln was reading from the book of Job. From the book of Job. What was it that he saw that gave him hope, that replaced his sorrow with hope. Well I hope we can see that here as we look at the story of Job, because what we're going to see here is that any suffering that God allows in the life of his children always has a divine purpose. It may be that you're here today and you're suffering. You're going through some trial today. I want you to know, based on the scripture, that the trial that you are in, that you're facing, is not without a purpose. God has a purpose for it in your life. He has a purpose for suffering in all of our lives. God bruises us that he might bless us. And we see this in the life of Job. I want you to see this here in chapter 1. We're just going to look, here's what we're going to do today. We're going to look at the story of Job. I'm going to kind of go through it quickly with you. And then I want us to get some application principles from it And hopefully that will be an encouragement to you today. But I want you to see chapter one. It's really set out set off in three scenes. If this were a movie or a play, there would be three acts or three scenes in this play. And they're each set off by the words, there was. For example, look in verse 1, there was a man in the land of Uz. Verse 6, now there was a day when the sons of God came. And finally down in verse 13, and there was a day. So notice that these three different scenes are set off by the phrase, there was, there was, there was. So I want you to see scene one in our drama today is what I call Job contented. God gives prosperity. And this is the setting of the story. This is the opening scene. Verse 1. There was a man in the land of Uz. Now, there are some who doubt that this was a real story. They doubt it because they say the suffering in this story was so incredible. It has to be a fable. It has to be a fantasy. But it's not. Job is a very real person. Lord Byron said truth is stranger than fiction, and that certainly seems so here. Job was a real person. In case you doubt that, write down Ezekiel 14, 14, where it mentions three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job. Now, if Noah was real and Daniel was real, then so was Job. And so that verse supports this fact. And what we see, first of all, is Job's faith. Look in verse 1. There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job, and that man was perfect. Notice the first thing, perfect. That's not sinless, but blameless. That's what the word means. It's related to his integrity. He was a man of integrity. And then it says he was upright. This is a word that talks about his conduct. Everything he did he did in a godlike way in his conduct. And then he feared God. He had a reverence for God, the Bible says, and then he eschewed evil. The word eschewed means to turn away from, to shrink back from. He hated evil, he would shrink back from it. And so these four expressions show us Job's piety. He was a man of Great moral character. He was a godly man. And this is important to note at the very beginning because later on his friends are going to question his character. But here it shows up front his character. We see Job's faith, but then Job's fortune. Look at verse 2. And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. So it mentions his children. Now today children are considered by some to be a financial expense, but in that day they were regarded as wealth. Children don't make a rich man poor, they make a poor man rich. And that's certainly the way it was viewed in this day. To have children was to have riches. It was a blessing. The Bible says it's Psalm 127 verse 3, Lo children are a heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. And look at the ratio, seven sons to three daughters. This was considered ideal in this time. Seven sons, three daughters, sons to carry on your name. And so ten in a family according to 1 Samuel 1 was a complete family. And so he has this wonderful group of kids. And then notice his livestock and his servants. And verse 3, his substance was 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, 500 sheasses, a very great household, so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East. Now again in this patriarchal age, one's wealth was measured by his livestock or the number of servants that he had. And if you read these numbers here and you really compare them to other passages, you find out that this was a phenomenal amount. According to ancient standards. I mean, Job was really rich. According to one source, the Arabs of that day had 3,000 camels. Job owned that many himself. Now by the way, camels in that day, that was kind of the Cadillac of that day. Like someone had 3,000 Cadillacs. I mean he had a lot. A very rich man in David's day, a man by the name of Nabal, had 3,000 sheep. Here, Job has 7,000. Now, if you had 300 sheep in that day, you were considered rich. And so the Bible says he was the greatest of all, simply meaning he was the richest of all. He was kind of the Bill Gates of his day. He had a lot And then notice his family in verse 4, and his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day, and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them. And so here they would feast together. Now, what is this that's going on in verse 4? Some think it's a birthday where it says his day, they think it means their birthday, and when they had the birthday, they all would celebrate and come together But the problem with that, it mentions the sons and not the daughters, so are we to believe that the sons celebrated their birthdays and forgot the sisters? Because it's possible. But we don't think that's what's going on here. What's going on here, I think, is this is a weekly meal. I think the better way to see this, there were seven sons, seven days of the week. Each son had a certain day when all the siblings would come over to his house And the three daughters were spared from having to make any meal. They were just invited over. This was a way to honor the daughters in the family. And so each son had a day of the week where all the children would come together and they would eat And they would celebrate and they would feast together. And so what does this show? This shows a loving bond that existed between these ten children. They ate together every day. I heard someone say, When I love my brothers and sisters, I'm not sure if I want to eat with them every day. But this is what's going on here. They loved being together. They had a beautiful family bond. This is a portrait of family love and family unity. This is an ancient version of the Waltons. If you would like. You know, Mary Ellen J Jim Bob and all the rest of them got together. And they enjoyed one another. The Bible says, Behold how good and how pleasant It is for brothers to dwell together in unity. The Bible places a very high value on family togetherness and love. Ecclesiastes, go thy way, eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with a merry heart, for God now accepts your works. It is a gift from God to be able to come together and enjoy one another, enjoy family blessings. And this is what's going on here. But then we see Job's fear. Look at verse five. And so it was when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts, and thus did Job continually. So in this patriarchal era, it was the father's responsibility To act as the priest on behalf of the family and to offer sacrifices on behalf of his children. And Job did this religiously He did it weekly. The Bible says he would offer sacrifices for his children according to the number of them all. The word here is Mishpar, one animal per child. Think about that, that took a lot of work. If you had ten altars and ten sacrifices or one altar and you'd offer a sacrifice for each child, that's still a lot of work. But Job didn't care. He wanted to do that. Why? Because he wanted to intercede for his children And this is a way of praying and interceding for them. It says he would send and sanctify them. That is, he would summon each child, bring them before him. He would pray for them. And pray for their spiritual walk. And this sacrifice was on behalf of their sin. Just in case they had sinned against the Lord, he wanted to intercede for them. Because it's Job says it may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. And thus did Job continually. He wanted to make sure that he was doing all that he could as a father. to care for the spiritual well-being of his children. And that's the kind of man Job was. A very sincere godly man who cared deeply for his children, specifically their spiritual walk. That's the end of scene one. The curtain closes. Now we go to scene two, because we see in verse six, the scene opens up in heaven. The camera of Scripture switches from earth to heaven, from Job's home to God's throne. And scene two, we could call this. Scene one was Job contented, God gives prosperity. Scene two is Job considered, God gives permission. So we are privileged in these verses, I think, to kind of peek into heaven, to see what goes on in the heavenlies. That we normally don't see. And apparently what's going on here is a cabinet meeting. Look in verse 6. And there wasn't a When the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them. This is a meeting in heaven, a council meeting in heaven. Often in the Old Testament we see this referenced, and Old Testament scholars call this divine counsel. When God meets and counsel with all of his angels. When the false prophets in Jerusalem were out there challenging Jeremiah's message and undermining his authority, Jeremiah said, For who among them has stood in the counsel of the Lord? You think those guys are real? Have they been in God's counsel in heaven? Jeremiah references this divine counsel. And it's referenced in other places in the Old Testament scripture. I don't have time to go over all of it, just trust me on that. But notice where it says the sons of God came to present themselves. This is the word B'n'Elohim. This is referenced about angels. Whenever B'n'Elohim is used, it's always talking about angels. And so God comes with his angels together, and he meets a divine counsel. And guess who is among them in verse six? And Satan came also among them. Here, Satan appears in divine counsel. By the way, you know what the word the Hebrew word for Satan is? Satan. This is a transliteration. And the word actually means slanderer. Who came among them? The slanderer came. Satan. And he begins to brag. Look at verse 7. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Now God didn't need to ask why are you here? God already knew. He knows all things. So why does he ask this question? He wants to put Satan on record. He wants all of heaven to hear his words, because God is going to make a fool of him. He wants every angel in all humanity to and all generations to see the folly of Satan. And this is why God puts him on record for all of us to hear. And now we can even know what he's says, because of this. And notice what he says in verse 7. The Lord said unto Satan, from whence comest thou? Then Satan answered to the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth and from walking up and down in it Now here Satan is bragging. He says, I'm going up and down, I'm going to and fro on all the earth. Translation. I've had it pretty easy I can do whatever I want. I've accomplished all the things that I want. My kingdom is advancing unhindered. If we put it in football terms, I'm scoring touchdowns. My offense is working. I can run the ball. I can pass the ball. Where's your defense? Where are the believers? I'm having my will and my way in people's lives. There is no one who is really an obstacle to me. There is no one who is really a challenge to me. What is this? This is the slanderer, and he's making an accusation against the church He's making an accusation against the people of God. In that sense, he's saying, God, where are all your godly people? Where are they? I have my foot in the door of every heart. I place my stronghold in the lives of all your people. I'm building my kingdom. I am advancing. Where are your people? Spurgeon, the great prince of preacher, said it like this: The evil one boasted that he had gone to and fro throughout the earth, insinuating that he had met with no hindrance to his will and found no one to oppose his freely moving and acting at his own pleasure. And there are times when Satan speaks truth. And I think this is one of those times. By the way, we can apply this today. Where are the godly people today? Where are the people that stand for truth? Where are the people that stand on the Word of God, that live out the Word of God, that are godly people? Where are the people that are standing against sin and immorality? Satan looks upon the church today and he probably says the same thing. I'm doing what I want to do. And so here Satan is accusing the people of God. The psalmist said this in Psalm 12. 1. Help, Lord, for the godly man ceases, for the faithful fail among the children of Men. And there have been times throughout redemptive history where the remnant of godly people have been relatively low. In Genesis 6, the Bible says, the Lord looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt. And every man had corrupted his way upon the earth. And the imagination of man's heart was only evil continually. And that followed the great judgment of the flood. And Jeremiah, Jeremiah was questioning God's judgment, and God said, I'll tell you what, Jeremiah, go through the streets of Jerusalem and see and know and see it in the broad places if you can find just one man. Who executes a judgment, who seeks truth, and if you can find one man, Jeremiah, I'll pardon it. And he couldn't find anybody. Every once in a while, in redemptive history, the number of godly people is relatively small. And I think there's a sense in which this may be true here. And so Satan was coming seeking to shame the church and to shame the name of God. This was a bold thing for him to do But notice the Lord's response. Look at verse 8. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? That there is none like him in the earth? A perfect and an upright man, one that fears God and excuse evil. Have you considered my servant Job? Actually the word consider here. is a word that means targeted. You targeted my servant Joe? He's an exception. Look at him. He's one who fears God. He's one who turns from evil. God always has a godly remnant. And here's God's man in that day, and it was Job. Very few men who stood for truth, but Job is certainly one of them. And the Lord says, Have you considered my servant Job? So we see here Satan in the beginning, his we see divine counsel, but then we see his challenge, divine challenge in verse 8. But look at verse 9. Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Verse 10, Has thou not made a hedge about him and about his house? And about all that he hath on every side, thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. But put forth now thine hand, and touch all that he has, and he will curse thee to thy face So here's the challenge. Satan begins to accuse Job. The only reason Job is serving you, God, is because of all the gifts that you give them. I mean, look at all you've given them. Look at all his substance. And in essence, what Job what what Satan is saying about God is, God, you have to buy your worshipers. If you didn't give him all that stuff, he wouldn't worship you. In fact, what he would do is he would curse you. And so here's the challenge. Satan is challenging Job. Is he sincere? I think his faith is superficial, God. I think that if you take away some things from his life, he will not bless you, he will curse you, and that's the challenge. And so really the issue here is this, and this is the issue for all of us here today. Is God worthy to be worshipped because of what he gives us or because of who he is? That's the issue here. And would you worship God? Now by the way, everything that we have, all that we are, is because of the grace of God and the goodness of God and the blessings of God. But if he took some of those things away, would we still worship him? Would we still praise him? Or would we turn away from him? And here the accusation against Job is: you take those things away, or you let me take them away, and he will curse you. He won't bless you. And so what's at stake here is not only Job's faith, whether or not it's sincere, real, but also God's honor. God's glory. Is God worthy? And so that's what's at stake here And by the way, there have been people that have connected themselves to Christianity or connected themselves to the church or to Jesus only for what they could get out of it. We see that in the New Testament. Remember in John 6, Jesus feeds the multitudes? They had a good supper because of Jesus. But when they got up in the next morning, Jesus was gone. They're all looking around. Where is Jesus? He went on the other side of the lake. They all followed him over there. You know why? They wanted breakfast. And when Jesus didn't give them breakfast and when he began to preach to them the gospel and tell them the demands of being his disciple, you know what the Bible says? They just walked away. And that's when Jesus said to his own disciples, Will you also go away? And Peter said, Lord, where are we going to go? That was a test for his disciples. And so here, the question is, does Job have genuine faith or does he have superficial faith? Is God worthy of our worship just because of who he is? Or because of what he does and what he gives to us. This is the challenge. And so we see then divine consent. Look in verse 12. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power Only upon him put not forth thine hands. So Satan went from the presence of the Lord. He got what he came for. You know what he came for? Permission. To get at Job, and God gives him his consent. That's the end of scene two On scene one, Job contented, God gives prosperity. Scene two, Job considered, God gives permission, and then the camera switches back to Earth again. For scene three, Job crushed. God gives pain. Scene three, look at verse 13. And there was a day When his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. And so what we're going to see here is just the trials come upon him, one after another. You ever notice how trials come swiftly? Yeah. Suddenly, steadily. One day you're doing great, next day you get a phone call, phone that rings. And this is what happens. The Bible says in James, you know, when ye fall into divers, and the word fall has the idea of something that happens suddenly. It might be suddenly to us, but for Satan it's strategic. Winston Churchill said, we must always be ready at our average moment to meet what the enemy will throw at us at his select moment. And this was Satan's select moment. He studied Job. He planned how to attack him. Spurgeon again says, when the ark enemy spies a weak place in the wall of our castle. He takes care to plant to plant his battering ram and begins his seed. You may conceal, even from your dearest friend, your weakness, but you cannot conceal it from your worst enemy. And so Satan hit him. And he knew exactly where to hit him. First his fortune in verse 13. 14, there came a messenger unto Job and said, The oxen were ploughing and the asses feeding beside them, and the Sabians fell upon them and took them away, yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I am escaped alone to tell thee. And while he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, The fire of God has fallen from heaven And have burned up the sheep and the servants and consumed them. And I only escaped alone to tell thee. While he was speaking there came also another and said, The Chaldeans made out Three bands, and they fell upon the camels, and have carried them away, yea, and slain thy servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. And while he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. And behold there came a great wind from the wilderness and smote the four corners of the house And it fell upon the young men, and they are dead, and I alone am escaped alone to tell thee. Wow. Then he hit them hard. Bam, bam, bam. Quickly. You ever notice how trials come in bunches? Yes. They're piled up. He hits them at his fortune. Takes that away. But the worst was he hit him at his family. This was the most painful. Job worried over his children. Satan saw this. He knew it was a soft spot. And he hid them there. Took his children. Notice Satan didn't take Job's wife. He was smart enough to leave her around Well, she's the one who said curse God and die. Chapter 2 verse 9. That's exactly what Satan wanted. That's what this is all about. Get on the curse God. So he's smart enough to leave her And then on top of that his friends come. Man. They meant well, but you don't heal a broken heart by logic, you heal it with love. And they came offering all these arguments, making all these accusations against Job, just to kind of give you an idea. Look in chapter four, verse one. Here's Eliphaz. And he starts out really well. Chapter 4. Look at verse 3. Behold, thou hast instructed many, and thou hast strengthened the weak hands. Thy words have upholding him that was falling, and thou hast strengthened the feeble needs. He starts out well and says, Job, you've comforted others in the past. Now we want to comfort you. Look at verse 7. Remember, I pray thee, whoever perished being innocent. Where were the righteous cut off? Job, you're not innocent. No one ever perished being innocent. God doesn't punish the innocent. Whoever got these kind of trials being innocent? That's bad theology. Many innocent and godly people have suffered and have perished The martyrs of all the ages would rise up against these words of Eliphaz. Where does he get this wisdom from? Well, he talks about Look at verse 8. Even as I have seen, this is based on his own experience, his own observation. This is what I've observed. The innocent have never really suffered. Well, you're wrong. And secondly from a spirit, verse 12. Now a thing was secretly brought to me and mine ear received a little thereof, and the thoughts from the visions on the night when deep sleep falled upon man. Job Job, I had a dream about you. I got this from a vision. Anyone ever comes to me and says I've had a dream about you, I I just get away from them I had a dream, I had a vision. This is what God told me. You're not pure, you're not righteous. And so he accuses Job of endless sin later on in chapter 22. But then there's Bildad. Look in chapter 8. Look in verse one. Well actually drop to verse four. We don't have time to look at all these verses. If thy children had sinned against him, And they had ceased them away, or excuse me, he had cast them away for their transgression. He was sure that Job's children died because they were sinners. Yeah, that's hard to receive. Where did he get this from? Well, in verse 8, for inquire I pray thee of the former age, and prepare thyself to search their fathers. That is, he appeals to tradition, to the writings of old. He says, I've researched it, Job, and the bottom line is this God will not cast away a perfect man. Verse 20 And then there's Zophar. Go to chapter 11. You see Zophar, hey, he comes. He was the youngest and the most brutal, very dogmatic in his counsel, verse 3. Should thy lies make men hold their peace? Chapter 11, verse 3 Should thy lives make men hold their peace? When thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed? He accuses Job of being full of talk, being a liar, a hypocrite who mocked God In verse 6, notice what he says. And that he would show thee the secrets of wisdom, that they are double to thee which is. Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less than thine iniquity deserves. Job, you got less than you deserved. You deserve far worse. Then he tells them to repent of his wickedness. Now I would suggest to you that this was a burden. To get this kind of counsel from friends who really hammered him in the lowest time of his life. And I think there's a sense in which Satan even uses them. And so, but the question is, what does Job do? And by the way, again, we don't have time to look at all of it. But Job, he's down. He curses the day where he was born. But will Satan win the challenge? Go back to chapter 1 and look down in verse number 20. This is the key verse. After he gets all this news and this verse here, they're full of verbs here. Job is the subject. Then Job arose, he got up. Sometimes that's hard to do when you're being hammered by trials. And imagine, I think all the angels of heaven are watching. What's he going to do? What's he going to do? He gets up? Verse 20, he tears his mantle, he rent his mantle. It's a sign of extreme grief. He shaves his head. Likewise, a standard in the ancient Near East called grief. And he fell down upon the ground. Someone says, Well, here's where he falls apart. He falls down on the ground. Does he curse God? Look in verse 20. And worshiped. He worshipped God. Verse 21 said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And in all this, Job sin not, nor charge God foolishly. Wow. I don't know about you, but I get so overwhelmed reading that. That's incredible faith. What does Job show here? He shows that number one, his faith is not a superficial faith. And this is a test some people say, why does God put me through these trials? To show you that your faith is genuine faith. Because let me tell you something about a person who goes through trials and they come out praising the Lord, that shows that your faith is genuine. You don't have to worry about a lack of assurance because you got it They say that the jeweler when he's given a diamond, in order to see whether that diamond is real or or fake, he has a water test. What does he do? He puts it underwater. Because if it's fake, then when he puts it underwater, all the shine will disappear. But if it's a real diamond, when he puts it underwater, it'll shine brighter than before. And that's true of a child of God When your faith is real, when you go through a trial, and when you go under the water of affliction, you know what will happen ultimately at the end, you'll shine brighter than ever before. Now I'm not saying you won't have your human emotion. And God expects human responses, but ultimately, in the end, you will retain your faith. Yes. And your faith will be stronger. Job proves that his faith is real, and he also proves beyond any doubt that God is worthy. He's worthy because of who he is. And he's sovereign. He has a purpose in everything. He doesn't curse God. Instead, he blesses God. So who looks like a fool here? Satan. Satan. It may be that you say, I'm going through a trial right now. Well, just remember that God is sovereign over everything that happens in your life. Nothing can come into your life without divine permission. And if God allows it, he's got a purpose in it. And genuine faith will persevere no matter how difficult the trial here And what will happen to a true believer is in the midst of that trial, they will be convicted over their weakness and they'll cast themselves on the Lord like never before and depend upon him for strength that only he can give. That's a child of God, but they will not turn their back. And sometimes God will allow us to get hammers, plummeted, to bring out of us. The growth, the spiritual maturity, the Christ-likeness that He's after in all of us. And also this What shows the world that our faith is real is when the world sees a Christian go through a trial and they they become stronger than before. This is the greatest testimony to the world of the worthiness of God and the genuineness of faith. Job was selected by God to glorify his name in a very special way. And by the way, Job didn't even know it. He didn't know why he was going through it. Later he may have found out. It might be that you're going through a trial here. And God might not reveal to you why you're going through it, but he has a purpose. And you've been uniquely selected to glorify his name, that's for sure, in a very special way. And the last thing I would point out is this, and we're out of time. When a Christian perseveres through a trial, God greatly rewards them. He greatly blesses them. as a result of it. Because w at the end of this story, Job has twice what he had before. He has twice the number of livestock and servants. God gives him ten more children. You say, why not twenty? He's got ten in heaven and ten on earth. He's got twenty children. And in the end, God blesses him. God rewards him. Just remember that. You might be in the middle of a trial right now. You have a unique opportunity to glorify God, to show that he's worthy, to strengthen your faith. And to be greatly blessed and rewarded by God. Let's bow for prayer together. Thank you, Lord. So Lord, take these words, burn them into our hearts. I pray especially for those who may be here today, who may be in the midst of a trial right now, and they're not even sure why. Things are happening the way they are. They may be being hammered by one thing after another. Lord, I pray that they'll be strengthened by the story of Job. And may they realize, Lord, that you allow nothing into our lives that you don't divinely touch. And you're able to turn all these things into gold. If we'll but trust you. Strengthen the faith of those who are going through trials this moment. Those who are going through trials, Lord, I pray that you'll give them strength that they don't know they have. Strength that comes only from you to persevere, and may they be blessed in the end. May their faith shine. May they glorify you in a very special way, just as Job did in this story. And may they lay all their wives down before the cross. Kneeling Kneeling and humble in mind, worshiping and realizing, Lord, that they don't need a why, they just know you and that you know what you're doing. Speak to hearts and blessings Your words to their hearts. And how many with heads bowed and eyes are closed say I'm praying right now for divine strength for the trial that I'm in? Would you lift your hand and say that's me? I need the strength of God. I need the help of God that only He can give. God bless you. God seize your hands. Father, bless your servants. Strengthen them. And we pray all of this in the matchless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. And salutos