Matthew 21. We uh read those verses just a minute ago. And I want you to look at verse uh 11, verse 10 actually, Matthew 21, 10. It says, and when he was come into Jerusalem, that is Jesus, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? Who is this? You know, lot not too long ago, two sharply dressed young men came to my door on a Saturday morning. They were Jehovah's Witnesses. I answered the door and they began to present me with their well-polished presentation and I stopped them and I said, look guys, I don't want to waste your time I just want to ask you three questions. I said, number one, do you worship Jesus? They said yes. I said, do you believe that Jesus is God? They said no. I said, well then why would you worship a liar? They stood there for a bit, kinda dumbfounded. Finally one of them spoke up and said, Well Jesus never claimed to be God. I said, Are you serious? Really? That's what he did all the time in Scripture. In John ten, Jesus said this, I and the Father are one. Now the Jews understood what he meant by that because the Jews picked up stones to stone him. And Jesus answered and said, I have shown you many good works from the Father, for which of them are you going to stone me And the Jews answered and said, It's not for a good work that we're going to stone you, but for blasphemy, because you being a man make yourself God. They clearly understood. What Jesus was trying to say there. At another time Jesus healed on the Sabbath. You know, Jesus ignored all the Sabbath laws because he was the fulfillment of the Sabbath. He was the Lord of the Sabbath. And when Jesus healed on the Sabbath, Jesus, the Jews said to him, You know, it's not lawful for you to work on the Sabbath. And Jesus responded by saying, My Father is working until now. and hitherto I work. I'm working. You know, in other words, it's okay to work on the Sabbath of your God. My father works and I'm working with him. And again, they, the Bible says, were seeking all the more to kill him because he was calling himself God or making himself equal to God. In another place, Jesus claimed to have the power to forgive sins. And the Pharisees said, Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can for sit can forgive sins but God alone? And so we can go on all through the scripture, Jesus claimed to be God. You ever hear people say, Well, I believe he was a good moral teacher, I just don't believe he was God? You don't have that option. Because if he was not God, that means he was lying. If he was lying, that he can't be a good moral teacher. That option is not on the table. Either he was who he claimed to be, or he was not. And so this is the biggest question in the world. Is he who he claimed to be? The question that the multitudes asked. That day when Jesus rode into Jerusalem is a very important question. Who is this? Who is he? That's the most momentous, most important question that you will ever face. in life. Who is he? Well, the witness of the scripture and the gospel of Matthew answer the question, he is God. He is the Son of David. He is the King. And by the way, if that means if that that is true, and it is true, that means that there is only one way to heaven. Because Jesus claimed that. He claimed the exclusive nature of the gospel. Jesus said this in John 10, verse 7. So Jesus again said, truly, truly, I say unto you, I am the door All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he shall be saved and will go in and find pasture. Now with all that in mind, I want you to look at Matthew chapter 21, because what we see in this chapter is further evidence that Jesus is indeed who he claimed to be This is an incredible event that we look at here in Matthew 21. All these verses speak about the beginning of the Passion Week. And what I want to do here on Sunday morning in the next seven weeks because it's seven weeks leading up into Easter, I want to preach on the seven days, the events that took place on the seven days of that Passion Week During the the time when Jesus came to Jerusalem and he presented himself as king, and then eventually he would die on the cross for our sins. and uh resurrect on the third day. Sunday was the triumphal entry. That's what we're going to look at here. On Monday, he cleanses the temple and then he curses the fig tree. On Tuesday There are controversies with the Jewish leaders that he deals with on Wednesday. This was apparently a day of rest because the scripture doesn't really say much about Wednesday on Thursday There's the preparation for the Passover on Friday of that week, of course, is the trial and then the crucifixion of Jesus there on Friday Saturday, Jesus is in the tomb, and then on Sunday, he, of course, comes out of that grave victorious over death at the resurrection. So I want to deal with Sunday This is the first day of the Passion Week, and Matthew here in chapter 21 will basically present three signs that point to Jesus as the Messiah. Three signs that he gives here. And verses 1 to 11, what we read a moment ago, as the king he comes to claim his throne. And then from verses 12 down to verse 17, he's the great high priest, and you know what he does? He cleanses the temple as the priest. And then, as the God's great prophet, he will curse the fig tree. That will be an enacted parable, an enacted judgment against Israel, as we will see as we go through this. And so really we see here Jesus is the prophet, priest, and king But first he comes to present himself as the king in the triumphal entry into Jerusalem. And these are momentous events, and I know that I won't do this justice, but we'll just kind of cover some of it But notice in verse number one of chapter 21, and when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem and were come to Bethaj unto the Mount of Olives, they then sent Jesus to disciples. Now here, Jesus is preparing to officially present himself as the king. This had been prophesied in the Old Testament. This will be a momentous day. And so really this is in fact why the book of Matthew is written to primarily to Jews to present Jesus as the rightful king, to prove beyond any shadow of a doubt that he is the Rifle King. And throughout the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew has been giving one evidence after another, after another And yet again, he'll give more evidence here in chapter 21 that shows that Jesus is the king as Jesus comes into Jerusalem. Up until this time, and by the way, this will be the first time that Jesus will actually plan and promote himself in some kind of a public demonstration. Up until this time, you know what Jesus would say? Uh listen, what he would do a miracle he'd say, you know, don't tell anyone. Why? Because mine hour has not yet come. Jesus is on a divine timetable. And so he would say, you know, just keep it down. Don't tell anyone. In John 2. 4, after he did a miracle, he said, mine hour is not yet come. In John 7. 6, then Jesus said to them, My time is not yet come, but your time is already. In John 7. 30, they sought to take him, but no man laid hands on him because his hour was not yet Well, all that changes now here in Matthew 21. Because now his hour is come. And in John 12, Jesus said this: mine hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. And these were the words that Jesus spoke as he went into Jerusalem on that Sunday to present himself, that what we call Palm Sunday, or the triumphal entry. So notice the plan. Jesus and them draw new near to Jerusalem in verse 1. They come to Bethage. It's a little village between Jerusalem and Bethany. And uh in this region, uh in this region it was right for figs, and so the name of the city actually means house of figs because it produced abundant figs. A person traveling to Jerusalem headed east would come first to Bethany and then pass through Bethage on the slope of the Mount of Olives headed into Jerusalem. Now Jesus, as he was traveling, stopped at Bethany, and he spent the night there at Mary and Martha's house You remember also Lazarus was there. You remember who Lazarus was? He was the one that Jesus resurrected. And so it was no secret that Jesus was in Bethany. He was there with Mary and Martha and Lazarus. And that created quite a stir in John 12, it talks about it. People wanted to see Jesus, but they also wanted to see Lazarus. You can imagine why, right? The only person they knew that had resurrected from the dead. And so they were all there. There was a lot of tension in the air. It was very highly charged. And so Jesus sends his disciples ahead to Bethage, and he says in verse two and three, Go to this village and you will find a colt. In verse two, go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an as tied and a colt with her. Loose them and bring them unto me. And if any man say aught unto thee, you shall say, The Lord hath need of them, and straightway he will send them. Go to this place, you'll find a colt. By the way, no man ever sat on this colt. Loose him, bring him. If any man says, what are you doing? Just say the Lord has need of him. This, again, was one little foal that has never been written. It seems as if this one little cult was created for this one purpose here. The rider would be the King of Kings, Jesus Christ. Jesus was carried in the womb of a woman who never knew a man. He would be carried on the back of a colt that had never been ridden. He'll be buried in a tomb that was never used. All of this speaks about sacred use. And then notice the proof of his deity. How did he know that that donkey would be there in that very location at that time of day? How did he know that? And not just the colt, but the mother of the colt. How did Jesus know that that colt would be there and that it had never been ridden upon? This is a demonstration again of his deity, of his omniscience. He knew all this. Now the Bible is so matter-of-fact in a simple way that it gives these things. But this is the supernatural knowledge of Jesus. And and it says that uh he knew that men would probably ask him, What are you going to do? or why are you taking this? And Jesus said, just tell them the Lord has need of him. In fact, in Mark's gospel it records that some of the bystanders Who Luke says were the owners did indeed ask that, what are you doing, untying the colt? And they said the Lord has need of them. It should not surprise us that Jesus knew all of these things, because he was God. He has supernatural knowledge. Did you know that Jesus knows all about you? Yes. Everything about you. Everything about your life He doesn't need that any man tell him any of these things. And so this is the final preparation of the king. But number two, notice the fulfilled prophecy of the king. Look at verse 4. And all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, and a colt, the foal of an ass And the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them. Now, Matthew is consistent all throughout his gospel to point out when the Old Testament prophecy has been fulfilled. We see this all the time in the Gospel of Matthew. These are called the fulfillment citations. Did you know that in the Gospel of Matthew, there are 68 references To the Old Testament, where Matthew will point and say, this was fulfilled in the Old Testament. This is a fulfillment of the Old Testament scripture. Matthew's constantly pointing to that. Because remember, what is he trying to do? He's trying to convince the audience that Jesus is indeed who he claimed to be. And there's no better way to do that than by pointing to prophecies that have been fulfilled. And here's yet another prophecy that Jesus fulfilled From the Old Testament. Now, Peter Stoner has done a lot of work on this, and he wrote a book called Science Speaks, and he determined the probability of one man fulfilling eight of the prophecies of the Old Testament. If one man could come along and fulfill eight prophecies of the Old Testament regarding being the Messiah, he said the odds of that would be one in ten to the seventeenth power. That's a large number. Let me try to help you understand this. This is how big the number is. Let's just say that if we took that many silver dollars. And we lay them out in the state of Texas. That they would they would cover the whole state of Texas two feet deep. Now let's just say that we marked one of those silver dollars. And I said to you, okay, you can travel all through Texas, and whenever you feel like it, just reach down and pick up a silver dollar, the chances of you picking up the silver dollar that is marked. That's the odds of one man fulfilling eight prophecies in the Old Testament about being the Messiah. That's the same odds right there. How many of you think that would happen if you did that? No way. And so this shows us that this was not an accident. And then Peter Stoner goes on to say to say 48 prophecies. The fact that 48 prophecies were fulfilled, the chance of that happening would be 1 in 10 to the 157th power. We don't know the number that high. And yet, here in the Gospel of Matthew, there are 68 Old Testament prophecies that Jesus fulfilled completely. Friend, if you don't believe that, if you don't believe that Jesus is God, I I I don't can't do anything for you after that. It's not by chance. Notice the particular of the prophecy here, what it says in verse 5. Tell ye the daughter of Zion, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. Here Matthew is quoting from the Old Testament. He's quoting Zechariah 9. 9. Behold, your king is coming to you. And this is a prophecy prophecy that refers especially to the Messiah in his humiliation. Daughter of Zion, that refers to the inhabitants in Jerusalem It was called Zion because that was one of the hills there in the city, and it came to conclude all of the city. And this was a prophecy that was given five hundred years previous. And it says that the Messiah would come into Jerusalem. He would be riding upon a donkey, the full of the beast of burden, in a very humble way. And Jesus fulfilled this very prophecy. By the way, it's very fitting that Jesus would ride a beast of burden. into Jerusalem. Normally a king in this time would ride some kind of a great white style and a horse to show you know exaltation And royalty. But Jesus here, when he comes into Jerusalem, he's riding up on a donkey. Why? A beast of burden. This speaks about the fact that as the Messiah, he would bear the burden of sin. All of our sins. This was God's choice that it happened this way. He would be the suffering servant And let me just say this, my dear friend, salvation is available to you today because Jesus Christ took the burden of your sins. All of your sins. All of my sins. were placed upon the Lord Jesus Christ, and so he rides in on this beast of burden. The Jews were expecting some kind of a political messiah that would come and and throw off the shackles of Rome and take over, but no. First he would be the one who would die for sin, the suffering Messiah. The hymn writer said it like this, bearing shame and scoffing rude. In my place condemned he stood Sealed my pardon with his blood. Hallelujah, what a savior to bear my burden. So we see the final preparation of the king. We see the fulfilled prophecy of the king. But then I want you to notice the formal presentation of the king. Look in verse number six. And the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them. And brought the ass and the cold and put on them their clothes, and set him, that is Jesus, set him thereon. So notice the placement. They make a saddle from their garments. They set Jesus on the colt. And this is right here the humble coronation of Jesus the King. And all the coronations that have ever been held in the history of the world to honor a monarch, no monarch comes close to deserving what Jesus deserves. And yet here he is in this very humble way. There's never been someone so supreme, so magnificent, so majestic as the Lord Jesus. It doesn't look like much, but this is really the divine creator having control over his creation. This unbroken cult receives Jesus. Why didn't he buck? Why didn't he try to throw him off? Because here this animal was receiving his creator. You ever try to get on a horse or a donkey that has never been ridden on before? You know what kind of reaction you get? But here this this cult humbly receives Jesus. You know, this animal was smarter than a lot of the people back there. Sanimal knew who Jesus was. And so he receives them. You know, if you want to have a great day today, just receive Jesus. Humbly, submit to him. Receive him. And then notice the parade. Look at verse 8. And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way. Others cut down branches from the trees and strolled them in the way. And the multitudes that went before and that followed cried, saying, Hosanna! To the son of David, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord Hosanna in the highest. And when he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, who is this. And so Jesus then, there's the placement. He's placed there on that animal. And then he begins to parade into Jerusalem. And the Bible says as he rides towards Jerusalem, that as he crests the hill, And begins ascending down that western hill, down into Jerusalem. He's headed east that the multitudes begin to gather. And they cried, Sey Hosanna, throngs of people. Now, keep this in mind There were many people in the crowd. There were people that had followed Jesus out of Bethany. Actually, there was a a parade of people that followed him up from Jerusalem. In that crowd were people that he had healed. People that he had taught, people that he had discipled. And as he comes out of Bethany and he begins to ride towards Jerusalem, the crowd gets bigger and bigger. And then the Bible tells us worshippers in Jerusalem kind of heard what was going on, and they come out of Jerusalem, and there's crowds coming out, and they're meeting him as Jesus goes down that hill into the city. And so here's a huge crowd of people. Some estimate that it was probably 200,000 people that were there welcoming Jesus as He went in. And it says in verse 8, they spread their garments in the way. This is an old custom, an ancient custom. And what does this symbolize? It symbolizes that you were submitted. You know, for a king, you would bow before the feet of the king, and here what they were doing is they were throwing their clothes before him in the path, which is a way of saying, I am submitting myself to you. I submit to your authority. And they begin to praise him in verse 9. Look at it again. And the multitudes that went before and that followed Christ, saying, Hosannah. to the son of David. They're quoting Psalm 118. This is a beatitude addressed to the king as he approaches the temple. And they kind of modify it slightly by saying, Blessed the king who comes in the name of the Lord. And so and by the way, they also took palm branches, the Bible says, and threw them down. Why did they do that? Well, because The palm branches speak of glory. In the Old Testament, they would have the feast of Sukkot where they would take a booth and put palm branches on it, which spoke about the glory of God in the Old Testament. And so it was a way of just magnifying the Lord. It spoke of his glory as being the king. And the Bible says that they were taken from the trees that were in the field there. Now some people think, well, now wait a minute. Now they're shouting Hosanna. They're saying son of David. They must be accepting Jesus as their Messiah, right? No. That's not what's happening here. They're like many people that profess to know Christ today. They verbally they say he's the son of David, but ultimately What they show is that their faith is very shallow, is very superficial. Because in just a few days this same multitude will change their tune. They'll be saying, crucify him. These voices that are praising him will stop in a few days. And notice in verse 10, and when he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved. The word move there is a word used for earthquakes. This is an incredible thing here. And they were asking, who is this? And notice the response. This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth in Galilee. Still, there were some people there that really didn't comprehend who he was. They heard, they saw, but they were still spiritually blind. This was a huge day on God's prophetic calendar. In fact, I want you to hold your place here in Matthew. Go to the book of Luke, chapter 19. Go to the book of Luke, chapter 19, and look down at verse number 43. Notice what it says there. This is another look at the same event from the eyes of Luke. And here Luke emphasizes this day. And look at verse number forty 3. For the day shall come upon thee that thine enemy shall cast a trench about thee, compass thee roundabout, and keep thee on every side. And Verse 44, and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee, they shall not leave in in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. They didn't understand what day this was. And because of that They didn't know the day of their visitation. Luke's gospel emphasizes this day. This day when the Lord came. This was a very special day, and you didn't recognize this day. Did you know in the book of Daniel, this very day was prophesied, and Daniel 9. 26, you might want to write that down. It says, after three score and two weeks shall the Messiah be cut off. Daniel prophesied that from the decree of Artaxerxes to the time of the Messiah when he would come to Jerusalem, it would be a total of 69 weeks, or we could say 69, 7-year periods. Meaning from the decree of the Messiah, it would be 483 years. From that decree to the Messiah, 483 years. Now remember, And Jewish years, there were 360 days. And so if you count those days, you'd come up with 173,880 days. And if you count 173,880 days from the command to restore the city on March 14, 444 B. C. , you come to April 6, A. D. This was the very day that Jesus came into Jerusalem. The very day. Because God had put it in his prophetic calendar. But again, the majority of the pilgrims there, they were blind. Look again in verse number 39 in Luke chapter 19. And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. There was people out there they were praising the Lord and this and the Pharisees they didn't like it. They said, Lord, rebuke your disciples. Verse 40, and the answer he said to them, I tell you that if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately what? Cry out. The stones will cry out If this crowd grows silent, then the stones will cry out. Well, you know what? This is actually, in a way, a prophecy. Because this crowd would go silent. And in fact, this is future indicative. We say it like this: this crowd will become silent, and the stones will cry out. When would that happen? Well just again later in that week, they would stop saying Hosanna. They would stop praising the name of the Lord. And then the stones later on would cry out. You say, how? Later on, when the Romans came and they surrounded Jerusalem in AD seventy And they tore that temple apart, and the stones were torn and laid out there. Jesus said, Not one stone would be upon another. That's when the stones cried out. Because they cried out about the fact that the people didn't, there were many people there that did not believe him. Look again down in verse number 42 saying, if thou hast known, even thou, at least this thy day, this very day, if you had known it, the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they are hid from thine eyes And then, as we read in verse 43 and verse 44, this is the judgment that will come upon Jerusalem, for the day shall come upon thee that thy enemy shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee on every side. Here Jesus is prophesying about the time when Jerusalem would be taken over and the temple would be destroyed, and this would be God's judgment upon a generation of people that just didn't believe on who he was. There were many that did believe in Jesus, but for the most part the nation of Israel rejected their Messiah. And because of that, God would bring judgment. You know what the lesson is for us today, beloved? It's a serious thing. To reject Jesus. And again the big question is who is he? Who is he? He either is who he claimed to be or he's not. And if he is the Messiah, you had better recognize that and you had better repent and submit to his lordship. That salvation, the Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved But for those who see all these evidences in the scripture, you see, God's judgment was so severe upon this nation, these people that saw the miracles and heard his words, because when you're given great light, You're given great responsibility to respond to that light. And the greater the light that you reject, the greater the judgment that comes from God when you reject it I look at our country today in America. We have been given so much light. God has given us so much truth. We we have so much privilege. We can go to any store, pick up a Bible from a uh any store that sells things, go to Walmart, go to some of these other places You can get the truth, you can get God's word. We have it over the internet, we have it over the television, we have it over the radio, and and yet we are still a nation of people that pretty much has rejected God. That's a very serious thing, friend. And it may be that you're here today and you're saying, well, I'm considering the claims of Christ. Well you better not consider too long. Because you know what? God takes it serious. When He gives you light, when He gives you truth, if you don't respond to that truth, that's an offense. God's judgment was very severe upon this nation because many people did not believe on him. And by the way, that's why Jesus wept when he went into Jerusalem. That's why he wept, because he knew that there were many that did not or would not call upon his name. Look at Luke chapter 19, look at verse 41. And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and he wept over it. He wept. And the word for weep here, this is a word for crying out, like you're at a funeral, and strong emotion. This had to shock some of the pilgrims. They were shouting Hosanna. They were praising the name of the Lord. And all of a sudden Jesus there on the colt on the on the back of that colt, that animal, he cries out and tears. And that's because he knew that they didn't believe on him. Many would not believe on him. Friend, let me tell you something. God does not delight in bringing judgment on anyone. He would rather you be saved. He would rather you know him. And I believe, friend, that there comes a point in time where God says, Okay, that's enough I've given you enough light. I've given you enough truth. Now it's time for you to make a decision. And friend, if you reject His revelation, I believe it still breathes the heart of God when people reject his truth. And so Jesus wept over this city. Now, let me just tell you this one other thing. When Jesus went, and we're and we'll be done, when Jesus went down over the Mount of Olives into the city, And there were many who did not receive him, and some who did, however, it reminds us of another day when Jesus will once again Come to the Mount of Olives. Did you know that Jesus is coming back again? When I was over in Israel, I had the opportunity, I had a taxi take me up to the top of the Mount of Olives. And I got to stand up there on the top of the Mount of Olives and look down into the city of Jerusalem and walk down the very area, the very general pathway that Jesus took. when he went into Jerusalem on this day so many years ago. And I was reminded when I was standing up there on the Mount of Olives, looking down into the city of Jerusalem. It was a beautiful day I was reminded that you know one day Jesus is going to come back to this very place. He's coming back. And you know what the Bible says in the book of Zechariah? When he touches down on the Mount of Olives, it's going to split it in half. Did you know that scientists have found a great fault right there on the Mount of Olives? You know that tells me God's getting things ready. Because this Savior Jesus is coming back one day. Again, my question to you is this, will you be ready when he does? Do you know him? The question is, who is this? Who is he? The biggest question in the world. Do you believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Savior of the world? And have you repented of your sin Have you trusted him as your Savior? Let's bow for prayer together today. So, Father, we look at this momentous day in history. And Lord, we're again moved by the things that we read here in your word. And Lord, I pray that there will be no one that will leave here today That will reject the revelation that you have given in this story here, in the Gospel of Matthew, that Jesus is indeed the King, the Messiah. That He's the Savior of the world, come to bear the burden of sin, and that they would receive their King today, that they would trust Our Savior is the one who did indeed pay for their eternal salvation. Father, let no one leave here today. without knowing for sure in their heart that Jesus is the their King. And so with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, friend, do you know him? Is this still a question in your mind? Who is he? Who is this? I pray that you'll get that matter settled today. All the evidence of Scripture. Points to the fact that Jesus is the rightful King, the Messiah. And he came and to die for your sin. He took your sin upon himself when he died on the cross. He paid your sin debt and now salvation is a gift that he's offering to you. This very morning, this very moment, he's offering it to you Would you trust him today? Would you pray this and mean it in your heart where you say, Lord Jesus, I know that you are indeed the Savior and the King. And today I turn to you, I turn from my sin. I ask you to come into my heart Be my Lord, be my Savior, be my God. Save me today, Lord Jesus. Friend, if you'll pray that, He'll save you. If you'll reach out in faith. How many here say that's my prayer today? I'm reaching out in faith this very moment. Preacher, I want you to know that's what I'm doing. Would you pray for me? Would you lift your hand? Is that you here Today? Do you know the Lord Jesus? Anyone here? God bless you. Who else? Anyone here? I want to know Jesus. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. And we'll thank you and we'll praise you in Jesus' matchless and wonderful name. Amen.