Of Matthew 27. And when evening was come, there came a rich man of Arimathea named Joseph. who also himself was Jesus' disciple. You know, there's no way to overemphasize the importance of the resurrection. A. T. Pearson said this is the greatest event that has ever happened on the planet thus far. The resurrection of Christ. The greatest miracle ever wrought. was the resurrection. The greatest demonstration that Jesus was the Son of God was the resurrection. And that's why there have been so many attacks Against this doctrine. Because this is a pillar of our faith. This is foundational to everything that we believe. You take the resurrection out of Christianity, and we have nothing. Christianity crumbles like a house of cards. And so it makes sense then that Satan would attack this doctrine. It makes sense that people would try to Produce lies about the resurrection. And there's some famous lies out there. In fact, here's one of them One is called the swoon theory. This is the theory that Christ never really died. The reason he got out of the grave was because he never was really dead to begin with. They theorize this. Shock from the loss of blood on the cross and the wounds and all that went sent him into a semi-coma, they say. And of course when he was placed into the tomb, that the coolness of the tomb and the spices, he was wrapped with uh grave clothes, dipped in spices, the spices kind of revived him. And then he came out, and they thought that he resurrected, but he never really died. That's one lie produced about the resurrection. This theory was first dreamed up in 1600 Now, think about what they're saying here. You know, Romans, they were experts at crucifixion. They knew how to do it. They did about 30,000 crucifixions. in the time of Jesus. And they knew when a person died. Besides that, if the Roman soldiers at the cross botched a crucifixion where the person really didn't die, they paid for it with their life. So they made sure that the person was dead. Besides that, John 19, 31 testifies that they didn't break the legs of Jesus. One of the customs was when a person was being crucified, in order to hasten their death, the soldiers would break the legs of the people on the cross. Why? So they couldn't push up and get air And then they would suffocate and die quickly. But when they came by, they saw that Jesus had already died, and so therefore they didn't break his legs. And this fulfilled Old Testament prophecy. So what did they do? Instead, the Bible says they thrust a spear into his side, and out came water and blood. Which according to the Journal of the American Medical Association proves that he died. Proves it Furthermore, if this theory is true, think about this. This means that Jesus successfully survived severe beating and loss of blood crucifixion and further loss of blood, a spear thrust into his scythe, again draining out blood. He survived entombment with a hundred pounds of spices on his already weakened body. He survived three days with no food or water. He woke up without any medical assistance, having lost most of his blood. He moved that huge stone Walked out and convinced everyone that he was fine, walked past the Roman guards that were there at the tomb, and then walked seven miles on the road to Emmaus on nail-pierced feet. Does that sound reasonable to you? No, Jesus died. He died on the cross. Then there's this other theory that others have come up with to try to Let's explain away the resurrection, and that's this the no-burial theory. They say this since Christ was never put in the tomb, he wasn't there on Sunday. You know, they say, well, he wasn't never really put in the tomb. That's why the tomb was empty. They just would take criminals off the cross, they would throw them into just a a heap in a in a in in the trash dump. And that's where he was. He wasn't really in the tomb, so therefore he wouldn't be there on Sunday when the disciples went by. Really? Well then if he wasn't in the tomb, why post guards there? Why put guards at the tomb if Jesus were not there? And it would be very easy to prove that he uh didn't resurrect. Just produce the body. Go to the site and produce the body. And so that doesn't make sense. Then here's another theory, the hallucination theory. And this is what some people propose that everybody thought they saw Jesus after he died or after he resurrected because they wanted so badly to see him And so it was a pathological problem. There's a problem with this, however. The Bible says there were 500 witnesses. You have 500 people having a hallucination. Normally, uh I've never had one, but a hallucination is subjective. It's private. Here there are 500 Jesus appeared to Thomas with the disciples. He appeared to Mary Magdalene. He appeared to James, his cousin. And so so on. Paul says 500 at once, so that doesn't make sense. And then there are others. All these lies. There's the mistaken identity. Oh, that wasn't really Jesus. That was someone who looked like him That resurrected. Well, this person must have gone through a lot of trouble getting his hands and feet pierced to appear like Jesus. But these are all lies. Now, telling lies about the resurrection is nothing new. In fact, we see here in the Gospel of Matthew that this started right after Jesus came out of the grave. Look at Matthew 28. Look in verse number 12. I want you to see this. And when they were assembled, Matthew 28, 12, with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, saying, Say ye, his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. This is the religious leaders telling the soldiers. Oh, just say that the disciples stole his body. Look at verse 14. And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and secure you. Verse 15, so they took the money and did as they were taught. And this saying is commonly reported among the Jews unto this day. And so Matthew records, this is the first lie that was ever told about the resurrection. The religious leaders just said, hey, here's some money, just tell everyone the disciples stole his body And that was a lie that was commonly reported, the Bible says, around that time. Now, Mark Twain said a lie runs around the world while the truth is tying its shoes. And this was a lie that was reported and thirty years later, uh after the cr the resurrection, they were still holding on to this. Matthew says here. And so this became very popular. This lie became known as the Toledot Yeshua, the lie about Jesus. And even liberal scholars today still hold to this one thing. Now Matthew, when he writes this gospel, he proves how this cannot be true, that Jesus did come out of that grave. And what he's going to give us here are three scenes to show us that Jesus did resurrect. He did have victory over death. And he is the risen Savior. I want you to see the first scene. Number one, if you're taking it, it's right down a borrowed tomb, the burial was granted. Here's the first scene, and it starts in verse 57, where we just read a moment ago. And you say, how do we know that the disciples didn't steal away the body of Christ? How do we know that? Because it was the disciples that buried him And if they were going to steal away the body, this was the opportune time to do it. They were given the body for burial. Look at the person in verse 57. And when the even was come, there came a rich man of Arimathea named Joseph who also himself was Jesus' disciple. And he went to Pilate and begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be. This several things about this Joseph of Arimathea. He was a rich man, and that fulfills Bible prophecy, because the Bible said in Isaiah 53 that he would be with the rich in his death. And here comes this rich man and who gives his tomb, it's a borrowed tomb because Jesus is only going to use it for a few days. But he gives his tomb to Jesus. This was obviously a man of some prominence. He could meet with Pilate. It was evening, the Bible says. So it's somewhere between three o'clock on Friday and six. He could get an audience with Pilate himself. The Bible says he was a disciple of Jesus. He believed in Jesus. And notice his plea in verse 58. He begged the body of Jesus. He requests for that body to be released to his care. The Gospel of Mark tells us that Pilate was already surprised that Jesus had died that quickly. And so the body is committed to Joseph. And notice the preparation, verse 59. And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a linen cloth. And he laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out of the rock, out in the rock, and he rolled the great stone to the door of the sepulchre and departed. So the Jews, when they would prepare a body for burial, they wouldn't entomb the body like others in the ancient world did. They would take linen cloth. strips of it. And they would dip it in these spices, this mixture of spices. And sometimes it was about a hundred pounds. In fact, the Bible tells us in John 19, there was another disciple there that also helped prepare the body of Jesus for burial. His name was Nicodemus, John 19, 39. And he brought the mixture of aloe and myrrh. The Bible says about a hundred pounds weight. And they would take these strips and they would dip it in this precious ointment and they would wrap the body and the and the ointment was to keep down the smell of decay because this is what Jews would do. They would after they would wrap the body, they would lay it into a tomb. They would come back periodically to add more spices And after 90 days, they would sprinkle lime to help haste and decay. Then they would take the bones and put it in the ossuary. That was their procedure for burial. So they're wrapping, they're preparing the body of Jesus. And they're wrapping it with spices. And the Bible says that Joseph lays it in his own new tomb, which had just been hewed out of the rock. But notice also in verse 61, there were two other people there, and there was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary sitting over against the sepulchre. Now, beloved, the burial of Jesus is not a minor thing. It's an important theological matter. Why? Because it was proof that he died. It was proof that he died. It explains away some of these lies that are out there. And also it fulfills prophecy. Jesus said as Jonah was in the whale's belly for three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. This is a fundamental part of our gospel message. Jesus died and was buried and then rose again. And the two Marys in verse 61 are very important. Why? They were witnesses of this whole preparation. They were witnesses where the body of Jesus was laid to rest. Because there's other arguments to say, oh, well, they went into the wrong tomb. That's why it was empty. No, these two ladies knew exactly where the tomb was. They watched it all. They saw exactly the place. They were eyewitnesses. And so there's a borrowed tomb. The burial was granted. Write down number two. A sealed tomb. The body was guarded. Look in chapter 27, look in verse 62. We see the worry of the Pharisees. Now the next day that followed, the day of the preparation. The chief priests and Pharisees came together on the Pilate, saying, Sir, we remembered that that deceiver said that while he was yet alive, after three days I will rise again. Command therefore that the sepulcher be made sure until the third day. See, the Pharisees are worried. They come to Pilate. By the way, it's very unusual for Jewish leaders to meet with a pagan secular ruler on any Sabbath, let alone the Passover Sabbath. Because in their mind, in their tradition To go to the praetorium where Pilate stayed would be to defile themselves during the Passover So something had to be really important for them to be willing to go to the home of a Gentile ruler on the Passover Sabbath. What was so important? They were concerned about the words of Jesus. They remember he said that after three days he would rise again. For as Jonah the prophet was in the whale's belly for three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. Now I've had people ask me, Preacher, how do you get three days out of three days and three nights out of Friday to Sunday? This is kind of some people have brought this to me asking this very question. So I'm I'm not going to tell you. I'm just going to let you know I'm going to tell you. How do you get three days to three nights from Friday to Sunday? Well you have to remember that we measure time and things like that differently than they did in the ancient world. The way the Jews measured this was that any part of a day constituted a day and the night the way they would express it We see this in the Old Testament. In the book of Esther, they had a three-day fast, but if you read that passage, you'll see that on the third day they began to eat. Because any part of a day constituted a day and a night. So Friday when he was crucified constituted a day and night. Saturday, while he was in the grave, constituted a day and night. Sunday morning when he came out of the grave constituted a day and a night. I mean if you're literal about three days and three nights, he should have came out of the grave on Monday But by the way, when the elders, the religious leaders asked for a guard, they said, just post them there until the third day, just until Sunday. They understood how it was calculated And so any part of a day constituted a day and a night. But they were concerned. Look at verse 64. Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead. So the last error shall be worse than the first. They didn't want anything to happen where the disciples could say he resurrected. So they asked for a guard to be posted Now it's kind of crazy to think that the disciples would come and steal away the body of Jesus because the Bible says in John 20, they were assembled together, locked away for fear of the Jews. They were hiding in fear. So it's presumptuous to think that these fearful disciples would actually try to steal the body of Jesus. Nevertheless, look at verse 65. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch. Go your way, make it as sure as you can. So Pilate didn't want any more problems caused by this, so he consented, he gave them a watch, which would have consisted of 16 Roman soldiers. That's how much a watch is. Verse 66, so they went and made the sepulchre sure, set it sealing the stone, setting up a watch. So imagine this in your mind. Sixteen soldiers, four facing north, four facing south, four looking out on the east side, four on the west side. They surrounded it. And then on top of that, there was the tomb was sealed. What does that mean? They would basically would stretch a cord across the front of the tomb, and in the middle, it would be connected by a wax-like seal and it had and that wax seal was the seal of Rome, which meant that you couldn't break that seal without the authority of the Roman government. And if anyone broke that seal without proper authority, that meant death. And so it was put there across the tomb. And really, it was kind of a psychological barrier lest anyone be tempted to break into that tomb. So think about this. The presence of these Roman guards made stealing away the body of Jesus impossible. It would be impossible for the disciples to do this. In order to do that, they would have to summon courage. And then sneak past sixteen guards. And then break the seal, which meant certain death, and somehow get the body of Jesus and take it And sneak again past these sixteen guards and get away. That's what they would have to do. Is that possible? I don't think so. So notice the third thing. We see a borrowed tomb. The burial was granted. A sealed tomb. The second scene, the body was guarded. But here's the third thing, an empty tomb. The bribe was given. Matthew's going to tell us exactly what happened. You want to know what happened that first Easter morning? That first resurrection morning? Look at chapter 28, look at verse 1. In the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, there came Mary Magdalene and Mary to see the sepulchre. So here are the two Marys. They had witnessed where the body was laid the day before. They come back early Sunday morning. This was at dawn. And then the Bible says in Luke 24, 1, they were bringing more spices to the tomb. And then there was this earthquake. Look at verse 2. And behold, there was a great earthquake. And then we see an angel. For the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat upon it. This earthquake again should have been evidenced to the Jews. There was an earthquake at his death on the cross. Now we have an earthquake at his resurrection, which again spoke of divine activity. And there's an angel. Comes back, comes down, rolls back the stone, the Bible says from the door, and sat upon it. Now again, Mark 16:3 says that the two Marys on the way to the tomb were discussing how are we going to roll back this stone We've got these spices. We're going to go see the body of Jesus. Who's going to roll the stone? But when they get there, the angel had already done it. Now it's important to point out that the stone was rolled back Not to let Jesus out of the tomb, because he who has power over death would have no trouble with the stone at the door. The stone was rolled back to reveal that the tomb was empty. That he's gone. He's not here. And Luke's gospel says both Marys went into the tomb and they saw that it was And Luke 24, 9 says they returned and they told the disciples. And you know what the disciples' reaction was? It says they seen their words seemed as idle tales. And that word there actually means it's Leros, a word to speak about delirious stories told by crazy people. The disciples' response was, you are crazy. That was their first response. But then, Luke 24, 12 says, they came to the tomb to see it for themselves. And Peter was the first one there. And he looked in, and what did he see? He saw the grave clothes were there in order. They were not disheveled in any way. But the body was gone Luke 24, 12. And Peter was amazed. Now, if you were going to steal away a body, why would you take the time to unwrap the body? That doesn't make any sense. If you were going to steal a body, you would just get that body and get out of there. And if you were going to unwrap the body from the gravepost, you certainly wouldn't take time to lay them there neatly and folded. Which is what Peter saw. And so that's why he was amazed at what he saw. Notice the reaction of the witnesses. Look in verse number three. It's talking about this angel who sat on the stone. And verse three, his countenance was like lightning. and his raiment white as snow and verse 4 and for fear of him the keepers did shake and become as dead men. There's the first response, terror. The word shake here is the word seismos, where we get the word for earthquake. They tremble. They were terrified. They were paralyzed at the sight of this incredible angel that was there. Here are these 16 hardened, brave Roman soldiers, and they're scared. They're terrified. When they see this angel. Their first response is terror, but there's another one, joy. And look at verse 5. And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye, for I know that ye seek Jesus which was crucified. He is not here, for he is risen. As he said, Come and see the place where the Lord lay, and go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead, and behold, he goeth before you into Galilee, there shall ye See him, lo, I have told you. And so the angel reports this to the women. He is not here. Just an incredible thing. And And they worshiped. Look in verse number nine. And as they went to tell the disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, Oh, hail! And they came and held him by his feet and worshipped Him. Just an incredible thing. On their way, they meet Jesus. He reveals himself to these faithful women. It's interesting to me that the first persons to to whom Jesus reveals himself to are two women. Some say it was because death came by a woman in a garden in Genesis. So now new life and victory comes by women in a garden, as they're witnesses of the resurrection. And so they see Jesus, they worship him, and friend, that's what we're here to do. We worship the risen Christ. And then notice the soldiers, the report of the soldiers in verse number 11. Now when they were going, Behold, some of the watch came into the city and showed unto the chief priests all the things that were done. Now, here are the soldiers, they were terrified. And now they're going back into the city in verse 11. And now they have to report what happened. And they report to the chief priests, the Bible says in verse 11. Why? Because these were the ones that really hired them to do this. These are the ones that had delegated authority over them. And now they have to go back to these religious leaders and say, you know what, he's not in the grave anymore. He's gone. And the Bible says that they showed unto the chief priest all things that were done. Notice that. That means they told him everything. They told him about the earthquake. They told them about the angel. They told them about the rolling of the stone. All of it. And they're reporting this to these religious leaders. These are the same leaders that condemn Jesus to be crucified. And now they're hearing all this. Think about this. Here are sixteen witnesses reporting to these religious leaders about what happened. Sixteen. Now remember, earlier on in the Gospel of Matthew, they kept saying, give us a sign. Let us know you're the Messiah. Somehow, give us a sign. Here it is. Remember what Jesus said to them? I'm only going to give you one more sign. As Jonah was in the whale's valley for three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be and the heart of the earth. Here's the fulfillment of what Jesus said. And now it's being reported to them. You say, man, now they surely now they will embrace Jesus as the Messiah. Surely now they will believe. That's not what happens. They continue to reject. Look in verse number 12. What's their response? And when they were assembled, when it says they were assembled, that means they convened the Sanhedrin. This was an official assembly. They all got together. When these 16 soldiers reported about the resurrection. They get together with the elders, verse 12, and have taken counsel. That phrase is used in Matthew to refer to a formal resolution. They make a formal resolution. What are they going to do? We're all going to repent and believe? No. There was fear, there was shock, but there was no repentance. There was no faith. They get together and look at verse 12. And they gave large money unto the soldiers. They bribe them. They gave Judas 30 pieces of silver. They're gonna have to pay these guys a whole lot more. And it's 16 of them. You see, they were willing to pay any price to keep this from getting out. They don't want anyone to know about this resurrection. Because that means that they're wrong. And so there's the deception here. Look at verse 13. This is what they said. Say ye, say ye, his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. Think about what they're asking these soldiers to do. They're telling these 16 soldiers to say, you just say that you all went to sleep, all 16 of you at the same time, even though it might mean your death Because Roman soldiers who went asleep on duty were executed. But they said, we're going to give you this large sum of money, and you just say we all went to sleep, and while we were asleep, the disciples sneaked in. And they stole away the body. And here's the money. Just say that. And it says they in verse 12, they gave them much money. And look at verse 14. And if it come to pass, or if it come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and secure you. Now, if Pilate hears about it, don't worry, we'll take care of Pilate for you. You know, again, they were afraid for their lives, but the religious leaders say, oh, we'll take care of Pilate. Don't worry about that. We'll protect you from him. You just do this for us. And so what did they do? Look at verse 15. So they took the money and did as they were taught. And this thing is commonly reported among the Jews until this day, Matthew says. Now Matthew, when he wrote his gospel, he wrote it 30 years after the resurrection. So this is about A. D. 63, and Matthew says, even to this day, it's commonly reported that The disciples stole away the body. But you know what, ironically, this is the lie that proves the resurrection to be true. Because why do you form a lie? Why do you concoct an elaborate lie to cover up the truth? That's why. And so this is the lie that proves the resurrection. And Matthew shows here that the apostasy of Israel was final They just would not believe. And they report this lie, the Bible says, to this day. You know, we expect the testimony of Jesus' friends. To say he resurrected. But here really, this is the testimony of his enemies as to the reality of the resurrection with this lie that they report. Here. Say how important is the resurrection to us today? Again, it's the very foundation of our faith. Beloved Jesus came out of that grave. The Bible tells us very clearly. He was seen by Mary Magdalene, by the other women, by Peter, by the disciples. At the ascension he was seen. For forty days he was seen. It was testified. Back when Paul wrote 1 Corinthians 15, he said, some of these witnesses are still alive. At the time Paul wrote that letter, he said, Go and ask them yourself. They saw Jesus. He came out of that grave. Again, how important is this? If you don't believe the resurrection, you have no hope. None. Listen to this. Romans 10 9. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. Listen. And shalt believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be. Safe. Safe from what? Safe from divine judgment? Safe from sin? Safe from hell The Bible says we're to confess Jesus with our mouth. We're to believe that God raised him from the dead. And we are to repent and we are to make ourselves Humble before him. We are to call upon him as our Lord and our Savior. We're to be contrite as we come to Him, realizing He is the risen Savior. You see, it's not enough just to say, oh, I believe he came out of the grave. The question is, what are you going to do about that? What are you going to do about it? Because if Jesus came out of the grave, and he did, That means you can take no neutral position on Jesus. If he came out of the grave, that means he is the Son of God, He is the Savior of the world, and the fact that God resurrected him means He accepted his sacrifice as the payment for your sin and mine. His sacrifice was acceptable To God the Father. That's why he resurrected him. And that means he's the only way to heaven. And you can't remain neutral on Jesus because no decision is a decision. If you choose not to repent of your sin and confess him as Lord, then that's a decision. You're rejecting the resurrection. You say, oh, I believe it. It's not enough just to believe it here. You have to call upon him as the Lord Jesus Christ and repent of your sin and be saved. And so my question to you is this today. Do you believe in the resurrection? And if you do, what are you going to do about it? What are you going to do about it? Because you can't remain neutral. Now if you're here today and you say, man, I've already made that decision. Thank God. Maybe there are some here that can't say that. Friend, you need to make a decision. If he came out of that grave and he did, and means he's Lord, what's your response to him? The Bible says, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we again thank you for your word and what it teaches us about our Savior. That He was triumphant over death. He came out of that grave and now we have hope. We have hope. Because Jesus said, Because I live, ye shall live also. To those who believe on him. And so, Lord, I pray for those who may be here today, who have never repented and trusted Christ, who have never made him Lord and Savior. They've never turned to him for salvation. I pray that today would be the day of salvation for them. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Just want to ask two questions. First of all, how many here, hey, I believe Jesus came out of that grave and I have confessed him as Lord and Savior of my life? Would you lift your hand? Say, I'm not ashamed of that. I believe that. You may put your hands down. Maybe you couldn't lift your hand there. So my next question is, would you do it now? Would you this very moment say, yes, I believe In the resurrection of Christ. And beyond just believing in my mind, I'm coming to Him today and I'm repenting of my sin. I'm turning from my sin. And I'm asking Jesus to be my Lord and my Savior. I'm accepting what He did for me on the cross is my only way of salvation And by faith I'm reaching out to him today. And friend, if that's your prayer, would you just lift your hand so I can pray for you today and say, yes, that's me. God bless you. Who else? That's me. God bless you, friends. Would you just pray this prayer and mean it in your heart? Say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. And friend, if you pray that, then mean it with all your heart. I'm telling you, based on the authority of the Word of God, Jesus will save you. He will forgive you from your sin. He'll give you eternal life. He'll make you his child. If you're willing to do that today. And friend, I just want to say this when we dismiss the service today. I want you to come to one of the pastors here and let them know that decision that you made. Come to Pastor Earl, Pastor John, or Aaron or myself, or our founding pastor, Pastor Johnson, let them know that today you receive the Lord Jesus Christ. We want to be able to pray for you. Let's all stand together, dear friend. Let's stand together.