Which you uh invite you to take your Bibles tonight. Open to the book of First Kings. We continue our study through this uh Old Testament book. And we're looking at the life of kings. We're looking actually at the life of one king, Solomon. We'll look at some others. But we come here to the second part of chapter eleven, when really this is the last a narrative that deals with Solomon and his reign. And tonight I want to talk about taking blessings out of our hand Well you're finding that it's in uh 1 Kings chapter 11, we'll look at verse 14 here in a minute. The story is told of an old Navajo Indian who became rich when oil was found on his property. And he took all the money and he put it in a bank. Now this banker had uh become familiar with the habits of this old gentleman, and every so often the the Indian would show up at the bank and he would say to the banker, Grass all gone Sheep all sick, water holes all dry. And without a word, the banker then would take him to the vault, and he would show him several bags of silver dollars, and he would say to him, All of this is yours And then the old man would spend about an hour stacking up the dollars and counting them, and uh he would return the bags to their places, and he would come out of the vault and say, Grass all green, sheep all well, water holes all full. Well the moral of that story is it's amazing the change that comes over us when we simply remember how blessed that we really are. We need to remember how God blesses us. You know, we have the tendency to forget that We have a tendency to forget God's hand of blessing. This is certainly what happens here in the life of Solomon. Solomon forgot somewhere along the line how blessed he really was. And he begins to take God's blessings for granted. And he began to disobey the Lord. And as we saw last week, he allowed his heart to depart from the Lord. And in doing so, what Solomon did was he provoked the wrath of God against him. As a result, God determined to punish Solomon according to God's word. Now God had warned Solomon over and over again what would happen if he disobeyed the Lord. In fact, we saw, if you've been with us in our study, four times God came to Solomon and appeared to him and warned him to guard his heart. Four times God spoke of the consequences that would take place if he disobeyed, and the blessings that would take place if he obeyed. But despite those warnings, Solomon disobeyed God anyway. And look in chapter 11, look down at verse number 9. It says, And the Lord was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned from the Lord. God of Israel. God became angry at this man that he had blessed so much. And has shown so much grace and love too. Now, God is a God of love. We would like to hear about that. But I want to remind you that God is also a God of wrath. That's the attribute that we really don't like to talk about. We just as soon forget the fact that God is a God of wrath. We would rather talk about His love and His mercy. You know, people today think of God as this kind of cosmic Santa Claus who's there to do nice things for us, but he's not there to disapprove of the bad things that we do. Somehow people think that when we do bad things God will just simply turn his head or God will ignore that. And God is not a God of wrath to many people. He's simply a God of Love. But the Bible teaches that God is a God of wrath as well as his mercy. You might remember that when God revealed Himself in Exodus 34 to Moses In that passage of that great passage that has been quoted so many times by prophets throughout the Old Testament, there are 16 words that are used to speak of God's Mercy, His love. And then there are 16 words to speak about His wrath and His holiness. God is just as much a God of wrath as he is a God of love. Leon Morris said this. He defines God's wrath as his personal divine revulsion to evil. John Stott says that wrath is God's continued, settled antagonism aroused only by evil and expressed in its condemnation. Elsewhere, Stott says that the wrath of God is his righteous reaction to evil, his hostility to it, his refusal to condone it, his judgment upon it. And so here, God's wrath is provoked against Solomon, and God had every reason to be angry with him. Look at the end of verse number ten in chapter eleven where it says, But he kept not that which the Lord commanded. The writer of first Kings tells us exactly why Solomon falls under divine judgment. He did not keep that which the Lord had commanded. Let me tell you something, beloved, that you already know that you need to be reminded about. I do too. God wants obedient children. That's what he wants. In fact, obedience is the true sign, or I should say the sign of being a true child of God. Sometimes people will ask me, they say, you know, how can I really be sure that I'm safe? And I always say it's one word, it's obedience. Are you obedient to God? Are you obedient to Christ? First John 2, 3, and 4. Hereby we do know that we know Him. What's the rest of it? If We keep his commandments. This is how you know. And by the way, the first time the word know is used there, it is present active. We say it like this. This is how we continually know that we know the second time the word know is used there the verb is perfect indicative active which means something already Completed in the past. So we can say it like this. This is how we continually know, or this is how we continually have assurance that we have already come to know him in the past. And what's the rest of it again if we keep his commandments? The telltale sign of someone who is truly saved are people that obey the Lord. You just obey God. And God's people can backslide. God's people can get out of fellowship. And when that happens, God will punish his people. And if you are truly saved, you can't lose your salvation. God will never condemn us. The Bible says there is no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. But you can lose other things. We can lose blessings. In fact, God can take blessings away that He has already given to us. In 2 John verse 8. John warned the woman there that he's writing to. He said, Look to yourselves that we lose not those things which we have wrought. The things that you have received from God, the blessing you have, you better make sure you don't lose them. You better make sure that God doesn't take them back. But that we receive a full reward. 1 Kings 11, here, this second part of the chapter, is all about how God took blessings out of Solomon's hand. The same God who gives to us so graciously is a God that at times will take back blessings. He's the God who gives He's also the God who takes away. Job said that. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. In 1 Samuel 2, 6. It says this the Lord killeth and maketh alive, he bringeth down to the grave, he bringeth up, the Lord maketh poor, he maketh rich, he bringeth low, he lifts up. God does all of those things. He gives, he takes back In Deuteronomy 32, 39, it says, See now that I, even I am He, and there is no God with me. I kill and make alive, I wound and heal, neither is there any that can deliver out of my hand. God warned Israel in Isaiah 5, verse 5. And go to now, I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. The vineyard was Israel. God says, I'm telling you what I'm going to do. I will take away the hedge thereof And it, talking about the vineyard or the vine, it'll be eaten up, and the wall thereof it shall be trodden down. God says, I can take away the hedge. That protection that I put up. I can take that away and you'll be exposed to all kind of enemies and all kind of evil that is around you. Well, this essentially is what happens to Solomon. And what I want you to see in this narrative here are the things that God takes away. Now, up until this point, we have seen God just multiply blessings on Solomon because of his obedience. Because of his love. And I believe that at the beginning Solomon truly did love the Lord. But along the way we saw that he disobeyed God's commandments. He married many pagan women. They turned his heart away from the Lord. He began to commit the sin of idolatry. He did evil in the sight of the Lord, his heart departs, and now God's going to start taking away in his life. And this is a warning to all of us. I don't know about you, but I don't want God taking things away from me. I don't want to fall under that kind of judgment, that kind of chastisement. So number one, I want you to notice that God Took away his peace. And if we disobey the Lord, God can take away our peace. Look at verse 14. And the Lord stirred up an adversary unto Solomon, Hadad the Edomite. He was the king's seed in Edom Now, one of the blessings God gave to Solomon was peace and rest from his enemies. We saw that, right? In 1 Kings 4. 24, Solomon had the Bible says, peace on every side. Everyone in Israel was dwelling under their vine and under a fig tree. That was a sign of great prosperity. God had given to Solomon and to his kingdom peace and prosperity. There were no enemies to threaten this peace. This is a wonderful era of peace, but that all comes to an end now. In verse 14, God raises up a adversary. And this is one of the ways God punishes his erring, backslidden children. He will raise up enemies that will make life difficult for us if we depart from him. This is I call this guy Hadad the Horrible. He was a basically a uh a prince of Edom. From the royal family. Israel and Edom was always at war. Remember Jacob uh and and Esau, they were constantly fighting. Well, Israel is the descendants of Jacob, Edom is the descendants of Esau. That just continues on And at one point Edom attacked Israel in the days of David. What the writer's doing here is he's kind of giving us a glimpse back in history. He's basically saying, Hadad the horrible. He was a prince of Edom. And during the time of David's reign, Edom attacked Israel. And David launched a counter-attack. And during this counterattack, which lasted six months under his general Joab, every Edomite male that could be captured was executed. Look at verse fifteen, for it came to pass when David was in Edom, and Joab the captain of the host was gone up to bury the slain after he had smitten every male in Edom. For six months did Joab remain there with all Israel until he had cut off every male in Edom. That Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father's servants with him to go to Egypt. Hadad being yet a little child. And during this time to escape the slaughter, Hadad took refuge in the deserts of Midian on the way down to Egypt, and finally he arrived in Egypt, and there he found the gracious reception from Pharaoh. And in time Pharaoh had given gave him a house, he gave him provisions, he gave him a a wife in time as he grew older. This was uh the his uh Pharaoh's sister-in-law And Hadad actually becomes a father while he's there and gives birth to a son. Look at verse number. nineteen and Hadad found great favor in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he gave to him wife, the sister of his own wife, the sister of of uh Tauphines the queen, and the sister of Tauphinez bare him Ganubath, his son, whom Talphane has weaned in Pharaoh's house And and Benubath was in Pharaoh's household among the sons of Pharaoh. That is, his son grew up as a prince there in Egypt. And so, you know, Hadad had a pretty good life down there in Egypt. Yet for all the blessings that he had, he never forgot what Israel had done to him and his people. And you get the sense that he's waiting there in Egypt, he's biding his time, he wants to have revenge against the house of David. And he finally gets the chance. Notice verse number 21. And when Hadab heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers, And that Joab, the captain of the host, was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, Let me depart that I may go to my own country. When Hadad hears about the death of David and Joab, he he wants to go back. He's anxious for what? He's anxious for revenge. He's been waiting for the right time. Even though he had all these blessings. He never forgot the past. In fact, his his this name of his son, uh Janubath, which means basically to steal is probably named that to be a constant reminder of all the things that were taken away from him. And he wants to go back and have revenge. And so he does. Even though Pharaoh is reluctant to see him leave, he's been there for 25 years, he goes back and he becomes a thorn in Saul's, or excuse me, Solomon's side This is a man that began to harass Solomon from the south. So now Solomon has this constant threat. He has this enemy. He has this thorn in his flesh. He has this man that wants to to wants to cause all the problem and conflict and sorrow to Solomon that he could. That's one guy, Hadad the horrible. Let me tell you about another guy This is uh raising the rebel. Look in verse 23. And God stirred him up another adversary Razan, the son of Eliadah, which fled from his lord, had Adazer, king of Zobah. And here's another enemy. And while Solomon had an enemy in the south, here's another one that's that's in the north. Because Jehovah was the kingdom in Syria. And so here we have Israel and Syria. They're at constant war. We see this throughout 1 and 2 Kings. Israel and Syria constantly fighting. Some things don't change, right? They're still fighting. Still fighting over the Golden Heights over there. And so here's another enemy. And by the way, what you see here is kind of like a role reversal. Philip Reichen writes this. He says The roles are reversed. Solomon is playing Saul to Raisin's David, which is a clear sign that his dynasty has fallen under the judgment of God. And what he meant by that is Raisin is run is after he's he's conducting guerrilla warfare. running from Saul, excuse me, Solomon. Let me get these guys right. And you remember that before, that's what David did. David was running from Saul, and so there's a sense in which now Solomon is acting more like Saul. Solomon has enemies to the south, he has enemies to the north. And there's more to come. And basically all this does is it completely overturns 1 Kings 4. 24, where Solomon had peace on every side. That peace is gone. It's over. And again, the ultimate reason for this is God. God did it. Again, look at verse 14. I want to emphasize where it says, look at verse 14, the Lord stirred up. An adversary. Who did this? God did it. Look at verse 23 again, where it says, and God stirred him up another adversary. This is all the work of God. The Writer of Kings is letting us know that these enemies were providentially raised up by God. This is something that we don't see with historians today. When historians write about history, they don't say, Well, you know, this is what God did. They have a totally secular perspective, but the writers of scripture are always seeing things in light of the sovereign providence of God. This is what God did Because all of history is his story. It's God doing these things. God is working. God is the one who puts down one and puts up another. God is the one who raises up enemies. And puts down enemies. God is the one who puts men on thrones and takes men off of thrones. Everything that happens is under the sovereign authority of Almighty God. God will put another man on the throne because that's his will to do it. And we need to remember this. We need to remember this whenever there's trouble in our world. Is there any trouble in our world right now? Yeah. But we need to remember that God is still on the throne. God is sovereign. We should remember this when there are elections. You know who's going to end up being in office as either a senator or a congressman or a Supreme Court justice or a president? You know who's going to end up there? The ones that God puts there The ones that God sovereignly determines is going to be there. That doesn't take away our responsibility, but just know that God is sovereign. and putting up one and tearing down another. And and God might put someone on the throne that we particularly don't like. You okay with that? Because God will give it the Bible says the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and he gives it to whomsoever he will, and sometimes he sets it up over the basis of men, because he's accomplishing his purposes. And so, in this, we learn one thing for us today. God, to punish his erring children, will raise up adversaries against us. Sometimes. He'll put people in our life that make life difficult. Anyone have someone like that in your life? Don't raise your hand or anything. Or it could be someone in your work life. It could be someone in your social life. It could be someone wherever in your circle. It just seems like they're making things hard. And it may be that God is using that to draw you to Himself. to bring about repentance. This is what God is trying to do. All the punishments of God, all the discipline of God is for our correction. He wants to produce righteousness in us. And so God sometimes will take away our peace. He'll raise up enemies. But here's the second thing we learn from this. God will take away from us the things that we value the most. He'll take away from us things that we value the most. Look at verse 26. Down we see this from verse 26 on down to verse 36. In this narrative, we see that he's going to lose Solomon is going to lose something that's very precious to him. He's going to lose his kingdom. God's going to tear it from his house. And while we saw that God raised up outward enemies, here he's going to raise up inward enemies in his own house. In verse 26, then Jeroboam, or excuse me, Jeroboam the son of Nabat An eph uh an ephrathite of Zarada, Solomon's servant, whose mother's name was Zerua, a widow woman, even he lifted up his hand against the king. Now who is this? This was this was just a servant in Solomon's house. This was a man that was gifted. This was a man that Solomon had actually promoted, as we're going to see. And why did he raise him up? And how do we know that this was from God? We looked down at verse 27, and this was the cause that he lifted up his hand against the king. Solomon built Milo and repaired the breaches of the city of David his father. And the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valor, and Solomon seeing the young man that he was industrious, he made him ruler over all the charge of the house of Joseph. And it came to pass that at that time when Jeroboam went out to Jerusalem, that the prophet Ahijah, uh the Shyloh Knight, found him in the way. And he had clad himself with a new garment, and they too were very alone in the field, and Ahijah caught the new garment that was on him, and he ran it in twelve pieces So what happens here? There's a prophecy here that shows that this new enemy that God is raising up was of the Lord Jeroboam was a man of stature. He was a gifted leader. He was a great organizer, a hard worker. He did so much work that Solomon put him over the labor force. And the irony is in promoting this man, Solomon was elevating the very man who would eventually divide his kingdom. And we saw in in uh here that God sends a prophet to Jeroboam. Now again, let me emphasize that First Kings uh talks about the faithfulness of God's Word Remember, the writer emphasizes the ministry of prophets. Every chapter records either a prophet or a prophecy made or a prophecy fulfilled. And you see, when kings wander away from the Lord, it's necessary for God to raise up prophets, to point out their error, to draw them back to repentance. And because you had so many ungodly kings in Israel, that's why there are so many prophets that appear in 1 and 2 kings. Their ministry became necessary because of the failure of the kings to do what is right And here's a lesser-known prophet, Ahijah, and God sends him with a message. He comes from Shiloh. Jeroboam is leaving the city. And on his way, here is Ahijah, the prophet, and he's wearing a new coat. And God has him do something very unique. You know, remember I told you that in the Old Testament, sometimes God would have prophets do certain things, dramatic gestures to communicate a message. God had Jeremiah the prophet wear a linen girdle and not not wash it in in in water. It was a sash, really, a beautiful sash that priests would wear. Prophets wouldn't wear those. Prophets normally wore a a rugged old robe. And so really this was kind of out of place for a prophet to be wearing a sash to begin with. I mean I can imagine Jeremiah walking through the city with his sash on and people wondering, like, you know, is this a new fashion statement from him or what? Why is he wearing this beautiful sash? And then Jeremiah didn't wash it. Why? It was all a message of God's judgment. God would do things like this. God would have Jeremiah wear a yoke around his neck. This again was a dramatic gesture to teach a prophetic message. It was an object lesson. And here is an object lesson that Ahijah is going to give to Jeroboam. And let me just point out that right here, this is one of the times in the history of Israel where it was a real turning point in the direction of the nation. This is how important this narrative is here. I remember once I was asked to write a book review for a journal on a book that was written by one of the premier Old Testament scholars of our day, and this man wrote a book, and the title of the book was Old Testament Turning Points. And the book really was about eight different narratives in the Old Testament that were the most important turning points in the whole nation of Israel. And this was one of them that he wrote about. This turned the direction of the whole nation of Israel. What happens here? And again, notice what happens in verse 30. Ahijah caught the new garment that was on him, and he rent it in twelve pieces. Here he is wearing this new coat, and God has him to tear it into twelve pieces. I hope God never asked me to tear a new suit up into 12 pieces. But this is again an object lesson. He tears it. Now you remember something similar happened to King Saul when he had his tragic downfall, and the prophet Samuel came to tell him when Samuel went to walk away, Saul grabbed him and he tore his garment, and God said, I'm going to tear away the kingdom of Israel from you. This is similar here. Ehijah is saying that God now is going to tear away the kingdom from Solomon. And by the way, there's something interesting happening here in the vocabulary of this passage. The word for coat in the Hebrew is Salma. which has the same consonants as Solomon. In the Hebrew it almost sounds the same. Salma and Solomon. is almost the same in Hebrew. And really it's almost like God is going to be is going to tear the kingdom into twelve pieces, but also God himself, it's almost as if the king himself, Solomon, would be torn. in his own heart because of what God is going to do. And this is exactly what happens. Look in verse 31. And God said to Jeroboam, Take thee ten pieces For thus saith the Lord, the God of Israel, behold, I will rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will give ten tribes to But he shall have one tribe for my servant David's sake, and for Jerusalem's sake, the city which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel. God says to the king, or excuse me, the prophet says to the king's uh the future king, I should say, Jeroboam, I'm going to place in your hands Ten tribes. Two I'm gonna are going to remain under the house of David. God would do that for David's sake. But ten tribes will be given to you. And from here on out, we have the ten northern tribes, which is really Israel, and then you have the two southern tribes of Judah and Benjamin. Which is we call Judah. So you have Israel and Judah, the north and the south, from here on out, there's this divided kingdom and a divided monarchy. Where you have the kingdoms of the kings of Israel and you have the kings of Judah. God was ripping the kingdom apart because of what Solomon had done. Again, here's the application to us. God still punishes his disobedient, backslidden children by taking things from us that we value the most. It may be a material possession God might take from you. It might be a title or a position. It could be a relationship to a person. It could be a financial judgment But again, God, in order to change us, to correct our behavior, will take from us. This is all the chastisement of God. For his children. And the Bible speaks about this in Hebrews. Remember I said there's three stages of God sp uh chastising his children. God will speak, then he will spank, and then he will scourge. God has already spoken to Solomon. And God has already spanked Solomon by raising up two adversaries. Still Solomon doesn't Repent, and now God is going to scourge Solomon. This is a more severe form of chastisement, because he's going to tear away from him the kingdom. Again, this is how God gets our attention. Let me give you the last thing. God will take away our peace. God will take away the things that we value most, but here's number three. God will take away blessings intended for us, and he will give them to others. Look at verse 37 and verse down to verse 39. And here is God speaking to through the prophet to Jeroboam. I will take thee, and thou shalt reign according to all that thy soul desires, and shalt be king over Israel. And it shall be if thou wilt hearken unto all that I command thee And will walk in my ways and do that which is right in my sight to keep my statutes and my commandments as David my servant did, then I will build with thee And build thee a sure house as I built for David, and will give Israel unto thee And so, you know what this sounds like? The very promises, the very things that God said he would do for Solomon if Solomon obeyed. Now God is making the same offer to Jeroboam. God took it from Solomon, and now God is saying, you know what, Jeroboam, I'm going to give you now this opportunity. A stranger is going to sit on the throne of Israel because of what Solomon has done. You know, in the time I've been in ministry, I have counseled various people. Many have come to me at times in bitter tears because they'd lost everything And the reason they lost it is because of it was God's consequence on their life, because of their bad decisions, their disobedience against the Lord. They lost everything. I've seen grown men weep tears because they lost their wife to another because of their foolish actions. Their children now call another man father. Their house is lived in by another. The money that they had was taken from them and now given to a stranger, given to another, all because of the foolish choices, the disobedience against God, the things that God had given, God took them away. Just as what's happening here in Solomon. And now what's Solomon's life going to be like? Look down in verse number 40. And Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. And Jeroboam arose and fled into Egypt, unto Shishak, king of Egypt, and was in Egypt until the death of Solomon. So Solomon becomes like, again, like Saul. He's trying to kill Jeroboam. Remember, Saul's one obsession toward the end of his reign was what? Kill David, the guy who's supposed to replace me. That was his whole life obsession there at the end. And this becomes the obsession of Solomon at the end of his reign. He's trying to kill Jeroboam. And ironically, Jeroboam, where does he find refuge? He finds refuge in Egypt. Remember Solomon was trying to forge a real friendship with Egypt? He thought he had an alliance with Pharaoh? Not so. Because Pharaoh is protecting this man. You know, Egypt is a symbol of the world. Whenever you look to the world for help, you're going to end up disappointed. Just like Solomon here And then we see the final epitaph of Solomon's life. Look in verse forty-one. And the rest of the Acts of Solomon, and all that he did and his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the Acts of Solomon? And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over Israel was forty years. And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David, his father. And Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead. Again, now remember Rahboam will reign, but God's going to tear that kingdom apart, and we're going to see how that happens in the future. But the story of Solomon's life is a tragedy. He had all these blessings. The wisest man that ever lived. And yet he he died and ended his life foolishly. He sinned against God by loving pagan women. He worshipped foreign idols, which led to tragic consequences, not only for him, but for the whole kingdom of Israel. And God ended up taking away the blessings that He had given him. And again, this is all a warning for us, isn't it? We have to be careful. Because it doesn't matter who you are, if you're not careful, if you don't guard your heart, it can end badly for you in the Christian life You can lose what God has given. God can take blessings out of our hand if we're not careful. And again, this story reminds me of uh one of my favorite uh stories of a hymn writer named Robert Robinson. You remember that he wrote the song Come Thou Found of Every Blessing, and you might remember that he as a young man he was converted by the preaching of George Whitfield and he became a powerful pastor, a greatly used man of God, but he neglected spiritual things in his life and eventually he turned his heart away from the Lord. He backslid a away from God. His heart became cold. He was out of ministry. And he attempted to find peace by traveling. And during one of his journeys, he met a young woman On a carriage, she was very spiritual, and she was reading a hymn book, and she happened to be reading the words of a hymn that he had written. The hymn, Come Thou Fount of Every Blessing. And she read the words. Come thou found of every blessing, tune my heart to sing thy grace. Streams of mercy never ceasing, call for songs of loudest praise. And she said to him, not knowing who he was, Aren't those beautiful words? And he said, ma'am, I'm the one who wrote those words. And he said, there's other words in there that really convict me. The words prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. prone to leave the God I love. And he said, Sadly, I've wandered from the Lord. But she responded, she said, yes, but the streams of mercy are never ceasing You know what? Thank God for his mercy that never ceases. And even for those that are far away from the Lord, their hearts turned away from the Lord, you can get back under the streams of God's mercy. If you so choose. Let's bow for prayer together. And again, I would just ask you just to examine your own heart in light of this. Where is your heart before God? We're learning here from the life of Solomon the tragic consequences of allowing our hearts to wander, to turn away from the Lord. May we guard against that. And maybe right there where you are, you just pray quietly, make the place where you're seated an altar before the Lord. And would you just ask God, God Protect my heart, guard my heart. Keep me from turning away from you. Like the words that Robert Robinson wrote in the song, Hear's My Heart. Take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. Would you pray that? Would you mean it? God, here is my heart. Keep me, Lord, from Wandering from you. Help me, Lord, not to forget all of your blessings. And I don't want to lose not one. Keep me close, Father. Father, bless us as we seek your face. Lord, indeed guard our hearts and help us to draw near to you. And may we be warned by the life of Solomon, that although we can start out with many blessings, we can end miserably if we're not careful. So help us tonight, Lord, by your grace, we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.