All right, delighted to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please? Open to the Old Testament Book of Psalms, and I want you to find chapter 90. Psalm chapter 98. And tonight we're going to look at this beautiful majestic psalm. I call this a psalm for the new year. And the title of the sermon tonight is Teaching Us to Number Our Days. And Psalm 90, this is just a beautiful psalm that really helps us to reflect and focus on the the gift that God gives us, the gift of time. This is really a something that we should be thinking about at the beginning of a new year, right? Uh at the beginning of the new year we you know we kind of begin to plan out our days, our our calendar, we get it out and start making our plans and and all those sorts of things. It's but we need to stop and ponder uh our days that God gives us and how valuable they are. And that's what this Psalm is really about here in Psalm 90. Look at verse number one. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. And thou turnest man to destruction and sayest, Return ye children of men Now I once read that the clocks in London, on all all the big clocks that are there in London, chime every fifteen minutes. Uh that could get to be a little bit uh irritating, I guess you you would think. But I wonder who invented that. Well, I also read that it was the Puritans who invented that. They did that on purpose. They were concerned with the way that they were using time and so they they wanted it to be that every fifteen minutes uh the the big clocks would chime. And because they wanted it to be a reminder that you should not waste time. Time is passing by. And indeed, if you read about the lifestyle of the Puritans, they did not waste it. They were up early every morning on their knees with their Bibles and their families. They would go through catechism with their children, teaching them the scripture. They were always in the house of the Lord morning and evening. They never missed unless, of course the uh health and strength forbid them from coming. But they were always at the prayer service. They were always in their place of duty. They took Psalm 90 verse 12 very seriously. Look at verse 12 of Psalm 90. Where it says this, so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. And we need to learn this same lesson. Now this psalm here is the oldest psalm of all the psalms in the book of Psalms, and it was written by Moses, the man of God. Moses wrote this in a time after Israel's failure. You might remember that it's recorded in the Old Testament, Numbers chapter 13 and 14. an event where Israel provoked God's anger because of their unbelief. That's why this event is called in Scripture the Provocation. The older generations of Jews would not cross over into the promised land because of their unbelief. You remember that story that Moses sent out twelve spies. to c on a kind of a reconnaissance mission into the promised land. And when they returned to give the report to the people of uh Israel uh ten spies had a bad report and two were good. It reminds me of that Sunday school song. You all sing it? Twelve of them went to spy on Canaan. Ten were bad and two were good. Anyway Your homework is to learn that song. But anyway, the the story is recorded in Numbers chapter 13 and uh verse 31 to verse 33. But the men that went up with them said, We be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land through which we have gone to search it is the land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof, and all the people that we saw in it are men of great stature. And we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which come of the giants, and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight. So they gave this negative report. Now the Bible tells us in Numbers chapter 14 that the congregation lifted up their voice and they wept before the Lord all night long and they murmured against Moses, they murmured against uh Aaron, and the whole congregation said, you know, would to God we had died in Egypt. than to bring us out here into this wilderness to die. And the Bible says they provoked God greatly with their anger. Well God didn't like that and then the Bible tells us in Numbers chapter 14 verse eleven The Lord said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me, and how long will it be that they believe me not ere they believe me for all the signs which I have showed among them? Moses, when are these people going to Believe me, all the signs, all the powerful miracles that God did, and here they are, complaining against God Well, God said to this congregation, this unbelieving group, You're going to die here in this wilderness. Numbers 14, 29, your carcasses shall fall. in this wilderness, and all that were numbered of you, according to the whole number, from twenty years old and upward, which ye have murmured against me, doubtless ye shall not come into the land concerning which I swear to make You dwell therein, save Caleb and the son of Jephth, and Joshua the son of Nun. And so God made that decree that, okay, you don't believe me you will die in this wilderness. Now if you keep reading that story, you'll find out that the very next day This same group of people that were complaining and murmuring came to Moses and said, you know what, Moses, we had a bad day yesterday. We're ready to cross over now. And Moses said, don't do it. It's too late. You messed up your opportunity. That's a serious lesson there. Listen, when God gives you an opportunity, you better take it. because that opportunity might not be available the next day. That newly formed nation of Israel was condemned to die. in in the wilderness. And that tragedy was followed by the death of Miriam, Moses' sister. And then later on, Moses' brother Aaron in Numbers chapter 20, he died. So think about this. For a time in Moses' life, people around him were were dying all over. It was estimated that one and a half million Jews died in the wilderness for the next forty years. Moses was surrounded with death. I mean that's a lot of graves in the wilderness when you think about this. People saw uh that Moses saw and knew he he watched them die. People that were perhaps loved by him, he saw them die. People that he had known for many years, he saw them die. And all of this Caused Moses to begin to reflect deeply about the brevity of life, the surety of death, and the holiness of God against the sinfulness of man. He thought deeply about time. He thought deeply about eternal values. And the result is, is that Moses writes This psalm here, Psalm 90. Now we can divide this psalm up into four stanzas. Verses 1 and 2. Really focus on the eternal nature of God. Verses 3 through 6 talk about the mortal nature of man. In verses 7 through 11 in this psalm, it's really about God's wrath over man's sin. That's one of the reasons for man's mortality is because of God's wrath against man's sin. And then verses 12 to 17 is really a prayer for God's mercy and grace. But the central theme in Psalm 90 is verse 12 that we just read. Teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. In other words, since this life is so unpredictable and short, Teach us what we need to know to make each day count. Now normally we don't number our days. We number our months or we number our years, but you know, I don't know anyone who really numbers their days, but we need to learn how to do this. What did Jesus tell us in the New Testament? He taught us to pray, give us this day our daily bread. And that we need to live a day at a time. And so what I find here in Psalm 90 are just four truths that we need to think about. that will help us to realize the value of time that God gives us and to number our days wisely. So four truths here tonight I want you to see. First of all, there is the timeless nature of God. The timeless nature of God. Okay? Now in the first two verses, Moses is going to do some deep thinking. He gives us some theology here. Moses was a superb theologian. He's teaching us about the attributes of God, one attribute of God actually in particular, that Moses teaches us about. Now theologians like to divide the attributes of God up into two categories. I'd like to call one category the communicable attributes of God. Say, what is that? Those are the attributes that God communicates with us. In other words, He shares these attributes with us. God is a God of love, right? But we also possess love. That's something that God shared with us. We are creatures that are able to love, to give love and receive love. There are other communicable attributes. There's knowledge. We're able to you know have knowledge, wisdom, and Truthfulness, mercy, and peace, and so on. These are some of the attributes of God that He shares with us. But there are also another category of God's attributes, and that is What they call the incommunicable attributes of God. These are attributes that God does not share with us. These are the things that make God transcendent. They make God God. They are unique to God alone. And one of those attributes is mentioned in verse number two. From everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. God is eternal. And we could define this as saying God has no beginning, end, or succession of moments in his own being. He sees all time equally vividly, yet God sees events in time, and yet God acts in time. Okay? God sees all time equally and vividly, and yet he acts in succession of events in time. And you know, think about that, uh, how that how that's incredible. God is timeless in his own being Again, this means he has no beginning or no ending. And there are many scriptures in the Bible that support this. It's a difficult concept for us to think about because we are temporal beings. Time is something that we live in. It's something that we know, but God lives outside of time. Time is not the same. Just write down Job 36, verse 26. Behold, God is great. We know him not, neither can the number of his years be searched out. That is to say, his years are unsearchable. Again, this is in reference to God's eternal being. To me, what it's saying is it's the that God has always existed. It is something that we really can't fathom. We really can't understand. That God has just always existed. He was always there. God is from everlasting and to everlasting. He is God. Where did Moses learn this? You remember at the burning bush? When um Moses went to this this incredible site, this is where God manifested himself in this bush, perhaps it was the Shekinah glory of God that looked like fire. And the bush was not consumed, and Moses wanted to see what it was, and of course God spoke and said, Take your shoes off, because you're standing on holy ground. And then God, when Moses asked who He was, God, how did God reveal Himself? He said, I am that I am. Think about that statement. That is such a profound statement we often miss it. And there are so many incommunicable attributes wrapped up in that one statement where God said, I am. externally for his own happiness and fulfillment, God is fully independent in that way. I am speaks about the Asaiete or the independence of God. It speaks about the immutability of God. God doesn't change. God didn't say I was or I will be, but that I am. He does not change. His unity We can think about his unity in that statement. We can certainly see his eternality there. God never had a beginning. He never had an ending. He is the I am. the ever-present one. Time is not something that God dwells in. It is something that He created. He dwells in eternity. We dwell in time. And the first part of verse 2, it talks about events that God did in time. Look at verse 2. Before the mountains were f brought forth. Or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God So Moses describes things that occurred in time and a succession of moments where we dwell. In the second part of the verse, Moses is describing eternity where God dwells. The way I like to think about that is, you know, I think of time as like this transparent tube, you know, that just God sees it from the beginning to the end and in in the middle, all in one vivid uh viewing of all of time. God sees it all vividly at one moment, and yet God condescends to act in moments of time. Are you guys still with me? I mean that that's that's a amazing when you think about that. Um you know you ever see those those big cities where you have these hamsters that have these clear tubes that they w that they are c crawling through, you know. Anybody have a hamster? You don't have to raise your hand, but those those little cities that they you know, have you ever seen one of those? That's kind of I think I use that when I think about God's sees all of time And all past, present, and future, he sees it all. He sees it equally and vividly there. We live in time, but God lives in eternity. Now I I that it's all the more reason for us then as people to understand that, to understand that we live in time, and because God is timeless, we Uh, you know, his nature is eternal. However, we are the ones who live in time. And so we have to understand that. We have to make time count for us. That's the point. Since we're the ones who dwell in time, we're the ones who need to number our days. Because time is a gift that God gives to us. This is one of the gifts of many gifts that the eternal God gives to us finite creatures. He gives us time. The timeless eternal God gives time to us as a gift. But here's number two. So we see then the eternal nature, or we could say the timeless nature of God. But now we see the temporary nature of man. Look at verse 3. Thou turnest man to destruction and saith, Return, ye children of men, for a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is passed, and as a watch in the night. Now when Moses says Return ye children of men. Moses is basically saying man came from dust and and dirt, and guess what? He's going to return to dust and dirt. Why? That's because that's the way God determined it. The God who created man out of the dust of the ground is going to return man back to dust. And I think that Moses is referring here to the curse that God placed upon man and the earth as a result of sin. Remember in Genesis 3 verse 19 where God said, you know, man's going to have to earn his bread from the sweat of his face. And then he said that till thou return unto the earth, for out of it wast thou taken, for dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return. It's going to happen to all of us. to all of us. I read a an amazing story about a man, an American named Arthur Reed, who was 123 years old. And the facts about his life are amazing. He married for the third time when he was 92. He took five-mile walks when he was 100, rode a bicycle until he was 110. He worked until he was 119. When asked about the secret of his long life, he just simply said, They made me out of good dirt But you know what? He did die. And he did return back to dirt. It doesn't matter how good the dirt was that you were made out of, you're going to return back to dirt. That's Moses' point here. In verse 4, for a thousand years in eyesight are but as yesterday, when it is past And as a watch in the night. Even if a man could live to be a thousand years old, it's still like a watch in the night. Now, a watch in the night, they divided the the night watches into three different groups. There was from basically from nine to twelve, that's the first watch. From twelve to three was the second watch. From three to six was the third watch. And if a person could live a thousand years old, to be a thousand years old, God says, to me that's just like a watch in a night. That's a third of a night. That's just a few hours. You know, and that's the whole point here. Man's going to still return to dust. God will still say to him, return ye children of men. And so the implication of this is that time is fleeting for men because we're temporal. For God, God lives outside of time. God says to me, that's nothing but for us who live in time That's fleeting. Time is all that we have here in this world. And Moses isn't trying to be morbid here. He's just trying to be factual. He's trying to force us to remember that all of us are temporal in this life and we are going to die. We have a tendency to think you know things are just going to continue on the way they are. No, they change And we're all going to become dust one day. George Bernard Shaw observed this. He said, quote, statistics on death are quite impressive. One out of every one died. Thank you, uh Captain Obvious there. Therefore, time is a gift. It's a gift. And once you spend it, you can't get it back. You can't get earlier today you can't get it back. You can't get yesterday back And you only have so many days that God has allotted to you and trusted to you, and life got goes by so fast. When as a child I laughed and wept, time crept When as a youth I dreamed and walked and talked, time walked. When I became a full grown man, time ran, and when older still I grew, time flew. And soon I shall find in passing on time gone. Now Moses uses three analogies here to teach us how quick life is. Look at verse number five, where he says, Thou carriest them away as with a flood. It's it's like a flash flood. Death is like a flood that comes suddenly and sweeps everything in its path. Some of you might remember a few years ago, Ellicus City Main Street had a flood go through there. Actually I think it happened twice in a few years where a flood just came in and just the water just swept everything away. I think tragically a person lost their life on one of those events. And Moses says, you know, that's what death is like. It's like a flood that comes and it sweeps you away. It's like suddenly falling asleep in verse number five where it says, They are as a sleep. You know, you ever get tired and you try to stay awake, something about the body, you know, after a while the body's just going to go to sleep. You can only stay awake so long. You can try to stay awake, you know, day after day, but you know, eventually you're going to fall asleep. All right. I remember in college I worked third shift. I don't think third shift is biblical because the butt the Bible says the night cometh when no man can work. But anyway, um that's probably used out of context. But anyway, I hated working third shift. And I remember going to class the next day, I'd get off at seven and have to go to class at eight thirty and try to take notes and stay awake. And I was you know, a while back looked at some of my old notes in class and I have writing and then a line goes right down the page. It's because I fell asleep. You know. I tried to stay awake. I didn't want to fall asleep. But I couldn't help it. And and Moses is basically saying, just like sleep comes upon a weary person, you can't hold it off, you can't keep it back That's the way death will come. Death is like sleep that comes upon a weary person. It doesn't matter what you do. You can try to find a way to fight it off, but it's going to come to all of us to every one of us. It's like grass withering away. Look at verse 5 again. They are like grass which groweth up. Verse 6, in the morning it flourishes and groweth up. In the evening it is cut down and withered. In the arid climate of the Near East, a rain a night rain would often cause grass to sprout in the morning, but by the evening time after the sun would scorch it would just wither away into nothing. The the lifetime of grass oftentimes was just one day. Very short-lived. Moses is saying our lives are like that. Our lives are so short on this earth. 1 Chronicles 29. 15 says, Our days on earth are as a shadow. Job 7. 6 says, My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle. And Job 7, 7 he says, Remember that my life is but a breath, for my days are consumed like smoke. Psalm 102, verse number And again, Moses is not being morbid here. He's reminding us all about the brevity of life. Remember the context in which he writes this. He's watching people drop in the desert. Day after day after day. Um and so uh Moses is saying you better number your days. Here's the third thing. Not only the timeless nature of God And the temporary nature of man. But here's a third thought to think about that should motivate us. There's the terminal nature of sin. The terminal nature of sin. Why is it that our lives are so short? Well, Moses argues here that God's wrath is one reason, because of God's wrath against sin, sin robs us of life. And and and yet again the context of this is Moses sees people dying in the wilderness because of their sin, because of their unbelief against God, and they're paying for their sins. Sin robs us of life. And this is what we see here. First of all, sin provokes God's wrath. Look at verse 7. For we are consumed by thine anger, and thy wrath are we and by thy wrath are we troubled. God's wrath was really killing a lot of people in the desert. Moses saw God's wrath punishing unbelieving people every day. They were dying all around them. Again, 1. 2 million people dying in a space of 40 years. That's 30,000 dying every year if you space it out evenly. That's about 82 per day. Now we know that there were thousands killed on one day because of God's wrath on the rebellion. But still people were dropping all around Moses. Moses was seeing people just killing over and dying. And Moses says, look, the the reason this is happening is because of sin. Sin robs us of life. Uh people say, well that that's just a natural part of life. You know, we should just accept it as normal. But that's humanistic. You know, the Bible tells us that death entered into this world as a direct judgment on sin. On the human race. And so the reality of death ought to make us think about our sin and it ought to motivate us to make sure that we are reconciled to a holy God. That we don't live in in sin, that we don't take sin lightly. Even though that we're saved, even though we're children of God, we still should not take sin lightly because sin is a thief. Sin will rob us. Sin will bring death. Sin is witnessed by God. Look at verse number eight. Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. Verse nine, for all our days are passing away or passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. God sees our sins. That's what Moses is saying there. He spies on us. And here Moses gives us another incommunicable attribute of God. God sees everything, he knows everything. You say, why is that important? Well, because you know the the Bible tells us that one of the reasons why Men commit such wicked acts or people who live in sin is because in their mind somehow they reason that God doesn't see. God or God's not concerned about what I do For example, the book of Job gives us insight into how the sinner reasons in his mind about sin. Job twenty-two verse twelve, is not God in the height of the heaven? God's all the way up there in heaven, and behold the height of the stars, how high they are. And thou sayest, How doth God know Here's the lost sinner, or maybe even believers sometimes may even fall into this foolish way of thinking. Look how high the heavens are, look how way up there those stars are. And God lives beyond that Can he actually look down and see everything I do? That's how they reason in their mind. And they'll say, how doth God know? Can he judge through the dark cloud? Can God look down through a cloudy day? When it's a dark day out and can he see what's going on? not. And he walketh in a circuit of heaven. Oh God is up there and he's walking around in heaven. He can't see down here. He can't see what we're doing. That's how the sinner reasons in their mind. That's how they think. You say, well, that's the lost person. That's surely religious people, surely, you know, God's people wouldn't think that way. But in Ezekiel chapter 8, verse 12, Ezekiel has a vision where God takes Ezekiel to the temple and he shows them what is called the chambers of the of the imagery where basically there's iniquity taking place in the house of Israel. And it's so bad. And and Ezekiel 9 9 says, Then he said unto me, The iniquity of the house of Israel in Judah is exceedingly great, the land is full of blood, and the city full of perverseness, for they say, The Lord has forsaken the earth, the Lord sees not. God's withdrawn completely from the things that we do here on the earth. He doesn't see. That is the depravity of man's heart. I want to assure you, based on the Word of God, God sees everything you do. And He knows your every thought. Every motive of your heart. God knows all. But another thing that Moses said is: sin makes life short. Look at verse number nine. For all our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. The word tale here is story, or we could s could the Hebrew word here actually is a sigh. Life is so short, it's like a sigh. And that's it, it's over with. But then also sin causes man to suffer. Look at verse number 10. The days of our years are three score years and ten, and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength, labor, and sorrow For it is soon cut off and we fly away. And Moses gives the observation that the average lifespan, based on what he sees is about, you know, 70 years. What did he say in verse number 10? Three score and 10, and if by reason of strength they be fourscore? You know, somewhere around seventy to eighty years. Seventy is average, you know, eighty if if you have extra strength. I was reading the the life expectancy. uh you know r you know r in a place called Andorra, I'm not sure where that is, is eighty-three years, thirty-two years in Swaziland. I wouldn't want to live there. And the U. S. among the nations of the earth as far as the mortality rate is at number 45. Our life expectancy is 78 years. Um actually 75 for men, 80 for women. You know. So and you know I I was reading it says according to this, that's up from twenty-five years ago. And you know, even if medical science is able to make the mortality rating increase to where you know we live to 80, 85 years, you know what? It's it's gone quickly. Moses says, even if your physical strength could cause you to live longer, you still have to reckon the fact that in those extra years that you live, you think If the anything everything's gonna be okay, you still have s suffering and and work and labor and things that happen in life, toil and trouble and sorrow and all of that. I know I know you say, man, this sounds so negative tonight. But again, Moses is try trying to help us think deeply about life. People think lightly about God's wrath on sin. Look at verse 11. Who knoweth the power of thine anger? Even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. And so, you know, who takes heart, as he's saying, to the full intensity of God's holy anger against fear There are very few people who think seriously about God's holiness and his wrath against sin in this world and in our life. God expresses his wrath against it every day. We see it all the time, all around us. And so let me just go to the f final point here. We're just running out of time. Talking about time, I'm running out of it here. Here's the last point. First of all, we see the timeless nature of God and the temporary nature of man and the terminal nature of sin. As Moses sees people dropping around them because of their sin. Here's the last thing. The transformational nature of prayer. Based on all of this, the last part of Psalm 90 is Moses Praying, and he makes several requests in this prayer. And this this is what we should do. We need to follow this pattern We need to think deeply about what Moses is telling us here in this psalm, and we need to follow the pattern of praying that Moses gives us here. as we number our days. And the first is this, pray that we value each day. Look at verse 12. So teach us to number our days. This is actually a prayer, isn't it? Teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts to wisdom with knowing that all of this is true, knowing that God lives outside of time and eternity, but we live in time And God's, because of sin, it robs us of life. Then you know what? We need to pray that God Will give us the wisdom and teach us to number our days. Each day, again, is a unique gift from God. There'll never be another day like it. And so we need to value each day. We need to get out of each day everything that we can, knowing that, you know, it we're not going to get that back. And here's the second thing. Pray for God's wisdom for each day. We see again that we may apply our hearts to wisdom. Wisdom is not uh theoretical, it's practical, it's making the right decisions. And what he's saying is, you know, we need to make sure that we make the right decisions every day. That's what wisdom is. Wisdom is practical. It's what you do And it begins with the fear of the Lord. What's the fear of the Lord? The fear of the Lord is a reverential attitude that leads to right decisions. If you really fear God and you love God, that's going to be the foundation for every decision that you make tomorrow. in the day that you live. Every decision that you make should be motivated by that one thing. That is what wisdom is. And so it's very crucial that we learn to do the right things. It's not living a hurried life, not trying to do so many things in a day. It's just doing the right things and making the right decisions. Think about the life of Jesus. He lived, you know, 33 years, and at the end of his life he could say, I finished everything, Father, that you gave me to do. But I don't read about Jesus in the Gospels rushing around, running from place to place. No, he graciously Did what the Lord gave him to do. He had enough time for to do everything that God wanted him to do. He just did the right things. It's an insult to God to say, I don't have enough time in a day. No, God's given you plenty of time. You just need to make sure that you use each day wisely and you make the right decisions in the days that God gives you. Now here's another thing. Pray for God's mercy for each day. Look at verse thirteen. Return, O Lord, how long? And let it repent thee concerning thy servants. O satisfy us early with thy mercy that we may rejoice and be glad for all our days. When Moses uses the word return in verse thirteen, he basically is saying, Lord, give us back your divine favor. Give us your mercy. Before you return us to dust. It had been a while since they experienced the merciful favor of God. And Moses says, Lord, how long is it going to be? How much longer do we have to endure without your favor And then in verse 14, he says, you know, satisfy us with your mercy. Look at verse 15, make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us. And the years wherein we have seen evil. Moses prays that a new day of mercy and grace will dawn in the morning. Let us see mercy for the rest of our days. You know what we should be praying for every day of our life for the mercy of God. That God would give us his mercy, that we can see his mercy in our life. And then here's the next thing. Pray to see God's hand at work. Look at verse 16. Let thy work appear unto thy servants and thy glory unto their children. And these two lines are saying the same thing. God's work is God showing his glory. And Moses is praying, God, give me enough spiritual vision to see your hand at work each day. I can see your glorious works that are going on. Are you able to see that? Are you able to see the hand of God working all around you, working in your life? And so It's such a beautiful thing to see the hand of God. And then here's the last thing. Pray that we experience God's favor each day. Look at verse 17. And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish thou the work of our hands. Yea, the work of our hands establish thou it. Pray that we experience God's favor. each day. The word beauty here, uh Naomi, means favor, pleasantness. There was a woman in the Bible named Naomi. This is the mother-in-law of Ruth. Her name comes from this root word, pleasantness or favor. God, let us see your favor in this world. You know, there's no there's nothing like having the blessings of God. The things of this world are so temporary and fleeting, but God's blessings are permanent. They're real and they're things that we carry with us. And so Alexander McLaren said the only thing that will secure lifelong gladness is a heart satisfied with the experience of God's love. And so we see then these these th four truths that Moses gives us, the timeless nature of God, the temporary nature of man, the terminal nature of sin. The transformational nature of prayer. We need to pray that we value each day for God's to give us wisdom, for each day mercy, that we see God's hand at work. We experience God's love and favor and that He'll establish our works. But the ultimate lesson of this whole psalm Is that there's one the one thing that gives meaning to this temporal life is that we have a relationship with an eternal God. And that goes all the way back to verse 1. Go back to verse 1, the very first part, Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. For forty years Moses and Israel had no place to call home. They wandered in that desert without an earthly dwelling place. But during that time, and by the way, if you read numbers, you'll find that Forty-two places were listed where they camped during their journey. But in the midst of all of that, Moses knew that God was their dwelling place. No matter where they were, God said, Moses said, God, you are our home. You are our dwelling place. Isaac Watts, I think captured that later on when he wrote the song, O God, Our Help in Ages Past. I think he drew his inspiration from Psalm 90 Where he writes, Oh God, our help in ages past, our hope for years to come, our shelter from the stormy blast, and our eternal home. God, you are our eternal home. And this Reminds us that without God, we're nothing. What makes us something is that we have a relationship, we temporal, finite creatures, have a relationship with an eternal God. And that He is our dwelling place. And because we know Jesus Christ, then we will throughout eternity be dwelling in heaven with God. God will be our eternal home. I can't think of a greater blessing than that. To know that God is our eternal home. And and that we can be linked to the timeless eternal God through faith in Jesus Christ. And the question is, are you ready for that? Are you ready for that? As we look out over the horizon of 2024, we don't know what's going to happen, do we? We don't know what tomorrow may bring. And death is no respecter of persons. That's why you need to make sure that you know Jesus Christ, that you are reconciled to a holy God through faith in Jesus Christ. Because you know what that guarantees? That you will have God as your eternal home. That you're prepared if death should suddenly come. And I'll close with this. I read of a young man who in nineteen eighty one was flown to a remote area of Alaska and he was there in the wilderness to to take pictures. He was a a photographer and he wanted pictures of natural beauty And so he had all the equipment that he needed. He had five hundred rolls of film. He had several firearms. He had fourteen hundred pounds of provisions. And as the months passed by, entries in his diary, which first talked about all the wonder and the fascination that he saw. turned to really a nightmare and when you read it. It said that in August he wrote, I think I should have used more foresight about arranging my departure. I'll soon find out. He waited and waited, but no one came to his rescue. In November, he died in a nameless valley by a nameless lake. 225 miles north of Fairbanks. An investigation revealed that he had carefully mapped out his venture, but he made no provision to be flown out. He made no provision. That was a bit short-sighted to go out into this adventure and not make provision for departure. And yet, how many people live their lives here in this world without making any provision for their departure? You're going to depart one day. Death will come to us all. Are you ready if that should come? And so the only way for your fleeting life to have value is by knowing the eternal God through Jesus Christ. That way you'll be ready when that time comes. Let's bow for prayer. Spouth of prayer. Father, we thank you that you are the eternal God and that you are holy. And that, Lord, your wrath against sin is seen all the time. We see it all around us. People don't think about it, they don't take thought of it. They think lightly about sin. They think lightly about the punishments of sin. The Father is very real, and it's so real that one day every person born of Adam will turn back to dust. From dust they were made and from dust they will return. And the only refuge that we have is your mercy offered through the cross of Christ, through Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. And so Father, I pray that as we Think about this psalm that Moses wrote, that you will indeed, Lord, teach us to number our days. To be ready if death should ever come. By knowing you through Christ. And then, Lord, to take every day that you give us as a gift. Every day is an expression of your love to us. We have another day to live our lives. And that we may number our days and apply our hearts unto wisdom. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.