Joshua here on Wednesday night and be finding Joshua chapter 6. Joshua chapter 6 and verse number 1. And I want to read those first two verses with you out of Joshua chapter 6. And tonight I want to talk about tearing down the strongholds of your life. Joshua chapter 6 and verse 1. Now Jericho was straightly shut up. Because of the children of Israel. None went out, and none came in. And the Lord said unto Joshua, See, I have given into thine hand Jericho, and the king thereof. and the mighty men of valor. So let me ask you a question tonight. What is a stronghold? According to Webster's dictionary It is a strong defense, it is a fortress, a military citadel. Now in the ancient days Whenever the king would build a city, they always built a wall around that city, and on that wall they would also put uh towers. And uh these were very strong walls and strong towers. And sometimes these cities were so strong because they were located in such a strategic place. that they were known as strongholds. They were very, very, very difficult to attack. Rarely, when an army came against a stronghold did they win. And so it took a lot of strength, it took a lot of skill, it took a lot of wisdom to overcome a military stronghold. You say, well, what does this have to do with me? Well, spiritually speaking, did you know that we all face strongholds We all have spiritual strongholds in our life. You say, how do you know that? Well the Apostle Paul spoke about that in the New Testament in 2 Corinthians chapter 10. He said, the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of what? Strongholds. And so he was talking there on a spiritual level, on a spiritual plane. And so a stronghold could represent something in your heart and in your life. that is hindering you from having all the victory that God wants you to have. And so I want to ask you to a question tonight. What is the stronghold in your life. A stronghold could co a stronghold could be a someone, a person, a stronghold could be something. It could be some circumstance in your life that is hindering you from having the full victory that God wants you to have that keeps you from inheriting your full inheritance. And the Lord Jesus Christ, which is spiritual victory. It's a giant fortress in your life that you have to tear down. Or should I say, God has to tear down and out of your life. And so, now remember the theme of the book of Joshua is victory. living a victorious Christian life. And remember that whatever the land of Canaan represented to Joshua, it repres is what spiritual victory represents. to us the believer. Going into the promised land was them inheriting all that God had promised. And for you as a Christian, victory is everything that God has promised you. It is your birthright. It is your inheritance in the Lord Jesus Christ. And Canaan then is a picture of that total, complete victory that God wants you to have. And let me remind you, there is no victory, however, without struggle or without conflict. In fact, John Christostom, who was a great martyr, one of the early church fathers, said this. He said, You're a poor soldier of Christ if you think you can overcome without fighting. And suppose you can have a crown without conflict. And he's absolutely right. And so what we can learn here from the book of Joshua is learning how to tear down the strongholds that are before us, those strongholds that keep us from having total victory. Now what was the stronghold for Joshua and Israel? Well it was the city of Jericho. They had just crossed the Jordan River, but yet what stood before them was this incredibly strong large military fortress called Jericho, and this city had to fall if they were going to have victory or if they were going to claim their Canaan Jericho was a sinful city. I don't want to give you all the facts, but we there's a history and archaeology reveals how grossly immoral this city was. They were incredibly evil in the sight of God. Some of the sins listed are listed in Leviticus 18 that this city and all the Canaanites committed, which included child sacrifice. And so God declares Kareem, which is the word for holy war, against this city. Your stronghold might be a a stubborn sin. uh in your life that you can't seem to get victory over. Jericho was not only a sinful city, Jericho was a strong city. This was perhaps the strongest city in all of the land of Canaan a formidable city, but also Jericho was a strategic city. Now if Joshua and Israel were going to take the rest of the land of Canaan, Jericho had to fall. In fact, the Bible reveals, this book of Joshua reveals, that after Jericho fell, immediately Joshua went on three campaigns. He went on a central campaign. He went from Jericho to AI and then later on to Shechem. And then he had a southern campaign to Gibeon and on through the south to Lebna and Eglon and Hebron and then eventually Jerusalem. And then he started a northern campaign. through Hazor all the way to Cades. But here's the idea. Before he could do any of those things, Jericho had to follow. And here's the point, beloved, before you can have victory in other areas of your life, there's a stronghold in your life that has to come down first. It is a strategic thing. In order for you to have total victory, this has to fall. Now with all that in mind, What I want you to see tonight are three principles to follow, to tear down the stronghold that you may have in your life. And I pray the Lord will encourage you through this. And you say, I don't have a stronghold now, well take notes. You might have one later. But here are three principles. Here's the first one. Number one, consider your stronghold with Christ. Or we could say consider it with Christ. Now actually the story back up to chapter 5 verse 13 because the source the story starts right there. Look at verse 13. And it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho that he lifted up his eyes and looked And behold, there stood a man over against him with his sword drawn in his hand. And Joshua went unto him and said unto him, Art thou for us or for our adversaries? Now, Joshua and the children of Israel, again, they crossed the Jordan River. God parted that river miraculously, as we saw the last time. Now they're just outside the city of Jericho. Joshua as of yet had received no divine instruction on what to do. Now it seems to him it's reasonable and logical that Jericho would be next on the list. And so Joshua goes out one night on a reconnaissance mission. He wants to see this city himself. And so there he is in verse 13. We see him he goes out before the city. He looks at the city. He sees this massive, massive Fortress. And uh despite his long military experience, he knows that he doesn't have the knowledge to overcome this city. Joshua had never led a siege against a well-fortified fortress with a defense army on the inside ready for a long siege. He had never had that kind of warfare And besides, if you're going to tear down a stronghold, what it's going to require are military engines and weapons. They had no battering rams. They had no catapults They had no moving towers. They had none of the equipment that was necessary, humanly speaking, to overcome a stronghold. The only weapons they had were slings and arrows and spears, which were no match for the walls of Jericho. Furthermore, Joshua knew that they had So to defeat this city. You see, they had already crossed the Jordan. The Jordan was at its swelling. There was no turning back. They were to a point where they literally could not retreat. They were backed up against the river. If they didn't defeat Jericho, they were done. And they couldn't bypass Jericho because to do that would open them up for destruction. It would leave the enemy behind them, which you should never do And so Joshua's looking at this city. He doesn't know what to do. Suddenly, Joshua sees someone and it comes into his sphere of vision. And the Bible says in verse 13, there's a man, there stood a man over against him, with his sword drawn in his hand, and Joshua went unto him and said unto him, Art thou for us? Or for our adversaries. Now, ladies and gentlemen, this was a divine visitation. This was a pre-incarnate appearance. of the Lord Jesus Christ, the captain of the army, the Lord Jesus had come himself. And here's the first thing you need to look to know when overcoming strongholds, and that is this. God doesn't leave us alone in the battle. He comes to fight for us, and he comes to be our aid. So here's the first thing. When I say consider it with Christ, consider his presence in the battle. Now at first Joshua he doesn't recognize who he is. So look what Joshua says to him in verse 13 at the latter end. And Joshua went unto him and said unto him, Art thou for us or for our adversaries? In effect he was saying, uh, who goes there? Whose side are you on? And the the response in verse 14, nay, and he said, nay, but as captain of the host of the Lord am I now That is, I didn't come here to take sides, Joshua. I came here to take over. You see, this is Jesus, and the question is not, is he on your side, but the question is, are you on his side? You say, how do you know this was Jesus? Well look at Joshua's response. Look in verse 14. And Joshua fell on his face and did worship And said unto him, What saith my Lord unto his servant? And verse fifteen, and the captain of the host O the Lord's host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoes from off thy foot, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. And Joshua did so And so here is this preincarnate appearance of the Lord. He's captain of the host. He has his sword drawn, which means that the time of mercy and patience is over. The sword drawn is a symbol of judgment that is about to come. The iniquity of the Amorites was full. Now it was time for judgment, and Joshua and Israel would be the instruments by whom judicial punishment would fall. And but however, what we see here is that Joshua is greatly encouraged by the presence of the Lord. And the Lord is affirming to Joshua again the promise he had already made, that as I was with Moses, so Shall I be with you? You know what the Lord was reminding him, Joshua? You're not first in command, you're second in command. And you know what? All of us need to be reminded about that. Every father, every mother Every pastor, every Christian leader is not first in command, you're second in command. First in command is the Lord Jesus Christ. If we forget this fact, we will fall. And so, no matter how what stronghold you're dealing with in your life, you're not alone. The captain of the Lord of hosts is with you. And what you have to do is you have to confess, Lord, I I can't handle this stronghold. I can't deal with this. I don't have the weapons. To pull down this stronghold. We're weak. We don't have the wisdom. We don't have the power. And we must look to the captain of our salvation to give us help in this battle. So here's the first thing. Consider his presence in the battle. But then also write this down. Consider his promise for the battle. Look in verse number. Chapter 6 verse 1. Now Jericho was straightly shut up because of the children of Israel. None went out, and none came in. And the Lord said unto Joshua, See, I have given into thy hand Jericho and the king thereof and the mighty men of valor. And you should compass the city, all ye men of war, and go round the city once. Thus shall thou do in six days. Now here's the thing I want you to see. Jericho was shut up, that is, it was locked up tighter than a drum. You know why? Because of fear They knew that Israel what had happened with this army on to the Egyptians. They know what happened to the Amorite kings, and they were afraid. And so it was shut up and the Lord said, You see, Joshua, I've already given this city into your hand You see that I have given. We've already looked at that. Victory is assured. And again, this is a principle of the Christian life that you must remember. That in the Lord Jesus Christ, you already have victory. You already have been assured of victory. And you have to grasp that, you have to understand that. The Christian soldier who stands in Christ has been assured of victory. Do you know that Satan has already been defeated? He's already defeated. There's no reason to allow a stronghold in your life when you know that Satan is already defeated. And so Joshua discovers that the battle is the Lord's, and that he already has overcome the enemy that he's already won. But here's the next thing. Not only consider his presence in the battle and his promise for the battle, but also his plan for the battle. Look down in verse number three of chapter six. And he says, And ye shall pass the city, all ye men of war, and go round about the city once, thus shalt thou do six days, and seven priests shall bear or shall uh bear before the ark, seven trumpets of ram horns And seven days shall ye come past the city seven times, and the priest shall blow with the trumpets, and it shall come to pass that when they make a long blast with a ram's horn And when you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout, and the wall of the city shall fall down flat, and the people shall ascend up every man straight before him Now, God had already had a plan for Joshua to follow. You know what I notice about this? Joshua didn't submit a plan to the Lord and say, Here, Lord, I have a plan. Bless my plans. That's not what happened here. He didn't submit plans to the Lord. Joshua submitted himself to the Lord and said, Lord, what do you want me, your servant, to do? Hudson Taylor one time was speaking to missionaries and he said, There are three ways to do God's work. He said, first of all, you can make your best plans And hope they succeed. Where he said, number two, we can make our own plans and then give them to God and ask God to bless them. Or number three, we can ask God for his plan And then let God tell us what to do. And then Hudson Taylor said, I recommend number three. This is the best way. And it is. And this is exactly what Joshua does Now, think about this. Humanly speaking, what God asked Joshua and Israel to do didn't make a whole lot of sense. I mean, think about it. He didn't ask them to dig a trench or build a bulwark. He didn't ask them to make ladders. This would be the most unique war in human history. Ordinary weapons were not going to be used. Ordinary military weapons. To pull down a stronghold, we're not going to be used. Besides Joshua and Israel, they again knew nothing about that. What were they to do? Well, God gave them the order. He said, You're to our you are too encircled a city. And verse they're actually to make a parade and march a parade around the city walls. And you know this story. In verse 3, the armed men were to be first And then we saw in verse 4, then seven priests with seven trumpets would follow them. So you have the armed men, you have seven priests with seven trumpets, and then the ark was to follow And then all the rest of the people were to follow after that. And that's in verse number nine, where they're called the re-reward. That is all of the rest of the people are to follow them up, and they're to march around the wall once a day for six days, and on the seventh day they march around seven times. Now, this plan doesn't sound very rational. In fact, it leaves one scratching their head saying, what is God? God, what are you doing? You ever ask that question sometimes in your own life? Lord, I hear you, but Lord, what are you doing? What's happening? You know, sometimes when God gives us an order, the orders that he gives us are designed to test our faith You know what? God's way is not man's way. We think we know the best way, but we don't. The foolishness of God is wiser than men, the weakness of God is stronger than men. God told them what to do, but didn't tell them why And you know what? You know the response that God wanted? God, I don't understand, but I trust you. I don't understand these orders, but I trust that you know what you're doing. You know what God wants? God wants you and I to have faith in Him without question. And sometimes then God's orders are designed to test our faith And God was going to make sure that when this city fell, it would not be by human wisdom, it would not be by human might or mechanical means. God was going to bring to nothing the wisdom of man when he took over this city. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 1 19, for it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. I will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. This city was not captured by human reasoning or wisdom. How is it done? It was done by faith. The Bible says in Hebrews 11:30, by faith the walls of Jericho came down. So God's orders sometimes are designed to test our faith. God's orders are designed sometimes to test our patience. They had to march around the wall 13 times total. That city didn't fall overnight. And can you imagine being in that army? What are we going to do today? We're going to walk around the wall. That's it? That's it. And by the way, you can't say anything. Just be quiet. Walk around the wall. That's it? That's it. Get up the third day. What are we doing today? We're gonna walk around the wall. Don't say a word. Day after day. This had to be hard. And can't you imagine at the top of the walls the enemy soldiers are laughing at them, ridiculing. Hey, what are you guys doing? Are you afraid to fight? Are you trying to bore us to death? What's going on? They had to listen to all that ridicule. But they were to patiently keep doing what God told them to do. And you know what? Impatience was one of Israel's besetting sins. And God was trying to teach them patience. As well as faith. The Bible says in Hebrews 6. 12, faith and patience help us to inherit the promises. But then sometimes God's orders are designed to test our self-control. They couldn't say a word during that whole time. You ever try to stay quiet for just one hour? For some people it's harder than others. I understand that. But I mean here they are in a group. They can't say anything. They had to be absolutely, totally silent. F. B. Meyer calls silence the hardest of all. commands here. He writes this, that our voice should not be heard, that no word should proceed from our mouth, that we should utter our complaints to God alone? All this is foreign to our habits and tastes. That's true. It's foreign to us. This is a hard command. But the Bible says in James, if we can't control our tongue, we can't control anything else. And so sometimes God's orders are designed to test our self-control. And then sometimes God's orders are designed to test our obedience. He was testing whether or not that they would obey. You know, sometimes God might ask us to do something that is unreasonable or illogical, just to see if we're willing to obey. You know why? Because God can't use a disobedient Christian. He just can't, he won't. He just need to obey. I was reading where General George Patton had an unusual way of selecting leaders for promotion. This is what his historian said, his writer, he said he would line up his candidates and say, Men, I want a trench dug behind that warehouse. Dig it eight feet long, three feet wide, six inches deep. Then the general would lead the men to their work. Unknown to them, however, he would go to a room in the warehouse next to where the digging tools were kept. And as the men were getting the tools to dig the trench Patton would hear every word they said. Some complained that this was demeaning work for a lieutenant, or that a trench should be dug by a power equipment. Not men. Others would gripe about having to dig a stupid, pointless trench in such lousy weather. Others would argue about why in the world the general would want a trench only six inches deep. It doesn't make sense But finally one of the men would say, who cares what the general general wants or why he wants us to dig this trench? Let's just dig it and get it over with. That was the man that got hired or promoted for the next position for Patton. You know why? He wanted men that were willing to follow orders and get the job done. And that's exactly what God wants from us. He wants us to obey. So here's the first thing. If you want to tear down a stronghold in your life, number one, consider it with Christ. Consider his presence in the battle. Consider his promise for the battle. Consider his plan for the battle. So then here's number two. You want to tear down the stronghold in your life? Circle it with prayer. Circle it with prayer. Look down at verse number six. You have to admire Joshua because he obeys immediately. Look at verse six. And Joshua, the son of nun, called the priests and said unto them, Take up the Ark of the Covenant. And let seven priests bear seven trumpets of ram horns before the ark of the Lord. And he said unto the people, Pass on and come past the city And let him that is armed pass on before the ark of the Lord and it and it came to pass when Joshua had spoken unto the people, that the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of ram's horns passed on before the Lord, and blew the trumpets, and the ark of the covenant of the Lord followed them, and the armed men went before the priest that blew with the trumpets, and the re-reward came after the ark, the priest going on and blowing with the trumpets. And Joshua had commanded the people, saying, Ye shall not shout, nor make any noise with your voice, neither shall any word proceed out of your mouth until the day I bid you shout. Then shall ye shall and so on, and he continues to describe exactly what God told them to do Joshua orders them all to line up in formation, just as God said, He tells them to be quiet, don't say anything, don't shout until I tell you to shout. The priests blow their trumpets. There are no ladders, there are no catapults, there's no battering rams. But the truth of the matter is they didn't need any of that anyway, because the battle was going to be the Lord's. Now, I have to be honest with you, for years I've read this. And to be honest, it baffled me. I couldn't understand this. And I would come to this passage and I would say, Lord, this just doesn't make sense. And I know that everything that God does, He has a purpose for it. There's a reason behind it. So whenever I study scripture, I always ask that question, okay, what's the reason for this, Lord? Why is this here? And I couldn't figure it out. God makes them march around silently. It just didn't make any sense. And then it dawned on me, this is not a military strategy. This is a dedication service. That's what finally I came to, and this is exactly I think what's going on. God's instructions to Joshua about this taking this city is not a military strategy. This is not a battle strategy. If any military tries to take a city like this, they'll get creamed. This is not what the Lord is doing. This is not a military maneuver. This is a solemn dedication. This is a worship service. This is a religious ritual. And what were they doing? By encircling the city the way they were in such a manner they were actually saying, Lord, this city belongs to you. And this whole ritual that we're doing is a dedication service where we're dedicating this city over to you. We're giving it into your hands. That's why the silence. Why the silence? Because it was a solemn dedication. They weren't to say anything. They were to be still. before the Lord. They want to speak. You know there are times in our Christian life where we just need to be still and know that He's God. We need to be silent before the Lord. Why the trumpets? These trumpets here, if you study them, these were the trumpets that were used in connection with Israel's solemn assemblies. Israel's solemn dedication services. These were the trumpets that would call people together for these solemn feasts and services. That's why the trumpets. That's why the number seven. Did you notice that you're reading this? The number seven is all over this passage. You know why? Because that's God's number. We see seven priests, seven trumpets, seven days, seven circuits, and then the seventh day. All of this signifies the work of God. Uh one writer was talking about this. Uh he said this. He said in biblical numerology, the number seven represents completeness. And then he goes on to talk about it represents the completion of God's work. And so the emphasis here is that this is going to be the work of the Lord. In essence what they're saying is Lord the the tearing down of strongholds Tearing down this military stronghold is not our work. This is your work. This is what you have to do. We're not doing this. you are. And so we, as we encircle this city, we're giving this city over to you. Really the key, look in verse number 17. For the city shall be accursed, even it and all that are therein to the Lord look at that phrase, to the Lord only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all that are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that we sent And verse eighteen And ye sh and ye and anywise keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest ye make yourselves accursed when you take the accursed thing and make the camp of Israel uh curse and trouble it. But all the silver and gold and vessels of brass and iron are consecrated unto the Lord. They shall come into the treasury of the Lord In other words, you weren't to take anything out of this city. Normally soldiers would take the spoils of a battle, but God said, Not this city. Because this whole city Is given over to the Lord. It's dedicated to the Lord. All the silver and the gold and everything, that's to give unto the treasury of the Lord. This all belongs to the Lord. It was all set apart unto God. Remember in 1961 the Soviets constructed a wall right through the middle of Germany? And th those of you are are su some here may be old enough to remember this. that this was the Berlin Wall, this massive structure of cement, and how it divided the people when it stayed there for 28 years. And in one of the more dramatic speeches in history, President Reagan in 1987 stood before that wall and he said, Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall. And then two years later, the Berlin Wall came tumbling down. Really, what Joshua and Israel were saying as they were encircling the city is they were saying, Lord, this stronghold is your i this is yours And we're giving it to you, and Lord, would you please tear down this wall? That's in essence what they were saying. You say, What's the application for us? Listen, when we have a stronghold in our life that is troubling us, You know what we have to do? We have to encircle it with prayer. And we have to say, Lord, I can't handle this stronghold I don't have any wisdom. I don't have any strength. I don't have any strategy that's going to tear this thing down. Lord, I'm giving it to you. Lord, would you please tear down this? Wall. Will you please take care of this thing for me? Because I can't handle it. There may be some parents here tonight. You may have a wayward child. And you've done everything humanly possible to try to pull that child in or deal with that child. And you've gotten to the point where you say nothing I say works, nothing I do works. You know what you need to do? You need to encircle that person with prayer and you need to say, Lord, tear down the walls of their heart. You need to give that whole thing over to God. It might be another problem that someone has. It might be a problem on the job. It might be a financial problem. It might be some circumstance in your life that you have no control over. You know what you do? You circle it with prayer and you say, Lord, here you tear this down because I can't do it. I don't have the strength. So you consider it with Christ. Number two, you circle it with prayer. And then here's number three, claim it by faith. Claim it by faith. Look in chapter 6, look at verse number 20. So all the people shouted when the priest blew the trumpets. And it came to pass when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, and the people shouted with a great shout, that the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took The city. So what's this next thing? Claim it by faith. Why did they shout? Well, first of all, because God told them to shout. But secondly, the reason they shouted was this was the shout of faith. This was a claim of faith. This was them claiming the promise of God. In fact, the word for shout here is a commonly used word in the Old Testament. It's often used as a vocabulary in the vocabulary of praise in a psalm. It literally means raise a glad shout to the Lord. Let me read you how it's used in other verses. Ezra 3, 11, and all the people shouted with a great shout. When they praise the Lord, same exact word. It's a word translated sometimes joyful noise. You ever hear someone say, I can't sing, but I can make a joyful noise? Well, that's what this word means here Psalm 95, 1. Oh come, let us sing unto the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise. Verse 2, let us come before his presence with thanksgiving and make a joyful noise. Same exact word here. The word then means to shout praise to the Lord. And why were they praising the Lord? They were praising the Lord because of the victory. You say, Now wait a minute, they hadn't won the victory yet. Yes, I know. That's why it's the shout of faith. They knew in advance that God had already given them the victory. And so they were claiming it with this shout before the Lord. And that's what God wants you to do. Claim by faith the victory that God has already given you. Consider it with prayer. Or excuse me, consider it with Christ, circle it with prayer, claim it by faith. And you know what those walls came down. And just an interesting side note here. Look down in Joshua chapter 6 Look down in uh verse number twenty-three, verse twenty-two. And Joshua had said unto the two men that had spied out the he the the country, Go into the harlot's house and bring out thence the woman, and all that she hath as ye swear unto her. And the and the young men that were spies went in and brought out Rahab and her father and her mother and her brethren and all that she had, and they brought out all her kindred and left them without the the camp of Israel Drop down to verse number twenty five. And Joshua saved Rahab the harlot alive and her father's household and all that she had, and she dwelt in Israel unto this day. Now, as we learned before, where did Rahab live? She lived in a house, right there on the wall. So a big question that sometimes people have is, how does she survive? If if the wall fell down flat and her house is on the wall, how does she survive? And by the way, there are some critics of the Bible. I I can't stand these critics that try to undermine the Scripture. I I just can't stand it. And there are critics that say, oh, this this is this this had to be an earthquake that brought down the walls of Jericho. This couldn't be something supernatural. Well, let me just tell you something. Did you know that there was an archaeologist, a German archaeologist named Ernest Selling? He was the first archaeologist to excavate Zirocode, the very first one. And he was a meticulous archaeologist who took meticulous notes. And in 1913 he published his notes. And this is what he found. He found that in the city of Jericho, at the time of Joshua, that indeed the walls did fall down. There was a rampart and then the walls on top of that rampart, inner and outer walls, and they literally crumbled and fell down, just like the Bible says. But you know what else he wrote? He found That there was a certain section there on the north side of the city, just a real small section, where the walls didn't fall Well there was a house there in between the wall. And that section there did not fall. And by the way, that's documented. He even has a picture of it. That people can look at. But you know what? People seem to forget that little fact that this archaeologist came up with. And even he, he couldn't explain it. But we know why. You know why? Because God said Rahab and her house will be safe Don't tell me the Bible is not the word of God. And that's just a little side note. God always keeps his word. But now here's the point. God wants you to live in victory. He does not want his children to live in defeat. And God has given us a way of victory, and that victory is through the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't have any more time, but sometime when you get a chance, just look read 2 Corinthians chapter 2, where the Apostle Paul says, God always causes us to triumph. In the Lord Jesus Christ. It is always God's will that his people triumph ultimately in the end in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me just tell you this story and then I'll be done. In 1944, there was a lieutenant named Hiro Onoda of the Imperial Japanese Army. He was ordered to stay in an island, a small island in the Philippines. He was ordered to hold that island for the glory of the emperor. And so he did. The following year, the Allies bombed Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and we know the history of that. Shortly after that, the Japanese surrendered. The World War II finally came to a close. But unfortunately, this lieutenant, this Japanese lieutenant fighting in this little island in the Philippines did not know And so he kept on fighting. He fought the next year. And then he fought the year after that. And the year after that. And twenty-nine years after the end of World War II, he was still fighting. In fact, on that little island there, some locals were getting shot by this soldier And so the police had to go through the jungles with megaphones asking this man to surrender, but he refused to surrender. He kept shooting at people. And finally, it wasn't until 1974 when they brought in his commander. His wartime commander was brought in, and finally, when the wartime commander said, you surrender, he finally surrendered. It wasn't until that time. You know what? Satan is already defeated. Did you know that? But he hasn't stopped fighting. And he's not going to stop fighting until we appeal to the commander, the Lord Jesus. And then we apply the victory that Christ has already won for us to the battle that He engages, Satan engages with us. And so the question tonight is this, do you apply the victory that Christ has already won in the strongholds in your life? Friend, that's the key to victory. That's what the Lord wants you to do. Let's bow for prayer together. And so Lord, I pray tonight for those who are here, who may be facing some stronghold in their life, some area that's given them so much trouble. Something that's hindering their victory. The full victory that Lord you want us to have. Father, I pray that you'll use your word to touch their heart. May they consider it with Christ. May they look at this stronghold. May they get their orders from Christ. May they circle it with prayer. May they claim it with faith by faith. Lord, may we remember that this warfare that we're in, that the weapons of our warfare, they're not carnal, but mighty through God, through the pulling down of strongholds. And with the word of God and prayer and the victory already given to us in Christ, Lord, we can be victorious. We can have the full, complete Victory that's given to us is our spiritual inheritance. And I pray, Lord, that there are some here tonight that will, Lord, you would uh illuminate their mind, that you would awaken them to see that this victory is available if they'll simply claim it. How many here with heads bowed and eyes closed say tonight by faith I'm claiming that victory that Christ has won for me And applying it to the stronghold in my life. And I pray for me tonight. God seize your hand, He sees your heart. Father, bless your word to your servants. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.