If you take God's word tonight, please open to the book of Hebrews, chapter 11. As we continue our study in this great chapter, it's our privilege just to Go to the Word of God tonight in Hebrews 11. We're going to look at verses 32 down to verse number 40 tonight. Verse 32 down to verse 40. Now as you know, Hebrews 11 is the great faith chapter of the Bible. If you've been with our study, you know that And uh we see the expression by faith used over and over again. Eighteen times we see that used. That's why this has been called the Hall of Fame of faith, because the writer will list people in the Old Testament that were people whose lives were characterized by faith. And um someone might say, well why should we be concerned with all these people? Well because they're an example to us. They teach us some valuable spiritual lessons. that we can learn about faith. And we also look at them and we see that these were not people who were perfect people. They all had people, they are all excuse me, people of flaws. And yet They had a faith that pleased God. And that's one of the themes that we see here in this chapter. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. If we're going to please the Lord with our life, we have to walk in faith. And we have to live by faith. And so the writer wants us to follow their example. He wants us to look at their life and see the things that we can learn. Remember, there were some people that he was writing to, first century Judaism taught that you can approach God based on your own works. And the writer of Hebrews is saying, not so. In fact, we looked at this before, but Hebrews chapter 10, verse number number 38 says, Now the just shall live by faith, but my if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him. And then he says in verse 39, that we are not of them that who draw back under perdition, but of them that believe to the saving of their soul. And he's getting a message across. If you think that you can approach God based on some kind of external ritual or works, then you're absolutely wrong. The just shall live by faith. And he's writing to these Hebrews saying, look, don't draw back. You're learning the gospel, you're learning the message of the gospel. Don't turn back from that. Because if you turn back, God says, my soul will have no pleasure. You gain salvation not by effort, not by ceremony, not by works, not by your morality, but it's by a way of faith. Faith in what Christ has done, faith and faith alone. And so in the Old Testament, people got saved by looking forward to the cross. We now get saved by looking back on the cross. But it's faith in what the Lord Jesus Christ did on the cross, it's faith in his finished work. And again, so to prove that, the writer of Hebrews, writing to these people, just goes all the way through the Old Testament and he shows one person after another after another who lies demonstrate that very principle that we approach God and we're saved by faith and we live by faith. And so now part of Hebrews 11 Forces us to ask this question, is your faith superficial or is it a mature faith? Is it a superficial faith or is it a mature Now today when we talk about faith, people love to talk about the great things that faith accomplishes. But what I almost never hear is the other side of faith. or what I've labeled the others side of faith, quote unquote. Why do why do I call it that? But we're gonna see why. But if you read this passage carefully, you're gonna see that the first part of the list from verses 32 down to verse 35 are people who were able to see great things take place because of their faith Look at verse thirty-two. And what shall I say? What more shall I say? For the time will fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak and of Samson and of Jephthah and of David also. And Samuel and all the prophets who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in flight Turned to f uh in flight I should say, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead, raised to life again. Others were tortured. There's the others. Others were tortured. Now, if we stop really at the end of verse number 35. Um, you know, basically we would say, where do you where do I sign? This is because this is what I want. I want all these great things. You know, this is what I want. I want mountain moving faith. I want God doing great things for me. I want mountains to be moved. And that's the kind of faith that I want. But it doesn't end there. What we almost never read or talk about are the others in this passage. Look at verse number thirty-six. And others. Again, we see that expression there. And others Had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sown asunder, they were tempted, they were slain with a sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and in caves of the earth. Do you still want to sign up? That's the again the the group that we don't talk much about. And yet God puts the highlight on them as much as He does on anyone else Now, some people read these words from verse 36 down to verse 38, and they say, well, there must have been something wrong with that group They must not have had real faith. Somehow their faith must have failed. There are many people out there in this word of faith movement that basically uh would probably say to about these people that they didn't really have real faith at all or their faith was a limited faith and uh they didn't have enough And the reason that God didn't do miracles for them, or the reason they didn't see great things done for them, is because they just simply didn't name it and claim it. Because after all, all you have to do is just name it and then believe and then claim it and it will be yours. And if you don't get the miracle, if you don't get the answer to the prayer that you want, well the problem is with you. Your faith failed I've heard stories where faith healers supposedly heal someone and when the healing really didn't, you know, happen, they said, Well the problem is your faith. Your faith has failed. And so Further faith people would probably look at the group listed from verse 36 down to verse 38 and say, ah, they're cessationists. They didn't believe in miracles. It's their own fault. Not so. Because when God talks about these people, he talks about the same the group in verse 32 down to verse 35 and also the group in verse 36 to verse 38. He gives them one report, and they all get the same grade on their report card because look at verse number 39, what it says. These all having obtained a what A good report through faith. God said they all get an A on their report card when it comes to faith Did they escape? No. They didn't escape. They endured. Did they see God do great miracles for them? No. But they certainly were recipients of the grace of God and the strength of God. Did God answer their prayers? Not in the way that they wanted them to. Not in the way that they had hoped. Some escaped by faith, and some endured by faith. Did they have less faith than the prior group who saw these great things done for them Did their faith somehow fail? No, their faith didn't fail. All had faith. They all got the same grade In reality, their faith didn't fail. And I would say this sometimes it takes more faith to endure the trial than to be delivered from it. It takes more faith to walk through the valley than it does to move the mountain. And so I ask you, how strong is your faith? How mature is it? Is it mature enough to say, God Even though it's not working the way I want it to, even though this trial is not leaving me quickly, even though things are not working out the way I had hoped, I still trust you in this. And I believe in you and I will obey you, despite the circumstances that I'm going through. I refuse to disbelieve. I refuse to not trust you. Those are the characteristics of mature faith. And so I want you to see from this passage then three important marks of mature faith Here's, and I want you to see mature faith succeeds by God's power. Then I want you to see it submits to God's plan and then it stands on God's promises. But here's number one, mature faith succeeds by God's power. And again we go back to the first group mentioned from verses thirty-two down to verse thirty-five. By their faith great exploits were done. But it really wasn't them who did those things, it was God who did them, right? They simply had faith in God's power to do them. It wasn't them that did it. And the writer mentions here Old Testament judges, he mentions kings, he mentions prophets. And then he says, time would fail me. He means that he could go on and on and on and mention names and people who by the faith saw God do great things on their behalf. But for lack of time, he's saying I'm going to only summarize a few names because he doesn't want to strain the reader's patience. And so these names represent many, many more. But I want you to see some common denominators about these people that he mentions. First of all, they were weak ordinary people. They were weak ordinary people. Now we all have a tendency to think that the people mentioned in the Bible were somehow superhuman or they were different from us, but you know what? They were sinful humanity just like us. They were like us. Uh you know, they had flaws. This is why I think the writer of Hebrews starts out, when he starts listing characters, he starts listing characters from the book of Judges now. In the book of Judges here. And you look at that era in the Bible, what you find is there's a lot of failure going on in that whole era of Israel's history. All these judges were people of flaws, men with flaws. He mentions Gideon. Look, Gideon was a coward. He was hiding behind the winepress when God called him. And later on he tried to make himself king. Uh he you talk about his faith. He said, God, I'm not going to go attack the uh Midianites until you uh you know give he laid out his fleece, make the make the ground wet and the fleece dry And when God did that, he said, okay, let's do this. Let's make the ground dry and the fleece wet. That's what kind of faith he had. And yet God overlooked that And he took the little faith that Gideon did have and he used that faith. What about Barak? Barak was afraid to go into battle unless Deborah, the prophetess, went with him. And you have to remember that at that time Deborah was an old woman. Can you imagine asking an old woman to come with you on the battlefield? Be like asking your grandmother to help you out on a street fight. Grandma's gonna get into a fight, but you don't mind helping me here What kinda what kind of man asked a woman to do that, an older woman? And why did he do that? Well, he was flawed. Flaw. What about Samson? He was an immoral man who was given to his passions like lust and anger. And what about Jephthah? Jephthah, in a moment of weakness and fear, offered his daughter in human sacrifice. Can you imagine that? And then what about David? Well, David was a man after God's own heart, but we know that David failed on many occasions His faith failed. Samuel and the prophets, again, they were ordinary men who each had fears and weaknesses and failures in their life. And this list should encourage us with the fact that God uses less than perfect people. In fact, all God has to work with are sinners. But thank God He's able to make straight licks with crooked sticks. Such is the grace of Almighty God. God doesn't do great things because of us, he does great things in spite of us. But also another thing we learn about these people is that they learn to tap into God's power by faith In verse 34, there's that expression, out of weakness were made strong. They all had this one thing in common. They all recognized their weakness. And they learned to lay hold of God's strength. Confessed weakness is strength. Especially when you confess that weakness to Almighty God. And then you trust in God for his power. Faith requires us to recognize our weakness. We confess it. And by doing so, we lay hold of the mighty power of God. And that's what these people did. Jesus said, without me, ye can do nothing. We think about in the New Testament, the Apostle Paul on the surface seemed like he was a competent man, but he confessed in 2 Corinthians 3. 5, not that we are adequate in and of ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves, but our adequacy is from God. God, I'm not adequate. I can't do anything. Any adequacy comes from you. And later on he said in 2 Corinthians 4 7, But we have this treasure in earth and vessels, so that the surpassing greatness of the power will be of God and not of ourselves It is all of God. And so the mighty exploits that we see listed here from these people were not things that they did. It was things that God did. Because they confess their weakness to God, and God in turn used his mighty power. And so this passage is misunderstood by many. They say, well, faith is a mighty force. No, God is a mighty force. God's a mighty force. It's faith in God is what gets it done, you see. Faith in and of itself can do nothing. Oh, you see people say, well I just believe. Well, what do you believe in? Just believe it's all gonna work out. Really? What what do you what do you mean by that? Just as if there's some power in belief in and of itself. If I just believe, like I had this optimistic attitude, it's all gonna work out in my favor. That's not faith. There's nothing magical about faith in and of itself. Faith has to be rooted in someone or something And faith is an instrument that links us up to the mighty power of God. So when your faith is in God and in the promises of his word, that's when you get results. That's when God gives you his strength. That's when God gives you his power. God is the object of our faith. And so a lot of people have faith, they just have it in the wrong thing. Uh they have it in the wrong person or the wrong uh process or or or in the wrong idea. But these people were weak ordinary people Who learned to tap into God's mighty power because their faith was rooted in God and in the strength of Almighty God. And because of that, out of weakness, The Bible says they became strong. Kingdoms were subdued, promises were obtained, the mouths of lions were shut, they passed through fire unhurt, they won impossible wars, armies turned back, dead children were raised All these things. In short, mountains were moved for them. And God did it. Not them. God did it. God delights in using ordinary people. To do extraordinary things so that he is the one who gets the glory for it. But you mark it down, if anything gets done for God's kingdom, it's God who does it. Faith enables us to accomplish things that are only explained by God's power. By God's power. All right? And this goes back to the original theme in this section of Hebrews. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. And so mature faith, then, succeeds by God's power. But here's number two. Mature faith submits to God's plan. And then we get to the other group mentioned in verse 36 down to verse 38. Sometimes God's ways are mysterious Not everyone subdues kingdoms by faith. Sometimes those earthly kings and kingdoms imprison them. Sometimes they torture them. By faith, some escaped miraculously. Others had to endure. Having faith in God doesn't mean that you're always going to get the results that you want or the things that you're looking for. Some mothers got their children healed, some got them raised, others did not. Some were delivered, but some were tortured, and some were in prison. Some were released. But some were ridiculed and they were scourged. The others in this passage were people who had had just as much faith as the other group. In fact, if you ask me, their faith was even stronger. Because they had to and they had to submit to God's providential plan when their desire was different. Again, it takes greater faith to endure the valley than to move the mountains. Notice others were scourged. In verse 36, we see this. Others had trials of cruel mockings and scourgings. They were beaten like with a whip, like the Lord Jesus suffered. Others were stoned, it says in verse 37. They were stoned. And uh Zachariah the prophet was stoned to death. Stephen was stoned. You say, oh, they must not have been right with God. They must not have had faith. Well, the Bible says Stephen who was stoned was a man filled with faith in the Holy Spirit. Simon Peter was filled with the Holy Spirit, and he preached, and when he preached, he got 3,000 souls. 3,000 were saved. Stephen was filled with the Holy Spirit. When he preached, he got 3,000 stones. But both of them were filled with the Holy Spirit. Peter was thrown into prison, and the church prayed for God to release Peter. And you remember that story in the book of Acts? God did a miracle, and while the guards were sleeping, the shackles on Peter's arms fell off, and the doors opened. Automatas is the Greek word, first automatic doors ever. The doors just opened up, and Peter walked out, went to the church, knocked on the door, and you know the people inside said, don't bother us, we're praying for Peter. So kind of a funny story there in the book of Acts. Here he is knocking on the door to say, go away, we're praying for Peter to get out of jail. And there was Peter at the door. What an incredible miracle that was. But there was another leader of the church that was also thrown into prison. His name was James. And the church prayed for James to be released. And James was not released. In fact, you know what happened to James? He was beheaded. By Herod. Didn't turn out the same. Was it because James had more faith than Peter? No. James was a man of faith as well. It's just that was not God's plan. That was the church's plan. They wanted James out, but God said, no, I have a different plan in mind. I have a different purpose in mind. You know, God's plan was different for James than it was for Peter. And also for James's brother John, who went on to live to be a hundred years old and was the writer of the Gospels and the Epistles and the Book of Revelation. God had a different plan for James than he had for John. But also others were sown asunder. Look at verse 37. They were sown, they were sown asunder. And most likely this refers to Isaiah, who was put in a hollow tree according to tradition by the king. The Talmud says that he suffered martyrdom, being sawn in two, put inside a hollow log, sawn in two by the evil king Manasseh. And he suffered a horrible death that way. He thought that he would mock God's prophet. And so others were scattered again in verse 37. They were tempted, they were slain with a sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. They wandered about in skins so forth. You see, in the ancients, they used to delight out of torturing God's people, out of making fun of them, and the early Christians were sometimes dressed in animal skins. And then they were turned loose in the woods, so that the dogs would hunt them in the woods. That was part of the game, a evil, horrible game that they would play with believers. Sometimes they were fed to the lions. During times of persecution. You go to Rome, sometimes you go to the Colosseum. There's the Circus Maximus. That's the place where uh the people wanted to be entertained, and sometimes In their depravity, the way they wanted to be entertained was to see Christians uh killed with a sword or with animals and so on. They would cry out in that place, bring on the Christians. If things got a little boring, they would say, Bring on the Christians. It was a bloodthirsty mob. Sometimes you get a chance. Read Fox's Book of Martyrs And read about what some of the our forefathers had to go through. There's a place in London. I like to go there sometimes when I'm over there and I have time. is a place called Smithfield. This is a place where three hundred godly Christians were burned at the stage by bloody marrying. You wouldn't know it now. It's it's a little park with flowers and a garden there in it. You would never know that cruelty, horrors took place at this spot. But there's a monument there and a plaque there dedicated to the lives of some who were burned at the stake by this evil queen Bloody Mary. And then look at verse number 35, where it says that some did not accept deliverance. They did not accept deliverance. That they might obtain a better resurrection. This reminds me of John Bunyan, the Baptist preacher who was thrown in jail in Bedford, England. They wanted to release him if he would agree never to preach the gospel again. All he would have to do is just agree to do that. He could go home to his wife and his his his blind daughter, who wanted her father home. But you know what? He refused. He refused to compromise. And he stayed in prison. He refused deliverance. That takes faith to do that. To stand for God in that way. So don't tell me that these people who had had to endure all this, don't tell me that they didn't have faith. They had faith. Many of them refused deliverance and they refused to renounce Jesus. All they would have had to say is, I deny Jesus or I I re repent of the message that I priest I won't follow Jesus, and they would have been delivered from the flames, but they would not. Reminds me of the story of Polycarp, one of the first martyrs of the post apostolic era who when he was eighty eight years old was brought out into the Colosseum and they they chained him up to the stake and they were going to start the fire and they gave him one more opportunity to re to repent and he said, you know, how in the world am I gonna recant? Eighty-eight years have I served my king my king, the Lord Jesus Christ. I will in no way renounce him now. No, I will not. And he was burned there at the stake. Mature faith succeeds by God's power Mature faith also submits to God's plan. So don't quit real faith doesn't quit on God when things don't go your way. It just continues to trust in the Lord. It submits to God's plan. The question is: do you still have faith in God when God's plan is not what you want it to be? Look, don't get your theology from your circumstances, all right? If you get your theology from your circumstances, you're going to come to the conclusion at times that God doesn't love you. Remember the story in John 11, the story of Lazarus? John 11, 5. Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus. The Bible says very clear that Jesus loved these three. He loved Martha and Mary and Lazarus. But Lazarus, what happens? He gets sick. Jesus hears about it. And you know what he does? Nothing. And then Lazarus dies. And then Jesus said this, John 11, 14. Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead. And I am glad. What? I thought you loved him, Jesus. You're glad? He says, I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent that ye may believe. Nevertheless, let us go unto him. I mean, did I hear that right? First it says Jesus loved Lazarus, and then he knew he was sick, and then he let him die, and then Jesus said, I'm glad that this happened. Now, if Mary and Martha are getting their theology from their circumstances, you know what? They're going to come to the conclusion that Jesus doesn't love them That's what they're going to conclude. And if you get your theology from your circumstances, you're going to conclude the same thing. God doesn't love me. When actually he loves you very much. And he has a plan in mind. God loved Lazarus, but he had a different plan than Mary and Martha. Mary and Martha wanted to see him healed. But Jesus had a better plan. Jesus wanted to see Lazarus resurrected. And by doing that, to be a demonstration of God's power. In their lives. Mature faith submits to God's plan. That's why I'm glad that this book of Hebrews tells us about the others. Here, the other's side of faith. If all we heard about was the exploits in this first group, we wouldn't understand real faith. I'm so glad that these others are listed here. God loves us even when bad things happen to us, even when we don't understand the circumstances in our life. What does the Bible say in Romans 8. 35? Nothing is going to separate us from the love of Christ. Nothing. Not tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword. None of these things. Will separate you from the fact that Jesus loves you very much. Okay? So A mature faith. You know what we need to develop? We need to develop an if not faith. Or have an if-not clause So what does that mean? Remember the story of the of the three Hebrew children when Nebuchadnezzar said, you know, you're going to bow down and you're going to worship. This image that I set up. And when the and when the music started, everybody in the kingdom was bowed down except these three these three guys, Shadrach, Beat, Meshach, and Abendigo. And the king brings them in and says, I'm gonna give you another opportunity. And you remember what they said? They said, you know, King, you know, we're not we're not worried about answering you on this matter. Listen to what they said. Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. And he will deliver us out of thine hand. That was the punishment. I'm going to give you another chance. And if you don't bow down, I'm going to throw you into the oven And I'm gonna heat it up. By the way, if if Nebuchadnezzar had any sense, he would actually not heat it up, but he would let them burn longer, you know. Heating it up would make them die quicker. But when you're angry, you're not thinking straight, right? But he said, I'm going to heat it up and I'm going to throw you in if you don't bow down. And they said, Look, we're not worried about answering you about this. We know our God is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. But if not, but if not, they also knew that God might let them burn. But they said, look, either way, we're not bowing down to your image. Boy, he ha I wish I was there to see the expression on his face. He had to be mad after that. And he threw him in, sure enough, and you know the rest of the story. Uh the Lord Jesus appeared there with them, and the fire did not touch them. The only thing that the flames burned off of them is what the world put on them, the ropes. They came out of the the furnace with without even the smell of smoke on them. I wish I could come out of the barbershop that way They came out of the furnace, not even the smell of smoke, their ropes were burned off, they were freed, the furnace freed them. It didn't fry them. And so God honored their faith, but they basically said, look, it doesn't matter what God chooses to do, he might deliver us, he might not deliver us, but we know this: we're not bound down to your image. That's faith. It has the if-not clause in it. God, whatever you choose to do, whatever your plan is, we're okay with it. We just want you to know we're going to obey you, period, no matter how this turns out. That is mature faith. That is the faith that the writer of Hebrews is talking about here. And so, are you willing to let God be God? to let God accomplish his sovereign purposes. Are you willing to have an if-not clause in your faith? Are you willing to dwell among the others? I mean let's face it, I'd rather be on the first group, in the first group. All right? Don't look so spiritual, so will you. But sometimes we're in the second group. We're in the others. where we have to say, okay, God, this might not go exactly the way I thought, but you know what? I trust you in it. And we say like Job, though he slayed me, yet will I what? Yet will I trust him. I'm going to trust you, Lord, in this. I'm going to serve you no matter what. No matter what. But here's the third thing. Mature faith succeeds by God's power. Mature faith submits to God's plan. But number three, mature faith stands on God's promises And look in verse 39 and verse 40 and verse 40, excuse me. And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise. God having provided some better things for us, that they without us should not be made perfect. Notice it says that they received not the promise singular. Now these Old Testament saints received the fulfillment of promises plural. Many of God's promises were fulfilled with them, but they didn't receive the promise singular. What promise is he referring to here? And this is the promise of the Savior, the promise of Christ. Remember, God said, I'm going to send a Savior, and He began to unfold that plan under the covenant that he made with Abraham. And then he began to further, through progressive revelation, uncover his plan of sending a savior into this world. Each one of these Old Testament saints died before that promise that God made was fulfilled. They died before it happened. Yet they believed. They didn't see the fulfillment of it, but that didn't change their faith. They still believed. Remember how the writer defined faith back in verse number one? Faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. Faith takes something hoped for, something not realized. And yet they believe it so much that it has substance. They know that it is a reality. Why? Because God said it. And if God said that He's going to bring a Savior one day into this world, they believed it even though they didn't see the fruition of that promise. They died without receiving that promise. And yet they still believed. In fact, they believed so much they put all of their faith in that coming Savior. That was the basis of their salvation. Believing what God was going to do there in the future. Our faith has substance. It has weight. We have faith in things hoped for, and things that we don't see with our eyes, yet we know that it's there. Because God says it's there. We haven't yet possessed it. It's things that are yet to come, and yet it's real. It's very real. It's so real that it has substance. It's so real that I believe, even though I don't see it, I I'm willing to risk everything today based on what I can't see about tomorrow. That's the whole point. None of these Old Testament saints received the promise. Again, look at verse 39. And all these having obtained a good report through faith received not the promise. And yet they had a good report, that is, by God. They believed in a promise that had not yet been realized. We know what promise it was to them that it was about the coming of Jesus Christ. All the Old Testament promises regarding Christ were related to the future. And so these saints had nothing. But the promises to rest their hope on, or the promise that we should say singular, and yet it was so real to them. It had substance to them. For them. You see, and so these people lived their whole life based on this promise that they never saw But notice verse 40 where it says, God having provided some better thing for us. And here we're right back to the beginning of the book of Hebrews. The better thing for us is we live after the promised coming. We can now look back at the fulfillment of God's promise. We look back at it, and that's what we did, you know, a few months ago at Christmas. We celebrated the coming of Jesus Christ. They looked forward to it, not seeing it fulfilled, yet they still believed they had faith. They didn't have the answer in their hand, but they believed with all their heart. You know, I've never seen heaven. But I'll tell you something, friend, I know it's there. I believe it's there. There is a land that is fairer than day. And what does the writer say? By faith I can see it afar. I see it now. I see it through the eyes of faith. I can't see it with my naked eyes, but I see it with the eyes of faith. And I know that it's there. And I know that it's God is preparing a place for all of his people there. I've never seen Jesus, but I know he's real. I know that he's real. I've known him heart to heart. I haven't seen him face to face. Why? Because I believe what God's word says And it gives substance. So much substance that it controls the way I behave right now. All of my faith is in what God's word tells me about Jesus Christ and about heaven. And I believe it. Mature faith succeeds by God's power, it submits to God's plan, it stands on God's promises. So my question is: how mature is your faith How mature is it? Does it have the same kind of substance that we see here from these people in the book of Hebrews? The others. I want to have the faith of the others. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So, Father, thank you for this wonderful chapter about faith. Lord, how my heart has been challenged. And I've been convicted and rebuked by my lack of faith at times. But Lord, I pray that my faith will grow and develop, and I'll follow in this long line of godly people. Stretching all the way back to the very beginning of time. The very beginning from the book of Genesis all the way through the Old Testament. And now we can also line up people behind them in the New Testament and then in the post-apostolic days and in the Uh all throughout the history of the church, there are people standing in this same line, this line of faith Of people who believe in your word, who believe in your promises, Lord, because we know that there's nothing more substantial, there's nothing more concrete than, Lord, what you say. Even though the circumstances around us may not at times give evidence, and even though, Lord, things may not go our way. Help us to be people who trust you no matter what. When you say like the three Hebrew children, but if not, but if not, Lord, I'm going to obey you no matter what. I'm going to trust you no matter what. But because I know your word is true and I know that you're good. Lord, give us this faith. Help us to stand firmly in this world. May people see it. May you be glorified. May others be drawn to Christ. As a result of the strong faith that we exhibit because of your grace, Lord, that you've given us. May you be exalted and glorified. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.