I hope you have a Bible, and I hope that you'll turn with me to the book of Ecclesiastes chapter 7 tonight. Ecclesiastes chapter 7. Hope that you'll follow along in God's Word as we study this passage tonight. We're going to be looking at verses 13 down to verse 18. And um The title of my sermon tonight is called A Crook in the Lot. I've been thinking about this passage of scripture um all week long, really. This is a this is a passage that in previous years has given me comfort when difficulty and affliction has come into my life, and I hope that it will be a blessing and a comfort to those of you that may be listening that are going through difficult times right now and going through affliction. Ecclesiastes chapter 7 verse number 13. Look at verse 13. Consider the work of God, for who can make straight that which he has made crooked I love reading the Puritans. I love reading about them because they were great men of God, used in a uh a hist a time of history in our church when uh they were desperately needed to purify and strengthen the church. J. I. Packer calls the Puritans spiritual giants in a time when there were uh land was filled with spiritual pygmies. And I think that we can still profit greatly from learning some lessons from them. even today. One day I was in a bookstore. I was in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, and I was just browsing through some books, and there was one book title that kind of jumped off the shelf. It's the title of the sermon tonight. It's not original with me. It's the title of the book that I saw that night. Actually it was The Crook in the Lot. And uh It the reason it caught my attention is because on the cover of the book there was a picture of the Twin Towers in New York. This was right after nine eleven. And of course that was something that people were thinking about, that terrible uh Tragedy that took place on 9-11. And the subtitle on the cover was this, The Sovereignty and Wisdom of God Displayed in the Afflictions of Men. This was a book that was written, actually republished. It was written by Thomas Boston, who was a Puritan, and he lived in uh from 1676 to 1732. He's a Scottish minister and uh a recognized Hebrew scholar. And Jonathan Edwards called Thomas Boston a truly great divine. And they basically addressed almost every doctrine of the Christian faith taught from every book of the Bible. He was a faithful pastor for 25 years in the same church. The reason I really admire, have come to really admire Thomas Boston as one of my favorite Puritans, is because of his perseverance through suffering. It is said of him that he was a melancholy man. He was prone to seasons of discouragement in his Christian life. He was often in poor health, even though he never missed a turn preaching in the pulpit His wife suffered from chronic illness, um, illness of the body, and some think even perhaps the mind. But the greatest trial that Thomas Boston ever faced in his life, he and his wife was to bear the death of their children. They lost six of their ten babies. There was one uh loss that was especially tragic. Boston had already named a son, Ebenezer, which in the Bible means hitherto has the Lord helped us. And this course it's based on the story in 1 Samuel chapter 7 when God helped the Israelites and Samuel the prophet raised a stone and he named the stone Ebenezer, the stone of help. That's where that name comes from. But he named this one child Ebenezer, and the child died. And when his wife gave birth to another son, he considered naming the new child Ebenezer as well. And yet he hesitated. But he thought naming the boy Ebenezer would be a testimony of hope and the faithfulness of God. But then he thought, what if this child died too? That would perhaps be a burden too hard for the family to bear. And so he pondered it. And by faith, he decided to go ahead and name this next son Ebenezer as well. And yet the child was sickly, the child was ill, and despite all the fervent prayers that Thomas Boston prayed, this son died as well. And as a grieving father, he wrote in his memoirs on that day, it pleased the Lord that he was removed from me. Now, after suffering such a heavy loss, many people would be tempted to accuse God of wrongdoing. Many would uh perhaps abandon their faith. But Thomas Boston didn't do that Despite all of those afflictions and difficulties, he believed in the goodness as well as in the sovereignty of God. And rather than running away from God in a time of affliction and suffering, he ran to the Lord. He persevered through that trial through faith. His perseverance is worthy of our admiration, but it's also worthy of our imitation And right after this time in his life, Thomas Boston preached a sermon on the verse that we read just a moment ago, Ecclesiastes chapter 7. Verse 13, consider the work of God, for who can make that straight which he hath made crooked? He preached a sermon on this. He called the name of the sermon The Crook and the Lot. And later on, um uh he wrote a book uh based on this passage as as well. And I want us to look at it and I want us to learn some things, some of this things that I I'll try to tell you that I learned from this passage. Some of this will be what Thomas Boston taught me by reading what he had to say about this verse. But my d desire is that it be a help and a blessing to you. Look again at verse 13. Think about it. Consider the work of God. Solomon here is calling upon us to carefully observe the way God works. This is a command here, by the way. By the way, Solomon was a man that was had great wisdom. We know that he was one of the wisest men to ever live. And he had great powers of observation. If you read Proverbs and um Ecclesiastes, you're going to find that a lot of his writings were based on his powers of observation of the things that were around him, including nature. And here Solomon is saying, I want you to consider the work of God. Think about what God is doing. Look at the providential events in the world around you. And then he asks this rhetorical question, for who can make that straight which he has made crooked? It's a good question. The question is designed to cause us to think deeply. And the answer to that question, of course, is no one. No one has the power to change the purposes or plans of God. Things are the way they are because God wants them to be that way. We don't have the power to overrule Almighty God. And when he talks about something being crooked here, he's not referring to something that is morally crooked, as if God could ever be the author of evil and sin. God is never the author of evil or sin. When he talks about something being crooked in verse 13, he's referring to something about our life that we wish we could change. Some adversity, some affliction. Some trial. It could be a physical limitation that you may have. It could be the breakdown of some family relationship. It could be some affliction, some suffering. Some circumstance that causes grief or pain. Something we wish we did not have. Or maybe something we wish we did have that we don't have Sooner or later, there is something in life that we wish to God had a different shape to it, that we wish that we could change. What is the one thing in your life that you would change if you had the power to change it? That is your crook in the lot. And according to Ecclesiastes, God has given each of us a different situation in life, a different crook in the lot, as it were. Thomas Boston explains it like this. He said there is a certain train or course of events by the providence of God falling to every one of us during our life in this world. And that is our lot as being allotted to us by the sovereign God. As he's saying, we all have our lot. Again, we all have things that we wish that we could change. And then Boston continues, in that train or course of events, some fall out cross to us. And against the grain. And these make the crook in our lot. While we are here, there will be cross events as well as agreeable ones in our lot, in our condition. Sometimes things are softly and agreeably gliding on, but by and by there is some incident which alters that course, grates us, and pains us. Everybody's lot in this world has some crook in it. There is no perfection here, no lot out of heaven without a crook. And that's so very true. We all have our crook in the lot. Now in this particular situation that we're all dealing with, The particular crook in our lives is called CV19. It's the coronavirus. And I know that many people are suffering. We're hearing reports more and more of people that are sick and people that are dying. How do we respond to this crook in our lot? How do we respond to this crisis, this interruption in our life, as it were? Now Solomon in these verses is going to show us several things. about how to respond to the crook in the lot. And what I want to show you here from this passage are four possible responses to the crook in your lot. Here's the first one. Number one, analyze. Analyze. That is to say, know that it is God's hand at work. He's telling us to consider. And the word consider here actually he uses it two times. Look at verse thirteen. Consider the work of God. And then again in verse 14, in the day of prosperity, be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider. Consider it. The Hebrew word Ra'a means to look at, to examine, to inspect. Just think about what's going on. Analyze it We know that we can't always understand the works of God, but that should not keep us from examining the providential events that are going on around us. And we should understand some things as we look at it. And think about this. First of all, we need to understand that God is in control. Again in verse 13, consider the work of God. You know what a crooked Nellot teaches us? That God is the one that rules over the affairs of this world. He emphasizes this in verse 13, where he says, For who can make straight that which he has made? Who? God. God made this crooked. Who can make straight that which he has made crooked? And again in verse 14, he emphasizes the work of God. In the day of prosperity, be joyful, but in the day of adversity, consider God also has set one against the other. He's very clear that this is what the Lord is doing. This is God's work. This is the crook. The characters in Scripture recognize that God was in control of their lot. When all the trials hit Job, he didn't blame it on bad luck. He didn't blame it on chance. He didn't blame it on fate. You know what he said? He said the Lord has given And the Lord has taken away, blessed be the name of the Lord. Job knew that God was in sovereign control ultimately. over all the events, over all the affairs that took place in his life. And we have to recognize that. And sometimes people, when suffering and affliction comes, They want to try to you know get God off the hook and not blame God as if God is in heaven and he's he's he's wringing his hands because he has no control. That's not God in the Bible. God is exhaustively sovereign God is in control. Powerful men and government officials think that they're in control. But God is the one who's in control Remember the story of Nebuchadnezzar, who thought he's the one who built Babylon, and he was proud about it? Is not this the great Babylon that I have built, my power, my might, my majesty? And God had to show him that it wasn't him. And God humbled him. Until by the end of chapter 4, Nebuchadnezzar is confessing the most high rules in the kingdom of men. And he gives it to whomsoever he will. God is absolutely totally in control. He's sovereign. And God cannot be overruled. Solomon helps us to come to a sure conclusion as we consider again the providential works of God. What he makes crooked, you don't have the power to overrule. You don't have the power to make it straight. You can't edit this out of your life, whatever God wrote in. We cannot change what God has done. It will not be changed unless and until God Himself wants to change it. God may in time straighten out the crook in your lot, but until he does, nothing you do will straighten it. This might be just for a season. You can rest assured that God is doing something and He knows what He's doing and it has a purpose. He has a plan. We can't always know what that plan is. But until God is finished doing what he's doing, this season isn't going to change. It will stay as it is. In Job 9 verse 12, Job said this, Behold, he taketh away. Who can hinder him? Job said. Who will say unto him, What doest thou? God, what are you doing? You have no right to come to God and question what he's doing, Job said. In Job 11, 10, Job said, If he cut off and shut up, or gather together, who can hinder him? We could say if if he shuts something down, who can stop God from doing that? And then Job said, if he passes through and imprisons and summons the court, who can turn him back? In Job 12, verse 14, if he tears down, none can rebuild. If he shuts a man in, none can open Because it's the work of God. And Isaiah 14, verse 27, the Bible says, for the Lord of hosts has purposed Who will annul it? Who can cancel out whatever God has purposed? Nobody can do that. His hand is stretched out. And who will turn it back? Well, God stretches out his hand. You can't push it aside. You can't push it back and say no. In Isaiah 43, 13, also henceforth I am He. There is none who can deliver from my hand. I work, and who can turn it back? And again, this is the same thing that Solomon is saying here. When God makes something crooked, you don't have the power to make it straight until God is ready to make it straight, until he removes the season. But there's another thing that we can learn by just looking around and observing, and that is God is merciful. No matter how great our affliction, no matter how great our suffering, God is still merciful. I know that there are many people that are going through difficult times, but the truth of the matter is, even in all of this, God is still merciful. And God has not given us what we deserve. Because I want to tell you something, friend, we deserve worse. We deserve a whole lot worse. Thomas Boston wrote that the crook in our lot should remind us all of the sin of this world and even our own sin. In fact, the reason that anything is crooked at all is because of our own sin, the sin of mankind in general. In history, the city of Rome in A. D. 410 was invaded by a foreign power and they were overtaken. This was 100 years after Constantine converted from paganism to Christianity, so-called, and many people were asking, how could God allow this to happen? And you know what they did? They began to blame the Christians. This is this is the fault of Christianity. This is the fault of Christians. It's kind of a Same thing I'm hearing today. I heard of a New York Times article that's blaming Christians because of for this coronavirus. People always seem to have to have a scapegoat or someone to blame. And Augustine, when this was taking place, wrote his great work, The City of God, where he launches a devastating counterattack upon those who criticize Christianity, and he gives several reasons why God would have allowed people to suffer. And this is what he says: he says this: let them reflect humbly. Upon those very sins by reason of which God and his anger has filled the world with such great calamities For though they be very far from being shameful and ungodly criminals, they still do not find themselves so entirely unacquainted with fault as to judge themselves undeserving, even of temporal penalties for their mischiefs. What is he saying there? He's talking to Christians here, by the way. And he's saying he's not saying that God was punishing them for their sin What he is saying is that even had this been the case, even if it were God punishing them for their sin, it would not have been undeserved. Augustine believed that in whatever suffering God brings upon us in this life, or whatever suffering he allows to come in this life, he still does not treat us as our sins deserve. Because again, beloved, we deserve far worse. The psalmist said it like this in Psalm 130. He said, Out of the depths I cried to you, O Lord, if you, O Lord, kept a record of sins, who can stand? God, if you treated me the way I deserve to be treated, if you kept an accurate record and you punished me for every thing I did. How could I stand before you? He recognized that even in affliction, God is still merciful. And so, even in all of this, we see the mercy of God. And we need to recognize that. So the first thing Solomon says is analyze. Know that this is God's hand. But secondly, admit And that is confess you can't always know or understand God's ways. Someone say, well, why all this? Well, we don't really know why sometimes. We can't give answers about this. In verse 14, notice what Solomon says. What he's counseling here is that when the crook and the light comes, understand that you can't always figure it out. And we don't always have the answers. We don't know how to straighten things out. We can't figure God out. And again, why is it important to admit this? Because it's the first step in trusting God. It's the first step in fearing God. And this is the place where we need to be. We need to be Uh a reverential fear of God, and that's the one thing that is lacking in this country, if I could say. A reverential fear of Almighty God, which leads us to depend upon him the way we should. And to get his point across, Solomon gives two illustrations. Look in verse 14 He says, In a day of prosperity be joyful, but in a day of adversity consider. God also has set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him And what he's doing is he's saying that God gives both blessings and burdens. He lays them down right beside each other. That's one of the mysteries is the way that God mingles these two things together in our life. You know, some people view life as 40 miles of good road followed by 40 miles of hard, bumpy road, and that's really not correct. A better analogy would be a railroad track with one rail that perhaps represents blessings and the other rail represents burdens, and both are there at the same time. Both are happening at the same time. God has he gives us burdens, but also he gives us blessings. We we hear of difficult things happening right now, but we also hear of good things happening. We also hear of blessings There's both in our life. If we looked at our life right now, we could list some burdens that we all carry, but we could also list some blessings that God Has given us both things are going on. Warren Worthby wrote, God balances our lives by giving us enough blessings to keep us happy and enough burdens to keep us humble. That's so very true. If all we had were blessings in our hands, he says we would fall over. So when God puts blessings in our hands, he also puts burdens on our back. And that keeps us steady. That keeps us upright. And why does God do this? Why does God constitute our life this way? And the answer is simple. Solomon says at the end of verse 14, to the end That man should find nothing after himself. God does it to keep man from thinking that he has all the answers, that he knows it all. That we can manage this by ourselves. God does it to keep us dependent on Him. God does it so that we may fear Him. Just about the time we think we have an explanation for things, God changes the situation. Just about the time that we think that we got things figured out, God throws out the old formula and does something new. And why does he do that? Again, to keep us humble and dependent on him. No matter how many books you read about how to do certain things in the Christian life, you still have to walk by faith. No matter how much experience you have. You still have to depend upon God and look to Him. You know, the problem is we want all blessings and not the burdens. You know, that's what we want. We want the delightful providences. We don't want the dark providences. And Solomon's advice here is to accept both from God's hand. Understand that both of these things are from him. He says, in the day of prosperity, be joyful, and the day of adversity consider. And there's a play on words there in the Hebrew. with this. It's kind of a mnemonic device to help people remember this expression. Prosperity in Hebrew is tobah, joyful is batob. Adversity is Ra'a and consider is Reah. So literally it reads like this, in the day of Toba, Bato, in the day of Rea, Rea. And that was designed to help readers remember it. And if you don't speak Hebrew, that's not going to help you, right? But we can the English equivalent, I kind of wrote this down, would be something like this, when things work out, shout, when things crumble, be humble That's kind of an equivalent there. And all of that is a reminder that we are to accept both from God. And then he gives us another illustration. He lays beside burdens and blessings and said, you know, God mingles them together, and that's to keep you humble and dependent, but also He lays beside these two men, a just man and a wicked man. Look at verse 15. All things have I seen in the days of my vanity. There is a just man that perishes in his righteousness. And there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness. And so he talks about, first of all, a just man, and he perishes. And his goodness. And a wicked man, he just seems to prosper. Now let's face it, sometimes things happen and we can't figure it out. We can't we scratch our head. And sometimes things from our vantage point, they just don't make sense. And here's what Solomon is saying here. He presents us with this scenario. In verse 15, he says, I've seen the righteous suffer and perish in his righteousness, and I've seen the wicked man prosper. Now that is exactly the opposite of what we would expect. If the world is governed by a good and righteous God, we would expect the opposite. We would expect the righteous ones to rejoice in their prosperity, and the wicked to suffer in their adversity. And so this is kind of a paradox here. It's not the way it's supposed to be in our own mind. But sometimes things are not as they are supposed to be. Sometimes godly people suffer. while their enemies may live to terrorize the church. During this coronavirus I have heard of pastors who have caught the virus. I heard this week of a pastor who who passed away with the coronavirus. And then I've heard of people that are not righteous people, they're not religious people, or we could even say they're godless people, and they have been able to overcome this. They got well. I can't figure that out. And I can't tell you why. But again, I know this. God has a purpose and a plan. And I have to humbly depend upon him And I know that ultimately he does what is right, and he doesn't see the way we see. He sees things that we don't see. He has a purpose and a plan. And if he tried to explain to us, we wouldn't get it. We wouldn't understand it It would be too much for us. Thomas Boston's advice for living with your crook in the lot was this, humble yourselves under it. As the yoke which the sovereign hand has laid on you. And then he went on to say this, wait patiently till the hand that made it mend it. That is, humble yourself under this. Settle it in your heart that you need to just be humble before God and admit that you can't have all the answers. You can't understand. the way things are and why God does certain things. So first of all, analyze. The second step is admit, confess you can't understand the ways of God. But then number three, avoid. I would use the word avoid. Don't be given to foolish extreme reactions. Look in verse 16. Be not righteous overmuch. Neither make thyself overwise. Why shouldest thou destroy thyself? In verse 17, be not overmuch wicked. Neither be thou foolish. Why shouldest thou die before thy time? Now verse 16 is somewhat difficult to interpret. Some say that Solomon is being cynical here and saying, look, if the righteous perish, why be righteous? Don't try to be a goody two shoes because that's not going to be, it's not going to end well for you. Don't be too good and don't be too evil. There are some people that interpret it that way. I don't think that's what he's saying here. I think God wants us to pursue righteousness. I think the idea of what he's talking about here is a self-righteousness. It's reflexive in the action here in the verb. We could say it like this: don't claim to be too righteous and don't claim to be too wise. In other words, he's warning against against a self-righteous spirit. Or the pride that comes with thinking that you've arrived and that you know it all. He may be referring to someone who is pretending to be righteous or pretending to have all of the answers. That's why he says, don't Act as if you are overly wise. Don't think that you're more righteous or you're more wise than God. A lot of times when affliction comes, we are quick to tell God what to do, or we're quick to blame God. Or you hear people make these statements, you know, if I were God, I would do this, as if to imply that you could do a better job of running things than God could. If I were God, I really despise that phrase. And when I hear someone say, if I were God, I want to immediately say, let's thank God that you're not God. And so he's warning against a conceited righteousness that stands ready to challenge God. For what we might seem to think is a failure to reward us as much as we think we deserve. And so when we got this crook in the lot, we're tempted to say, who does God think he is to treat me this way? Doesn't God know who I am? I know better. I know what to do. And that attitude is dangerous. That's why he says in verse 16, why shouldest thou destroy thyself? Word literally means to be confounded or to confuse yourself. God knows what he is doing. Romans 8. 18 says this. And Paul's writ talking to the believer here, for I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed. You see, Paul understood that whatever groans that we have to bear one day is nothing compared to our future glory. as Christians that we are going to receive one day in heaven. He said this in 2 Corinthians 4. 16, for which cause we faint not But though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. For our light affliction, which is but a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding eternal weight of glory While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. If you judge Just by looking at the things that are seen in this world, then you're very short-sighted. God, his judgment is based on the eternal, not on the temporal It's based on the eternal. So don't judge yourself wiser than God or set yourself up as if you know better than God. Don't be overly righteous. And then he says in verse 17, don't be overly wicked. Be not overmuch wicked. Neither be thou foolish. Why should I die before thy time? And the idea here here is to just utterly rebel against what's going on And to walk away from God and to cast aside his law at God thing in a kind of rebellious fashion to shake your fist at God. And Solomon is saying, don't be a fool. Why should you die before your time? If you rebelliously live in sin, you're going to perish. So he warns against these extremes. Let me give you the last thing. How do you respond to the crook in the lot? Number one, analyze. Recognize it's the work of God. Number two, admit, confess, and humble yourself and realize you can't understand God's ways. And number three, avoid Don't be given to extreme reactions. But then here's number four, accept. Embrace this crook in your lot and fear God. Look at verse 18. It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this. Yea, also that thou that from this withdraw not thy hand. For he that feareth God shall come forth of them all. The answer is to live in the fear of God. Live a life that fears God. That will keep you from any of these dangerous extremes, is what he's saying. And he says, For he that feareth God shall come forth for them all. God's going to bring you through this. You need to learn to fear the Lord. And by the way, the fear of God is one of the great themes in the second half of the book of Ecclesiastes. If you study the book, it moves from vanity, the vanity of life. The vanity of just living for all these temporal under-the-sun things, to what is meaningful to the fear of its creator and Solomon. hammers this theme of fearing God all throughout until you get all the way to the end of the book of Ecclesiastes where he says, this is the sum of the whole matter. This is what you're here to do. This is why God created you to fear God and keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of man. You were created to know God and to fear him. And to depend upon him and to have a relationship with him. That's what life is all about. It's not about all these other things. And sometimes God has got to shake things up to remind us. What we're here for. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. Fearing God will help us through this time. And again, this is the very thing that many people don't have. This is the very thing that people need, a fear of the Lord. It teaches us to submit to God, to reverentially consider the mysterious works of God. Thomas Boston again, he said it like this. Make it your habit to silently admit mysteries in the conduct of providence towards you. Where you're not able to comprehend but will adore. I I don't understand all that you're doing, Lord. I know that it's a mystery from this side, but I do know this, that you're God, and I fear you, and I adore that you're sovereign and you know what you're doing. That's the response. It teaches us to look beyond our present difficulties and see the work of God and accepting all the crooked things in life until he and his own Wisdom and time chooses to make them straight. So how do we respond to the crook and the lot? Analyze? Know it's the work of God. Admit, confess you can understand God's ways, avoid. Don't be given to foolish extremes. Accept. Embrace it and fear the Lord. Now Thomas Boston offered a few reasons why God sometimes will make things crooked Even though we pray for him to make them straight, he has reasons why. And let me whether weed over what he said here real quick. He said, first of all, God will do this as a test to help us determine whether we are really trusting Christ for salvation. And you know what I think? I think during this time, this is the time when people need to examine their own heart and to make sure that they know that they're saved. That they're dependent upon what Christ did for them on the cross, that their only hope is found in the cross, in Jesus Christ. What if the virus came to you? What if you caught it? Are you ready for death if it comes your way? If it should come at you suddenly? If you died, would you know for sure that you would go to heaven? You better make sure that you're trusting in Jesus Christ. You better make sure that your faith in Christ is a genuine faith in what He has done for you. Well, salvation is not by works, it's not by trying to be righteous, it's by putting your faith in Jesus alone, calling upon Him to cleanse you and forgive you for your sin, turning to Him with all your heart and faith. Knowing that on the cross Jesus paid your sin debt with his own precious blood. Secondly, he said to turn our hearts away from this vain world and teach us to look to heaven and to prep to prepare us for heaven. And God sometimes will do this, he says, so that we'll st we'll just get our eyes off of this world, this vain world. Again, something that is desperately needed in our day. And to look to heaven. You know, we're only going to live in this temporal world for so many years. Eternity has no ending to it. Prepare for eternity. And then number three, to humble our pride, to help us to see our sinfulness. Now he goes on to list many more reasons for this. And the point of listing these possible reasons for affliction is not to suggest that we can always figure God out as we already saw. Yes. But the point is God knows why he puts it there. God has purposes. Again, sometimes hidden to us, but he has a purpose. And it's not arbitrary And sometimes when things in our life seem crooked, we're very quick, again, to tell God how to straighten it out. But what we need to realize is that God puts the crook in our lot to straighten us out. Not to straighten him out, to straighten us out. And his sovereignty over our suffering, God is hard at work to accomplish spiritual good in our lives in many ways. If you're having trouble humbling yourself, and I'll just say this and we'll be done, if you're having trouble humbling yourself under this affliction, under this crook in the lot, then I want you to think about Jesus Look at Christ. Consider him. Consider the crook in his lot. Remember, his crook came in the shape of a cross And in the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus prayed, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Remove this crook if it's possible. Jesus considered the work of God and he saw that the only way that atonement could be made for people's sins was to die in their place. And so Jesus suffered his crook in the lot, he suffered on the cross of Christ for our sins. And he trusted God. And you know what? God did straighten things out because you know why? After three days, what happened? Jesus rose again. He came out of the grave. God straightened it all out. And friend, if you're having trouble humbling yourself under affliction, then think about our Savior Jesus Christ, who did humble himself under his crook. And why did he do it? He did it for you. He did it for me. So that we can have eternal life in heaven. And if God can straighten out the crooked cross, then he can certainly straighten out the crook in our own lot. Let's bow for prayer together. Let's pray together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Father, thank you for your word. It gives us hope. It gives us strength in these very difficult times. And I pray, Lord, for those that are watching and listening, that Lord, you would just minister your word to their heart. Help them to understand and embrace what Solomon tells us here, what he teaches us. Help us, Lord, to humble ourselves before you, to truly fear you, to submit to the crook in our lot, and to understand, Lord, that you have a purpose, you have a plan. There are things that you're doing that are hidden from us, and when we can't trace your hand, we can certainly trust your heart. Thank you, Lord, for even in our time of affliction, you show us mercy. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just wonder for those who may be watching and listening, if if you know Jesus as your Savior, if you're not absolutely certain of your salvation, would you be willing to pray, reach out in faith, and ask Christ to save you? Would you pray right where you are? Lord Jesus, I I know that I'm a sinner. I know that you went to the cross to pay my sin debt. And I look to you and you alone as my only source of salvation. And I call upon you to forgive me and save me. Friend, reach out to Christ in faith. Ask him to save you. And he will. And let us know if you've made that decision. Father, again, bless these words to your people, to those who are watching and listening, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.