Take your Bibles this morning. Open to the book of Ephesians, chapter 4, verse number 30. We're going to look at several verses here this morning, but we'll start off here. this this principle of forgiveness because I feel like that in this area specifically there's a bit of confusion about uh what is the biblical idea of forgiveness And uh how do we exercise that? So I want to answer that one question here today. But I heard about three mean-looking guys on motorcycles that pulled into a truck stop a little cafe there and there was a little guy sitting on uh on the counter eating um and uh just quietly eating his lunch and then these three guys they just uh thought they would bully him and they grabbed his food and threw it to the floor and pushed him around and And he didn't really do anything. He just quietly paid his bill and then he left. And then they looked at each other and said, you know, he wasn't much of a man, was he And uh then the waitress said, well he's not much of a uh a truck driver either because he just ran over three motorcycles out there So, you know, uh why should we learn to forgive? That's a question I want to ask you here today. It's it's something that all of us deal with in our life and learning how to forgive freely. And so there's several reasons. And number one would be, I would say, just because we are, you know, we have this uh nature inside of us that we are born to retaliate. Even over the smallest offense it seems like that's given to us, uh we want to get them back. We want to make the person who has uh done this thing to us, we want to kind of get back at them. We want to make them suffer. You know, we're just, again, that's part of our sin nature, is it not? Even the smallest child retaliates to another child over losing a toy Um, you know, if you want to fight, just put two toddlers in a room with one toy. And you'll see what you get there. Um there's just this something inside of us, deep down in the human heart, there is this vengeful, retaliatory uh spirit in us and again it's part of the curse of sin and it comes out in the strangest of ways. Uh again I heard about a uh a married couple uh that were um uh this is back in the days before c cars when they had the horse and buggy and they got married and they uh they rode off to their honeymoon and on the way while they were riding the horse bolted up. And the man said, that's one. And the horse bolted again. And he said, that's two. And the horse bolted a third time and he said that's three. And he got out of the gun and shot the horse. And the wife was horrified. She said, You can't do that. You can't treat a horse that way. And he said, That's one. Uh we we kind of live in a society today that um really looks down on the meek, kind of looks down on that spirit of non-retaliation. And uh that's that gentleness, that that that um willingness to forgive. And in a lot of ways, some people view that as weakness. They think that retaliation is strength. You know, if someone says something against you, you just get on your Twitter and take care of that. That's just y again, there's there seems to be like in our society today where that is perceived as a strength. Well, we need to learn to overcome that. Another reason why we need to learn to forgive is simply because uh the blood of Jesus. I would point to the blood of Jesus. There's a clear illustration of this in the book of Hebrews. Hebrews 11, 4 says this about Abel. Listen to what it says, by faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. By which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and it he b and by, excuse me, he being dead yet The phrase I want to point to in that one verse is where it says, he being dead yet speaks. And that verse is an allusion to Genesis 4, 10. Where the Bible says that you remember in that passage where God said to Cain, What have you done to your brother after Cain killed Abel? He said, Your brother's blood cries out from the ground. Now when God said that his blood was crying out from the ground, he wasn't obviously speaking about literally there. It wasn't literally crying out, but in a figurative way The blood of the able was crying out, and what was it crying for? It was crying for justice It was crying out for justice. But then the writer of Hebrews says this. He makes an interesting contrast between the blood of Abel that is crying out for justice, and the blood of Jesus. And this is what the writer says in Hebrews 12, 24. He says that the blood of Jesus speaks better than the blood of Abel So the blood of Christ is also crying out, but it speaks of something better. When Abel's blood cries out, it's crying out for justice. But when the blood of Christ cries out, what is it crying out for? Forgiveness. Forgiveness. And so the blood of Christ. is something uh is crying out for something much greater than justice cries out for forgiveness. Now let me just say there's nothing wrong with justice. Justice has its place And justice honors God. It is certainly legitimate to want to seek for wrongs to be made right, or for when there is a wrong, for there to be justice for that wrong. Nothing wrong with justice. But I am saying this, beloved, forgiveness is better. Forgiveness is better. And the Bible says that. But then there's a third reason why we really need to learn to forgive, and that is because of the burden of bitterness. the burden of bitterness. You know, when you've been hurt badly, you know, let's be honest, you just don't feel like forgiving. Even if the person repents and asks for forgiveness back, You don't readily want to forgive because you want to see them suffer a little bit. And that again, that's part of the human nature Um, you know, it may be, I don't know. I don't know anyone's heart here. Um, but it may be that s maybe someone's struggling with that right now. Maybe you're thinking, you know, a certain family member is coming down to visit for Christmas and I'm not sure I even want to see them. I I don't know. I just know I just know human nature. I know families. I know people. And it may be that you've been struggling with a bitterness. But let me just say this bitterness is something that doesn't uh only hurts the person who is bitter. Right? Remember the Bible says that in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 15. Not only does it displease the Lord But it hurts the person who is actually bitter. Someone said a bitter spirit or unforgiving spirit is like drinking poison and waiting for your enemy to die. It just doesn't work that way. It only hurts you. Okay? And so this is why we need to learn this biblical principle, and it's something that all of us not need to constantly remind ourselves of and go back to again and again, we need to learn about what the Bible has to say with respect to this idea of forgiveness. So let's talk about this. I'm going to talk about the biblical pattern of of or I should say the pattern of biblical forgiveness. And one of the questions that normally comes with respect to forgiveness is this idea of whether condition uh your forgiveness should be conditional forgiveness or should it be unconditional? Now look at the verse that we read here in Ephesians 4, verse 32. And look what it says again in verse 32. And uh have we even read it? I don't think we have yet, have we? So let's look at it. Actually, let's back up to verse number thirty of Ephesians chapter four. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Verse 31, let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice And verse 32, and be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. Now, notice the pattern here it's giving us. We're saying that we should be like God in our forgiveness. And so the question that people ask is this: how does God forgive. Is God's forgiveness conditional or is God's forgiveness unconditional? Now some people say based on this that the proper pattern of forgiveness is conditional. In other words, I don't need to forgive anyone unless first they ask me for forgiveness Uh if if a person doesn't ask me for forgiveness, then I don't need to forgive. And that's the pattern if we're to forgive like God. That's the rationale. God forgives only those who Therefore, if we're going to forgive in the same manner as we've been forgiven, we should withhold our forgiveness from all those who are unrepentant. If a person is unrepentant, if they haven't asked for forgiveness, then therefore we should withhold that forgiveness. Now there's a lot of people that take this position. And quite frankly, some very fine Bible teachers and Bible scholars take this position that all forgiveness needs to be conditional. For example, let me give you one man that I respect highly as far as his counseling, a man by the name of Jay Adams. How many ever heard that name before, Jay Adams? Very, very effective counselor, he developed a a method of counseling called nephetic counseling, which comes from the Greek word, which simply means to admonish, to speak, and to admonish. And he has a very excellent material on counseling in many different areas. But in this one area of forgiveness, this is what he he says. He writes this. It should go without saying that since our forgiveness is modeled after God's, it must be conditional. He goes on to say forgiveness by God rests on clear, unmistakable conditions. The apostles did not merely announce that God had forgiven men. Paul and the apostles turned away from those who refused to meet the conditions, just as John and Jesus did earlier when the scribes and the Pharisees would not Repent. End quote. And that's his position on forgiveness. Now, there's some merit in this position that Jay Adams gives. There are times when forgiveness must be conditional. I would not argue that. And we're going to discuss when forgiveness needs to be conditional. But the question is, is that always, is that, I would say it like this, is that the default mode of a Christian? with respect to forgiveness. Again, they point to the passage, Ephesians 4, and say it's this is the way God forgives, therefore this is the way we are to forgive. Now again I have great respect for Adams on this issue. However, I would like to respectfully disagree with the position that he takes. that all of our forgiveness must be conditional. I think to make conditionality the gist of Christ-like forgiveness, to me that seems to miss the point of what Scripture says. I think it misses the point. When Scripture tells us to forgive In the manner that we have been forgiving, what is in view is not the idea of withholding forgiveness from someone who is unrepentant or until that person expresses repentance, but actually we our default mode is just to be forgiving in general. And I think that's the gist of this verse here. When we're kind, we're tenderhearted, we're forgiving one another. I think the idea is remember that God's forgiven you. And because you remember that God's forgiven you, then therefore the default mode of a believer should be that you're always ready to forgive. That's the way we operate. And so listen to a few verses here. In fact, Matthew chapter 12. Why don't you just turn there? Look at a few verses with me here. this morning. Let's go ahead and turn in our Bible. Look at actually look in Matthew chapter 6. We'll look at a few here. Verse number 12. And this is part of the prayer of that Jesus taught us to pray in the Lord's Prayer. And he said in verse 12, and pray, forgive us our debts as we forgive our what? Now Jesus didn't say in that prayer, go and elicit an apology from your debtors and then forgive them while you're praying. You know, no, he didn't say that. He just said, just forgive your debtors. You know, forgive us our debts, Lord, as we just forgive our debtors. And so again, the idea there to me, it seems to be expressed by Jesus, is this is our default mood We just constantly are to be forgiving to those that have sinned against us. In James chapter 2 verse 13, it says this, for judgment will be merciless to the one who shows no mercy. If you want to be merciless in the way you treat others, then you're not going to get a lot of mercy. That's a principle in Scripture. Look in Matthew chapter 18, look in verse number 35. You're hearing Matthew. Go to Matthew chapter 18, look down at verse number 35. And we'll come back here eventually and look at this whole parable. But look at the last verse in Matthew chapter eighteen, verse thirty-five. So likewise shall my heavenly father do also unto you If ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother of their trespasses. So I think the emphasis again here in this verse is on forgiving freely, generously, willingly, eagerly. speedily and you do it from the heart. The attitude of the forgiv of the forgiver is the focus of Scripture. And I think that it's it's not in uh in the terms of forgiveness, but in the attitude. We're just to continually have this attitude of forgiveness. Now again, there are some who believe in this conditional forgiveness, which basically um means that there needs to be a formal transaction before I am to to just give forgiveness. In other words, if someone sins against me, I don't have to forgive them. And until they come to me or I approach them and say, Hey brother, you have offended me and let me tell you what you did And I don't need to forgive them unless in response they say, oh, you know what, you're right, I'm so very sorry. Please forgive me. Then when they ask that forgiveness, then now I'm under obligation to forgive them. But until that time, I'm not under any obligation to forgive them. And I've heard people come to me and they've come to me with that attitude, and quite frankly, they like that idea because you know what? They really don't want to forgive them. And they'll say something like, I don't have to forgive them, because they haven't asked for forgiveness. They haven't asked for they haven't apologized for what they've done. And if they haven't If there's been no formal confrontation, if there's been no formal transaction, then I don't need to forgive them. I'm not under obligation. And you know what? I find people like this, they're very angry people. They're very angry, and they harbor unforgiveness. So some say then, based on this verse here, that um that this means that forgiveness then has to be or should be conditional. You know, forgiveness. Unconditional forgiveness, I however I believe, and this is the point I'm trying to make, I think unconditional forgiveness is, I believe, the biblical pattern. Now again, there are times when I do need to approach someone and I do need to confront them. I do need to elicit a res a response from them. I do need to let them know of their Their error, their transgression. There are times the Bible makes very clear when I have to do that. There are times when my forgiveness must be conditional. But the question is, when are those times? When do I need to go and confront a person? Or when do I just need to allow, let it go, not bother confronting them? Okay. So I want to talk about this then. I want to talk about the pattern of biblical forgiveness as we've been talking about. And again, should it be non-confrontational or confrontational? Okay. Um so uh so uh let's talk about this this right here. Um I think here's one point I'd like to make. Whenever possible, especially if the offense is petty or unintentional, it is best just to forgive unconditionally. It's just best to forgive it. When someone does something against you and it's it's kind of an offense. Um And it may it may be something you know that they said, something that they did. Um if it was or it maybe they didn't even realize perhaps they had offended you. If it's petty The best thing to do is just just forgive them. Just let it go. Write it off. Okay? Don't make every little offense a major issue where you have to have this confrontation and you have to have this transaction. Can you imagine having a friend like that that every time you do something that irritates them they have to come to you about it and they have to ask you uh for forgiveness or you have to they have to tell you what you did and and then you have to ask forgiveness for it. You know what would happen? You wouldn't be friends with that person very long. Is that true? All right, some of you look very holy, like oh yes, I would be friends with them no matter what. No, if if you're with a person or fr you're friends with a person, every little thing that you did irritated them and they had to say, Hey, you know what, you just did this and it really bothered me. I'm really sorry. You're constantly I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Or and sometimes I've I've done marriage counseling with a new couple where um you know they'll come to me and they're arguing. They're fighting constantly You know, I've done some marriage counseling where in the initial year of their marriage, they're constantly arguing back and forth. Okay? And you know why? It's because they haven't learned this principle of just unconditional forgiveness. You know, y guess what? And this might be a a shock to some people, but your marriage partner might do something that irritates you at some point. point. It might happen. Okay, I'm not saying it will, I'm just saying it's possible That it could happen that and it's possible that you disagree on certain things. Are you ready for this? You might disagree with your spouse on something. I've often told my wife, it honey, it's okay for you to disagree with me. You have your right to be wrong. You're gonna have disagreements. There's things that you're gonna do that will irritate each other, things that maybe are said. that, you know, the other person might take to heart. You know, you say, what do you do about that? Do you do you confront every time that happens? Can you imagine? I don't think any marriage relationship would last If every petty little thing demanded a confrontation and where you had to elicit, there had to be this formal transaction. You know, where, you know, you have to apologize before the person will, you know, with will just say, you know I I forgive you. You have to make it very formal. I think that any relationship like that, it would become very, very odious, very hard. Look at a passage of scripture. Take your Bibles. Look in 1 Peter chapter 4 with me this morning. Look in 1 Peter chapter 4 and look down at verse number 8. Look at 1 Peter chapter 4 and look at verse number 8. And there's a principle here given in this verse. That I want to emphasize with you with respect to this idea of unconditional forgiveness, 1 Peter 4, verse 8, where it says this, and above all things, have fervent charity or love. Fervent love among yourselves for charity or love, we could say, shall cover a multitude of sins. Love covers a multitude of sins. And this is the principle here. This is why when someone does something to offend me, Or or they maybe unintentionally or even intentionally. Um, I just automatically I try to practice this verse and I just write it off. Just write it off. You know, you're forgiven. I'm not going to harbor it. I'm not going to let it bother me. I'm just going to write it off. I'm going to overlook it. Why? Because love covers a multitude of sins. You know, and uh so someone says something about me or writes something about me or anything like that or or you know or does something that is really, really unkind, or you know What's what's my normal response as a Christian? I just let it go. I just write it off. I delete it. Control Alt Delete. Gone Out of my computer, you know. Um, I just forget it, overlook it, you know. Listen, can you imagine how bitter and angry we can be if we let every little thing bother us? Every little thing that someone does against us, because guess what? We live in a world of flawed people all around us. People who have their own baggage and issues. And difficulties and a lot of times you're not the issue. It's just something that they're dealing with. It's not really meant against you. It's something that they're struggling with, a battle that rages inside of them. So Peter says, look And he's speaking to the church. Look, love covers a multitude of sins. When we get together in the body of Christ in the church, we're all sinners trying to worship God together. And somewhere along the line, we're going to do something that's going to offend each other. And the best thing, beloved, is just write it off. Just let it go. You know, forgiveness needs to be unconditional. That's our default mode. It needs to be unilateral. Unceremonious. I don't go around saying, well, you know, a lot of people, this guy just did something, but guess what? I just forgave him automatically. Look at me. How great I am. No, it's unceremonious. I don't even bring it up. I don't even mention it. I just let it go. Okay? Proverbs says this, Proverbs 10, 12, hatred stirs up strife. But love covers all offenses. It just covers it. Proverbs 12, 16. A fool shows his annoyance at once, but a prudent man look overlooks an insult. He just overlooks an insult. In Proverbs 17, 9, whoever covers an offense seeks love. But he who repeats a matter Separates close friends. If you want to constantly go around and tell other people what so-and-so's done to you, then what you're going to do is you're just going to create strife. And besides this, the Bible says this in 1 Corinthians 13, 5, talking about love. Love does not behave itself unseemly Seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil. In other words, love is not rude, it's not self-seeking, it's not easily angered And it does not keep a record of wrongs. You know, a list of wrongs. Now there are some people that keep a list of wrongs. I don't mean literally a list, but they keep a list in their mind and in their heart. And they don't they don't forget anything. They don't write off anything. They have this long list of offenses that people have done against them. And I'm sure you've heard this joke before. I appreciate if you laugh anyway. But um you heard about the woman that went to counseling and with her husband and and the counselor said, Well what's the problem? He says, Well, you know, every time we talk about um you know some of these things, my wife gets historical And he says, You mean hysterical? He said, No, I mean historical. She goes back and she r mentions everything I've ever done wrong because she keeps a list Of every offense that I've ever done against her. But the Bible says love does not take into account, it does not write it down in its ledger What uh a wrong that you've suffered. And actually the word here in the Greek word is logizomai, and it literally means to place into a ledger. And we can think of it like this. Every one of us has kind of a ledger sheet in our heart. And again, when someone hurts us, sometimes we write it down on our ledger sheet, but love just keeps that sheet clear all the time. It doesn't have anybody in there. There's no one there that we want to pay back. No one there that we have not forgiven. And um, you know, that we want to just show revenge too in some way. And by the way, there are ways that we do this. Let me give you some ways that we take revenge against someone else. Uh we can gossip against them or slander them We are just constantly critical of that person or condemn them. Anger, harsh words. or purposely trying to destroy their reputation. This it can even get to physical attacks. Finding ways. These are active ways that people get back at each other. What are some passive ways we take revenge? Here are some passive ways. We just ignore them. We just ignore them as if they're nobody. Or maybe feeling proud and self-righteous. Well, I'm glad I'm not like them. Or another passive way is we just withhold love. We don't hate them necessarily, but we just withhold our love. We're not expressive about it. We won't show that love. We won't, you know, go out of our way. And love, however, the Bible says does not act that way. What does the Bible say? Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, and love endures all things. Again, look at another passage. Look in Colossians 3 real quick. Go back to the book of Colossians, chapter 3. I'll show you this verse here. Colossians chapter 3 and look down at verse number 13. Again, this is talking about the new man and putting on the clothes of sanctification. He's usually an imagery of putting on um new clothes when you come to Christ. And then he's talking about putting on verse 12 as the elect of God, holy beloved, bows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering. Look at verse 13. Forbearing one another And forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye for And so again, this is unconditional forgiveness here. We're just forbearing. You know what forbearing means? I just put up with others. And you put up with me? I'll make a deal. If you put up with me, I'll put up with you. That's what forbearing means, one another. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna um you know uh hold it against you. Anything, any offenses, any petty things. We're going to be forbearing. Forgiving. Again, this is our default mode. We just We just since we love each other, we're going to overlook things, we're going to be forbearing, we're going to be constantly forgiving. And again, I think this is the default mode of every believer. It is unconditional. Forgiveness, unconditional forgiveness. Okay? So whenever possible, especially if the offense is petty or unintentional, it is best to forgive unconditionally. Again, I believe that's our basic stance. That's the way we operate as believers. But number two, if you're the only injured party, even if the offense was public or flagrant, you may choose to forgive unconditionally. If you're the only offended or injured party, even again if the offense was public and flagrant, you may choose to forgive unconditionally. Someone does something against you flagrantly, publicly. The best response is just choose to forgive that person. Okay? Now, what are some examples of this in Scripture? Well, when you think about this second principle that I mentioned, with the offenses public and flagrant, you want to just choose to forgive. The person that comes up to my mind, first of all, is Joseph. Joseph. He was a victim of grievous wrongs against him. Hated by his brothers, thrown into a pit, put into slavery. And then um years away from his family, uh, and then from you know you know the story when he was uh put in prison because of something that he was accused of doing that he didn't do? We're talking about a man that's had a lot of wrongs done against him. A lot of bad things done against him. And at the end of his life, you know what you find? You don't find a man that is angry and bitter and resentful. What do you find at the end of Joseph's life? You find a man who is at peace. A man who is blessed, a man who is prosperous, a man who is filled with love and joy. And you remember When after the father Jacob dies, the brothers who wronged Joseph so grievously came to Joseph, and they're thinking, you know, now that Dad's dead, Joseph is in the position to show revenge, they were afraid Because now this man is prime minister of Egypt. He could do whatever he wants. So they come to Joseph and they basically say um You know, and this is the Harmon paraphrase, uh Joseph, we're we're good, right? You've forgiven us for these things, right? I mean all the wrongs that we've done against you, we're so sorry, and they're afraid. And you remember what Joseph said? Look, you just relax, guys. You know what? You may have meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. And he was just absolutely, totally forgiving to these brothers. His forgiveness was not conditional. He didn't say, well, guys, in order for me to really forgive you, here's what you have to do. No. It was unconditional. It was unilateral. It was just total forgiveness for all those things that were done against them. And we're talking about some flagrant things that they did against Joseph, some hurtful things that were done. Not too long ago, a man asked after a service, can I talk to you? And he came to my office and he was telling me about how he was jailed, he was thrown in jail unjustly. And later they found out that he was innocent. And uh he was released from jail. But he was saying, you know, all those years I spent in jail when I was innocent. And this person that falsely accused me, and I've lost all this time, and they were going on and on about it. And uh, you know, one of the things I said to them was then you have to be a Joseph. You have to be a Joseph. What about all the time I lost? You know what? God is able to make up that time. The Bible says God is make able to make up the years that the locusts have eaten God is fully able to make up all that time. And you know, you need to live your life now. Don't think about the length, but think about the depth of your life. Because life is not lived just in length, it's lived in depth. And so make sure that you're lucky the rest of your life you give it to God and have a quality life, and God will make up any lost time that you feel like you've lost But you have to understand that if you hold this in your heart and you get angry and bitter against all those people that have put you in that position, it's not going to hurt any of them. It's only going to hurt you. It's only going to make you uh a person that has no peace. And I reminded him of that the story of Joseph. How could Joseph be so filled with forgiveness and compassion and love for his brothers who did this thing against him. Ultimately it was this. He understood that God was in control. And God had his hand on the whole situation. So therefore he was able to forgive. And we'll talk about that a little bit more as we go on. And then there's another person in scripture. You remember David? David just unilaterally He just unconditionally forgave the most humiliating public insult rendered against them. You might remember this story. It's in 2 Samuel chapter 16, verses 5 through 9. And in fact, why don't you just turn there real quick? Let me just remind you, go to 2 Samuel chapter 16 in the Old Testament, 2 Samuel chapter 16, and look down at verse number 5 And this is when David was running for his life, literally, from Jerusalem. He was forced to flee Jerusalem because his defiant son Absalom Had fostered a rebellion and at a strategic moment he he gathered together uh supporters, and they were so powerful that David had to run for his life. He had to flee Jerusalem. And as he's leaving, And this, you had to imagine, this was a very painful, agonizing time for David to leave Jerusalem. There's this character by the name of Shimei who pours salt into his wounds, as it were. And who decides he wants to humil hum humiliate David even further. Look in 2 Samuel chapter 16, verse 5. And when King David came to uh BarHurim, Barhurim, Behold, there came out a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei, the son of Girah. He came forth and cursed still as he came. And he cast stones at David and at all the servants of the king, and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left And thus said Shimei when he cursed, Come out, come out, thou bloody man, thou man of Belial So he's cursing David there. Verse 8. The Lord hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned, and the Lord hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom, thy son. Behold, thou art taken in thy mischief. Because thou art a bloody man. And so here's this man, and he is publicly humiliating David. Again, this is this is everyone's hearing this. And he's speaking this way to the king. Now Abishai, one of David's companions, who was a pretty strong, formidable warrior, Basically said, David, why don't you just let me go over and cut that guy's head off? Why don't you just let me take care of him? Why should he curse the king? And you know what David basically said? David said, no, leave him alone. Just let it go. And you know what David did at that moment? He just forgave him. He just wrote it off. You know, in a difficult, desperate time in his life. David said, you know what, I'm just just let it go. Just forgive this guy. And so you may want to just choose. If someone does something against you, just forgive them. Just overlook it. Because again, this is what the Bible says. Now, when are there times when we should be uh confrontational? Um well here's a third principle I want to give you. If you observe a serious offense that is a sin against someone other than you, You might want to at that point choose to confront the offender. I can unilaterally and unconditionally forgive a personal offense when I'm the victim because I'm the one who bears the wrong But when I see that someone else has been sinned against, it might be at that point my duty to seek justice for them. You know, in fact, we're we're entitled, we're encouraged to overlook wrongs committed against us, but Scripture forbids us to overlook wrongs committed against another. This might be a time when we might need to go and confront someone else. Not because they've sinned against me, but because perhaps I see someone harming or hurting another brother At that point, I need to confront that person. I don't need to let that go. Here's a few verses. Exodus 23, 6, you shall not pervert the justice due to your needy brother in dispute. Deuteronomy sixteen twenty, justice and only justice you shall pursue. Isaiah one seventeen, learn to do good, seek justice, reprove the ruthless, defend the orphan, plead for the widow Uh one time I was in a church, uh not this church, another church I pastored, and a person in the church, a man came to me and basically described to me a situation where there was a person in that church, they did business together. And this person basically defrauded his brother, basically took from him a lot of money and didn't pay it back and had no intention of paying it back. Now at that point when I made alert to that, what do I have to do as a brother at that point? Now I have to confront that other brother. To help seek justice for this one who's been sinned against. And I did indeed do that. At that point I did go and confront this other brother in the church that had defrauded another believer. And said to him, brother, here's what's happening, and here's what you need to do. This is what the Bible says you do. Now at that point, I'm confronting him, and at that point there's a sense in which my can my forgiveness is conditional now. Because they sinned against another, and I'm trying to help right this situation, and this one person needs to do some things to make it right. And to pay restitution. So now I'm confrontational. Now my forgiveness, as it were, is conditional Not because it's an offense against me, although it is against me, because if someone sins against you indirectly, they're sinning against me. You know why? Because you're my brother or sister in Christ. And I have to seek justice for you. So at that point I confronted this brother about that. And so there are times when the Bible says we need to do that Here's another principle. When ignoring the offense might hurt the offender, confrontation is necessary. Okay? So I might need to confront someone else because I can't ignore it now. Why? Because if I ignore this offense now, this offense has the potential to really hurt that person. Who committed that offense? That makes sense? If I see a person sinning and I know that this pattern of behavior is going to be destructive in their life, I have to confront them now. Now there's a sense in which my forgiveness is conditional. Write down Galatians 6 1 if you're taking notice. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fall, ye which are spiritual Restore such a one in the spirit of meekness. The word translated overtaken there is uh literally means caught. And it can signify two things. It might mean that the person was discovered in some secret transgression, or it could mean that the person is ensnared in some sinful habit. Either way, if that's brought to your attention, there's a sense where now confrontation is necessary. Conditional forgiveness is necessary. And even there, it's not that I'm I'm angry and I'm I'm hostile or bitter at this person. No. I want to fully forgive them, but I can't do that until they Get this matter taken care of. And even at that point when I'm withholding my forgiveness, it's not out of a selfish motive for me, it's for them. I want them to confront this issue. I want them to deal with this issue. At that point, overlooking the sin is not an option at that point. I have to bear, I have to help bear my brother's burden. So if I see a brother in this terrible pattern of behavior, That's going to hurt them or hurt someone else. Then I confront them, then I go and uh meet with them in a very loving way so that that they can overcome that. Here's another principle of scripture. When a sin is scandalous or otherwise potentially damaging to the church, confrontation is necessary. If I see a brother or sister that is involved in a thing that is damaging to them and to the church, then I have to go and I have to confront them. And that's when, again, my forgiveness is at that point it is conditional. I forgive them only at that point when they acknowledge their transgression and they basically say, you know what, you're right. I'm sorry. And at that point then I then forgiveness is given. And we go on. And this confrontation needs to be personal between me and that person alone. Okay? And we see this principle in many places in Scripture. But um uh this is the principle we could say of church restoration, and we'll we'll get into that a little bit more, but but let me just move on from there and give you the sixth principle here. Anytime an offense results in a broken relationship, confrontation is necessary I need to confront a person if if the offense was serious enough where the relationship has been broken. At that point, there needs to be some kind of confrontation. And there needs to be a formal transaction at that point since the relationship has been broken. since it has uh suffered this lapse. So I can freely unilaterally forgive everyone for their offenses, but if I see, if perhaps I know of an offense that a person committed uh towards me and I can see that it's bothering them, um, that it's not just that one thing, there's something there. If there's been some kind of break in our relationship, if I sense that moving away, what does the Bible say? You know, if I if I know that my brother has aught against me, what do I what do I need to do? I I need to leave my gift at the altar and go be reconciled with my brother If I know that there's something there, if there's been some kind of a break in the relationship, at that point I need to be confrontational. I need to go to that person. I need to elicit a response from them to find out what the issue is. And again, we see this principle. Look in Matthew chapter 5 real quick. Let me just show this to you. And I again it's a verse that you know, but look in Matthew chapter 5. We look down at verse number 23 and verse 24. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath awed against thee. Verse 25 of Matthew, leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way, and first be reconciled to thy brother, then come and offer thy gift. So Reconciliation is the goal here. When we confront someone else about a wrong maybe we meet we committed or some other scenario, there are many. We want reconciliation. Now, if your aim is to punish the offender, then you're confronting them with the wrong attitude. We never want to come to try to punish. We always want to seek reconciliation. Um and so um if there's a icy silence between you and someone else, if there's something that's there that you can't quite put your finger on, if there's been a breach in that relationship in some way Then you just need to go to them. And the Bible says be reconciled. Find out what it is. Okay? Now we are just about out of time. I have two minutes. So there's another part to this that we'll finish at another time, but the next time I teach this on Sunday morning. But let me just ask a quick question. Anybody have a question about anything that I've talked about so far? I have time for maybe one or two questions based on this this morning. Any questions today about this? Alright. Can you not have can you not have uh confrontations when also having already predicted Um yeah, uh the question that was asked is can you not can there be confrontation when you've already forgiven someone? Which is a good question. And and truthfully, when I'm confronting someone, um there's a sense in which there you know in my heart I don't have any animosity. When I use the word forgive, it's really a choice of letting something go. So it depends on what you mean by forgive. If you mean by forgive that I uh as a choice of my will, I decide to let this matter go. then then I'm not really forgiving them at that point in that sense. Now, if if you mean by forgive that I have hostility or animosity in my heart, well yes, I don't I'm not angry at them. I don't want to get back at them. In that sense, there's no there's no sense of wanna uh retribution there because in my heart I love them. And in the emotional sense I've forgiven them But in a legal transactional sense, I have to hold them accountable. Why? Because that thing might hurt them. It's like this. If I see one of my children doing something really bad, as a dad, I'm going to love them. And I love them. And I'm going to show that love, but I'm not going to let them off the hook. I'm going to keep them accountable. I'm going to confront them and I'm going to even tell them, you know why I'm confronting you? I'm confronting you because I love you. And this pattern of behavior that I see in you is going to be destructive for you. And to see you get hurt would crush me. So while in my heart I have this love, this fatherly love, this brotherly love. There's no hostility. In that sense, I'm not harboring unforgiveness. But in a legal transactional sense, I haven't let them off the hook until they deal with this issue. Does that make sense? So yes. How to give somebody to my mother. How to get that. Well, we're going to talk about how to do that next time. That's a whole different subject It's a good question, but we're going to talk about that next time. And I'm already one minute over. So um and when I get too too much over, my wife who leads the choir, she will not forgive me. She will She will hold me accountable and say you went way over in Sunday school. So since I don't want that deal in my I'm gonna let you guys go right now anyway. Let's have words. Let's all stand together. And let's pray. Father, thank you for your word that directs us and leads us and guides us. And Lord, this is an issue that all of us deal with. Lord, help us to learn to forgive the way you you teach us to. To have nothing but love and peace in our heart towards our fellow man. And again, this is what our Savior taught us. Help us to model this. And so bless the study that we undertake. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.