Could you take God's word tonight, please? Open to the Old Testament book of Zechariah. We've been uh doing this uh study of Zechariah for several months on Wednesday night. Actually, this is the sixteenth sermon out of the book, not that you all are counting, I am. This is the last sermon on it because we're in Zechariah chapter 14. And if you're visiting with us tonight and you don't know where the book of Zechariah is, go to the first book of the New Testament, Matthew, make a left, and go back to books. And you'll come to Zechariah in the Old Testament. Zechariah chapter 14. Tonight I'm going to talk about the king is coming. In 1526, the famous reformer Martin Luther wrote a commentary on Zechariah. His commentary, however, stopped at the 13th chapter. It didn't include anything on chapter 14. One year later he wrote a second commentary on the book of Zachariah. This time he had some brief remarks on chapter 14, and this is what he wrote. He said, This, here in this chapter I give up. For I'm not sure what the prophet is talking about. It's a very honest admission on the behalf of Martin Luther. We have to appreciate his humble admission. But we have to ask the question, why didn't Martin Luther say that? We see Luther's approach to Zechariah 14 was a figurative approach rather than a literal approach. He tried to interpret it symbolically or more, or we could say maybe somewhat allegorically. And so that's why when he uh he he sought to interpret that way after coming to this chapter, he said, you know, I surrender. I don't know what the prophet's talking about here. In other words, approaching this chapter from a figurative or a symbolic angle, Luther could make no convincing sense out of it It just didn't make any sense to him. He went on to expound the chapter, but he didn't think it could have any reference to the end times. And uh he related it only to a period of destruction of Jerusalem. and that all of the language was symbolic and somehow it was fulfilled in 70 AD. Well he's not alone in this approach. His remarks illustrate how many Christians over the centuries have been humbled when they come to Zechariah chapter 14. And uh however if we approach this chapter with the same literal hermeneutic, and when I say hermeneutic, I mean principles of interpretation, if we use the same literal principles of interpretation in this chapter that we use for all of the other scripture, then the then the meaning really is not unclear. I I really I kind of wonder how this could be so difficult, you know, when I study it. If you come with a literal approach, the the the meaning of what he's saying here in chapter 14 is really simple. And let me just give it to you. Jesus will return to earth, defeat all the enemies of his people, and he will literally reign on earth. Got that? Is that hard to grasp? That's if you take this literally. Jesus is coming again. But Martin Luther was followed by many theologians today who are omalenial or who have who are covenant theologians. who do not interpret Zechariah 14 literally. They again they make it all symbolic. They do not wish to have a restored Israel in their theology. They do not believe that God has anything left for Israel. They do not see an actual setting up Of a literal kingdom on earth where Jesus Christ reigns from the throne of David in Jerusalem. So they want to look at this chapter and they want to pick it out and they want to say all of this is figurative, all of this is symbolic of something else But in doing so, it it leaves the r it leaves them with a lot of problems when you approach the chapter that way The great Old Testament scholar Walt Kaiser, who interprets this chapter literally, he wrote this, quote, and no other chapter of the Bible Is the interpretation of the name Israel more important than in Zechariah 14? To say that Israel means the church, as many have done, would lead to a most confusing picture in this chapter and in the end. of chapter 13. And he's absolutely right. In 1919, there was an excellent commentary written on Zachariah by a man by the name of David Baron. And he took a literal approach to this chapter. And uh and by the way, that was in a time when taking a literal approach was not very popular, simply because in nineteen nineteen it just looked impossible for these things to happen. But what David Barron wrote in 1919 was this. He said, first of all, we have to suppose a restoration of the Jews into their land in a condition of unbelief. Not a complete restoration of the whole nation, which will not take place until after their conversion, but a representative and influential remnant will return. It seems from Scripture that in relation to Israel and the land, there will be a restoration before the second coming of our Lord. So Baron predicted a literal actual return to the land of Israel, a restoration of the nation And again, that was back in 1919. He went on to say, a Jewish state will be probably be formed under international protection. And guess what? He was exactly right. Because in nineteen forty eight, you know as well as I do, under the protection of the United Nations, Israel became a nation. But here but just taking a literal approach to Israel in this chapter, he was able to put all that together because you would have to assume these things if you read chapter 14 and take a literal approach. Now the reason I share that with you is because I want you to know that what he said in 1919, everything he predicted in his commentary so far has happened one after another without missing a step. And and this is what happens when you take a literal approach. I want to reaffirm that you can interpret this literally. I make no apology for coming to this chapter and taking it at face value and interpreting this Literally. And so what Zechariah teaches us is when Christ returns as king, he will defeat his enemies and establish his righteous kingdom over all the earth. And so we can divide this chapter up into two major sections. Here's the first one. Number one, the victorious return of the king. And we see this in verses 1 to 15. Christ will come back, and when that happens, that means the defeat of all the enemies of Christ and Israel. And this is future yet to come. Again, we know that Israel is a nation now under the international protection in the nineteen forty-eight of the United Nations. However, Israel is in unbelief. And that again is Predicted in Scripture that they would be in unbelief until salvation would come. They're waiting for the time of salvation. And it can't come until the Messiah comes, Jesus Christ. And so prior to that time, don't make a pact with the false Messiah. You if you went up with us in our study, remember Zechariah chapter eleven where it talked about a false shepherd who will rise up? And since Israel rejected their true shepherd They sold them for thirty pieces of silver, another prophecy that was literally fulfilled during the ministry of Jesus. Since they rejected the true shepherd, they will open their hearts up to the false shepherd. They will make a pact with the Antichrist, and in the middle of that seven-year period, the Antichrist will break that covenant. And when he does, he will require that they worship him and him alone. And when the people of Israel refuse, he gathers armies of the world together and they begin to march against Israel and Jerusalem. And uh the idea is to exterminate all of Israel. And if you come to the end of chapter 13, it looks like that he's going to be successful in this. There's tremendous devastation. It seems like the Antichrist is going to be victorious in his goals. But that's when chapter 14 starts and verse number one. Look at verse 1. Behold, the day of the Lord cometh. And thy spoil shall be divided in the midst of thee. So the enemies here, just picture this in your mind, they have attacked and they've already um you know they already already had success in some devastation Uh and now they're dividing the spoil right there in the streets of Jerusalem, verse one of chapter fourteen. Look at verse two, and I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken, and the houses rifled and the women ravished, and half of the city shall go forth into captivity, and the residue of the people shall not be cut off from the city. While two-thirds of the land is perishing, one half of the city of Jerusalem will be taken captive, according to verse two. So picture in your mind people being chained. They're in captivity. They're right there in the streets. The remaining third of the country's population will be brought through these events. They'll be refined. They'll be chastised. And just when the Antichrist and his forces seem to be victorious, the Lord will enter into the battle. The Lord will come right there at that moment. And he will defeat his enemies. Look in verse number four. And his feet shall stand in that day upon the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem, on the east And the man and the Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst thereof towards the east and towards the west, and there shall be a very great valley, and half of the mountain shall remove toward the north, and half of it toward the south. So Jesus will come back. He will touch down on the Mount of Olives, and what will happen is there'll be a great earthquake and that thing will split. According to Zechariah. Once when I was over in Israel, you can actually go to the Mount of Olives and go to a church there called the Church of the holy ascension, where they have there, if you go to the courtyard of that church, they have in a a little box with footprints in rock. And that supposedly is the place where Jesus stood right before he ascended up into heaven. And you can stay stand there and you can see that. Now, whether or not that's the real place, I don't know. I don't know that, but I do know this. The Bible says he did ascend to heaven from the Mount of Olives. And he is going to come back and touch down there on the Mount of Olives. We know that's going to happen. And when he does, there'll be a great earthquake. And the mountain will split in half. Sometimes God will use uh an earthquake to announce his presence. We see that in scripture tumes sometimes. And the surviving remnant will be able to escape through the valley that is made through that event right there. Jesus then will annihilate his enemies. And again we see an amazing prophecy here. Look again at verse number three. It says, Then shall the Lord go forth and fight against those nations. as when he fought in the day of battle. The Lord will go forth. And then it says in verse 4, and his feet shall stand in that day. Notice the word Lord is all caps, that's Yahweh. Yahweh will come. Yahweh's seat will stand on the Mount of Olives. Now who can that be? Who can that be? I mean, who Yahweh had to become a man in order for that to happen, and he has to have feet. And that, of course, is referring to the Lord Jesus Christ, another amazing prophecy. And it will be a sudden defeat. Again, Israel's enemies will be gloating over what they think is their victory when the Lord will suddenly wipe them out And this is described in detail in verses twelve to fifteen. Look down to verse twelve. Drop down to the bottom here. And this shall be the play wherewith the Lord shall smite all the people that have fought against Jerusalem. Their flesh shall be consumed away while they stand upon their feet, and their eyes shall consume away in their holes, and their tongue shall consume away in their mouth. Doesn't sound very good, does it? And it shall come to pass in that day that a great tumult from the Lord shall be among them, and they shall lay hold every one on the hand of his neighbor, and on the hand sh on his hand shall rise up against the hand of his neighbor And Judah also shall fight at Jerusalem, and the wealth of all the heathen round about shall be gathered together gold and silver and apparel in great abundance, and so shall be the plague of the horse And of the mule, of the camel, and of the ass, and of all the beasts that shall be in in these tents as this plague. And so what will happen here The enemies, when Christ comes, their f their flesh will rot while they're standing there on their feet. Their eyes will rot in their sockets, their flesh will rot off their bones, their tongue will rot in their mouth. And according to verse 15, this will be the same fate will befall the animals. This sounds like a nuclear attack, doesn't it? But it will be a plague from the Lord. The Bible makes that clear. A plague from God And according to verse 13, this enemy coalition of the Antichrist will turn upon one another and they'll begin to fight one another. And the point of all of this is that this will be a last-minute, sudden victory that Jesus gives when he comes back, right at that precise time, to defeat all the enemies of Israel. I mean this will be a grand slam in the bottom of the ninth with two outs and two strikes. He'll come in right at that time, and he will defeat all of those enemies. Now, and God wants us to be encouraged by this prophecy Evil will not win, beloved. In spite of how things look, evil will not win. God will win out in the end. He is sovereign over all. and over all the nations. And his purpose for all the ages is to enthrone Jesus Christ as King of kings and Lord of Lords, and He will. And he will. So it will be a sudden defeat. But also it will be a powerful defeat. The defeat of Christ's enemies will be accompanied by awesome displays of power. from God as we read here. There'll be changes in the earth and in the heavens. First of all, changes on the earth. Again, look at verse number five And ye shall flee to the valley of the mountains, for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azel. Yea, ye shall flee as like ye fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah. King of Judah, and the Lord my God shall come and all the saints with thee. So, again, in verse five, when Jesus touches down on the Mount of Olives, there'll be an earthquake, though the mountain will split. One mountain will become two. There will be a valley that will be created by that. And according to verse eight, it says a river will flow. Drop down to verse number eight. Look at that. And it shall be that in that day That living waters shall go out from Jerusalem, half of them toward the former sea, half of them towards the hinder sea in the summer and the winter shall it be. That is, this new river will flow out of Jerusalem, half towards the Dead Sea, half towards the Mediterranean Sea. And that's that's going to happen. There'll be a valley that'll be cut out with this river flowing. Now again, commentators and scholars, they have tried to interpret this as symbolic. that this river maybe is is spiritual, it's not a real river, that all of these manifestations are really symbolic. Or some try to say, well all this happened in 70 A. D. These things happened. Maybe it happened during the uh the uh the invasion of Nebuchadnezzar, or maybe it happened during the siege of uh Jerusalem in seventy AD under the Roman general Titus But all those things are confusing, fruitless attempts to try to make sense of this and not make it in the future, which is when it's going to happen. Because when those things happened In history, in 586 when Nebuchadnezzar invaded, in 70 when General Titus invaded, during those two invasions, at neither time did the Mount of Ottawa split and a valley was created. What are you gonna do about that? Well again you have to relegate that to being figurative, not real, which is why would you do that? Let me tell you why you should interpret this literally Because look again at verse number five where it says, Yea, ye shall flee like as ye fled from before the earthquake in the days of Yuza, king of Judah. Now there he's referring to an event that took place. In the days of Uzziah, the king of Judah, and it this must have been an awesome earthquake because if you remember an earthquake 200 years later, that had to be a serious earthquake. He's referring to this earthquake 200 years later. He said it's going to be just like the earthquake that hit when Uzziah was king of Judah. You remember that? And of course, everyone in the nation of Israel would know about this. And so this was a literal event that he's referring to. So this leads me to believe that this next earthquake that Zachariah is talking about is also going to be a literal event. Why would you use a literal event in the history of Israel to talk about something that's going to be non-literal? So this again, this will take place in the future. Archaeologists have suggested that this earthquake that Zachariah is talking about here destroyed the city of Hazur in 760 B. C. Amos talks about this earthquake. The historian Josephus talks about this earthquake. And here Zechariah says, When the Lord comes again and there's an earthquake. And the mountain splits, it's going to be like that earthquake back in the days of Uzziah. Did you know that there uh they have found a fault line that runs east to west through the Mount of Olives? East to west. You know, I think that God's getting everything ready. The crack is already there. You know. There's going to be a valley formed there when the Lord Jesus comes back. There'll be changes in the earth, but also changes in the heaven. Look at verse number six. When the Lord comes, and it shall come to pass in that day that the light shall not be clear nor dark So the sun, moon, and stars will be dark. And by the way, this is mentioned in other prophecies in the Old Testament. When Jesus comes, all the stars in the sun, the sun of heaven will go out. The heavens will be black. Again, it's discussed in several places in Isaiah 13, 9, the day of the Lord comes with wrath and anger. The stars of heaven and the constellations there shall not give their light. In Joel 2. 31, the sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood. And uh Before that great and terrible day of the Lord, Joel 3. 15, the sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall withdraw their shining. Matthew also talks about this in Matthew 24. Jesus does. But the the passage in Revelation 6 verse 12 also talks about the same thing, the stars darkening and everything being dark. And so this all is in harmony with other passages of Scripture when the Lord comes back. But also here's another thing I want you to understand. Saints will see it Again, go back to verse number five. Look at the last phrase in verse five, where it says, And the Lord my God shall come and all the saints. with thee. The saints will come with them. Now that word saints there can refer to angels, but it's also used to refer to believers. So I think this is referring to believers. I think that we're going to be there. If you know the Lord Jesus Christ, how many know the Lord? How many want to go to Israel? See the Holy Land? You're you're going to do it. It's a free trip. It's a free trip. You don't have to pay anything. You're going to be there if you know the Lord. You say, are you sure? How do you know about that? Well, listen to First Thessalonians 3. 13. to the end that he may establish your hearts unblamable and holiness before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. With all his saints. Write down Colossians 3. 4. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Look at Jude 14. We just jot that down in your margin. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these things, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with 10,000 of his saints. And the word 10,000 there is the Greek word myriad, or myriads of myriads. That is a number that we don't you know that's too high. We don't have a numerical value to that can equal that. So the translators just use the word 10,000 because that was a high number But this is going to be myriads and myriads of his saints are going to be with them when he returns. You see, at the rapture, Jesus comes for his saints. At the second coming, he comes with his saints. And so we'll be there. And it'll be a thorough defeat because look down at verse number nine. And the Lord shall be king over all the earth. Is that unclear? Not at all. The Lord shall be king over all the earth. In that day shall there be one Lord and his name one. One Lord, there's only going to be one who will be worshipped at that time. One name by which you approach God. Right now, only a minority of people worship the Lord, Jesus Christ, the only the one and only. In fact, the name of Jesus is an offense to a lot of people. Did you know that? It's an offense. I think I told you before get back up let me get up on my soapbox here for a minute and I was asked to pray in the open a prayer in the Maryland State Senate and and I I said I'll do it They said, Well, you gotta send in your prayer, so I emailed it to them. And then they called me the day before and said, Oh, you can't mention the name of Jesus. Can't do that. And I thought, Well, I thought you wanted me to pray. There is no prayer without the name of Jesus. There is no real prayer without the name of Jesus. And I'm not going to go there and and you know go through some play acting and not use the name of Jesus because it might offend some of the people there. Um that's not and someone said, Well, you should just go and just tell them you won't then do it anyway. You mean lie? Well you go and lie about it? I don't think that would be a good representation of my master. If I go there and lie. No, I would just rather tell them to forget it that there is no prayer without the name of Jesus. And you can go there and you could probably mention the name of Allah or some other guys and it probably wouldn't offend anybody. But you bring up the name Jesus and people get offended. But I want to tell you something, dear friend. One of these days, there's only going to be one name, one God that's worshiped, one Lord, and one name. And that's what Zechariah says here, in that day there shall be one Lord and his name one. All over the people are worshiping false gods, but in that day, that's not gonna happen. In that day, when Jesus returns, the whole earth will bow before him as Lord and King. Every knee will bow, every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord during that time. And so two will literally be fulfilled, where the father says to the son, Ask of me, and I will surely give the nations as your inheritance, and the end of the earth as your possessions. You shall break them with a rod of iron You shall shatter them like earthenware. I should have quoted that verse to the guy on the phone. You got you want to get shattered like clay pots? That's what's going to happen when Jesus comes back to all those that don't bow to him. So there'll be the victorious return of the king. But here's number two. The righteous reign of the king. And we see this in the second half of the chapter, verses 16 down to verse 21. When Jesus will come, he will take the throne, and he will reign in righteousness. Now I know we have a presidential election just a few days away. And uh I know Christians are going to vote their conscience and all that. And I know I've heard Christians say, you know, I'm not encouraged by the candidates And uh, you know, but let me just tell you something, dear friend. There's only going to be one person who will reign in righteousness ever. Voting comes down to choosing the lesser of two evils. But I'm going to tell you something, when Jesus comes back, he is the only one that will ever reign in righteousness. And he won't be elected by uh and a majority. In fact, if Jesus were here today, people wouldn't elect him. But I want to tell you something, there ain't gonna be any election. He's just gonna take the throne. That's already been determined. This world is so ungodly, most Americans are angry that all they want is that you know they want to be able to have money and and have their abortions. They don't they don't fear God. This nation has blood on its hands. And it's a wonder that God has not turned this nation into brimstone fire like Sodom and Gomorrah. It's only the patience of God. I believe the only reason it hasn't happened is because of the church, the people of God. That is preserving this evil world. But friend, when Jesus comes back, he's not candidate. He's a Lord. He's Lord. And he will reign in righteousness. And righteous a righteous reign means joyful worship. Look at verse number sixteen. Notice what it says. And it shall come to pass that every one that is left of all the nations which came against Jerusalem shall even go up From year to year to worship the King, the Lord of hosts, and to keep the feast of the tabernacles. You know what Zachariah says it's going to happen in that day when Jesus comes back? And all those that are left, all of those that are left that ha that are from when Jesus defeated his enemies of the nations. They're all going to come and they're all going to worship Jesus In Jerusalem, they're going to have to come up once a year. Jerusalem will serve as the religious center of the world. And we will worship the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And Jesus will take his place there on the throne. And notice that he says in verse 16 that the nations will observe the feast of the tabernacles. That's interesting. What's the feast of the tabernacles? Well, once a year Jews would go they would they would you know basically live in a small booth that they built. They would live in it for a week or eight days. You know, I have fond memories growing up that every once in a while we would uh we would put a tent up in our backyard and and we would go out and sleep in that tent in the backyard just for fun, pretend that we were camping. My mother was good, like, get out of here, yeah, go sleep in the tent. Give her a break. We sleep in that tent, you know. And uh this is what Israel would do. They would in essence just put up a temporary shelter. Normally it was four by four Uh sometimes bigger. It would be decorated. They would decorate just like we decorate our Christmas trees. They would do it with palm branches and myrtle branches and willow branches. And they would live in that booth for a week. In the Hebrew, it's called a Sakot. And the feast would begin on October the 9th and again last for about eight days It was a happy time. It was all a time during the harvest when they would also at the same time in gather it was also called the feast of the in-gathering. They would gather in the harvest. It was kind of a Jewish Thanksgiving and Christmas combined It was a lot of joy. We'll say, why this feast? Why will this feast be observed during this time? It seems like a strange thing to do. Well the again the purpose of the feast uh is to uh commemorate God. The decoration of the booth really spoke of God's glory that led the children of Israel through the wilderness. The booth was a time was meant to remember the Jews in the wilderness when they lived in temporary shelters and they were covered by the glory of God. Again, that's what the decorations really spoke of, God's glory. But also it was the time, again, it was a time of joy. It was a time of in-gathering, the harvest. Alfred Eldersheim says the most joyous of all festival seasons in Israel was the Feast of the Tabernacles. Um but also it's it it again pointed forward to what God was going to do one day in that future millennial kingdom. You see, why will all nations celebrate this feast? Well, again Just like the feast of the Passover pictured the death of the Messiah, and the feast of the unleavened bread depicted the walk of the believer in fellowship with the Savior. And the Feast of First Fruits kind of foreshadowed the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And the Feast of Pentecost foreshadowed the coming of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost. The Feast of the Tabernacles pointed forward to the time when all the nations would come together. They would be in the ingathering of all the nations, and they would all worship God. There would be rest in the kingdom of God, and they would all worship God. And really, this feast foreshadows that time in the millennium when all the nations will come together. And they will all worship the Lord. And so really the the this will not really be fully fulfilled until the Lord comes again. And when that happens again, they'll celebrate the Feast of the Sabernacles. But then also, another thing, a righteous reign means punishment to those who refuse to submit. Look at verse 17. And it shall be that whoso will not come up Of all the families of the earth under Jerusalem to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, even upon them shall be no rain. It's going to be necessary that all the nations appear before the Lord every year. Should any nation decide not to appear, God says, I will withhold rain for them. There will be no rain In the past, God would withhold rain when he wanted to judge a people or a nation. God could call for drought. He could make the heavens brass and iron. Here the Lord says, no worship, no blessing. You don't come to worship once a year, I'm not going to send rain on your crops. So there'll be no blessing. Now He uses an example, look in verse 18. And if the family of Egypt go not up and come not, that have no rain, there shall be the plague wherewith the Lord will smite the heathen that come not up to keep the feast of the tabernacles And so God uses Egypt as an example. They may not want to come for worship that year. And I don't know why God singles out Egypt here. Maybe it's because The Egyptians have they d they're dependent on the Nile. They have the Nile. So all through the centuries they've always used the Nile. It was a very fertile river that kept them in times of drought when all the other nations would suffer drought, Egypt always seemed to be fertile and had a a big crop. Maybe they're dependent on that as their resource Or maybe it's because they were the ancient enemies of the people of God, and maybe God's just singling them out just for that reason. But he's saying, here, for example, if the nation of Egypt doesn't come, God says, I'll punish them. The Nile's not going to be able to help them during that time. They don't come in worship, then what will happen is they'll be punished just like everyone else. What does that say about God's expectation of his people to come to worship? When when God sets a worship service up, he expects his people to be there. He wants his people to be there. Worship is regarded in this context as a very necessary act Jesus himself will be there. He'll be the one teaching the law and speaking. That just goes to show you that even if Jesus were the pastor, some people wouldn't show up to church. In fact, there's some people who don't show up because Jesus is there too much in spirit. They can't deal with it. But here, God puts a priority on worship. And God says, if you don't come, then you're going to be punished. And then here's the last thing. A righteous reign means that every aspect of life is sacred for God's people. Look at verse 20 and verse 21. In that day shall there be upon the bells, there shall be there be upon the bells of the horses holiness unto the Lord. And the pots in the Lord's house shall be like the bowls before the altar. Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be holiness unto the Lord of hosts. And all they that sacrifice shall come and take of them and seed therein. And in that day there shall be no more the Canaanite in the house of the Lord of hosts. Now, what does God mean by this? In the Old Testament, the high priest wore a turban on his head, and on the turban there was a plate that said, holy to the Lord, as he wore that turban. And during the millennium, those words will be engravened on everything. They'll be even engraved on the bells of the horses. Horses are in the animals of commerce there and transportation. It was quite common in the ancient days for uh horses to be decorated with with ornaments like that And God says the pots used in everyone's home will be sacred pots. Just like the bowls and the vessels that are used in the house of the Lord, they're used for a sacred purpose. Every bowl Will be holy to the Lord. What does this mean? Basically, he's conveying the idea here that all of life, even the mundane things, all of it will be sacred and holy to God. in that time. When he says, no Canaanite in the house of the Lord, that means that no spiritually or morally unclean person will defile the Lord's house in that day. This verse means that when the Lord in that day reigns in righteousness, his people will not divide up their life into the secular and then the sacred. Which people have a tendency to do. You know, oh it's Sunday, I gotta put my religious hat on. I gotta be sacred today, I gotta be spiritual, I gotta be religious. And then when Monday comes, we take our religious hat off and then we just follow the secular world. There's no dichotomy here. We are to be holy to the Lord. Even in all the mundane things of life, all of it is sacred unto God. God's people should live all of life that way. Whether we eat or whether we drink or whatever we do, we do also the glory of God. But that's the way it's going to be there in this time. Everything, every little mundane thing, nothing will be left. Without that is not holy to the Lord. Everything will be sacred to God. And so the bottom line for Zechariah in this chapter is this. If Christ is returning to defeat his enemies and establish his righteous reign over all the earth, then we must walk in holiness before the Lord That's really the way we apply this. It's like John says, every man that has this hope purifies himself, even as he is pure. Peter said it like this, 2 Peter 3. 11. What manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness? Looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God. So We see then the victorious return of the king and the righteous reign of the king. Now, you may be thinking, how can we know for sure that these prophecies will literally come true? I've been arguing that this is all literally going to happen. This is we can't we don't take this figuratively. This is literally gonna happen. You say, how can you be sure that this will literally happen? It'll come true. Well, Zachariah has prophecies about the first coming of Christ. Were they literally fulfilled? Have you been with us on our study? In Zechariah 9. 9, the Messiah will come into Jerusalem, humble, mounted on a donkey, even the foal of a donkey. Did that literally Happened. It was literally fulfilled. Zachariah says that Jesus would be would be rejected by the nation. He would be sold for thirty pieces of silver, and the money would be thrown to a potter's field. Did that literally happen? Yeah, it was literally fulfilled. Literally. So, and Judas Iscariot fulfilled that prophecy as we saw in the Gospels. So the point is, if Zachariah was accurate in predicting these things at the first coming of Christ, and they were literally fulfilled, why should I believe that his prophecies about the second coming of Christ are anything but literally fulfilled? It will literally happen. Just like he said right here. So this should encourage us. Evil will not win. Christ will come back and he will reign in righteousness. So Jesus is coming, the king is coming, and his reward is with him. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, thank you for this wonderful study in the book of Zechariah. And all the promises, Lord, that you made to not only the nation of Israel, but to us, your people, of what you will do, the things that you have planned, that you will come again, just as surely as you came the first time Lord, we know you're going to come again. And you will reign in righteousness. Lord, sometimes we look around, it's discouraging to see what's going on. Sometimes, Lord, if we're not careful, we can get the idea that wicked men and sin is gonna win out. But Lord, we know that that's not the case when we study your word. We know, God, that you have a plan and you're working out that plan. And that our Lord will come again. And he will judge, and he will reign in righteousness. And Lord, let this hope purify us. Give us courage in these days. And we pray in his precious name. Amen.