Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the Gospel of Luke. Open to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 22. And uh we're doing a series that I'm calling from Garden to Garden where we are studying the passion as it's recorded in the Gospel of Luke. And we go from the Garden of Gethsemane to the Garden Tomb. Everything that takes place between Luke chapter 22 to chapter 24 is so very important because it determines uh redemption. It returns your salvation and my salvation. So these events are so, so important. And we're looking chapter twenty-two tonight and I want you to or today, not not yet, it'll be night by the time I get done. And verse number one. Now the feast of the unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover, and the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him, for they feared the people. Then entered Satan into Judas, surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve. I want to speak this morning on the kiss of betrayal. Now throughout history, a kiss has almost universally been a symbol of affection. A parent kisses a child good night. A husband kisses a wife before leaving for work. In many cultures, a kiss on the cheek is a sign of affection and friendship. But sometimes there's a darker meaning with a kiss. For example, in organized crime, there's something known as the kiss of death. When a mob boss will place a kiss on someone's cheek, that was a signal. It meant that that person was marked for execution. The kiss that was uh appeared affectionate actually had a hidden message. It was more like your fate is sealed. In fact, several Mafia defectors later testified that when a man received the kiss of death, he knew that he only had a few hours or days before he would be dead. The most infamous kiss of death in history did not take place in organized crime. It took place in a quiet garden just outside the city of Jerusalem. There in the darkness, under the dim light of torches and lanterns, a disciple walked towards his master. He greeted him with a kiss. That's the normal greeting of a student to a rabbi But the kiss that Judas gave Jesus carried with it a hidden message. It was a signal for the soldiers to arrest the Son of God. And Jesus gave one of the most piercing questions ever recorded in Scripture in verse number 48 of Luke chapter 22. Judas, betrayest thou the Son of Man with a Now this moment in the garden was more than just an act of personal betrayal. It really exposes the dangers that lurks in every human heart. As we look at this narrative, we're going to see several groups of people in this story. And it shows how that their actions really threaten The uh remind us really what I should say about the dangers that threaten every soul. The religious leaders reveal the danger of religion without loving Christ. Judas reveals the danger of outward devotion without inward transformation. And even the disciples reveal how uh how easily sincere followers can have a misguided zeal. And this is why this whole account is preserved for us here in the scripture to not just tell us what happened that night, but also to Warn us about the spiritual dangers that confront every believer. So I want you to see in this passage here four spiritual dangers that we all must guard against in our own walk. Here's the first one. Number one, beware of an unprotected heart. Beware of an unprotected heart. Again, we look at verse number one. Now the feast of unleavened bread uh drew nigh, which is called the Passover. This is the setting. Luke is introducing the final stage of Jesus' ministry in Jerusalem. The key phrase in this verse, draw nigh, that is, this is the Passover feast, that hasn't yet begun, it's about to begin. What takes place here happens on Thursday night, on Friday, Jesus will be crucified. On Sunday he he rode into Jerusalem on the triumphal entry on Monday. He cleansed the temple on Tuesday. He had disputes with the religious leaders, and then the Mount Olivet discourse on Wednesday. There's the plotting of the lead leaders against Jesus. And then this is Thursday. This is the preparation for the Passover. Again, on Friday, he'll be crucified. And then on Sunday, he will raise from the dead. And so verse one of chapter twenty two begins the events on Thursday. On that evening Jesus would eat the Passover with his disciples. And while eating that meal, he'll change the Passover from that meal to institute the Lord's Supper, a new memorial. And Luke begins to pull back the curtains to tell us what happens behind the scenes. In the Lord's Supper, Jesus told his disciples exactly what was going to take place: that he was going to die, and he would raise again the third day, that his body would be broken, his blood would be shed. For the remission of sins. The death of Christ was not unplanned. It was not unexpected. It was something that God the Father had planned from the foundations of the earth. But look at the meeting and look at verse 2. And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him, for they feared the people. Now this makes up the religious leaders of Israel. There's the the chief priest, that would include the high priest Caiaphas at the time. That would be the heads of the 24 priestly divisions, the scribes, these were the legal scholars of the Moses, of the law of Moses, the Mosaic Law. And most of them belonged to the Pharisees. Their role was to interpret the law. Their role was to teach scripture. They functioned like theological lawyers. And there's kind of an irony here. Here are the ones that really knew the scripture. They knew the word of God. They were the guardians of the law and the temple. And yet these are the very ones that are plotting the death of Jesus Christ. Which is an irony. And John captures this blindness in John 1 11. He came unto his own, but his own received him not. And what is even more striking is this whole Passover setting. While these religious leaders are plotting the death of Jesus, God the Father is preparing his land for the sacrifice, for the remission of sins. But notice verse number three. This is what I call the satanic idea. Then entered Satan into Judas cerning Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve. This statement is startling. Judas had walked with Christ for three years. Yet the Bible says Satan entered into his heart. What does this mean? This is more than just temptation. This was a time when Satan would dominate the heart of Judas. But don't get the wrong idea. The Bible never presents a Judas as this innocent man that was suddenly overtaken by uh Satan against his will. That's not the idea here. Scripture indicates that Judas had already allowed sin to take root in his heart long before this moment, sin had already taken root in his heart. Earlier passages show this in the Gospel of John chapter 12, verse 6, it says Judas was already stealing money from the money bag. And then in John 13, 2, it says, the devil how now having now put into the heart of Judas to betray him And now we see here in Luke 22, 3, that Satan enters into his heart. So we see kind of a progression. Judas allows sin to dominate him. Satan puts this idea into his mind. Judas entertains this thought, and then Satan enters in, and then he dominates him. And that's normally the way things like this happen. People ask the question sometimes: can Satan put thoughts into a person's mind? Well, this passage answers that question, and it is yes. He most certainly can. And scripture in other places also affirms this very thing. Satan works through putting thoughts and deceptions and ideas into the minds of people. He cannot force a person to sin, but he can certainly put that idea in there. These are the fiery darts of the wicked that are spoken of in Ephesians chapter 6, verse 16. These are the temptations, the doubts, the thoughts, the desires even. Again, Satan can't force a person to sin, but he can certainly inflame the desire or he could put the thought of sin in that person's heart and that person has to receive it. And this is what Judas does. Satan has the power of persuasion. He can't create sin in the heart, but he can persuade. He can inflame that desire. But Satan enters into a heart where he's welcomed. And Judas had already been stealing money from the money bag. He had already been entertaining sinful thoughts, and Satan just entered in. You see, sin always begins quietly. It begins long it begins in the heart long before it appears in public. J. C. Rowell said this the fall of Judas was not a sudden fall, like many others. He probably began with his small sins, which he thought little of. But little by little he became hardened until at length he betrayed his Lord. And many great disasters begin with something that is very small or insignificant, a small crack in the dam before the catastrophic flood. And again, that's the way sin takes place. That's why the Bible constantly warns us, keep thy heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of life. An unguttered heart is vulnerable to spiritual attack, hidden sins, unconfessed bitterness, secret pride. All of these things create openings that Satan is eager to exploit in the hearts of people The battle for holiness is rarely lost in public. It's usually lost in the private chambers of the heart. So beware of an unprotected heart. But here's number two. Beware of valuing something more than Christ. Look at verse number four as we continue on. And he went his way and communed with the chief priests and captains how he might betray him unto Then Luke tells us that Judas went to the chief priests and captains. They were perhaps meeting at the home of the high priest Caiaphas, and they're trying to figure out how they are going to kill Jesus. They want him done away with, but they don't know how they're going to do it. They fear the people. And then Judas just shows up. They must have been really glad to see him. And this solves the dilemma how they are going to get to Christ. Judas knew he had some ideas on how he could do this. And notice in verse number five. And they were glad and covenanted to give him money. Matthew's gospel tells us that Judas asked them, how much will you give me that I would betray Jesus into your hands? Judas is the one who initiates this. He wants compensation for being with Jesus for three years and what he feels now is a wasted time. And they tell him thirty pieces of silver. That's not a very big sum. It's kind of insignificant. In the Old Testament, a slave was uh paid for with thirty pieces of silver, but it was a slave who had been injured. So thirty pieces of silver was the cost of an injured slave. The religious leaders valued the Son of God no higher than the price of a common slave. And for this small sum, Judas was willing to betray Christ. This what's this reveals what was in his heart. For three years, think about this. He had listened to the teaching of Jesus. He had witnessed thousands of miracles. And I don't think I'm being using hyperbole when I say thousands. I mean Jesus basically healed everyone that came to him. All throughout the regions of around the Sea of Galilee, the towns and the villages where people would come, there were throngs of people, and Jesus healed them. He virtually wiped out sickness in that whole region of Galilee. And Judas saw all of this. Yet when the opportunity came, he was willing to trade the Savior of the world for a small amount of money. Alexander McLaren wrote this, Judah's sin was not simply betrayal, but the deliberate preference of money to Christ. And history is filled with stories of people who traded something small and temporal for something of priceless value. We think of Esau in the Old Testament who traded his birthright for a uh a a bowl of soup, basically. In that moment of appetite he forfeited something of far greater value. And that's exactly what Judas does here. He trades the eternal for the temporal. He traded the eternal Son of God for temporal silver. If you can imagine that. And this passage forces us to ask an uncomfortable question, and that is, what do you value most? Is there anything that you put above Christ? Do you value Christ more than anything else in this world? Some people claim to follow Christ, but they value things before Him. For some it's money, for others it's comfort, for some it might be reputation, for some it may be success. Jesus warned about this very danger. He said, For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. So whatever captures our heart will ultimately control our decisions. So beware of an unprotected heart. Beware of valuing something more than Christ. But here's the third thing, the third danger. Beware of religious association without true conversion. Beware of religious association without true conversion. Now drop down to verse number 47 because this is the part of the narrative where the betrayal actually takes place. In verse 47 It says this, and while he yet spake, behold a multitude. What is that referring to while he yet spake? Well, this was Jesus, and he was speaking to his disciples in the Garden of Gethsemane. And what was he saying? Well, back up to verse 46, and it tells us, and he said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. You see, Jesus was warning his disciples to watch and pray. We looked at this last week. They were sleeping when they should have been praying. The hour of darkness was coming, an hour of great trial and temptation. In order to prepare, they had to pray And that's what Jesus was doing. He was praying. He was getting himself ready for the hour of darkness that was going to come. He asked the disciples to do the same thing, but instead of praying, they were sleeping. Prayer is not just for procurement, it's for protection. And they did not pray. And so Jesus is Sees them asleep, he says, wake up. And while he is giving them the warning, the Bible says, Behold a multitude. That is, there was a multitude of people that had come to the Garden of Gethsemane. Now, who is in this multitude? And by the way, Luke uses the word behold a multitude. What is that for? That's for shock. It emphasizes surprise. And why the shock? Why the surprise? Because of the number of people that had come for Jesus there at that time. How many were there? There were hundreds that came Hundreds. This wasn't just a small band. Hundreds had come. Matthew uses the expression, a great multitude. The religious leaders had convinced Pilate that Jesus was a threat against Rome, that he was some insurrectionist, a traitor to Rome. And so the Bible tells us in John 18, verse 3, that Judas received a band of men. from Pilate. The word bandair, that is the word spiras, which is uh spira, which is a a word that talks about a Roman group of soldiers. A spiral is basically one-tenth of a legion. How big is a legion, a Roman legion? That's 6,000. One-tenth of a legion would be 600 men. Six hundred men that came just of Roman soldiers. They were they were under the press the impression that Jesus was a threat. that he was an insurrectionist. Earlier on they had already arrested Barabbas, and now they were going after another insurrectionist. But there is also in that group the religious leaders, the temple police. In Luke chapter 22, verse 52, it adds captains of the temple. And so you had also a a group of these temple police from the Jews. You had the Roman soldiers, you had the temple police, you had religious leaders. All of them had come that night just to arrest Jesus. And not only that, they had weapons in their hands. And verse fifty-three of Luke chapter twenty-two, it tells us they had swords and stays, which is basically clubs. It was the Roman soldiers that were carrying the Makera, that that short little dagger sword. And the and the temple police were carrying the the clubs, which is basically like um you know that knife sticks that policemen would carry today. They had these clubs with them. And so they were armed. Both Jews and Romans, they came armed against Christ. And Luke points out these details. Nothing in the Bible was incidental. They were looking for resistance. They were expecting resistance. They were anticipating a fight, as if Jesus were some insurrectionist they would have to force and arrest in that way. They had no idea that Jesus would come willingly, that he was doing the will of his father. And notice also among them, look again at verse number forty-seven, and he that was called Judas, one of the Luke deliberately reminds us that Judas was one of the twelve. That's often the way that Judas is portrayed in the New Testament, one of the twelve. And this again is for shock. Who was it that betrayed Jesus? It was one of his own men. One of his own disciples would be the one that would portray Jesus And this fulfills the prophecy of the Old Testament. Just write down Psalm 41, verse number nine. Yea, my own familiar friend, in whom I had trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me And then also in Psalm chapter 55, verse 12, For it was not an enemy that reproached me, then I could have borne it, neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me. Then I would have hid myself from him. But it was thou a man, my equal, mine guide, mine acquaintance. We took sweet counsel together. We walked into the house of God in company. And also in the Old Testament, in the book of Zechariah, there was the prophecy about the betrayal of Jesus for 30 pieces of silver. Everything is happening exactly the way it was prophesied in the Old Testament. And it's Judas one of the twelve. Now the New Testament writers, they don't describe Judas as this uh grotesque, evil person. There's more of a sympathetic portrayal of Judas. He's just simply called one of the twelve. He's not portrayed as a man with horns and a pitchwork. He's portrayed as a tragic figure. Now there have been apocryphal accounts of Judas that have been written, accounts outside of Scripture that have all kind of heinous uh characteristics about him. Example for example, there's one story of him that portrays him as being extremely evil This legend is called the legend, the golden legend, written in the 13th century. According to this story, Judas' life was marked by tragedy and wickedness from the beginning. The legend says his parents received a terrifying prophecy that their child would grow up to bring great destruction. In fear, they abandoned the infant and they set him adrift on the sea. They just got rid of him because he was going to be so wicked And the child was eventually rescued and raised by another family. And when Judas grew up, the story claims that he killed a young nobleman during a quarrel. And to escape punishment, he fled to Jerusalem, eventually to enter to the service of Pontius Pilate. And then the legend becomes even darker. Judas was sent by Pilate to seize fruit from a nearby orchard. Orchard that Pilate admired. And during the confrontation, he killed the owner of the orchard, only later discovering that the man he killed was actually his own father, his real father. There are a lot of bizarre stories like that about Judas portraying him as this grotesquely evil person. The problem is none of them are true. Judas, he wasn't a distant enemy. He was an insider. He spent three years with Christ. He heard every sermon. He saw all the miracles. He watched Jesus heal the sick and calm the storm and raise the dead. I mean, if you would have been there and you would have gotten to know Judas, you probably would have liked him. You would have thought, man, he's a really nice guy. In fact, the disciples really trusted him. How do we know they trusted him? Well, because he held the money bag. You only hold allow the person to hold the money back if you really trust him. Right? And so at the Last Supper, when Jesus said, One of you are going to betray me, none of the disciples suspected Judas. None of them said, you know, I always felt like there was something wrong with this guy over here. That's not what happened. What did they do? They said, Lord, is it me? Is it I? They didn't suspect Judas. So when Judas shows up with this band of Roman soldiers and the temple police, there is shock. Matthew's account uses again the interjection, behold. Judas, just like this account here in Luke, they are all shocked. The idea is you've got to be kidding me. Judas? Matthew Henry writes, None are so dangerous enemies to Christ as those who have made profession of being his followers. Judas had the privilege of proximity to faith, to Christ, without real faith, without real devotion. And this passage reminds us that closeness to spiritual things is not the same as conversion. You can be close to the gospel. You can be a near proximity to the gospel and yet not truly be a Christian. And notice Look again at verse number forty seven where it says, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them That is, he's leading this crowd, leading this band, and he drew near unto Jesus to kiss him. Luke writes, he drew near to Jesus. You see, betrayal requires closeness. He had to appro approach Christ personally. He stepped out of the crowd, he moved towards Jesus, and he the Bible says he kissed them. He wanted to make sure that they knew that who the right person was. After all, it was dark There was a full mount full moon out at this time, but still it was dark. There was a dense grove of olive trees. His disciples were probably around him. Judas wanted to make sure that they got the right person And so he had already determined previously how he was going to signal to the men, to the Roman soldiers, who Jesus was. In Mark chapter fourteen, verse forty four it says this and he that betrayed him have given them a token, saying, Whomosoever I shall kiss, that same is he, take him and lead him away Beforehand, Judas determined, look, the one I kiss will be the one that you want to arrest. And the manner in which Judas kissed Jesus made it especially heinous. You see, in Jewish culture, a disciple might show respect to a rabbi by kissing him, perhaps, on his hand. That was that was a normal gesture. Or kissing him on his robe? Or kissing him on the shoulder? That was a an honorable way to uh to To show respect to your teacher, but Judas doesn't do any of those things. He goes far beyond that. He's much more demonstrative in the way that he will kiss the Lord Jesus. Mark's gospel says that when he approached Jesus, he says, Master, Master, and then he kissed him. The word for kiss there is a is uh not the normal word used for kiss. It is kafil easin, which means to kiss Over and over again, to kiss fervently, to kiss affectionately. This is the word for kiss that's used when the prodigal son returns home to his father and his father kisses him Same word there. A great kiss of affection. So in other words, Judas did not give a quick formal gesture. He gives a really warm, loving kiss to Jesus. That's what makes the betrayal so heinous. Judas chose the most affectionate form of greeting possible at the very moment that he was handing Christ over for death. The kiss of death. And Jesus exposes Judas' hypocrisy. Look at verse 48. But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of Man with a kiss. So, and I think that Jesus said this even before Judas kisses him. As Judas approaches, Jesus sees what's happening. You betray the Son of Man with a kiss undeterred. Judas places the kiss on Jesus. But Jesus exposes the hypocrisy of him. He knew his evil heart. You know, hypocrisy often hides behind the language of devotion or gestures of devotion. William Hendrickson wrote, the kiss which normally express expressed love and loyalty became the instrument of treachery. That is why this single act is one of the most infamous gestures. in all of history. It was a kiss that disguised hatred and rejection. Of Jesus Christ. Again, you can be close to the gospel, you can be close to religious things, and yet not truly be converted. There was once a young man, Englishman named Charles. He grew up surrounded by Christianity. His family attended church. He was raised to respect the Bible. As a young man, he began to stunt study theology. He wanted to go into the ministry. In fact, he enrolled in one of England's great universities to begin to prepare for ministry. He read books that defended the Christian faith. He studied the natural world with awe of God as the Creator. And for a time it seemed like this young man, Charles, may become a preacher of the gospel. But as the years passed, something changed. His confidence in Scripture began to erode. Questions and doubts began to enter into his heart, and he eventually became hardened in his unbelief. By the time he was an older man, Charles no longer believed the Bible. He no longer believed the Bible was God's Word, and he doubted the very existence of God. The tragedy is this young man spent all of his early life very close to the gospel. He studied it, he discussed it, he even prepared to preach, yet he never truly embraced the gospel. You say, who was that? This young man named Charles was Charles Darwin, the creator, or we could say the one who made famous this idea of evolution. That lie, which is the most blasphemous lie against God ever created. And it was later on that he wrote The Origin of Species, that book that would profoundly shape the modern skepticism about creation. And that lesson is so very sobering. It is possible to grow up around a a Christianity, to be from a Christian home, to study the Word of God, and to have access to all of these things, and yet not truly believe. Jesus was there with Judas. Jesus did all these miracles. Jesus taught Judas heard everything that Jesus taught all the others. And yet Judas rejected all of it. The Lord said of him, One of you is a devil. Being near the gospel is not the same as being saved by the gospel. And so again, it's something that we need to beware of and we need to we need to question our own heart to make sure that what we have is the real thing. Spurgeon once said this to sit under the sound of the gospel and yet remain unchanged is one of the greatest tragedies in the world. Let me give you the last one here. We're to beware of an unprotected heart. Beware of valuing something more than Christ. Beware of Religious association without true conversion, but here's the last thing. Beware of misguided zeal without Christ-like character And we see this in verses 49 down to verse 53. Luke will present a purposeful contrast between Jesus and the disciples. We see the panic of the disciples versus the peace of Jesus. And we already know why. Earlier on, Luke showed us that the disciples slept when they should have prayed. Jesus was praying and preparing spiritually for that hour. And because the disciples did not pray and prepare, that when the hour came they were they weren't ready for it. So we see the panic. Look at verse number 49. And when they were which were about him saw what would follow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword? When Judas came with that band to arrest Jesus and planted the kiss on Jesus, they all suddenly knew what was going to happen and they said, Lord, should we now, should we take up the sword now? Is that what we should do? And before Jesus could answer that question, Peter acts with a sword. You know the story where he takes a sword and he cuts off the ear of the servant of the high priest. The question I want to ask, where did they get that sword? Where did they get the sword? Well if you look earlier on, if you look in Luke chapter 22, verse number 36, we find this. Then said he unto them, This is Jesus talking to the disciples, this is at the Passover meal. But now he that hath a purse let him take it, and likewise his script, and he that hath no sword, let him sell his garment and buy one. Jesus says, you know, you it's now it's time to buy a sword. And the disciples responded, look down at verse number 38. And they said, Lord, behold, there are two swords. And he said, They just happened to have two swords with them, and the Lord said, Okay, that's enough. That's enough. So according to Luke's narrative, the disciples had two swords, and when this group came to arrest Jesus, they were saying, Lord, is now the time we use the sword? And before Jesus could answer, Peter just starts wailing away. Why did Jesus tell them to buy swords? And this is a statement that has been discussed by many But I think the key explanation comes in verse 37 of Luke 22. Look at it. Look what it says. For I say unto you that this that is written must yet be accomplished in me. And he that was reckoned among the transgressors for The things concerning me have an end. In other words, Jesus is quoting here Isaiah 53, 12 And the presence of swords would help fulfill the prophecy that he would be treated like a criminal. In other words, the swords were not meant to start a fight, but the fulfillment of prophecy. The swords were really more symbolic. And what he was saying to the disciples, look up until now, everyone has accepted you. But now the opposition is going to come and you better be ready for it because it's coming. Christ does not arm the disciples for war, but he warns them that they have to be ready for the hardship and the danger that is coming. So those swords were not really for fighting, they were simply symbolic of the opposition that was to come. Now Peter doesn't get this. And so when they come to arrest Jesus in his zeal, he picks up the sword and he begins wailing away. And what did Jesus say? Look down in chapter 22, look at verse number 51. And uh actually start in verse 50, and one of them, now Luke doesn't give the name, but John's all right. He just blots out, it's Peter, he's the one who did it And one of them smote the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear. Look at verse 51. And Jesus answered and said, Suffer ye thus far. That is to say, stop this. Stop doing that. And Matthew is even more specific. He says, Peter, put up thy sword into its place, for all they that take the sword up shall perish with the sword. Peter's loyalty is very sincere, but his actions are misguided, and Jesus stops the violence. And by the way, throughout history There have been those who have tried to spread Christianity through violence and intimidation. Let me tell you something, beloved, that's not how Christianity spreads. It doesn't come through warfare. That's not the way the kingdom of God advances. It's not through violence and bitterness. The kingdom of Christ is built through truth, by grace, by sacrifice. Even sincere believers have to be careful in their zeal. To make sure it's not a misguided zeal. Christ calls for his followers to reflect his Spirit. And by the way, Peter gets the lesson because later on he'll write in First Peter two, twenty-three. When he was reviled, he reviled not again He saw the example in Jesus and he understood it. And he told believers later on that we're suffering under the persecution of Rome. No, you know, don't return this with violence. This is not the way the kingdom of God expands. True Christianity, true Christian zeal always reflects the heart of Christ. But against the panic of the disciples, what we see is the peace of Christ. In verse 51, he touches the ear of this man, he heals him. In the middle of chaos, Jesus remains completely calm. Even in the moment of his arrest, he shows mercy. The contrast could not be sharper. J. C. Rowell writes this, the last miracle performed by our Lord before his crucifixion was the healing of an enemy. And then Jesus addresses the crowd. Look at verse fifty-two and verse fifty-three. And then Jesus said unto the chief priests and the captains of the temple and the elders which were come to him, But ye come out as against a thief with swords and staves. When I was daily with you in the temple, you stretched forth no hands against me, but this is your hour and the power of darkness. In essence, Jesus was saying, look, if I was such a threat Why didn't you arrest me when I was in the temple every day teaching out in the open? And now you come to me with this multitude and you come with swords and clubs. But then he gives the ultimate reason why this was all going to happen. They didn't want to arrest Jesus in the open public with other people around because they were afraid of the people. They wanted to do it under the cover of darkness, but Jesus says really The ultimate reason is because this is your hour and the hour of darkness. This is all part of the sovereign plan of God. It's all happening exactly the way the Father ordained it. God is in sovereign control. He wasn't taken by surprise. So what we see here is the absolute peace of our Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't resist, he doesn't panic, he doesn't flee, instead he acknowledges that the hour has come. And again, that was because Jesus was prepared by his prayer and his submission to the will of the Father. That's when peace comes when we submit to the will of the Father. So there are four dangers this passage warns us about an unprotected heart valuing something more than Christ, religious association without true conversion, zeal without Christ-like character. And Judas reminds us that it's possible to be close to Christ outwardly, yet completely removed from him inwardly. So we have to ask a question. Are we merely near Christ like Judas? Or do we truly belong to Jesus Christ? Let's bow for prayer together. Heads are bowed, knives are closed. Let me just say this. The Savior who was betrayed in the garden is still calling sinners to himself today. If anyone comes to him in repentance and faith, you'll find mercy if you come to him. Because the one who was betrayed for sinners is the one who came to die for sinners. And he wants to save you. If you're absolutely certain about your salvation, then take a moment and just thank God. That he has opened your eyes to see that you're a sinner and that Christ is a savior and you've seen the beauty of Christ and you've put your faith in him. But if you can't say that with certainty today, would you just come to the Lord right where you are? Recognize that he endured what he did for your salvation. The Son of God was betrayed so that sinners like me, like you, could be forgiven. So again, I ask you, are you merely near Christ? Or do you know Jesus Christ personally? And you're sure of that. And if you're not, would you just reach out in prayer and just say, Lord Jesus, save me. Forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart. Be my Savior, be my Lord. Father, do your work in every heart here today. For your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're going to stand together and have just a moment of invitation. We'll have some ministers down here in the front. If you have a spiritual need, we'll take you aside and help you out and pray with you, show you how you can know more of how you can be a child of God. Sing this hymn of invitation.