Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter twenty-one. Uh we've been doing Ephesians on Sunday morning, but we're going to get into Matthew twenty-one today, because this is a special Sunday when we observe the um uh an event that took place that began the Passion Week and the life of our Lord Jesus Christ, which would be called Palm Sunday. So look at Matthew chapter twenty-one and I want you to just to look at verse number 9. Would you stand for the reading of God's words? I'll read a few verses and we'll get started. Matthew 21, verse 9. And the multitudes that went before and that followed cried, saying, Hosanna to the son of David, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And when he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? And the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet of the Nazareth of Galilee. And Jesus went into the temple of God, and he cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money changers, and the seats of them that sold doves. And he said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but ye have made it a den of thieves. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. Thank you so very much. Father, thank you for your word and that teaches us uh about this in historic day. This is uh historic week, the most important week in all of the history of man when our salvation was paid for by your precious Son. Lord, give us understanding as we study these things. And may it move our hearts to love our Savior all the more. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. An office manager was complaining in a staff meeting that he didn't get any respect. And so the very next day he put a uh a sign on his door in big bold letters that said, I'm the boss. And later that day he returned after lunch and he saw that someone had written a note and taped it to that sign and the note said, Your wife called and she wants her sign back. Some people have trouble submitting to delegated authority. They don't like to submit to anyone. But one of the major lessons that we learn from the life of our Lord Jesus Christ is that defying God given authority is very, very dangerous. We start out coming into the kingdom by recognizing Jesus as Lord and by submitting to his authority in our life. Now, it may be wise to question authority initially, but once that authority has been proven to be authentic and from God, it's foolish to continue questioning or defying authority. The divine authority of Jesus is one of the major themes in the Gospel of Matthew. All throughout this Gospel, Matthew gives one illustration after another. proving that Jesus is the Son of God and therefore has divine authority. And Matthew's whole point is this: since Jesus Christ is acting by God's authority, we had better submit to him. That's the whole lesson. Yet there were many in Israel that continued to question and defy the authority of Jesus, including the religious leaders. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 28, it says it came to pass when Jesus had ended these things, the people were astonished at his doctrine For he taught them as one having authority, not as the scribes. When the scribes would teach, they would be quoting each other, quoting different rabbis. When Jesus taught, Jesus said, I'm saying to you. I say to you, I have the authority to tell you this. In Matthew chapter 8, the centurion wanted his servant healed, and he Came to Jesus and said, Will you heal my servant? And the Lord said, I'll come to your house. And he said, Oh Lord, I'm not worthy that you should come under my roof. You just say the word and he'll be healed. What did he mean by that? Well, he was a centurion. He understood authority. He knew that when he gave an order, he had all the authority of Rome behind what he said. So he just spoke an order and it was done. And he knew that Jesus was indeed the Son of God. And so he said therefore to Jesus, Look, Lord, I'm not worthy for you to come under my roof. All you have to do is speak the word, and I know that it will be done. That's a monumental claim that comes from a Gentile centurion. Because he recognized Jesus had authority over life and death. He was essentially saying, You are God, you are Lord, just speak and it will be. done. And the Bible says the servant was healed from that very hour. And then in Matthew chapter 9, Jesus uh healed a man, and then he said, Your sins are forgiven you and all the religious leaders that were there said, You blaspheme, but only God can forgive sins. And Jesus said, Just to show you that I have the authority of God, that I'm the Son of God, and I do have authority to forgive sins, he turned to the man who was crippled and he said, Arise and walk. And the Bible says he arose and walked He authenticated his authority with a miracle. And then the people the Bible says in Matthew 9 8, and when the multitude saw it, they marveled and glorified God, which had given such authority, exusia, such authority to m uh this man. That is authority And those are just some examples in Matthew's gospel, how Matthew establishes again and again that Jesus Christ had divine authority. Now he's going to do the same thing here in chapter 21. At the beginning of chapter 21, this is the beginning of the Passion Week of Christ. And what Matthew is going to do is he's going to point to some events in the life of Jesus during that week that again establish that one common theme. that Jesus is the Son of God, therefore he has divine authority, therefore you and I had better submit to that authority. That is really the whole idea here. And so what he's going to give us really in chapter 21 are three signs that authenticate him, Jesus. And the first one is in verses 1 to 11, Jesus rise into Jerusalem. We call it Palm Sunday. We call the triumphal entry when he comes into to Jerusalem and he presents himself as Israel's king, as the the one who was prophesied in the Old Testament, the son of David, the Messiah. And that's why Uh this event is so important. This begins the week of the Passion of Christ. Uh the Bible says that people cut down palm leaves and they threw them in his path and they cried out Hosanna to the son of David, and all that was great But that is the beginning of this week. And what Matthew will do, he'll point to some other things that also authenticate Jesus Christ and his authority. That was on Sunday when Jesus rode into Jerusalem. What I want to focus on is the events that took place right after that, on basically Monday and Tuesday, that Matthew Spends a lot of time on here in chapter 21, again, establishing the divine authority of our Lord Jesus. And here's one event, the cleansing of the temple. The cleansing of the temple. Again, in verses one to eleven, Jesus presents himself as the king, but what follows is the authentication of that. presentation. Did you know that in the Old Testament it prophesied that when the Messiah came, he would purify the temple? Just write down in your margin Malachi chapter 3 verses 1 through 4. Listen, behold, I will send my messenger. He will prepare the way before me. That's John the Baptist, right? And the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come into his temple. And the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight. And it goes on to say, verse 2 Behold, who can endure the day of his coming? For who can stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like a fuller's soap And he will sit as a refiner and a purifier of silver, and he will purify the sons of Levi, and refine them like gold and silver. There's the prophecy there. That when the Messiah comes, he'll come to the temple. He will purify the temple. He will cleanse the temple. These words were very well known to the Jewish people. They believed that when the Messiah would come, he would indeed cleanse and purify the temple. So when Jesus officially presents himself as the Messiah on Sunday, on Monday, he goes back to Jerusalem. He comes to the temple for that very purpose. And notice the wrath he displays. Look at verse 12 of Matthew chapter 21. And Jesus went into the temple of God Now he wasn't coming there for worship. He was coming there in judgment. His anger is is is aroused, righteous indignation. He shows his holiness by his anger at what is going on there in the temple. And it says he cast them that sold and bought in the temple, cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money changers and the seats of them that sold doves And again, he's displaying holy wrath. He goes into the temple. And what does Peter say in 1 Peter? Judgment must begin at thou what? At the house of God. Where did he learn that? He learned that from Jesus. Jesus comes in judgment to the temple on this day. And when he comes to the temple, by the way, the word for temple, there are two words used for temple in the New Testament. One is naos. talking about the inner sanctuary, the Holy of Holies. That's not the word used here. It is Haron, which basically is talking about the temple complex. Around the temple there is courts, and and some estimate that these These courts were so big that they were someone said it would be about the size of about thirty football fields. That's pretty big. And these were courts called the court of the Gentiles. And this is where people could come and learn about the God of Israel. They could learn about, you know, some of the truth the true teachings of uh Yahweh and really for a it was for a missionary purpose but what had happened was the money changers came in and they set up their temple Uh there are tables in a simple complex area, and rather than using that area for a missionary purpose, they were using it for a mercenary purpose, and they were trying to make money off of religion And what they were taking advantage of the disadvantage of the poor. And the Bible says that when Jesus came in verse number twelve, he cast all them that sold cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple. That means he forcefully threw them out. And the fact that he was able to do this and not Had anything happened to him, there were Roman guards there, there were temple guards there. Why did they do anything? Well, that shows his divine authority. No one could touch Jesus until God the Father's purpose for him was accomplished He's there and he takes absolute control of the temple and he's showing his authority. He went in, he cast them out. The Bible says he overturned the tables. of the money changers. Why did he target them? Well they did two things that were wrong. First of all, they ch they you had to use the currency of the temple the a Tyrian temple tax that they charge, you have to use that that their currency. So the first thing you would have to do if you came to the temple was you'd have to exchange your currency to have the temple currency. And when you exchange your money, they charge 25%. I mean it's like when I go to London and I get ch ch have to change my money from American dollars to London pounds or British pounds. I'm ready to overturn tables when I get back. the little bit of money they give back to me. Here are these worshipers coming through the temple and and the first thing they have to do is change their money and they get charged to upcharge this. And then you have to bring your animal to the sacrifice and that animal, remember it had to be blameless, and if it didn't pass inspection, well, they had some animals there that had already passed inspection. The only problem is they upcharged on that. It's like trying to buy a Coke at Camden Yards. You know, you're paying all this big money. And almost certainly if you brought an animal it wasn't it wouldn't pass inspection. So they were making money off of these people. And Jesus saw all that was going on and his wrath was aroused and he overturns the tables. And what is he doing? He's cleansing the temple. And notice the word that he declares. Look at verse number thirteen. It says, And he said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but ye have made it a den of thieves And Jesus here is quoting from the Old Testament to vindicate his actions, and he quotes from two passages of Scripture. First he quotes from Isaiah fifty-six, seven, My house shall be called a house of prayer. Prayer is one word that stands for the whole All the religious worship that goes on at the temple, all the worship and the sacrifice and the praise, all of that, my house shall be a house of worship and prayer. But then he quotes from Jeremiah on the second part of this, Jeremiah 17 or 7-11, excuse me, which is a sermon that Jeremiah preached in his day Condemning the sins of the people for some of the same sins that Jesus saw on that day, but you have made it a den of thieves A den is a fees is a place where thieves go to hide when they're committing crimes. And Jesus said that the temple had become like a robber's den. Based on what you were doing. And then notice what he does right after that. Look at verse 14. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. This was further evidence to to the people that he was the Messiah, that he had divine authority. The miracle of healing was to demonstrate that everything that he had just done And cleansing the temple and overturning the tables had the approval of heaven. The miracles in the temple were God the Father's Amen to what the Son had just done in the temple and cleansing it and showing his divine authority. The blind and the lame that were normally restricted from the temple They came to him. They heard that he was there, and they came to him in the temple. These were needy people. And they rightly knew that Jesus' anger was not directed towards them. They saw the love and the compassion of Jesus. They heard about his love and compassion and they came to Jesus and Jesus healed them and by doing that he was demonstrating what the temple is all about. It's all about ministering to people, not making profit for yourself. But then there's the worship he deserved. Look at verse number 15. And when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying in the temple and crying in, saying, Hosannah to the son of David, they were sore displeased. And they said unto him, Hearst thou what these say? And Jesus said unto them, Yea, have ye not read out of the mouths of babes and sucklings, thou hast perfected praise? Now the chief priests and the scribes they were angry at what Jesus was doing. They understood the implications of everything that he was doing there proclaiming himself to have the authority of heaven and doing all these things. And you know, when they saw the miracles that Jesus did, they should have understood that he really was the Son of God. But rather than being happy, they were indignant, they were angry. And the children that were there in the temple, they began to cry out, Hosanna to the son of David. And the religious leaders say, Hey, you hear what these children are saying, Lord? You should silence them. They should be quiet. But notice how Jesus responded. In verse 16, Jesus said, Yeah, I know what they're saying. And haven't you ever read, and again here Jesus is quoting out of the Old Testament Psalm 8, haven't you ever read, out of the mouths of babes and sucklings, hast thou perfected praise? He's quoting Psalm 8:2 And in that psalm there, it is about children giving the most perfect praise to God that anyone can give. By the way, that's why I love to hear children sing, because their praise is the purest praise that you ever hear. Out of the mouths of bays and sucklings. God has ordained it that the purest praise come from the mouths of children. And by quoting this passage here, Jesus gave a brilliant response. He's saying, first of all, number one, I'm not silencing them because they are fulfilling the word of God. They are perfected Their praise is perfected. That is to say, it was arranged. This was something that God the Father arranged. But also Jesus, by uh quoting this verse was also saying that he was God, because in Psalm 8. 2 that verse was directed of praise to God. And by Jesus quoting that verse, what is he saying about himself? I am God. I'm the Son of God. They're not blaspheming. They're praising God. You're the ones who don't believe. You're the ones who are the blasphemers. And so we see the his wrath that he displayed, the works, the words that he declared, the works that he demonstrated, the worship that he deserved. All of this was to show the evidence that he had divine authority. But here's number two. Not only did he cleanse the temple, but number two, he cursed the fig tree. This is another act that shows his authority. Look at verse number 18. Now in the morning, as he returned into the city, he hungered. So what happened? Jesus went into the temple, cleansed the temple, then he went back to Bethany. Stayed there that night. After that night, he gets up early in the morning and he goes back into Jerusalem. This is now Monday. uh Monday or this is actually uh Tuesday rather I should say. He comes back into the uh temple in Jerusalem. But as he's on his way, making this journey from Bethany to Jerusalem, he gets up early, he didn't have breakfast. On the way, he sees a fig tree And verse number 19, and when he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to it. So as he's paci as he leaves Bethany, he passes through a little town called Bethage, which means house of early figs. Figs were you know, prized in that region. They grew around that time in that area. And by the way, the fruit on the fig tree ripened first before the leaves came. That was unique. So if you're walking down the road and you see a fig tree that has big beautiful leaves on it, what should that tell you that it's got figs on it? It's got ripened figs. Those leaves kind of advertise the ripeness of the fruit that is on the tree. So Jesus sees a fig tree, he goes to the fig tree, he looks around on that tree, and guess what? There's no fruit on that tree. So again in verse 19, and he came to it and he found nothing thereon but leaves only. And so what does he do? Look at the rest. And he said unto it, let no fruit grow on thee henceforth forever. When Jesus comes to the tree, finds it barren, he utters a curse upon that tree, let no fruit grow on you anymore Now why did Jesus do that? Now I've read some scholars and they had some interesting things to say about this. They said, you know, this is really unlike our Lord They say, uh William Barclay, for example, says, this story does not seem worthy of Jesus. There seems to be a petulance in it. Another scholar said this. He said it's a tale of miraculous power wasted in the service of ill temper. Jesus was just having a bad day. He got mad at the tree, he cursed the tree. Poor little tree. Jesus shouldn't be treating a tree that way. These are ridiculous when I read stuff like this, because they really just don't get it. By the way, Jesus wasn't angry necessarily at the tree, you know, hungry and angry. What do they call that? Hangry, you know. And he curses the fig tree. You know, look, he got his daily bread from God. He could take stones and make them bread. He could make a tree fully ripe with figs on it right there if he wanted to. He was God. He didn't need this little tree to eat. So why does Jesus do this? Here Jesus is acting like an Old Testament prophet. As the king, he presented himself on Palm Sunday. As the as the great high priest, he cleanses the temple. Now as a prophet, he utters a curse. This is an enacted parable. This is sometimes an Old Testament prophet would do something act out some scene to show the judgment of God. And here, in this scene here, Jesus acts like an Old Testament prophet. The fig tree represents Israel. And here he's talking about the judgment that's going to come upon the nation. Why? Because the barren fig tree perfectly represented what Israel was: a barren nation, filled with hypocrisy. I mean on the outside it looks good. Their religion looked good. It was full of beautiful leaves. But there's no fruit in it. And this is a reminder to all of us: God hates hypocrisy. You know, it doesn't matter what you look like on the outside, if you don't have true fruit in your life, you may not be a real believer in Jesus Christ. God looks for a real, genuine fruit. Fruit is always the evidence of real salvation. Barrenness is always the evidence of lostness of ungodliness. And so here this tree symbolizes Israel, Israel, the nation that when Jesus, just like Jesus came to the tree and and was expecting fruit, Jesus came to Israel and was expecting the fruit from the people To respond to his message of the gospel and to repent. But instead, all he got was rejection. All he saw was dead, formal, outward religion that was truly fruitless. Just like he came to the tree and found nothing, the Bible says he came unto his own, and his own received them not. He was born of a virgin. They said he was born of fornication. He he was announced by John the Baptist. Well they arrested John the Baptist and killed him. He preached the word, they argued with him. He cast out demons, they asked him to leave their city. He performed miracles and they said, well, he does it in the power of Satan And finally, Jesus says, enough. Let no fruit grow on thee henceforth forever. He makes a judgment on that generation of Israel because of their hypocrisy and because of their unbelief. And then look what the consequences of the curse were. Look at verse 19. Notice what it says. And presently the fig tree withered away. Immediately it died. Immediately it withered. And notice verse 20, and when the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, How soon is the fig tree withered away? Wow, already the fig tree withered. You know what that is, beloved? That's divine authority. The creator of all things. So they were amazed at his authority And so let me give you the last thing that he gives us here. There was the cleansing of the temple that shows his authority. There was the cursing of the sanctuary, but then number three, there was the confrontation with the religious leaders. Now you would think that by now these religious leaders would recognize Jesus' authority and submit to it, but that's not the case. What Matthew is going to show us here is their absolute stubbornness of heart. Their blindness, their refusal to receive Jesus. They're like many people today. They just continue to reject the authority of the Son of God. Again, this is Tuesday. Jesus is teaching in the temple. Now, after he makes his way to the Jerusalem, he goes into the temple. He's in the temple and he's teaching. And basically what he was saying by that is this temple is mine. He had cleansed it the day before. Now he's taking center stage in the temple. Now he's teaching there, saying, This is mine. The money changers who sold uh uh their had their tables and exchanged money and did all that. They didn't come back. They were all gone now. The court of the Gentiles was now available for those who wanted to come and worship and learn about God, the God of Israel And many people come into the temple because they know Jesus is there and Jesus is teaching there in the temple, and Luke's gospel says all the people were attentive to hear him. They were hanging on every word that Jesus said while he's there in the temple. And here come the Jewish religious leaders. Notice verse number 23. of Matthew twenty one. And when he was coming to the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came unto him as he was teaching and said, By what authority dost thou these things? They're still questioning his authority. And so here's the religious leaders, the chief priests, the teachers of the law, the elders. These three groups make up the Sanhedrin This is what Mark tells us in his gospel. They were all there. They're going to try to discredit Jesus. And they ask him the question, you know, by what authority are you doing these things? What are the these things that he's talking about? Well, cleansing the temple, you know, healing people, taking possession of the temple, doing all these things. Who gave you the authority? To do all this. You know, back in that day, uh rabbinical candidates had to be ordained by the religious leaders. And you know, they normally normally had ordin ordination service. You had to pass so many fasts and do all that. Jesus never went through any of that. He wasn't ordained by anyone And they were therefore asking, by whose authority are you doing this? You don't have our authority. You don't have our approval. Well, guess what? Jesus doesn't need their approval. He's God. But here they are thinking you need our approval. You don't have our approval. And so in essence what they're asking is a question we hear sometimes. Who died and left you, boss? And Jesus, again, he's going to show their hypocrisy. He's going to show their blindness, their stubbornness. They should have known by now because of all the evidence through Jesus' words and his works that demonstrated his divine authority, they should have known that by now. They knew in their heart of hearts who he was. They just didn't want to receive him This is the whole point. So what does Jesus do on the heels of this? What he's going to do, and we don't have time to get into all of it, but he's going to give three parables. That all show basically how the hardness of the hearts of these religious leaders and many in Israel And the three parables really are aga also demonstrate his authority. First of all, there's the parable of the two sons. This is in verse thirte 23 down to verse 32. Again, we don't have time to look into all of it, but In this parable, one son rejects his father's command, and then later he feels sorry about it, he repents, and he does what his father asked. The other son says, Yes, sir, to his father, his father says, Do this, and the son says, Yes, sir, but then he doesn't do it And then Jesus asked a question. Look at verse 31 of this parable, verse 31 of chapter 21. And whether of them twain did the will of the father? And here are the religious leaders, they're listening to the parable, and Jesus asked them, which one of these two sons did the will of his father? And they said unto him the first. And Jesus said unto them, Verily, I say unto you, the publicans and the heartless go into the kingdom of God before you. The one son who didn't, who said no and then repented, represents the sinners. Those are the ones that Jesus said are going to get in the kingdom before you, who say, yes, sir. Outwardly you look like you're being obedient, but your heart is hard. And then he gives another parable. There's the parable of the vineyard. And this is from verse 33 down to verse 46. An owner of a vineyard leases his vineyard out to farmers. to work the vineyard and then share the profits. And when the it was time for the fruit to come, the owner of the vineyard sends a servant to gets part of the profits for himself. You know what these farmers do? Rather than share the profits, they they abuse the servant. And the owner sends other servants and they abuse them and they they kill others. And then finally the owner says, you know what? They're going to reverence my son surely. Surely if they see my son, surely if I send my son, they'll reverence him and they'll do what they're supposed to do. Look down in verse number 37 of chapter 21. But last of all he sent unto them his son, saying, They will reverence my son But look at verse 38. But when the husband saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him. Let us seize on his inheritance. And so in this parable, Jesus is predicting what's going to happen to him at the end of the week. Remember, this is on Tuesday. On Friday, he will be crucified, just a few days away. And he's in this parable predicting what's going to happen. And notice in this parable that these husbandmen, they kill the son, not because they didn't recognize him, but because they did recognize him. That's key because what Jesus is essentially saying about these religious leaders is: look, they know who I am. They just are rebelling against my authority. They don't want to receive me. They know who I am. And surely they will. And by the way, look in verse 45. The religious leaders, they knew Who Jesus was talking about at verse number 45. And when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard this parable, they perceived that he spake of them. Exactly right. You're the ones rebelling against my authority. Then he gives the parable of the wedding. And this is chapter 22. In the first few verses down in chapter 22. And here's a king, and he has a wedding, he's going to have a wedding for his son, so he sends out invitations, and you know what happens? The people that get these invitations, they despise them. Look in chapter 22, look down at verse number five. But when they made light of it and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandise. So they made light of it. Here is the the king and he's sending out invitations to uh to to friends he thought were friends to come and share the wedding of his son. And these people they They reject the invitation. They despise it. They ignore it. So the king gets mad and he says to his servants, okay, they don't want to come, so go out into the highways. And whoever you find, invite them to come and let them come to the wedding instead. What is Jesus talking about here in this parable? Those who rejected the invitation or were again these religious leaders who were too arrogant and proud They did not want to accept the invitation to be a part of the kingdom of God through true repentance, through recognizing who Jesus was, through submitting to his divine authority. They could be a part of the wedding. They could have salvation. But they didn't want to that. They didn't want to receive it. So in the first parable, Jesus demonstrates how they reject the Father. In the second parable, Jesus shows how these religious leaders reject the Son. And in this third parable, Jesus shows how these religious leaders reject the Holy Spirit because it's the Holy Spirit who sends out the invitation of the gospel, right? For people to repent. They reject the Father, they reject the Son, they reject the Holy Spirit, they don't want to recognize any authority. And by the way, we'll end with this. I wish you had another half hour, but I just want you to see what happens on Monday and Tuesday of Pastor Week. Notice the last part of this parable. Look down at verse number 11. It's very interesting. And when the king came in to see the guests, here are all the guests that accept the invitation. They're now at the wedding. feast. He saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment. Verse 12. And he said unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless Then said the king to the servants, bind him hand and foot, take him away, cast him into outer darkness, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, for many are called, but few are chosen. So what is this end of this parable? What's happening here? Well, again, this is all about salvation. The invitation goes out. If you accept the invitation, you get to come and be a part of the kingdom, be a part of the wedding feast. But by the way, you have to have the right garments. You have to be dressed in the right robes. And the key to understanding this parable is this: the king who sent out the invitation also provides the wedding garments. So if you're poor and you say, Well, I don't have any wedding garment, the king says, Don't worry about that, I got the garment covered. Here, wear this That's a picture of salvation because when God the Father invites us to salvation, we can't come in with our own garments of righteousness because you know what? We have none. The righteousness is provided by Jesus Christ. When you are invited to the wedding, God, and you accept that invitation, you know what God does? He gives you the garments of righteousness provided by Jesus Christ. But I want to tell you something, friend, if you try to come to the wedding in your own garments, you're in big trouble because your garments aren't going to do it. So here's the king and he goes to the wedding feast and he sees a man there. He doesn't have on a wedding garment and he asks him, you know. He said, friend, how camest thou in thither not having a wedding garment? And you know his response? He was speechless You're speechless. There are some people that are depending on their own righteousness for salvation. And you know what? One day they are going to be speechless. The righteousness has already been provided to you by Jesus Christ. And by the way, this was the whole problem of these religious leaders and many in Israel. They were so proud of their own outward righteousness. That they they rejected Christ, they rejected his righteousness, and they were so presumptuous as to think that their own righteousness was enough to be a part of the kingdom and salvation. And you know what? It's not. It's not. You only get into the kingdom by recognizing the divine authority of Jesus. Bowing to his lordship, confessing your sins, receiving the invitation of salvation, and being given the garment of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Christ. And that's available for anyone who comes truly repentant to the Savior. And that's Tuesday. Now tonight we'll talk about Wednesday and Thursday of the Passion Week. Father, thank you for your word and how it teaches us so clearly about our Savior Jesus Christ. And Lord, we're just astonished at His authority. We see his works written here in the pages of Scripture and read his words and confess with all of our heart, truly he is the Son of God. The Savior, the only Savior, the way, the truth, and the life. And Lord, we know we cannot come unto you except through Jesus Christ Lord, thank you, Father, for sending your Son to be our propitiation, to atone for our sins that we committed, to pay our sin debt on the cross with his own presence. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that has never forsaken their own garments of righteousness And submitted to the total authority, the divine authority of Jesus Christ, and confessed him as the only Savior. Accepted the invitation of salvation and have come humbly, receiving the garments of the righteousness of Christ. Christ. Father, I pray that today would be the day of salvation. Strip away every vain excuse Humble every proud person. May they come humbly to the cross of Christ, saying, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Save me for Christ's sake. With heads bowed and eyes closed, friend, I just want to throw out the invitation to you this morning. Are you absolutely certain about your own soul salvation? Do you know? And if not, would you be willing to pray right where you are? The Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will no wise cast out. Would you come to Jesus today? Would you reach out through prayer and say, Lord Jesus, save me. Save me. And if you pray that prayer, please let us know. We want to encourage you along in your Christian life. Father, thank you again for your word. May our hearts be drawn in to greater wonder and love and praise of our Savior. As we think about all the events that took place this week, and we pray in Jesus' name