Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the Gospel of Matthew. We're going to look at chapter 12, and I want you to go down to verse number 38. Or actually, we'll just go ahead down to verse forty-three and we'll read a few verses there. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please? Matthew twelve verse forty-three. When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest, and findeth none. Then he saith I will return into my house from whence I came out, and when he is come, he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished Then goeth he and taketh with him seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and dwell there, and the last state of that man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be under this wicked generation. Thank you very much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to us. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the privilege of worship. And Lord, as we now listen to the Word of God, help us, Lord, to listen with understanding. to listen with reverence, ready to apply truth to our own life. And always, Lord, when we come to the scripture, we have to evaluate our own heart and where we stand. So Lord help us and draw us near and do a deepening work in every heart. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. It was the journalist Tom Brocall who um wrote a uh best-selling book called The Greatest Generation, and um that book he wrote in nineteen ninety-eight. And the the whole thesis of the book was that he believed that that generation of that uh went through the depression and then went off to World War Two and won a a war and then came home and were very productive and built what he called uh America into a superpower. He proposes in that book that this was the greatest generation. And perhaps you've heard of this book. Now, when it came out, it was very well received, but some critics and historians found it to be a bit overly simplistic or overblown. However, one thing we do learn from this book is that each generation seems to have its own characteristics, its own identity. Well, if we could characterize the generation that Jesus ministered to in his time on earth, we could probably call it the godless generation. And that's ironic because this was a generation of people that got to see the miracles of Jesus and got to hear him teach. But in our passage from here in Matthew, from verse thirty-eight on down to verse number forty-five. Jesus referred to this generation or something like it. In verse 39, he referred to them as the evil and adulterous generation. In verse number 41, he says the men of Nineveh will rise in judgment with this generation and condemn it. And then in verse 42, he said, the queen of the south will condemn this generation. And then in verse number 45, as we just read, he calls it this wicked generation. So Jesus basically talks about the generation that was there when he did his miracles and preached the truth, and he basically said, This is a generation that's in trouble. They have very little hope. And he basically says, you know, they are like an empty house. They're like an empty house. It's been swept, it's been cleaned, it's been decorated, but it's empty. And what did Jesus mean by that? Well, it's one basic thing that he meant, and it has to do with how they responded to the truth. How they responded to the truth. Or we could say their lack of response to the truth and the spiritual privileges that they were given at that time. Think about it. No generation on the face of the earth had such light. had such privilege, such opportunity, such wisdom and preaching given to them as that generation. And yet They turned their back on the truth and they disregarded what they heard. So here in Matthew chapter twelve Jesus is kind of giving a summary of the of these people and he uses a parable in which to do it. And I believe that the time and the day in which we now live is much like the generation of Jesus' day. You say, why? Well, because I think that we live in a time and a day where we have such spiritual privilege, we have such opportunity. And I think that we disregard it. I think people just take for granted the blessings and the things that God has given. I think we look lightly upon it, and that's a dangerous thing to do. I would remind you that there are approximately 2,000 languages in the world today that still do not have a translation of the Bible in their own language. And yet we have an English translation, don't we? In fact, we have several. We could argue we have too many. You know, we don't need to rewrite it, we need to reread it. But we we have all these different privileges. We you know I go to I go to third world countries where people are begging for a Bible in their own language. And we have the Bible on our iPhones, our iPods, our iPads We have such incredible privilege. And yet it just seems like rather than you know growing closer to the Lord, we get careless. We get apathetic. And that's dangerous. So why does Jesus compare this generation to an empty house? Well, I want you to see the context of this passage, and then I want to get into the parable that he gives you. the parable of the empty house. But first of all, I want you to notice the signs they demanded. We're talking about this generation. Look back up to verse number 38 in Matthew chapter 12. Then certain of the scribes and the Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee. When it says certain scribes and Pharisees, this refers to a special delegation or a committee that was sent to respond to Jesus. The scribes were the legal ex experts. They had to be at least thirty years old and had to spend many years in an intense study of the scripture. So they were the expert interpreters of the law. They were kind of the religious elite you could say And when they came, they said they answered him, the Bible says. The Greek word here is a formal response. So it's a response to Jesus of something that had happened, something that was going on there, to a speech or a situation. And really they were responding to the situation in the previous verses, to the speech that Jesus had just gave And the Bible tells us he had cast a demon out of a man. In verse 22, the people were amazed. And then the Bible says the Pharisees said he did it by the power of Satan or by the power of Beelzebub. Can you imagine making that kind of a statement about the pure, innocent, holy son of God? Here he does an incredible miracle, and they say, Oh, that's the power of Satan working in this man. And that's when Jesus said they had blasphemed. the Holy Spirit. And then he begins to rebuke them in verses 34 to verse 37, calling them poisonous snakes. And those words reveal their nature. Now, in response to what Jesus said, an official delegation of the scribes and Pharisees come to Jesus, and they are the legal experts, and they want to give a formal response. And so notice they call him master. That was a term of respect. They were really pretending to be respectful. They didn't really respect him. In fact, they hated him because he was destroying their whole religious system. They wanted him dead. But every time in Matthew's gospel, when Matthew uses the word master of people talking about Jesus, when people came and used that word, Matthew always showed that it was with bad intentions This is a device to show that they didn't have good motives. And notice what they said in verse 38. We would seek a sign from you. Now don't get the idea that they were sincerely seeking truth. Far from it. They had the truth in front of them for a long time, named Jesus, personified. The word seek here, epizelo, not just asking, but they were demanding a sign as a preliminary of faith. In other words, we're not going to believe you We're not going to believe in you or what you say until you give us a sign, a real sign, a true sign from heaven. that will legitimize you in our eyes. But this was really an insult because what they were saying was, you know, nothing you have done or said up until this point in your life and ministry, in our opinion, makes you legitimate in our eyes. Now think about that. Jesus had spent three years going through all the towns of around Galilee and other places in Judea. Wiping out sickness, healing people. Every miracle that Jesus did, it always seemed to be to help someone. It was out of compassion. Healing. And each time, if you're reading the gospels, you'll find that there were religious leaders who were present. The Pharisees were present. Scribes were present. They were following him around. They were looking for a reason to find fault with Jesus. And so they said, look, we want a sign from you. The word Simeon, totally different than the one used of miracles. That was the word dunamis. So here it's saying, you know, we want some kind of really big heavenly display, some kind of a fireworks display that tells us that you are really the person you claim to be. And so, by the way, the Jews were always doing that. They were always seeking a sign. Paul would later say that. 1 Corinthians, you know, the Jews are constantly looking for some kind of sign. And so They don't believe anything that Jesus has done. They heard his words, they saw his miracles, they already relegated it to the work of darkness. And now here they are, bold enough to ask for a sign. And so how does Jesus respond? Look at verse 39. But he answered, and he said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign, and there shall no sign be given to it but the sign of the prophet Jonah. When Jesus uses the expression adulterous generation, when he talks about adultery, he's using it in a spiritual sense, in a figurative sense. Because that's what apostasy was. That's what claiming to be a real believer and then departing from the faith and embracing other things, other beliefs, that's spiritual adultery. And Jesus said of this group of religious people, you are nothing but adulterers. And I'm not willing to give you a sign. Now God would give signs many times in the Old Testament. for people, but he refused to put on a display to satisfy unbelievers. However, Jesus did say there will be one more sign, however, in my ministry that you can look at, and that will be the sign of the prophet Jonah He said in verse 39, but the sign of the prophet Jonah. Jesus said, I don't have a new sign for you, but I have an old sign. And he pointed back to the prophet Jonah. And verse 40, for as Joana was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Now, this is the first time that Jesus alludes to his death, burial, and resurrection. But this would be the ultimate sign that showed them and everyone else that he truly was the Son of God, the Savior. All he claimed to be. He calls it the sign of Jonah. Now, in the story of Jonah, it's a beautiful picture. uh the o of the cross. You see how so? You remember Jonah ran from God. He was hiding in the boat. They found him, brought him up. There was a great storm. God brought the storm And these raners knew it was kind of a judgment from God. So the Bible says they lifted him up. That Hebrew word is Nassau. That means they were kind of holding them up like a priest would hold up a uh a lamb before he slew it on put it on the altar. It was like, hey, all of my sins are on this lamb. They were lifting up Jonah as if to say, hey God, all the sins are on him, this guy right here. We're going to toss him over And the Bible says when that happened, the storm ceased. In other words, God's wrath ceased. That's a picture of the cross. Jesus on the cross was lifted up, and he took all of our sins upon himself on the cross. And when Jesus died for our sins, God's wrath was satisfied. Jonah went down and he was swallowed by a whale. The Bible says he was there for three days and three nights. According to Jewish reckoning, any part of a day counted as a full day doesn't really require seventy-two hours, but each part of a day can be three days and three nights. And but and some people question that. But notice how Jesus affirms this truth here, you know, as Jonah was in the whale's belly. Three days, three nights, he says, in in the whale's belly, so shall the son of man be three days, three nights in the heart of the earth. That's for all you liberal theologians that don't believe that was a real story. Jesus said it was real. Oh, was it a whale? Was it are you serious? Of course it was a whale. Uh the word here, kitas. Can speak of a big sea monster, but I don't think that's what it was. Whales are mammals, they are air breathing. Jonah would need the air to live in the whale's belly. And sometimes I hear people say, well, you know, whales were not really seen in the Mediterranean. Well, that's true. Whales don't don't normally swallow people either. And they don't spit them out on the land after three days. The Bible says the Lord prepared the great fish. That's the answer right there. You either believe that or you don't. And Jesus said, just like Jonah was in the whale's belly three days, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. That will be your sign. And of course later on they wouldn't even believe that. There was the sign they demanded. But then number two, the sermons they despised. Look at verse forty-one. The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment. with this generation and shall condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold a greater than Jonah is here. Jesus makes another application from the story of Jonah to that generation. He compares them to the people of Nineveh The people of Nineveh who were Gentiles and pagans responded properly to the word of God that Jonah preached to them. They heard the message he preached. They believed. He confronted them over their sin. They repented. That was the right response. They believed that he was truly sent of God, and they repented. The revival of Nineveh was one of the greatest revivals in all of history. A Gentile city listened to a Jewish prophet. But then Jesus said, that generation, the people of Nineveh, the men of Nineveh, shall rise up in judgment. In the judgment day, they're going to rise up and point a finger at this generation because a greater than Jonah is here. And you didn't repent, you didn't believe. Notice the comparison. I think Jesus was a greater preacher than Jonah. Much greater Jonah was disobedient and ran from God. Jesus was absolutely, completely obedient to all the will of the Father. Jonah actually wept outside of Nineveh when revival came because he didn't want to see revival come. Jesus wept outside of Jerusalem because the people did not repent. Jonah didn't really love his congregation. Jesus loves the people he spoke to. Jonah performed no miracle. Jesus performed many miracles. Jonah was just a prophet. Jesus was the Son of God. Jonah preached the truth. Jesus was the full personification of truth. Jonah preached only one city, Jesus preached the hundreds of cities. And it's ironic that Jonah got a better response from pagan Gentiles. Then the Jewish people when they refuse to listen to Jesus. They just wouldn't receive him They just wouldn't receive him. They would not allow Jesus to point out their sin, their self-righteousness, their hypocrisy. They would not come to true repentance. They hated him because he spoke with authority. So there was the sign they demanded, the sermons they despised, and then there's number three, the story they disregarded. Jesus adds on another Old Testament story. Look at verse 42. The Queen of the South shall rise up in judgment with this generation and shall condemn it. For she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold a greater than Solomon is here. Who's the queen of the south? Well, that's the queen of Sheba. And uh she lived in a country in Lower Arabia, some 1,200 miles southeast of Israel. And the people of this land were extremely pop uh prosperous. She came, the Bible says, it talks about it. In the Old Testament story, she came to hear the wisdom of Solomon. Solomon, the Bible tells us, was one of the wisest men to ever live. She came from the uttermost parts of the earth, the Greek is from the extremities of the earth, from the uttermost remote region of the earth She traveled a long distance. And why did she do that? She came just to hear the wisdom of Solomon. But Jesus was so much greater than Solomon. And the wisdom that he gave forth, no one's ever heard wisdom like that. And she came to hear Solomon. Jesus traveled a long distance to come and bring grace to us. His purpose in coming was to uh show to personify the wisdom of God. She traveled a long way just to hear a guy give God's wisdom. Jesus traveled to to he was the whole wisdom of God. God. And Jesus said the Queen of Sheba will rise up and condemn this generation. The great lesson we learn from the Queen of Sheba is that The Queen of Sheba made great sacrifices, went to great efforts, trouble and time travel to hear Solomon without invitation. She just went. The generation of Jews simply did not appreciate Jesus, even though he invited them. He said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He invited all of them to come to him. And they despised that invitation. Do we really appreciate the Word of God when it's given? Do we really appreciate all the blessings and benefits that we have in Christ? Or do we think lightly of that? We have to ask ourselves, will the Queen of Sheba rise up and condemn us? Those of us that live in this day when we have so many blessings and spiritual privileges, but then there's a fourth thing, and this leads into the parable. There was the signs they demanded, the sermon. they disregarded the situation or excuse me the story they disregarded sermons they despised then number four the spirits they deserve so Jesus gives us this parable to illustrate their spiritually sad condition and what results from it. So look at the parable, look at verse 43. When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, He walketh through dry places seeking rest and finding none. This is interesting. Here Jesus gives a parable, but really it's a story that is factual. I mean, who knew the spirit world like Jesus, right? He knew it. And here a demon spirit leaves a man. He was probably cast out. Exercised from a house, a person. And the demon spirit goes into the dry places of the wilderness. He's seeking rest. Now that he's had to leave his old haunt, his old house, he has to go and find another place in which to rest, but he can't find any. It was believed in that day that demons abode in desert places of isolation. So here this demon, the Bible says is passing, going through dry places, seeking rest, finding none. He can find no place to rest. And so this demon is not a happy camper. So what does he do? Well, after even looking around trying to find another place to rest, he decides, you know what, I'll just go back to my old home. See if that's still available. And he he's going to come back. And look at verse number 47. Then said he, I will return into my house from whence I came out. And when he has come, he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished. So he goes back to his old home. his old haunt and guess what the house has been swept it's been cleaned up it's been cleaned out The word garnish here is a Greek word cosmeo. It means to set in order to arrange. That's where we get the word cosmetics, ladies. So when you do that you are arranging, you know, setting in good order. This is the idea of the word here. He comes back to the house. Boy, it's it's swept out, it's cleaned up, uh, it's been remodeled, it looks great. Beautifully decorated. The house is tidy and clean. Man, the old house is more attractive than ever. So the demon says, I'm moving back in. I'm moving back in. And he doesn't just move it back in by himself. Look at verse number 45. Then goeth he and taketh with himself seven other spirits more wicked than himself. So the demon moves back in, but he finds seven other demon buddies, more wicked than he. And he says, hey guys, let's let's let's this is a joint venture, let's all move in. Plenty of room. Now why does he do that? Why does he bring in his buddies? Well, this is to avoid being cast out again I mean there's strength in numbers. He wants to make sure that this will be his permanent home that he never has to leave ever again. And the Bible says that the last state of that man is worse than the first. Now, look how Jesus wraps this up. Even so. Shall it be also unto this wicked generation? So the house or the man represents that generation The sweeping of the house, that represents the ministry of the Lord Jesus. Jesus' presence during his earthly ministry, it broke all of the strongholds of Satan. It broke the power of evil. That generation, whether they actually believed in Jesus as a Messiah or not, even though they didn't believe, they still benefited from his ministry. You know why? Because he put on Their heels, the whole kingdom of darkness. Demons ran from his presence. When Jesus came onto the scene, the kingdom of darkness went into full retreat They ran away. They f trembled and fled at the presence of Christ. When Jesus began casting out demons and preaching the truth and doing miracles, he was sweeping that whole house. He was cleaning it out. He was remodeling the whole thing. Why? Because it was time for him to move in. It was time for Jesus to take his rightful place as their king and Messiah. He would not leave the house empty. He would occupy the throne of that house himself. But there was a problem. That generation didn't want to receive him. So when Jesus swept the house and he made it clean with the intention of filling it with his own presence fully and completely, and they rejected Jesus The house stayed empty. And to fill the vacuum, you know what happened? Seven other spirits went in with that old spirit back into that house. And the last state of that man. Or that generation was worse than the first. That was the problem. You see, that generation, they saw all these blessings from Jesus. They saw the miracles, they heard his words. Never a man spoke like Jesus spoke. No one ever showed the love of God the Father the way Jesus did. What incredible blessings they were privileged. to see. Yet instead of repenting and acknowledging Jesus for who he is and bowing to him, they refuse him. The house being cleansed is now empty, and Jesus went on his way. And now you know what's going to happen to that generation? They're going to be more hardened against the truth than ever before. They're in a sad, sad spiritual condition. In fact, it's so bad, there's very little hope that's given now to this generation that has received so much light, so much truth. And yet they did not receive it. I mean there's very little hope for them. And what will happen is their last state will be worse than the first. And that's the way it is with a lot of people, I hate to say. They look like they at first got help. You know, the Bible warns that we should seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. And there are some people that actually, you know, all all they really want is they just want the house to be cleansed, you know, cleaned up, cleaned out. They don't necessarily want Jesus to occupy the throne. They just want the help that they need. They just want out of a gym. They just want, you know, the superficial help that's necessary. And I want to tell you, there are a lot of programs out there that offer people help, and they actually do help superficially. But any help that you get without Jesus Christ is a temporary help. And your latter state may be worse than the first. If Jesus doesn't move into the house, your latter state is worse than the first. Yeah, there's a lot of programs out there that are really good self-help programs. But reformation without regeneration is a fabrication. And it leads to greater condemnation. A lot of people get cleaned out, they get cleaned up, but they're not indwelt by Jesus. They have religious reform. They got all the all looks good on the outside. But Jesus doesn't dwell inside. And the temporary reforms that you get from these other self help man-made programs that are all over there, some of the even baptized in Christianity. It doesn't include true repentance and letting Christ be Lord and rule in your life. It's a temporary, superficial, vain help, and it will not last. And that's the dangerous thing. That's the dangerous thing. People just want help for their superficial problems, but they don't want to be under the control of Jesus. Obedient to his lordship. They don't want him moving in the house. And Peter uses this same idea. Go to 2 Peter 2, verse 20. Just look at this as we close here today. Peter's talking about the same idea here, 2 Peter 2, verse number 20. Notice what it says here. Peter is talking about the same thing. People that look religious on the outside. But it was never real. Verse 20. For if after they have escaped the pollution to the world through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein and overcome the latter end is worse So here are people that look like they have escaped all of the corruption and the pollutions of the world. They look like they have a knowledge of Jesus Christ, a rudimentary knowledge of Jesus. But what happens? Well, they are again entangled therein, they're overcome, and the latter end is worse with them than the beginning. He says in verse 21, for it had better be better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than for them to have known it, and to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them. But it's happened unto them according to the true proverb, the dog has returned to his own vomit again, and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire. Here, someone who got reformation. They turned over a new leaf. They got all the help that they needed. Thank God they got over that crippling thing in their life, that habit. They used good skills, strategies, some of it man's wisdom, to overcome, get all the techniques down, and they were able to overcome their problem, whatever it was. But and they looked like, you know, we even sprinkled a little bit of knowledge of Jesus in there, that always helps. But they weren't really changed. They they were not different. And and he gives a proverb, it's it's like the proverb Peter says, but the dog is turned again to his own his his vomit. That's a disgusting thought. And then the sow that was washed for her wallowing in the mire. So it's like a dog that I always hesitate when I go to this verse because it is disgusting. The dog vomits And then, you know, turns again to his own vomit. You say that's disgust if Peter means for it to be disgusting. He means for it to be. And the pig Here's the pig, you clean the pig up, washed them up, sprayed them with some perfume. Doors cracked open. What's the first thing he does? Runs through the door, goes right back out into the mud. Right back into the walling in the mire. The dog felt better and the pig looked better. But the dog was still a dog and the pig was still a pig. The dog was cleaned out and the pig was cleaned up. But they had not changed. There was no difference. And this is what Peter is talking about here. It's not enough. To have the house swept. It's not enough to rearrange the furniture. It's not enough to clean it up and and to remodel it. That's not enough. Jesus has to live in that house. He has to be Lord of that residence. The only person that can change who you are is Jesus Christ. He's the only one. And you have to understand that. Don't be deceived by the other stuff. Because if you want to be new, you want to have victory in your life, you want to be new, you want to really be changed, then you have got to come to Jesus Christ for that change. And you gotta be relentless. You have to had to say, you know, I I don't want just to be delivered from this thing. I want Jesus to to be the Lord. I want him to reign in my heart and life. Every fiber of my being I give to him. I want him to have all of me. All of me. And let him move completely in the house. That's why it's dangerous for people to be nominal. Nominal Christians. I I think that's the oxymoron. If you're really a Christian, you're not going to be nominal. If you really understand all that He's delivered you from. And that all you have in Christ, how could you be nominal? How can you be nominal? Christ's presence always loosens the bonds of evil, He always changes Completely the individual. J. C. Rawls said this: Let us observe how dangerous it is to be content with any change in religion short of thorough conversion to God. Martin Lloyd-Jones said this, we must always remember that there are other powers besides that of Christ which can give results. It is possible for men and women to get relief from many of their ills and troubles apart altogether from the gospel. And I would say that that is the most dangerous place to be. To get help without Jesus. There is no help without Jesus. And we must come to Him fully and completely. Let's bow for prayer together. So I just want you to take a moment and evaluate your own life and heart. And ask yourself, does Jesus live in this house? Is he resident in here? Not only just resident, but president. Is he sitting on the throne of my life? And I live in repentance towards him, a desire to obey him in all things. Submitted fully to him. I don't want just a superficial cleaning from any servicing. Come in and give a cleaning service. I want Jesus To live in me. Anything short of that is dangerous. Your friend, is that your position? Is that where you are? If not, I would ask you, I'd plea with you, make sure of that. Make sure, please. So Father, thank you again for your word. The words of our Lord. Lord, may we take heed and be warned, duly warned. And may Lord we come to you in true repentance with all of our heart Saying, Lord Jesus, please don't leave this house empty. Fill me with all the fullness of God. Save me. Dwell in me richly Change me by the power of your grace. And I pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen