It's good to see you here tonight. Thank you for coming tonight. I know it wasn't easy to stay home on a cold night, but I'm glad that you're here and I'm grateful for you being here. Um in fact I want to give you a reward for coming out. Um you know, uh during the Christmas uh Polynethic Carols we gave away these uh uh grace mugs, coffee mugs to visitors. And uh but I want everyone to here tonight to have one. One per family. Alright. Not that generous. But anyway, uh I'm gonna pay for these. I'm I'm buying them for you. This is a gift. And you can go over to the cafe after church tonight. You can pick one up. And uh they'll be by the way, I don't know if you saw the post this afternoon about the the the uh all the pastries that are in the cafe right now. I mean, they looked great. And I would encourage you to go and get a pastry, go and get a coffee mug, get some tea, get some coffee. I don't think any of them are keto friendly, uh any of the pastries that are there. So but uh you're welcome to do that after church tonight. And uh I hope that you'll do that. And by the way, those of you who are live streaming, would you like one? No. You were lazy and you stayed home, so you don't get one. And I'm not into rewarding backsliders. So you can uh watch as we drink our coffee from our grace mug. And you say I say, Oh Pastor, I know you're just joking. No I'm not All right. Now let's uh get into Hebrews chapter eleven tonight. Look in Hebrews chapter eleven. We've been doing a series through Hebrews eleven on God's Hall of Fame of faith. And in this chapter, the writer just points to one Old Testament saying after another, and he uses them as an illustration of what faith is like, how faith acts. And so as we look in Hebrews chapter 11, we are in verse number 22. We've been looking at one of these characters one after another, and tonight it's in verse 22. In verse 22, if you'll read that, where it says, By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel and gave commandment concerning his bones. And so, now, again, what's the theme of Hebrews 11? The theme is that faith is the only way that you can please God. It's the only way that you can approach God. If you want to go to heaven, you go there not by works, but by faith. That's how salvation comes. And you have to have faith in God. And the Christian life is all about faith. We enter into the kingdom through faith and we continue walking one day at a time. Learning to grow in our faith. The Bible says the just shall live by faith, and the writer of Hebrews quotes that verse from Habakkuk 2, verse 4, and Hebrews 10, 38. Really, that's where this whole section starts. And so we're saved by faith, we live by faith, we walk by faith, and we die by faith. And what does that look like? And the writer of Hebrews is saying, Let me show you it. So he goes all the way back to the beginning Starts in Genesis. He actually started with uh with with Abel uh and he just kind of walks us through characters in the Old Testament and he shows how that their lives, although they were not perfect, they were far from perfect. They had a lot of A lot of issues they had to deal with. And yet they were people of faith. And that's an encouragement to us because I don't know about you, but I I'm far from perfect. I'm Still trying to figure this walk of faith out every day of my life. God help me. Every day I try to uh to walk in faith and I fail at that and and but Thank God we have a God who is merciful and gracious and just helps us to continue on to grow in our faith as we walk Now remember the description of faith that the writer gave. Look in Hebrews chapter 11. Look in verse number one again when it says, Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And so we said that faith makes the future unknown a present reality. Faith takes something hoped for and not realized, and it gives it substance So much so that that thing that is unseen, invisible, and yet to happen in the future becomes very real. So much so that that reality of what will take place It changes the way I act today because I believe that that is going to happen in the future. It controls the way I live today. I might not have much evidence out there that this reality is going to happen. But I still believe it, you know why? Because God said it. Faith is based on the word of God. Faith is based on what God says And so we have faith, but our faith has substance to it. It has weight to it. Joseph believed that God was going to give the people of Israel an exodus out of Egypt. And he believed that God was going to send the children of Israel to that promised land of Canaan, and there they would dwell and there they would live. Joseph believed that. Now, why did he believe that? Well, he believed it because God said it. He had no visible evidence except that God had given him a promise, and Joseph believed with all of his heart that that promise of God was going to be fulfilled. And how does Joseph then express his faith that God is going to do something that he promised? He expresses it by telling the children of Israel when he was dying. He made mention, he told them, look, you guys are not going to stay here in Egypt, even though they'll be there for a long time, they'll be there for many years. You're not going to stay in Egypt. God's going to take you as a people, and you are going to depart out of this land of Egypt. And God is going to take you to the promised land, to the land of Canaan. And Joseph says, Look, when you do, do not leave my bones here in Egypt. I want you to take my bones and take them with you when you leave. So when the Israelites, when they left Egypt They were carrying a coffin with them. They were carrying Joseph's bones with them. And he made a specific command about that. Don't leave my bones back here in Egypt. And again, many years later, they did exactly what Joseph asked when they left Egypt. Write down in your margin Exodus chapter 13, verse number 19, where it says this, and Moses took the bones of Joseph with him. For he had straightly sworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones away hence with you. Now, how did Joseph know that that was going to happen? Why was he so sure? Well, it was his faith. His faith in the work of God and his life. Joseph saw God's hand working in his life to fulfill his plan and his promises that he had made to Israel. And God had used many sorrows in the life of Joseph to fulfill his purpose and plan. I think part of Joseph's faith was it grew as he saw God's sovereign hand working in his life to fulfill God's purpose. And that's one way that our faith grows is by seeing the hand of God. And I've told you this before, sometimes when we're in the middle of something happening, we really can't discern what God's doing, but oftentimes we can look back. being removed from that and we can look and see, looking back, what God was doing. And I think that's true of Joseph and his life Now to get a good look at the life of Joseph, I want you to go back to the book of Genesis, go back to Genesis chapter 37, and let's look at his life. And the thing that we learn, the big idea we learn from Joseph's life, is a person who walks by faith will learn to see the hand of God even during the most difficult times of sorrow. And in fact, the life of Joseph teaches us that God is sovereign over the sorrows that we have to endure sometimes here in this life. And there's a purpose behind the sorrows that we must endure. And let me just say it's impossible for us to live in this world without being hurt. It's impossible for us to live in this world without having some kind of sorrow. And sometimes those sorrows come of our own mistakes, and sometimes they come because People have sinned against us. They've done things against us. Maybe you're here tonight and you've been the victim of some kind of an abuse. Maybe someone uh hurt you in some way and it's it's something that you're dealing with in your life. Maybe you're a parent, you've had a child rebel f and cause pain. Maybe you've been the victim of some kind of a crime, or maybe you were wounded deeply by someone else's sin. Let me just say this. And sometimes when you go through those kind of experiences, you're tempted to ask the question, you know, where is God in all of this? Why did God allow me to go through this? If God is all-powerful and loving, why is he allowing this terrible sin against me? And if God is in control, why do wicked people seemingly get away with murder? Now Joseph could have asked that question because what of what Joseph had to go through in his life. Due to his brother's sin, we know that Joseph was cast into a pit, right? And from there things didn't get better for Joseph. His brothers uh they didn't kill him. They had planned to kill him. But they changed their plan and they decided to sell their seventeen year old brother into slavery, into a foreign land, as the caravan that was passing by uh as of the Midianites as they saw that they sold Joseph to this band of of Midianites and they were going towards Egypt and as Joseph was in that Band, that caravan now headed south towards Egypt. Perhaps he passed by the home place where he was growing up with his father, and maybe he felt overwhelming feelings of loneliness and hurt and wondered if he would ever see his father ever again. And he had to wrestle with fear. He had to wrestle with anger. and resentment perhaps of the cruelty that his brothers had done towards him. And he may have even asked the question, where's God in this? If God is sovereign, why am I in the pits? And uh it's interesting that in Genesis chapter 37, when all these things are happening to Joseph, we don't see God mentioned anywhere in Genesis 37. His name is not mentioned. And a skeptic might say, see, God isn't there when you need him. If he cared about you, He would stop sinful men from doing things against you. But even though God is not mentioned by name, God's sovereign providence runs all throughout the life of Joseph. Now, I've told you about sovereignty before. It's one of my favorite uh doctrines regarding God. I I call it the the uh the comfort uh in times of sorrow. I thank God that when we go through difficult times, we can say God is in control. He is in control. Sovereignty means God is he owns it all. Sovereignty means God uh has authority over all things. God is in control of all things. It's like the psalmist said in Psalm 115, verse 3, our God is in the heaven. He does all that he pleases. God does whatever he wants He's in control. And providence is the idea that God has a plan and his wisdom and sovereignty. He makes a plan, but his providence executes that plan. And we see it happening day by day, little by little, even in the small events that take place in our life, when we think, you know, our life is out of control. It's not because God is working his plan even in those little things that happen in our life. God arranges all the details. Let me tell you something about God. He's a micromanager. But Jesus said this, the very hairs of your head are what? Numbered numbered. There's nothing in your life that takes place by chance. God is in control. There are no accidents, only acts of providence. Job said it like this in Job 24, 14. He performs what is appointed for me. And that's the providence of God Now, God had a plan for the life of Joseph. And that plan really, if you want to see it in the book of Genesis, you have to go all the way back before Joseph was born. You have to go all the way back to Genesis 15 when God said to Abram, remember God was making a covenant with Abram, and God said to him, He said, Know for a certain that your descendants will be strangers in a land that is not theirs. Where they will be enslaved and oppressed for four hundred years. But I will also judge the nation whom they will serve, and afterward they will come out with many possessions. Then in the fourth generation they shall return here For the iniquity of the Amorite is not yet full. In other words, God had the history and the nation of Israel already planned out. And God told Abraham ahead of time, here's what's going to happen. Your descendants will live in a foreign land for 400 years where they'll be slaves, and I'm going to bring them out of Egypt. And uh they're going to come back to this land. God was speaking to Abraham while he was there in the land of Canaan, in the promised land, when he had this encounter with God. And God said, when I bring the people back, the Amorites, the Canaanites, they'll be right for judgment, and I'll use Israel to judge the Canaanites. And all this is going to happen. But the point is clear, God is sovereign, and God is going to orchestrate all of these events To make sure that all of these things happen just the way God said. And God is going to use Joseph to bring about some of these events. And Joseph's going to have to be used even in sorrowful things. Sorrowful things are going to come into life of Joseph. Things that we would say from our perspective are bad, but God's going to use it all. It's all part of his plan. So Genesis 37 is a story of evil. It's a story of sin in a family. If you look at Genesis 37, you see hatred, you see envy, you see violence, you see deception. But you know what? God is going to work all of those things together for his good and for Joseph's good and for his glory. This Joseph's life is a perfect illustration of Romans 8, 28. And that brings to about the idea of concurrence. What is concurrence? It's uh it means that you know two things are happening at once. There may be a mystery there, something that we can't fully comprehend, but God is sovereign, he's working out his plan, and yet at the same time, every person is responsible for their own choices and actions. And both of those things are equally true. Some people might say, you know, with these bad things happening in the life of Joseph, doesn't that make God responsible for man's sin? And the Bible is clear in the answer, and the answer is no Men are responsible for their own actions, and yet God will use their actions, their sins to accomplish his purposes. What they do, they do of their own free choice, and every choice is a real choice, so much so that they'll be judged for those choices, and yet what they do doesn't overturn the plan of God, it affirms. the plan of God. That's something that is incredible to me. That God can use all of that to bring about His will. You know these people always talking about miracle. They want to see a miracle of God. Let me tell you something more awe-inspiring than a miracle is that God can arrange Detailed things in his providence to bring about his will. Using hundreds of people, using their free will decisions, and yet none of those decisions can overturn God's plan. And what they do, they do of their own choice, and yet they are affirming and upholding the plan of God. That is much more awe-inspiring to me. than than a miracle. And it happens all the time. And so we see this in the life of Joseph. The events that happened in the life of Joseph, God sovereignly planned those events, and yet the things that happened in the life of Joseph were done by man. Both of those things are true. God was sovereign over his life, and each of the men that did what they did, they were responsible for their choices, and that is called concurrence. Concurrence. You know when Joseph uh excuse me wrong guy let me jump to another story here. When Jonah was thrown overboard into the sea. Remember that story? Who threw Jonah who threw Jonah overboard? It was those mariners, those sailors on the boat that threw him overboard. Remember that? But later on, Jonah would say this, Lord, you cast me into the deep. You threw me into the deep. God controlled all that event. God was going to punish Jonah. God said, Jonah, go to Nineveh. And Jonah said, no way, I'm going to Tarshis. And God arranged a storm. And then God brought a whale. And Jonah went from riding on a boat to riding in a submarine, as I like to say. And God used that whale to take him to where he's supposed to go. But here's the deal. Jonah said, God You threw me overboard. Now wait a minute, Jonah. It was those mariners that threw you overboard. Yeah, that's right. But it was God that threw them overboard. That is concurrence, and we see it all through the scripture. And since God is sovereign over all, we can trust Him even when things don't go our way. Even when things are hard and they're difficult. So we learn these lessons from Jonas, or excuse me, get these guys right, from Joseph's life. We learn this from Joseph's life. God is sovereign over the parental mistakes we endure. Look in Genesis 37, look at verses 1 to 4. Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brothers, and the lad was with his with uh with the sons of Bilhah and the sons of uh uh Zilphah, his father's wives, and Joseph sought unto his father their evil report. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children because he was a son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him Let's face it, none of us had perfect parents. Many times we pay for the mistakes that our parents made, as we see in the life of uh Joseph. Uh he was he he probably was paying for some of the mistakes that his father Jacob made. Jac Jacob was not the greatest father in the world. He made many mistakes. He allowed you know, wise to engage in warfare in his family. He allowed his older sons to do some terrible things. If you read the story uh in Genesis um When their sister Dinah was taken advantage of by one of the Canaanites, the the sons of Jacob, they uh they basically committed genocide, you could say, because they went into Shechem and they killed so many people. And yet Jacob doesn't do much about it. And here we have another parental mistake where Jacob loves his son Joseph above the other children. Let me tell you something, parents, don't favor one child over the rest. Every child is a gift from the Lord. Now I will confess for some children you have to put the pedal to the medals. I love them. You know, but you know what, we and I I aren't jokingly say that, but every child is a unique gift from God given to us for a specific reason. And we we love our children evenly. And uh but they but here in in Jacob's family, they could tell that their father loved Jacob more than all the rest. And that caused a lot of resentment in the family. They began to resent Joseph. And when Joseph couldn't give a good report about his brothers, that didn't help the situation much. I mean Joseph's older brothers were basically a bunch of rowdy guys, again, who slaughtered a whole village because one guy raped their sister. They don't fear God. They're much like the Canaanites around them. With no fear of the Lord. But Joseph was a good kid. He was obedient. He was responsible. He loved the Lord. But Joseph's brothers hated him because Their father loved him above the others. And it says in verse 4, they could not speak peaceably unto him. And really we can translate that like this. They could not even so much as greet him. They couldn't abide his friendly speech, as one commentator, Sarna, writes. They rejected his every attempt to be friendly to him. But the point is this, Jacob seemed to be blind to all what he was doing in his family, causing this division by his favoritism, provoking feelings of resentment and all of that Maybe you're here tonight and maybe you're going through some difficulty in life because perhaps some of the things that your parents did were not all that wise. Let me tell you something, kids. If you're that's your position, you know Don't judge them too severely. All right. I'm one of those parents. We're doing the best we can. And sometimes we just make mistakes. Sometimes we just don't see things. And sometimes our children may have to pay the price for that. You cannot blame them for not pr protecting you from all the things that can come into your life and damage your life. Because parents can't be there 24-7. There's only so much that a parent can do. And so You know, even in this situation that arose in Joseph's life, with this resentment from his brothers, God's going to use even that. What he had to go through. God is sovereign over the foolish things we do. You know, Joseph didn't help matter as much. Look at verse 5 And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it to his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. And he said to them, Hear I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed, for behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and lo my sheaf arose and also stood up, and behold your sheep stood round about And made obeisance to my chief. And his brethren said unto him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet all the more for his dreams and for his words. Not smart Hey guys, I had a dream last night. Guess what? I'm king of the hill. You guys are all gonna worship me one day. I'm gonna be in charge. This is what's in my dream. I'm just telling you what I dream, guys. Alright, don't get mad at me I'm just telling you, you guys are all going to bow down to me one day. I suggest to you that no group of older brothers wants a little brother telling them that. And Joseph was probably not very wise to share that with these guys. They were, again, not just mean big brothers. These guys were murderous. They were thugs. And yet Joseph again seemed to be a little bit naive in all of this. So he shares these dreams. He even shares them with His parents, look at verse 9, and he dreamed yet another dream and told it his brethren and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream, and behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obedience to me. And he told it to his father and to his brethren. His father rebuked him and said unto him, What is the dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren and ye come to bow down ourselves to thee and to the earth? And his brethren envied him, but his father observed the sayings. So the sun, moon, and the stars are the father, mother, and brothers, and he told them about these dreams. And um now again I I think that Joseph was probably just a bit naive here as a seventeen year old boy who perhaps lacks the maturity and wisdom to share all of these things and this seemed to make things even even worse for him You know, sometimes the bad things that happen in our life are because of the naive and foolish things that we do. You know, that just happens. Uh I remember reading the story about the great missionary David Brainerd. Did you know he was expelled from Yale for saying something? When God was seen to be doing a revival among the students, there was a professor there that he didn't think was saved. And David Brainerd said, I don't think that professor is any more saved than that chair over here. Well, it got back to the professor, it wasn't good. And they expelled him. And uh even though there were some preachers that got together and said, look, you know, he's a good young man. You know, let's forgive him. If he asked for forgiveness, just let it go. But they would not. He was made an example of. They expelled him. But because of that, these men got together and they decided to open up another um college at that time and that later became Yale University. And so um I'm sorry, it later became uh Princeton. Let me get that right. He was expelled from Yale And that other college later became Princeton. And did you know that uh because he was not going to graduate from Yale He wanted to be a pastor, but in order in that day, in order to be a pastor, you had to have a degree from Yale to be a pastor, to be accepted, to be ordained. And since he would not graduate from Yale instead of graduate from another college, he decided rather than to be a pastor, he would go out and be a missionary to the Indians that no one was reaching. And that became his calling. And later on he wrote a book, The Life of David Brainerd, where it talks about his work as a missionary among the Indians. And do you know that book has been used to touch the life of almost every great missionary that followed? Jonathan Edwards would encourage everyone to pick up and read that book. One man read that book, the the st the uh life and journal of David Brainerd And uh he was so inspired by his story that he decided to start a college for Indians, and that college later was named Dartmouth College. You just name a list of missionaries who read that book and they were all greatly influenced by it. So the whole point is that God can even take the foolish things that we do and use them for his glory. God can't even turn those things around. God's sovereign over the parental mistakes we endure. He's sovereign over the foolish things we do. He's sovereign over the incidental people that we meet. Look at verse 12. Now, Jacob's going to send Joseph out to look for his brothers. And look at verse 12. And his brethren went to feed their flock in Shechem. Shechem's a place where they did a lot of damage. And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock and check them? Come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said unto him, Here am I. And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, and see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks, and bring me word again. So he sent him out of the Vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. And a certain man found him, and behold, he was wandering in the field. And the man asked him, saying, What seeketh thou? And he said, I seek my brethren. Tell me, I pray thee, where they feed the flocks. And the man said, They are departed hence. I heard them say Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren and found them in Dothan. Because Jacob was worried about his sons, because uh they had already done so much uh bad things in Shechem, that's where they killed so many people. Joseph was sent by his father to go check on his brothers, and he went to Shechem and they were not there. So what do you think he did next? And here's where we see the providence of God. Joseph probably would have gone back and said to his father, I went to Shechem, they weren't there, sorry, Dad. But something happened that changed that. There was a chance meeting in verse 15. A certain man The Bible doesn't even mention his name. It just says a certain man. And he happened to be there at that very time when Joseph was looking around. And uh I mean you just imagine an open field and here's this guy there. And here's Joseph and he's looking around, guys, hey what you looking for? I'm looking for uh about ten really mean, ugly guys. I'm looking for my brethren. And he goes, oh, you know, you know what? I happen to overhear their conversation. And I overheard where they're going to do in. And so what does Joseph do? He goes to Dothan. Now, if Joseph had not met that guy in that field at that time, imagine the timing there. He had to be there at the right time to see this man that's not even named, and that man happened to be at the right place at the right time to overhear the conversation of his brothers who said we're going to Dothan and then relay that to Joseph. Because if that had not happened, Joseph would have gone back to his father, he would have never eventually been sold into slavery and gone down to Egypt. This had to happen in order for God to fulfill his plan. What's that tell us? God's sovereign even over these details. These little details, these chance meetings. that happen. Just like large door can swing on small hinges, great events can swing on little details, little seemingly insignificant things. There are people that I call hinge people that God sends chance meetings with certain people that kind of change things for us when we meet those people. That's not an accident. God does that all the time. There are certain people in my life that God brought at certain times in my life that kind of changed the direction and where I was going to go. God is sovereign over the incidental people that we meet. God is sovereign over the ungodly evil that we encounter. Look at verse number 18. And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. And they said to one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. They see Joseph coming They recognize him because he's wearing that special coat of many colors that they hated. And uh in verse 19, they say, oh, here's this dream expert. And verse twenty, Come now, therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say, Some evil beast has devoured him, and we shall see what will become of his dreams. And so they decide that they are going to uh slay him and throw him into a pit And he said, Well just tell our dad, you know, some evil beast has done this. And verse twenty one, and Reuben heard it and he delivered him out of their hand and said, Let us not kill him. Let us not shed blood. That was their dis that was their earnest desire to to kill him. And Reuben kind of enters in, the oldest he intervenes, he persuades them not to kill his brothers or shed blood. But just throw Joseph into that pit. Let's just throw him into the pit. And we'll decide what to do. And then sure enough, plans change. Um, because there a band of Midianites are coming. That's a trade route, and they're coming along the route, and they're headed down towards Egypt. And so they basically decide that Let's do something different. This is the next point here. God's sovereign over the changed plans we experience. Here's Joseph going through this evil. Those brothers are doing something terrible to him. They want to kill him, but they just throw him into this cistern, this pit, and decide what to do with them. Why is Joseph going through that? Well, it's because of the evil of his brothers, but yet God still has a plan. And God is sovereign over even that. what Joseph is experiencing at that moment. And he's sovereign over the the changed plans we experience. Again, look in verse number 25. And as they sat down to eat bread, and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and behold, a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead with their camels, bearing spicery and balm and myrrh. and going to carry it down to Egypt. And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? Come and let us sell unto the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother and our flesh and his brethren were content. And so in verses twenty-nine down to verse thirty, he's sold into slavery. The plans have changed because it was not God's will for Joseph to be killed or to die. The Bible says this, the heart of man plans his way, but the Lord is the one who establishes the steps. Many are the plans in the mind of man, but it is the purpose of the Lord that is what shall stand. Proverbs 19, verse number 21 No one can make a decision that affects our lives without the permission and approval of Almighty God. No one can. No one can do that to us. because we are in the hand of God. And so the plan changed. And again, this is something important for us to understand because we go through Changes all the time in plans. You know, I I can think in my own life where it just looked like this was going to happen, this was certain, and then all of a sudden at the last minute, it just changed. I remember one time I was candidating for a church up in New Hampshire, and they flew me up there several times, first class. Each time. And, you know, just a big church and they were ready to bring me in as pastor and it all looked good. And, you know, we're waiting for the vote and the next thing you know, I'm thinking, you know, let's pack our bags, we're gonna live in New Hampshire. And it came back that one man on the board had a change of heart and it had a domino effect. And the rest of them said, well, if we can't decide, let's just say no. And that door closed. Now at the time I was distressed over that. But now I look back and I say, thank God. I could have been a real bona fide Yankee if I lived up there. I don't want to be from up to that far north. This is far north as I want to go. Right here in Maryland. And uh be up there among the New Yorkers and all those sort of people. By the way, the uh Ravens beat the New York Giants today. But even that little change of plan, God is sovereign He's sovereign over the parental mistakes we may have to endure, over the foolish things that we do, over the incidental people that we meet. He's sovereign over the changed plans that we experience. But he's also sovereign over the sorrowful deceptions that we hear. Because we look in verse number 29 on down to verse number 36. And basically this is a story where the sons make up a lie and deceive Jacob. By the way, does that sound familiar? Remember Jacob to seed his father? Whatever you uh sow, you're going to reap, right? And here's Jacob now being deceived by his sons. And they tell him that Joseph is dead. And look at verse 34. And Jacob ran his clothes. And put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourn for his son many days. I would suggest that there's no greater sorrow that a parent can ever bear is the sorrow of their child being dead. And Jose and Jacob really believed. That his son had died. And now here he is bearing this terrible sorrow. And so he rents his clothes and he mourns many days. And we see the hypocrisy of his brothers trying to comfort him. In verse 35, but he refuses to be comforted. How about telling the truth? That would comfort him. But that's not what they're going to do. There are many times in your life when someone will lie to you and deceive you. And the deception results in your deep sorrow. And it may be that they're not lying on purpose. It may be that they're giving you information that's just not true. And from their perspective, they think it's right, but it's not. It's not what it's not reality. They're giving you false information, and you're the victim of deception. And it brings sorrow into your life. God will use even that. For his for your good and for his glory, he'll use even that. And so God is sovereign over all of these things that took place. Now, we know what happened. We don't have time to go into all the rest of what took place in the life of Joseph. But he experienced all of these things. And uh he probably thought while he was in that caravan on his way down to Egypt, my life is over. My life is is over. I read one time of a man who said that. He was so depressed over some bad things that had happened in his life that he just said, My life is over. I'm no longer any good. That man was Winston Churchill, and what he didn't realize is that his life was really just beginning. God was going to use him and the nation of England. in Great Britain to do many, many good things. And Joseph, probably at the age of seventeen, was thinking, My life is ended. It's over. But what he didn't know is that his life was really just beginning. Because God was going to use all those sorrows, those difficulties that he went through. God was going to bring it all together, and he was going to use it To help many people. It was all part of God's plan. This is how God would get Jacob's family down to Egypt And they would live in Egypt for all that time, and they would come together as a nation there, and later later they would be delivered out of Egypt. And Joseph could see not not at the time and of course we know in the life of Joseph there were other bad things he had to go through. He had to be had to be falsely accused. thrown into prison, there for a long time, forgotten, until finally God and his sovereignty uh brought Joseph out of that prison and he made him prime minister of Israel. This was all God's doing. Joseph, when he went through those things, couldn't see it. But later on, many years later, as he looked back, He could see the hand of God. John J. Murray sums it up like this. The plan of God is perfect. The plan of God is exhaustive The plan of God is for my ultimate good. The plan of God is secret. We can't always know what God's doing. God hides it from me until it happens. I discover it day by day, until it unfolds. And Joseph could look back and he could see the hand of God. Look in Genesis chapter 50 and look at verse number 19. Genesis chapter 50, look at verse number 19. And he said this, and Joseph said unto them. If you're not, am I in the place of God? This is Joseph's brothers coming to him. This is many years afterwards, when Joseph is now prime minister in Egypt, has a man of a lot great power. He moves his family to Egypt to take care of them during the times of famine, gives them a place to live. Pharaoh treats them well. The brothers now see that Joseph is a man of great power. And Jacob dies. And now the brothers are thinking, you know what? This is a perfect time for Joseph to get back at us for all the evil that we did to him. Surely he's going to show revenge now. Dad's gone. He'll change. And so they come to Joseph and they are Look back up to verse 18. And his brethren also went and fell down before his face. And they said, Behold, we be thy servants. Translation, Joseph, you're not still mad at us, are you? But all that stuff that went on, you know, are we good? And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God? But as for you, you thought it evil against me. But God meant it under good, to bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people alive. And Joseph said, God did it all to save many people. God had a plan, he had a purpose, and I can see now that God was simply fulfilling that purpose. He was fulfilling that whole purpose. And furthermore, that purpose doesn't end here. God is going to take the descendants of our family, and he's going to deliver them out of Egypt after many years, and he's going to bring them back to the promised land. And when he does, you guys make sure you bring my bones with you. Take my bones. Get them out of here with you. And that's the faith of Joseph. That's the reason he had such faith. Because he could see the hand of God working in his life. And he believed the word of God. He believed that God was a God who can be trusted. Can I ask you tonight, do you think God can be trusted? Do you believe he can be trusted? It's easy to say that when everything's going well. But the question is, can you say that when you're in a caravan? being carried away into slavery. Or when you're in a pit, or when you're in a prison forgotten about and lonely. And when you're enduring difficulty, suffering, hardship, at that moment, do you believe that God can be trusted at that time A person who walks by faith will learn to see the hand of God even during the most difficult times of sorrow. That's the walk of faith. And may God help us to have that. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your word and these beautiful narratives in the Old Testament that show us your your work. your sovereign hand in the lives of your people. And Lord, we can claim with total assurance the promise of Romans 8. 28. We know that all things work together for good. To those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And Lord, may we be a people who trust you, even in the difficult times. Help us, Lord, to walk day by day by faith. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.