I'm going to do it continue tonight and then next week and we'll be done. But I just thought I would preach out of Matthew chapter ten. The Lord kind of directed my attention to this chapter when I was reading it a few weeks ago And these are things that we really need to know as disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I want to tell you, it's wonderful to be saved, isn't it? We have so many blessings. We have it guaranteed an eternal home in heaven. Once we get saved and we trust Jesus Christ as our Savior, we're never going to lose that salvation because we could never in our own strength lose what we in our own strength could never attain to begin with. And so our salvation is secure. So as Christians we have so much to look forward to, but not only eternal life in heaven, but the abundant life that we receive here on earth, the peace that we have To know the Lord, peace that comes from the Holy Spirit, and the joy that we receive from the Holy Spirit, and the blessings of answered prayer, and on we could go. One blessing after another after another. It is truly a joy to know the Lord Jesus Christ and to be a Christian. But having said all that, we have to also realize that becoming a Christian doesn't guarantee a trouble-free life, does it? In fact, I think one of the biggest lies that is promoted, I think Satan promotes this lie, it kind of goes like this, you know, if you have a problem and you come to Jesus, all your problems will go away. You just come to Jesus Christ, and if you trust Jesus Christ, he'll get you out of all those problems. And so here's a person, they trust the Lord Jesus Christ, and their problems don't get better, they get worse Things get worse for them. And so Satan comes and says, see, see what you get by trusting Christ? You were better off before you ever trusted him. And so therefore there are some people that come to Christ under false pretenses and then they end up falling away. They're kind of like the parable that Jesus gave about the sower. when he sows the phone uh uh the seed in the soil, there there's a certain kind of soil that it seems like that when the seed is planted in that soil, there's foliage, it begins to spring up, but when persecution comes, what happens to that plant? It just withers away. When the sun comes out, the plant dries up, and that's a symbol of persecution when it comes. That was a person who came to Christ under false pretenses. And there are some people that come to Christ that way. That's why Jesus said in Matthew 11, Blessed is he that is not offended in me. Or we could say it like this, Jesus was saying, Blessed is the one who doesn't stumble over me. Or another way to say it is, blessed is he who keeps from stumbling over me, or who keeps from falling away on account of me. This is again someone who doesn't really understand the call to discipleship. And by the way, when Jesus gave those words, he was talking to the disciples of John the Baptist who had come to question Jesus to see if he were really the Messiah. And this was a question from John himself. Why? Because John the Baptist was now in prison. He was suffering. And he was questioning, is this the real Messiah? And there are maybe some who come to Christ and they question, when they go through a time of suffering or persecution, is this really worth it? I mean some people say I didn't sign up for this. Well friend you can't accuse Jesus of false advertisement. Because when Jesus made the call to discipleship, what did he say? He said, Pick up your what? Your cross and follow me. Now the cross today people like to wear a cross around their neck as a necklace, it's a beautiful thing. But back at when Jesus gave these words, what was the cross to people at that time when Jesus said that? The cross was the Roman means of persecution. It was the Roman means of death. It was the Roman means of capital punishment. When a person picked up their cross, they realized that they were going to die by execution. To put it in today's terms, it would be like saying, pick up your your gas chamber and follow me. Pick up the electric chair and follow me. Because it is a symbol of death, and Jesus meant death to self. He said also deny yourself and follow me. Now again, we have so many blessings as Christians. We have the promise of his peace and his joy in the midst of trials. But Jesus is reminding his disciples here in chapter 10 that I'm sending you forth into this world, and when you go forth, it's not going to be easy. The call to follow Christ, the call to discipleship, is not an easy call. Now remember here in Matthew chapter 10, Jesus was preparing his disciples for the time when he would leave And what he's doing now is he's sending them out on short-term mission trips, and he's giving them instructions, and then they're coming back and they're reporting to Jesus, and then Jesus further instructs them, and he sends them out again But he's preparing them and he's giving them instructions. And you saw last week we were talking about the duties of disciples and some of the things that they would need, and we kind of went over that. We talked about a delegated authority, a determined mission strategy. He gave them all this, a distinct gospel A divine affirmation, a debt-free attitude, freely, you have received, freely give. A dependent faith and a discerning spirit And you remember, we left off talking about the fact that Jesus said to them, not everyone is going to receive you. Look in chapter 10, look down to verse number 11. He said, into whatever city you or town ye shall enter, inquire who in it is worthy, and thereabide ye go thence. And when ye come into a house, salute it And if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it, but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you. And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when you depart out of that city, or house, or city, shake off the dust of your feet. Now Jesus here in this last instruction is telling the disciples you need to have a discerning spirit. You need to remember that not everyone is going to receive you. Not everyone is going to welcome you. Not everyone is going to welcome the message of the gospel. And here he was telling his disciples, his followers, that the world is hostile to the message of grace sometimes. The world is hostile to his people, the church. Now I'm not trying to be negative tonight. I'm just trying to be a realist. These are the words, not my words, these are the words of our Savior Jesus Christ. And these are the words that Jesus gave to prepare them to be followers of him. And here Jesus is going to, it's going to get even worse, as we're going to see in these next few verses. Because Jesus now is not going to talk just about not being received or rudeness. It goes way beyond that It goes way beyond not being received. Jesus basically is going to tell them, you're going to be betrayed, you're going to be berated, you're going to be blackballed, beaten, and perhaps even buried. Some may die. In fact, the words that he uses, look in verse 16 of chapter 10. Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of what? Wolves. That's not a very optimistic prospect there. I'm going to send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. Jesus said the kind of environment that I'm going to send you in It's going to be a hostile environment. Now again, we have his presence, we have his joy, we have his peace. We have so many blessings of being in Christ. I I I I just I can't imagine not being a Christian and not being in Christ But friend, just remember this. Jesus says to his disciples, and this message is still true today even to the church, that the world is hostile to the church at times. The world is hostile to the message of the gospel. So how are we to respond to that? How are we to prepare our hearts? for this. Well, he gives us some instructions here. And here's the first one. Number one, I'm just going to give you seven principles here. Number one is, first of all, realize the risk. Realize the risk. Again, Jesus said, I send you forth a sheep in the midst of wolves. This is a very graphic illustration. This is Jesus telling them how dangerous it's going to be for you when I send you out Because how do wolves treat sheep? Not very nice, right? In fact, the wolf was the most dangerous predator that the sheep had. And shepherds knew this. Shepherds knew that wolves do what to sheep? They devour sheep. They're very dangerous. I was reading and doing some research on this. On an article that talked about this very thing, February 3rd, 2010, a sh a sheep herder reported that one wolf killed 26 sheep in one day. And he went on to report that wolves don't just kill sheep for survival, he said, but for sport. But for pleasure. I didn't know that. Wolves kill sheep just for sport. I read another article that said five wolves took on 99 sheep, killing 94 of them. Also read a report of the case where two wolves entered into a sheep enclosure killed 96 sheep in one hour's time Another report said wolves killed 120 sheep on a ranch near Dillon, Montana, and those who attended that claim that they've never seen such a massive killing of sheep. That's what wolves do. Wolves massacre sheep. So how do we respond? Look again in verse 16. Be ye therefore as wise as serpents and as harmless as doves. Knowing this hostility. Knowing the danger, how are you to conduct yourself? You're to be as wise as serpents, harmless as doves. Now Jesus is obviously using images here to speak about some spiritual truth, some spiritual reality. Wise serpents, what did he mean by that? He's here talking about about really just a shrewdness, a wisdom. In fact, the serpent was a symbolic in the ancient world for wisdom. So Jesus is saying you need to be wise. You need to be careful. And the manner in which you preach truth, and the manner in which you walk, you need to be wise. The Apostle Paul said this: walk in wisdom towards them that are without, or them that are on the outside, them that are on the outside of the church. And so we are to be wise knowing that we live in the midst of wolves. This is a shrewd, sanctified shrewdness that Jesus is talking about here. William Henderson wrote this. He said, the keenness here recommended Involves insight into the nature of one's surroundings, circumspection, sanctified common sense, wisdom to do the right thing at the right time and place and in the right manner. And a serious attempt always to discover the best means to achieve the highest goals. Wise as serpents, but then he said, what else? Harmless as doves. And here he's referring to an innocence a purity of manners, an integrity, a harmlessness. While we are walking in wisdom, we never compromise truth. And we never cross the line and to do that which is not right, to that which is not pure. This is talking about our character, our honesty, our integrity. And so Jesus says, be harmless as doves here. So realize the risk, but also recognize the wolves. Again, look at verse number 17, but beware of men, for they will deliver you up to counsels, and they will scourge you in their synagogues. Now, here he's saying you have to recognize who the wolves are. Where do they come from? Remember, he said, you're sheep in the midst of wolves. What does that mean? What kind of image is that? That means they're all around us, beloved In this world today, there's hostility all around. We need to be prepared for that. Jesus said, you better be ready for this. They're all around. Now, where did they come from? Well, first of all, from the religious world. You know, if you think that they're not wolves in the religious circles, you're wrong. There can be wolves in denominational circles. There can be wolves in church circles. Look in verse 17 again. But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to the councils, and they will scourge you in their what? In their synagogues. Here Jesus is referring to the religious world. Councils, church councils. You read in church history and what you'll find is many martyrs were set to be killed as a result of a council of religious people meeting together and determining their fate. These are people who simply stood on the Word of God and stood on truth. And here Jesus mentioned synagogues And it it was i it was this was to be a tribunal of twenty-three judges who would render a verdict followed by a sentencing. If they if anyone in the synagogue felt like you were not preaching truth or teaching truth, they could call together their They're a group of judges and they could sentence a person if you live back in that day. The Old Testament law required no more than forty stripes to be given to each victim So they always gave thirty-nine to make sure they were within the law. One judge would recite a passage from the Old Testament, another would call out a number of blows to be given. And this is what happens sometimes. Now, think about the Apostle Paul and others When Paul would go to a town, where's the first place he would go? He would go to a synagogue. And then he would begin to teach. And normally a visiting rabbi was giving that was given the honor of reading the scripture and teaching. And we read in the book of Acts in many of those places when Paul entered in, they didn't receive the message very well. And we read where Paul said, he was beaten like this. You know, with uh 40 stripes save one, he went through this several times. The disciples went through this as well. And so one place is in the religious world, another place is in government. Look in verse 18. And ye shall be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them and the Gentiles. Human government has often persecuted God's people. Governments have attacked the church through history. And I don't need to give you all the stats about that. We know that to be true. We can look through church history. We can look around the world and see how even today Christians are being persecuted all over the world. Did you know that? We are so secure here in America. We are so blessed here in America because we have our freedom. And the only thing we really get here in this country is perhaps scorn and derision and rebuke from ungodly people Very rarely do we hear of anyone being beaten or someone who has to sacrifice their life for the gospel. We don't hear that here in America. But beloved, I want you to know that around the world that's happening all over That's happening all over. In fact, I was reading about in some of the countries where it's the worst, China, the communist government government there has intensified against Christians, the Sudan, Arab-backed Muslims are persecuting the church. Saudi Arabia is perhaps the most oppressive. And other places in the world, North Korea, Indonesia, and so on down the list, India and Egypt In all these places Christians are being persecuted and being killed. And we hear of this uh even in ISIS that is killing Christians and beheading Christians. All over the world Christians are dying for their faith. So governments, but also even friends and family. Look in verse 21. Jesus said, sometimes it's even friends and family. Verse 21, and the brother shall deliver up the brother to death. And the father, the child, and the child shall rise up against their parents and cause them to be put to death. Sometimes the opposition, the hostility comes even within your own family circles Circle of family and friends. Can happen there. The word delivered up here, paradidomi, means to hand over to authorities. And it has the idea of betrayal. I think I I told you two years ago when I went to Ethiopia, the first day I got there, they took me to a uh a house And in that house there were about 50 people Muslims who converted to Christianity. And there were many secretly there. For fear of persecution. And I remember the the uh the um the iman who was the head of this, who had converted to Christ and led these others to Christ, was telling the story of one lady who was there with her children This was a lady who was a Muslim, but she converted to Christianity. She received Jesus as her Savior. She taught the gospel to her children. Her children all received Jesus Christ. When the husband and the father found out about this, you know what he did? He beat this woman unconscious. He tried to kill her. He kicked her out of the house. Kicked the children out of the house. And she was completely desolate. She was completely without. She had no place to go. And this little secret church of converted Muslims brought her in and they together pulled put their resources together and they were taking care of this woman. I saw her there. They were coming together. You know what that reminded me of? The early church in the book of Acts. The church in Jerusalem. It was happening right there before my eyes This little secret church. And again, they were meeting secretly, they were being wise as serpents and harmless as doves, because they knew that if their famil if their family, if their friends found out that they had converted to Christ for many of them, that would mean they would be handed over to authorities, and they would be persecuted, and some of them would be killed. But that's the way it is. And Jesus warned about this. He said in verse number 22, and ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. But he that endureth to the end shall be saved. So he extends it not just to family, not just to the religious circles and government circles and families and friends, but all men. He said, You'll be hated of all men, the world in general. Will hate you. Wolves come from all over, Jesus says. And you better be ready for that. But here's the third thing. Not only realize the risks, recognize the wolves, but also rely on the Spirit. He says to them that look in verse number 19. But when they deliver you, take no thought how or what ye shall speak, for it shall be given to you in that same hour what ye shall speak. For it is not Ye that speak, but who? But the Spirit of your Father, which speaketh in you. Don't rely on your own strength. Rely on the Spirit. A person who was delivered or arrested up, who had to make a defense, whose very life would be determined on how they would answer Can you imagine being in a situation like this? You're defending yourself, you're defending the gospel, and how you answer could determine whether you live or you die? You better choose your words carefully at that point. And here the Lord says, don't worry about that moment, because I will speak through you. I will give you the words. This is not an excuse for a pastor not to study for a sermon, all right? I don't have to study. The Lord said he would give me the words. That's not what this is. This is in a time of persecution when you're delivered up, when your very life is determined on how you may answer. In that moment, what will happen is the Lord will give you the words to speak. And so you depend upon the Lord to give you words because you never know what the Lord is going to use you to say at that moment. It could be a word that the world needs to hear at that moment. How God's going to use you. I was reading the story not too long ago of John Huss. Who was John Huss? John Huss was a man who was burned at the stake. And this was in July in 1415. He was a man who was part of the Catholic Church who began to pull away from the church. This was even before the Reformation. Because he studied the Bible and he believed that the Bible was supreme over the church, over tradition. He believed in sola scriptura, scripture alone, to determine what he should believe. And that was dangerous to the church. And some of his ideas were considered heretical. And so he was judged to be guilty of heresy, and he was sentenced to be burned at the stake. And that was in July of 1415. And right when they took him up to deliver him to being burned at the stake, there were this is what he said. Who basically sentenced him to die, said while they were going to burn him, they said, now we will cook the goose. Because the name Hus, John Hus, the name Hus in Bohemian means goose. And so he was trying to make a play on words there. Now we will cook this goose. And this is what John Huss replied. He said, yes, replied John Huss, but there will come a swan in a hundred years that you will not silence. Those were prophetic words. I think the Lord gave them words to speak at that moment. They did burn them at the stake. But a hundred years later There was a man by the name of Martin Luther who picked up the writings of John Huss. And by the way, did you know that's where we get the expression uh his goose is cooked? We get it from that one Snapshot in church history when they burned John Huss at the state. Martin Luther came along later And he read the writings, he was rummaging through some books in a library. Martin Luther was in an Augustinian monk, a Catholic priest And he was trying to find answers. His whole own soul was tortured. He was trying to find peace for himself, how he could have peace with God. And he was rummaging through a library and he saw volumes of sermons by a man by the name of John Huss And he began to read those sermons. And those sermons had an amazing impact on Luther because they established in his heart one of the key principles that That basically is a pillar of the Reformation, and that is sola scriptura. And that's the idea that the Bible alone, we don't, you see, it's not tradition in the church over scripture, it's scripture over the church. But in that day, they thought that tr tradition was supreme over the scripture. But when Luther read Huss He was moved by his writings. And Luther said this. He said, I was overwhelmed with astonishment. I could not understand for what cause They had heard so great a man who explained the scriptures with so much gravity and skill. Huss became a hero to Martin Luther because he preached the Bible. And this was what began a reaction in the heart of Martin Luther to seek to seek the truth in the Scripture alone. And it was his study of the Scripture, his study of the languages. that ultimately led to Martin Luther coming to the realization that salvation is by faith, not by works. It's by faith alone. By the way, did you know that tomorrow, what's tomorrow? October 31st, what is that? How many of you said Halloween? Raise your hand. Shame on you. It's Reformation Day tomorrow. Tomorrow, October 31, 1517, is when Martin Luther nailed the 95 thesis to the door of a church in Wittenberg, which sparked the whole Reformation. So when you think of October thirty-first, don't think about Halloween, all right? Think about Reformation Day, the day when the Reformation started because The gospel was rediscovered in all of its simplicity and all of its purity. By faith you come to Jesus Christ. That was when it started. And by the way, when Martin Luther, the bishop who sentenced John Huss to death was later laid to rest beneath an altar in a church. And when Martin Luther a hundred years later was dedicated to the ministry, they had him laid sprawled out On an altar, buried beneath that altar was that bishop that sentenced John Huss So I I I kind of like to imagine what happened there that day when John Hush was burned at the stake was when uh the the bishop said, now we will cook the goose And Martin Luther responded, or John Huss responded, yes, but there's going to come along a s a swan that you cannot silence. I can't prove it, but I think the bishop probably said, over my dead body Because literally Martin Luther, when he was dedicated to ministry, was fraught out over the dead body of that bishop. He was the swan. That could not be silenced, who later brought people back to the simple message of justification by faith alone in Jesus Christ. At that moment, literally, John Huss Relying on the Spirit of God, and the Spirit gave him the words to speak at that very moment. So we are to realize the risks We are to recognize the wolves. We are to rely on the Spirit. But also remain in the race. Look again in verse 22. And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake, but he that endureth to the end shall be saved. That is, Jesus here is not teaching a work salvation. He's not teaching if you endure to the end, you'll be saved. But rather, he's saying that if you persevere to the end, that will reveal that you are saved. That will reveal that your faith is genuine because a true disciple of Jesus Christ will not quit. He will persevere. He or she will persevere. They will continue on, no matter how dangerous it may get, no matter how difficult it may be. They will persevere to the end. And that's what Jesus is saying. The ones who persevere to the end are the ones that reveal that their faith is real. So remain in the race. Continue on. But here's another thing. Run from the danger. Look in verse 23. But when they persecute you in this city, flee into another For verily I say unto you, ye shall not have gone over the cities of Israel till the Son of Man be come. And here Jesus is saying, listen, don't endanger yourself. It's not a measure of courage if you just stay in one place where you know you're going to be killed. Be wise. There's times when you may have to move on. You change your geography, but you don't change your theology It's wise at times to run. In fact, the word for flee is fuego in the Greek, where we get the word fugitive, and it's present tense, keep on continually fleeing. In other words, don't give them a target. Don't want to be a martyr. Don't offer yourself and say, I'm going to stay here and I know they're going to kill me. That's okay. I want to be a martyr. No, don't have a martyr's complex. Be wise, is what he's saying There's so many places that need the gospel. There's so many places that need the word of God. Don't offer yourself up There's times when you have to use wisdom. There's times when you have to flee. There's times when you have to run. And so go ahead and do that. Flight is not cowardice. It's simply prudence and wisdom. We read of the Apostle Paul many times where he had to flee or move from one city to another and plant the gospel there in another place and then from there move on to another place The Lord is saying, listen, flight sometimes is wise. But then here's the next thing. Remember the Savior, verse 24. The disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his Lord. It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master, and the servant as his lord. And if they have called the master of the house, be Elzebub, how much more shall they call them of his household? And so here Jesus is teaching, look You're not above your teacher. The disciple's not above the teacher. The disciple is the learner. And if they call your master Beelzebub, they're going to call you the same thing. Now we remember that, and by the way, they will do this in Matthew chapter 12, and perhaps this was already going around some, where when Jesus did a miracle, they say, oh, he does it in the power of Satan, he does it in the power of Beelzebub Who is Beelzebub? Well Beelzebub in the Old Testament was a Canaanite god, and Beelzebub with the L on the end means Lord of the high places. But the Jews and the Israelites, in order to make derision of that Canaanite God, changed the L to a B from Beel's a bull to Beelzebob. Because Bielzabub means Lord of the manure pile. Now I'm sure the Canaanites didn't appreciate that. Or Lord of the Flies. Why is that? Well because wherever there's a manure pile, there's flies. You know, we you know that. And so it was a term of derision. But it was a term that came to be applied to Satan himself. They called Satan Beelzebub. And so can you imagine them taking this term and applying it to the Lord Jesus Christ? What a blasphemous thing to say. What a ugly, ungodly thing to say of one who is so pure, so innocent, the Son of God, God in the flesh, and yet that's what they did They applied this to Jesus. One of the worst blasphemies you could ever give. They gave to Jesus. Now, beloved, if they will blaspheme Christ, what will they do to me and what will they do to you? What will they say of me? What would they say of you? And this is what Jesus is saying. Look, just remember your master. If they call him Beelzebub, what are they going to do to others? Those that are in the household And so if you become, listen, here's the bottom line. The more you become like Jesus Christ, the more you are a target for Satan to come after you. That's just the reality. They're going to come after you because you're like the Lord Jesus Christ. Again in John 15. 20, Jesus said, Remember the word that I said unto you, a servant is not greater than his master And if they persecuted me, they also will persecute you. And if they kept my word, they will also keep yours. So Jesus says, remember your master, remember the Savior. And then he says, refuse to fear. Look at verse 26. Fear them not, therefore, for there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, and hid that shall not be made known. In verse twenty-eight he says again the same thing, and fear them not them which kill the body but are not able to kill the soul. Again in verse number thirty-one he says again, Fear ye not, therefore, three times In these verses, Jesus says, don't be afraid and don't fear. And one reason is because of the judgment of God. At the final judgment, God is going to expose all things. Don't be afraid of them. There's a judgment coming But also he says, uh you're we need to fear God more than man. In verse 29, fear not them which are able to k to kill the body But are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both body and soul in hell. Listen, we we fear God more than man. Why? Because while man might be able to kill our body, only God Can destroy the soul. Talking about judgment in hell. God has control over the soul. So we don't fear man, we fear God. He's the one who alone determines eternal destinies. And so we must fear the Lord. And then notice this word that he gives us here in verse 29, when he says, Are not two sparrows sold? for a farthing, and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your father, but the very hairs of your head are numbered. Here's another reason we're not to fear, you know why? Because God is in sovereign control in your life and in my life And nothing can happen to us but that God allows it to happen. It's under His sovereign providence and permission. This is what Jesus is talking about. In this time when you're in danger, you might be in danger in this world, but no one can do anything to you unless God allows it. You know why? Because he's so sovereign that the very hairs of your head are numbered. When I was getting ready for church and I combed my hair and some hairs fell out, the Lord knew exactly what numbers they were Because he said the very hairs of your head are numbered. He knows everything about me. And nothing can happen to me unless God sovereignly allows it to happen. And what we see here again in this chapter is again the the concurrence between sovereignty and responsibility. Early he said, listen, don't make yourself a martyr. If you need to run, run. Be responsible. Be wise as serpents. Be harmless as doves. There are times when you might have to flee and hide. But just also remember this. If anything does happen to you, it won't happen to you unless I sovereignly allow it and permit it for my own purpose. So we see both of these things happening here again. And this is another reason why we are not to fear, because we know that God is in control of our life. He's in control of all things that take place in our life. And I don't know about you, but that gives me a lot of comfort to know that God is in control. And that nothing can happen to me unless it be by the will of God. That's why I've said before, and some people kind of raise their eyebrows when I say this: listen, a mosquito can't bite me unless it be by the will of God. Think about it. What if I'm in Africa, a mosquito bites me, I get malaria, I die, I go to heaven. God says, Jerry, what are you doing here? It's not time for you to be here yet. Oh well God I was in Africa. I get hit by a mosquito and I got malaria and I died. And God says, well, you know, I I'm sovereign over the big things, but I'm not sovereign over the flight of a mosquito. I'm sorry that one got by me Bummer. We're gonna have to replant things down there on earth. Because of one little mosquito that bit Jerry. We've got to we've got to re- we've got to redo the whole blueprint now. No. Nothing can happen to you or me unless it be by the will of God. And in those times, God has a sovereign purpose. That's why we don't fear. That's why God says you don't have to be afraid. And when you follow me, Just realize I am in control. And so here Jesus is giving us these list of things to warn us But also you say, well now how do I apply this? This wasn't what I was coming to church to hear tonight that I've got to run for my life No, listen, we just we are looking at the words of our master, and I'll tell you how this applies to my life. I want to be faithful as a disciple of Christ. I want to persevere. It seems like that here in America we have such a weak, shallow Christianity that the least little thing keeps us from being faithful to Christ. When here Jesus is warning his disciples of death. And around the world there are Christians that when they meet, when they go to church to meet, to come to a meeting like we are here tonight, they are risking their very life. to come. But here in America, if it's raining too hard, we stay home. That's a weak, shallow Christianity And surely the Lord is not pleased with that. This kind of passage here in Matthew chapter 10 calls us to a greater devotion, a greater faithfulness, a greater commitment To our Lord Jesus Christ. If you claim to be a disciple of Christ, you better realize what that commitment requires. And you better be willing to live up to it. So let's be good disciples of Christ. Let's follow him with all of our heart. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, help us, Lord, to take to heart these words. There's such a commitment that comes with being a follower of you. Forgive us for the times, Lord, when we've wavered in that commitment. Help us, Lord. To walk in a worthy manner, to walk in a worthy way, to pick up our cross, and to follow you. So Father, take these words, seal them to every hearing heart here tonight, and we pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.