Uh I want you to take your Bibles tonight and open please to the book of Romans, chapter 8. Now, for the last few weeks I've been just kind of doing a little series on the Christian's war against sin. Uh we've been studying First Timothy, and we're going to get back to finish that up, but this is kind of a parenthetical series that I've been doing, and this was really at the request of some that are just seem to be struggling in this area of their Christian life, and understandably so. And sometimes the Christian life can be very frustrating. This is because we are constantly at warfare with our inward sin and depravity. And sometimes Christians can get so discouraged over this that they ask questions like, How can I truly be saved and just continue to fail in this manner? So I'm hoping that this series will be an encouragement to believers. Because if you know the Lord Jesus Christ, the desire of your heart will be to please him. And to learn to live victoriously over sin in our life. All of us do battle against that sin Now the Apostle Paul knew these frustrations. In fact, that's what we've been studying. We looked, not last week, Dr. Mortenson was here, but the week before that, we looked at Romans 7 and we saw the great frustration that the Apostle Paul himself experienced with this battle with indwelling sin. And so far, let me just kind of summarize some things I've tried to emphasize in this learning this doctrine of sanctification we could call it and and admittedly when you get to Romans chapter 6 and 7 and 8 there's some deep theology there that you have to really focus on to and pay attention to to grasp and you probably aren't going to get it just one time through. You have to really study and meditate on it. But what we've learned, first of all, is that we have died to sin. We do not have to sin because we have died. We learned this in Romans 6, verses 1 to 11. Paul taught us that the old man, that underregenerate nature, the nature that we inherited from Adam. Now that we are in Christ, that old nature that once ruled us with a rod of iron now has no more dominion over you as a now that you're a child of God. Before salvation, you were inseparably linked to that old sin nature, but now that you're saved, you are dead to that old sin nature. Dead meaning that relationship is now severed. We don't have to continue in sin because of the fact that we died to sin. When do we do that? In Christ, when you became a Christian, you are united to Jesus Christ. You're identified with Jesus Christ. And now because of that, you died to sin And so therefore now we yield the members of our body as instruments of righteousness unto God. That's a good thing to know. Because of our relationship to Christ, we're dead to sin, and now we can yield our members. to God. Number two, another lesson that we learn is that victory over sin is impossible in our own strength. We, even though we died to sin, the sin nature is still very real. And it's very possible for a believer to fall back into old patterns of behavior. The old sin nature continues to cry out to us. That old man still wants to control us, to dominate us. And so every day it's a battle. And victory over sin, this indwelling sin, we can't do it in our own strength. Now, Paul knew this from his own experience. Paul wanted to do what was right, he wanted to please God, but he understood that just by uh the law itself and his own efforts, that that victory over the indwelling sin was not possible. That's what we learn in chapter 7. And Paul was battling with indwelling sin. He failed to defeat sin in his own strength. And this is a reminder to all of us that our own strength is not enough. We can conquer sin, but our personal effort is not enough. It's important to understand in our struggle against sin because there are some that teach that your strength is enough to achieve victory over sin. There are some that actually teach that. For example, uh some of you might have heard of the the famous evangelist Charles Finney. Um I'm not a real fan of Charles Finney. I don't think he was a true preacher of the of righteousness. I think he preached a false gospel and I pre I I think that he um he wrote a systematic theology, which is not a systematic theology at all if you ever try to read it. But he taught that it's possible And by the way, he said that you're saved as long as you obey Jesus. That your justification is based upon your sanctification. So as long as you're obeying Jesus, you are saved. But the moment you stop obeying Christ, you lose your salvation. He taught that you can fall from heaven. You can be in heaven, and if you disobey Jesus in heaven, you can fall out of heaven. I'm glad I don't believe that. And you shouldn't either. Now, how did he justify that kind of teaching? And by the way, he also said it's possible for you, as someone who is saved, and his version of being saved is not what we would call it, but he said it's possible for you to To be sinless, to live above sin, and you can do it in your own strength. And what what was the verse that he used to justify that? Deuteronomy 6. You you thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. And then he would read that verse and say, Okay, there it is. God said it's possible for you to love him with all your heart, mind, and strength. And it's possible in your own strength, therefore to be victorious over sin. That's a dangerous error and one that leads to further error Before we get victory over indwelling sin, we must come to the realization that we, in our own strength, we cannot do it. We must kind of come to the end of ourselves and be made ready to trust in the Spirit of God and all of his resources. And this is what happens in Romans 7. And that's why we kind of look at that. You know, Romans 7, uh, you know, it can be one of the most depressing and heart-wrenching chapters in all the Bible Because if you look at Romans 7 carefully, which we did a few weeks ago, I say carefully, we you can spend months on that one chapter. You'll notice that the reason Paul failed And if you look at Romans 7, he uses personal pronouns 47 times in that one chapter. I, I, me, my, I. And then he uses the word law twenty-three times. And that kind of summarizes the whole idea of what Paul was trying to do. It was he and the law. And he soon discovered that his own ability to try to obey the law of God would just cause him to fail. He could not do it. That's why at the end of chapter seven and verse twenty-four, the apostle Paul cries out and he says, Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of Death. Have you ever said that? There's been times of my own frustration where I've quoted that verse. Oh wretched man that I am Who's going to deliver me from this body of death? When he talked about the body of death, he's talking about this physical body because it's this body that indwelling sin works through to accomplish its purposes. And at times it can be very frustrating and very depressing. But don't miss the passion in that cry in verse 24. Because what does it imply? That Paul longed with all of his heart and all of his soul. He's grief stricken over his own sinfulness And so um now by the way uh we also mentioned that some people say, well, Romans 7 is the struggle of a person who's not saved. That's not the attitude of a person who's not a believer. A person who's not a believer doesn't say, Oh, wretched man that I am No, he's after his own man, I'm having a blast. He he's not concerned about sin or you know the fact that he's disap displeasing the Lord. Only a Christian knows the anguish of godly remorse over sin. The unregenerate man does not struggle in that way. To say that this is talking about an unbeliever is to me um just ridiculous. This has been the cry of believers, and this has been my cry, and this has been your cry as well as you know the Lord Jesus Christ. Well that all leads up to the third major lesson that I hope I want you to get tonight as we learn to Be victorious through the help of the Holy Spirit. And that's number three. The believer's source of victory is the Holy Spirit He is our source of victory, beloved. He's the one that we have to depend upon. And this is what we learn in Romans chapter 8. Now, Romans 8 is just an incredible chapter, a fantastic chapter. And it really helps us, it answers the question, do it the must I spend my whole life on earth frustrated by ongoing defeats because of indwelling sin? Is there no power That will help me to achieve victory in the areas where I want to get this victory. And the answer to the question is no, you do not have to spend your whole life depressed over your defeats. And yes, there is a power that God provides for his children that will help us to live above indwelling sin. And that, of course, is the Holy Spirit. All of Romans chapter 8 is the ministry of the indwelling Spirit of God, who is the source of divine power for sanctification and the secret. uh for helping us to live in spiritual victory over daily sin. And really what we see here in Romans chapter 8, as as frustrating as Romans 7 is with defeat, Romans 8 is the exact opposite, is filled with joy and rejoicing over the victory that God gives us through his wonderful Holy Spirit One of the greatest blessings of salvation is the fact that when you get saved, God gives you his Holy Spirit. And that this is and what we see here then is Just the ministry of the Holy Spirit in our life helping us with this one area in which we all struggle. This is the chapter about the triumphant Christian. And the triumphant Christian who walks in the Spirit. And so Romans 8 is again a beautiful chapter. It begins with no condemnation in verse 1. It ends with no separation at the end of the chapter. Nothing can separate you from the love of God. And in between there's no defeat. I like that. No condemnation, no separation, and no defeat if you walk in the spirit. And so this is just a precious chapter of the Bible. Now, what I want you to see here then tonight are just three ways that the Spirit aids us in giving us victory over indwelling sin. And here's the first one. Number one, he gives us a new freedom. A new freedom. That is to say, he liberates us from sin and death. And so look in verse number one. We see a declaration of our freedom. Four great statements in verse one. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus who walk not after the flesh but after the spirit. Look at the word therefore. Of course that is a reminder that this go refers back to the preceding verses, but what does it refer? Um does it refer to the immediate uh verses in chapter seven? Or does it go back even farther to chapter five? Chapter three. Now I think that when Paul says therefore, I think he's summing up everything that he's talked about so far in the book of Romans. It is because of God's grace manifested in Jesus Christ and his propitiation on the cross, because of our faith in Christ and our justification. And because of the application of that to us, guess what? There is no condemnation to you as a child of God. Now there's been some misunderstanding about the word condemnation, the meaning of it. Some take it to mean no more conviction of sin for believers. That's not the idea behind the word condemnation here. The word condemnation is from the Greek word Katakrima, and it means the j the punishment following a sentence, a judgment against someone. F. F. Bruce defines it like this, punishment following a sentence. In other words, penal servitude. There's no reason for those who are in Christ Jesus to serve sin as they've never, as if they had never been pardoned and never been liberated from the prison house of sin. And so when the Bible says there's no condemnation, what that means is we will never be condemned. We will never experience judgment for our sin. And why is that? Because of Christ Jesus. To them which are in Christ Jesus. Guess what, beloved? You have been declared not guilty. You are not guilty before God. Now let that sink in. The great declaration of no condemnation is so fantastic. That the Apostle Paul really spends the rest of this chapter really describing it even more until you get all the way down to verse number 34 when he asks the rhetorical question, who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea rather is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. No one condemns you, beloved There's no condemnation for you. Now, why is that important? Because some believers still live as if they must do something to earn God's favor with this matter of their salvation. And I want to just make it very clear, beloved, learning to live victoriously over indwelling sin is not a salvation issue. It is a sanctification issue. You're not doing it because you're trying to get favor with God. You know why? Because God loves you perfectly. He cannot love you any more than he already loves you and he will not love you less. We are not in this struggle to learn to live above indwelling sin because we're trying to get God's favor because in some way it will help us To make sure that we're on our way to heaven. Oh no, that's not it. We're not working for our salvation. We are completely forgiven. We are not guilty before God. And because of that, that should bring such gratitude, such thankfulness, that that motivates me to say, I want to please you, Lord Jesus. And I know that in pleasing you, it's to live above this indwelling sin. So we're doing this not because we're trying to earn God's favor, but because of gratitude and thankfulness, because we are not condemned. We are totally forgiven. Some believers are like Joseph's brothers. They've had a hard time accepting the fact that they were completely forgiven and not guilty. Remember they came to Joseph after Jacob died. Joseph, we're we're we're okay, right? You know? Some believers are like that with God. God, you know, I'm forgiven, right? I mean, are we okay? Look. Rejoice in the fact that because of Jesus Christ, your sins have been forgiven and there's no condemnation. You don't have to go to God and keep asking for forgiveness in that respect. The wicked flee with no man pursue, but the righteous are as bold as lions. So we don't serve God with a penal servitude as if we're trying to merit his Favor. We serve God out of gratitude, out of love. And look at the word now. There is therefore now no condemnation. When is this no condemnation status? It's right now. It's right now. It's not future. It's right now as you sit here. If you have put your faith in what Jesus Christ did for you on the cross right now, there's no condemnation for you. I can't think of a greater thought. than that to know that that there's no condemnation, that we are not guilty. Before guilty we stood condemned, but now we are free from that. To them that are in Christ Jesus and you heard me talk about this in Christ and you heard me say that this is the sum and substance of all of Paul's theology. If you want to sum it up, it would be in these two words in Christ. Paul uses this expression all throughout his letters to talk about our oneness with the Lord Jesus Christ. You are in Christ, and therefore there is no condemnation. Now, that's the declaration of our freedom. But let me give you also the description of our freedom. Look at verse number two. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death. And the word law that we see here is used twice, but we could say it like this, a principle. Paul's referring to two contrasting Principles here. The principle of the Spirit of Life in Christ, and this is basically the principle of the gospel. We now have a new principle operating in us when we obeyed the gospel. It is really a person Called the Holy Spirit. We now have this Holy Spirit working in us. He gives us life. He regenerates us. He empowers us with the life of Christ. And by the way One of the major ministries of the Holy Spirit is to remind us constantly of our no-condemnation status. That since you're a child of God, you're not condemned. He set me free. This is aorist tense, meaning a once-for-all act of freedom at salvation. You have been set free from the law of sin and death. Or we could say the principle, this is the second contrasting principle, the principle of sin and death. It's called the principle of sin and death because you cannot separate the two because wherever there's sin, death always follows. So Paul repeatedly says, sin brings death. He says that constantly. When we violate the law, that's sin, that is sin, and death follows. So we're set free from that principle because of the principle of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus. And so Newell wrote this: the subject here is no longer Christ's work for us, but the Spirit's work within us. Without the Spirit within, as a law of life, there would be nothing but condemnation, for the new creature has no power within himself apart from the blessed spirit. As against a life of perpetual bondage to the flesh, the end of which is death. And so it is the Holy Spirit who reminds us that we have been liberated. We are in a no condemnation status that we have been liberated. We are in a no condemnation status. And that's important to grasp in this battle that we wage. But here's the second principle or second thing. Number one, he gives us a new freedom. He liberates us from sin and death. But number two, a new fulfillment. A new fulfillment. He enables us to fulfill the law. Look at verse 3 For what the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. So there's the first part of this in verse 3, what I want to call the weakness of the law. Now we already saw in what the law could not do in chapter 7. The law is powerless to help us in any area of righteousness. But when it says what the law could not do here, we could render that literally the impossible thing of the law The law could do nothing with the flesh except what we learned in Romans 7, stir it up. Show us how sinful we are. Wherever there's a law, there's something in sinful man that wants to rise up and say, you can't control me with the law. It Paul said, you know, I was fine. Everything was great in my life. I had all my religious act together, but then there was this this the law came and then what happened? I uh sin revived and I died What he meant was, you know, I thought everything was going well, I was obeying the list of do's and don'ts, and all of a sudden, you know, um there's this law and then it re caused my sin nature to ri to rise up and the next thing you know I I died and and what he talked about was just spiritually. He he was dead because he could not have victory over sin. All the law can do is provoke the flesh. to sin all the more. It cannot justify the law, it cannot sanctify. All it could do is condemn and show our sinfulness. And the problem is not the law, the problem is our own sinfulness. So we see the weakness of the law, but then notice the work of the Savior again in verse 3 where it says God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemns sin in the flesh. Now, two things Paul emphasizes here in this verse. First of all, Jesus was sinless. Paul's wording carefully guards the doctrine of the sinlessness of Christ. His flesh was not sinful because he was sinless. Jesus came in the flesh looking like any other man, but he was without sin. He was fully human, truly human, but yet he was fully sinless. He was tempted in all things like as we are, and yet he was at without sin. If he were not sinless, he could not have been the sacrifice for sin. But then it says Jesus became the sin offering again in verse 3 where it says, and for sin, condemn sin in the flesh. For sin, we could translate that as an offering for sin or as a sin offering. The law could not deal with sin. Consequently, God sent his own son to deal with it, and that's the point of the verse. The law couldn't do anything in that regard. That's why God sent his son Jesus. And here, I think, in this verse, Paul puts his finger on the primary purpose of the incarnation. In just a few weeks, Christmas is coming. Everybody ready for that? I'll give you my list after the servant. No, no, some people have already given me their lists, like my grand like my grandchildren, for example. But anyway, we we celebrate the incarnation. But I think here in this verse, Paul is showing us the primary purpose of the incarnation. Why did Jesus come? He came to this earth to do something that the law could not do. And what was that? To take away sin and to deliver us from sin. That's why he came. He came in the likeness of sinful flesh. To defeat sin. Sin had a home field advantage, and yet Jesus came and he triumphed over sin on the cross and defeated sin and he wants us to walk in that victory. But here so here's the third thing. We see then number one, we saw the weakness of the law, we saw the work of the Savior, but then the walk of the believer. Look in verse number four. That And this is continues this idea here, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the flesh the spirit again, the same frame of thought. Paul gives the next reason for Christ's coming in the flesh to defeat sin. And so that we, you and I, might fulfill the righteousness of the law And here's the whole point. The believer has the ability to fulfill the righteousness of the law, but now it is by the Holy Spirit of God that is working in us. God fulfills the law's requirements in us by his Spirit who empowers the believer. He will give you the power to do this. Now, Paul is obviously not speaking here of the justifying work of salvation. but of the sanctifying work of the Spirit of God. And apart from the work of the Holy Spirit through the life of the believer, all of our own efforts are useless. Now I need to be really careful here because there's a theology out there, sanctification, that you know, it's called quietism, where it says that um, you know All I have to do is just be quiet and not exert any effort on my own and just say, here I am, Holy Spirit, here you make me holy, you do the work of sanctification. You know, and those who believe this kind of theology of sanctification will use expressions like, I can't but he can, or, you know, let go and what's the rest of it? Let God you bunch of quietists here tonight. Let go and let God, you know, and all that. And there's some truth to that to be sure. But it's an extreme view of sanctification where it says, my own human effort You know, can do nothing at all. That's not what we're saying here. We're saying that if you trust in human effort alone, you're going to be defeated. It's not just that, but it's also the work of the Holy Spirit. It is us doing our part, but we don't do it in and of ourselves. We do it through the power and help of the Holy Spirit. It's our responsibility, but it's our response to his ability. That's the idea. It's both of those things working together, our effort, but done in yieldedness to the Holy Spirit who gives us power, who lives inside of us, and as we walk in the Spirit That's when God will do his work. But apart from the Holy Spirit, we can do nothing. That's why you see these two extremes. You see people in the Christian life that have their list of do's and don'ts. They have a a certain outward standard of what they think Christianity is. And if they just check all those things off and do all those things, you know, they say, well, you know uh I I I I'm doing everything I know to do, and it's all just their own uh effort. There's no sense of the Spirit of God working in them. That's the Pietist view where it's all on you. And then the quietist says, you know, it's all on God. No, it's both. It is, again, as I said before, it's it's our responsibility, but it's our response to his ability. On one hand, I'm trusting And the work of the Holy Spirit in me. And then on the other hand, I am acting in my life the spiritual disciplines that I have, and yet I know that I can't do that without the help. of the Holy Spirit who works in and through me to accomplish the righteousness of the law. Are you guys with me? Now, this is not automatic. This takes place as the believer walks after the Spirit. Look again in verse 4: that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Now, some teach that Paul here is making a statement of fact. He said, you know, when he said, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. In other words, he's saying, believers, all believers walk after the Spirit. And then there's another way to see this. Others say that Paul is giving an admonition. In other words, he's saying, if you want to fulfill the righteousness of the law, you must walk after the Spirit, not the flesh. So is this a statement of fact? That all believers walk after the Spirit, or is it an admonition where Paul says, you know, you will fulfill the righteousness of the law if you walk in the Spirit? Is it a fact or is it an admonition? And scholars and expositors are divided on this, but I'm going to lay this whole issue to rest right now. No, I'm kidding. I'm going to give you what I think here. And I think what Paul's giving us here is an admonition. It's an admonition. Because you know what? Not all believers walk after the Spirit. That doesn't happen all the time. It's not automatic. I wish it was, but it's not automatic. Not all believers just automatically walk and the Spirit. So I think he's giving an admonition. And I'll tell you a reason why. Because the phrase where it says, might be fulfilled in us, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled. This is one word in the Greek. And it's in the subjunctive mood. You say, what does that mean? Remember and me teaching you Greek lessons. I've tried to teach some before. Remember I said that in Greek there's several moods? There's the indicative mood, it's a fact. There is the optative mood, which is a wish. There is the imperative mood, which is a command, and then there's the subjunctive mood, which is a maybe, maybe, maybe. And guess what? This is in the subjunctive mood. It's not it's not a wish. It's not indicative, it's not a fact. It is a maybe So it's possible for you, as a believer, to fulfill the righteousness of the law If you walk in the Spirit. You see, that's why I say it's not automatic. Because the truth of the matter is, we would all admit that we don't always fulfill the righteousness of the law. But in order to do that, we must, we must, we must walk in the Spirit. And so this is what Paul is saying here. The focus is to admonish the believer to depend completely upon the Holy Spirit for victory over indwelling sin. The believer fulfills the righteousness of the law as he yields himself, as he submits himself to the work of the Holy Spirit in our life. Walking in the Spirit means living according to What God's will is, yield it to the Holy Spirit, living in submission to the Word of God, consciously claiming the fullness of the Spirit in our life. All of that is walking in the Spirit and more. But we have to walk in the Spirit, not in the flesh. Look again in verse 4. Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. And again, what does that imply? It's possible for a believer to walk after the flesh. It's possible for a believer to live in the flesh. Walking in the flesh means we live according to the dictates of the of our flesh, allowing the sin nature to govern us. Douglas Mu wrote this, to walk according to the flesh then, is to have one's life determined and directed by the values of this world. And of the world in rebellion against God. It's a lifestyle that is purely human in its orientation. There's a sense in which a believer can live in a way that uh looks like you're you're not a believer, that you're not living the way the Lord wants you to. Now I don't think that a believer will live that way continually as a pattern of life because God's going to deal with a person like that. He's going to work in their life. But it's possible for a believer to walk in the flesh. And so that's why we must walk in the Spirit. We want to fulfill the righteousness of the law. And that's what God's will is for us. What does the Bible say? For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God has what before ordained that we should what? Walk in them. That's talking about the law of God. As we yield to the Holy Spirit, as we walk in the Spirit, The what are the good works that we do? We're fulfilling God's desires that were given in the law, and we're not doing it In a robotic manner, but we're doing it as we are living in the Spirit. It takes place while we are living in the Spirit. And so there's this enablement to fulfill the law. Now let me give you the last point here. What does the Spirit of God do for us? He liberates us from sin and death. He gives us a new freedom, a new fulfillment. It is the Spirit of God that enables us to fulfill the righteousness of the law. If we walk in the Spirit, And we we don't walk according to the flesh. He will enable us to fulfill the righteousness of the law. But then here's number three, a new focus. A new focus. He changes our mindset. He changes our mindset. Look at verse number five. For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, but they that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit. For to be carnally minded is death. But to be spiritually minded is life and peace, because the carnal mind is enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be. So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. Now, in this verse It describes two different and opposite mindsets. And I think that what Paul's talking about here is the mindset of someone who doesn't know the Lord. You know what the mindset of someone who doesn't know Christ? It is a carnal mind. And what does Paul say that brings? It brings death. Those who follow after the flesh have a carnal mindset. Their whole mindset is not towards the things of the Spirit of God. It's all about the flesh. flesh and this world system. And Paul said to be minded like that is death. It equals death. That's not a believer What is a believer? A believer is one that is spiritually minded. Look in verse 6 again, for to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace, because the carnal mind is enmity against God. You see, the carnal mind is a mind that, you know, is in constant warfare against God. It's an enemy of God. Doesn't want to do the things of God. Doesn't want to obey God. Doesn't really care about any of that. And so the question is, what is your mindset? And here's what the Spirit of God does for us, that when we get saved and we come to Jesus Christ, he gives us a totally new mindset. I thank God for verse number nine. Listen to this. But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. In other words, he changes that mindset from a carnal mind to a spiritual mind. And and beloved, this is where the battle is. The battle is in the mind. Now, it's possible For a believer to last into a carnal mindset. That's not going to be their permanent pattern of life, but it's possible for a believer to think carnally and allow their mind To be controlled and dominated by the flesh. But that's not what you're called to. What the Holy Spirit does is he changes your mindset and he gives you a spiritual mind. Um and so this is again a key to understanding uh this this warfare that we're in. We must allow the Holy Spirit to dominate our thinking, our mind. Those dominated by the Spirit mind the things of The Spirit, the Bible says. The Holy Spirit dwells in those who are redeemed, and they their whole mind is bent towards the things of the Spirit. Now, what does that include? Well, all of God's will You know, the Word of God. 1 Corinthians 2. 10, the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God, and encompasses the very mind and will of God. And so we want to make sure that our mind is focused on the things of the spirit there. Because the carnal mind cannot do anything to please God. But notice the consequences of having this new mindset at verse nine. Again, but you're not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you now. If any man hath not the Spirit of Christ, he's none of his. And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. And so here's what Paul's saying. The Spirit proves our salvation here by giving us this new mindset. Alright? We're in the spirit. We have this new nature. We have this new mindset. And again, in verse number 9, Paul says, if any man have not the spirit of Christ, he's none of his. If you don't Sense the work of the Holy Spirit changing your mindset to the things of God, working into you in you, revealing the things of God through his inward work. That is a sign that you don't have the Holy Spirit working in you And you may not be a true child of God, but the Holy Spirit, part of His ministry, is to prove our salvation. by doing his work. The Spirit's present guarantees our regeneration. Look at verse number 10. And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the Spirit is life because of righteousness. When a person receives the indwelling Christ, his body remains dead, because the flesh doesn't get redeemed in this life. That's why a Christian still has to face death. The body must be eliminated because it can't go to heaven. When I die, this body right here is not going to heaven with me. I thank God for that. I'm going to get a brand new body one day and so are you. This body still remains in death, but my soul, my spirit, um is redeemed. And so the body must be eliminated so that I can go to heaven and be with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the body of death will die as it's stained with Adam's sin, but the Spirit, the Holy Spirit and your spirit with its new nature will live because of Christ's righteousness. And so it is the Spirit of God, His presence guarantees your spiritual regeneration. You say, well, what about the body? Well the third thing the Spirit does is the Spirit his presence guarantees our physical regeneration. Look in verse three. But if the Spirit of Him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you He that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwells in you. That is to say That if you have the work of the Holy Spirit in you, uh what that guarantees is your physical resurrection If you were regenerated spiritually, guess what? You're going to be regenerated physically as well. We get a brand new glorified body. And it is the work of the Holy Spirit that reminds us about all of these things. And that's meant to encourage you. Because again, part of the the battle that we face against indwelling sin includes this body here. And one day I won't have to deal with that. Because I'll get a brand new glorified body. And I'll be perfect like the Lord Jesus Christ. And so let that encourage you. So what does the Holy Spirit do to help us be victorious in this War against sin. He gives us a new freedom. He liberates us from sin and death. A new fulfillment. He enables us to fulfill the law. A new focus. He changes our mindset and reminds us that we are to dwell. In our mind, let our mind be focused. Let this mind be in you. Same exact word in the Greek. Remember what it says in Philippians, let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. Same word here. You're to be focused on the things of the Spirit, the things of God, because when that happens, the Holy Spirit and His power will give you victory in your life. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so Father, uh again, I I I just marvel. I truly do. When I come to the Word of God, especially passages like this, I thank God, Lord, for your word that is so encouraging and helpful For children of God, those Lord that you save, that are under no condemnation, whose heart's desire is to please you, Lord. Not out of a penal servitude, but out of a heart of gratitude and love for what Christ has done for us. And yet, Lord, in this Christian life, sometimes it is very frustrating. And sometimes believers struggle. And I pray, Lord, that this would be an encouragement to every child of God. I pray it would be an encouragement to everyone to make sure that the Spirit of God dwells in them. To make sure that they've repented of their sin. They've put their full faith in Jesus Christ. That the Spirit of God lives in their heart. And has given them a new mindset and reminds them constantly of their no-condemnation status. May that be true of every person here tonight. And Lord, may we meditate on these things. May we embrace the resources that you give us so that we can live a life that is pleasing in your sight. Lord, grant it may it be so. We thank you and we praise you in Jesus wonderful name.