Would you take God's word, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, chapter six, verse number fourteen is what we're going to be looking at here today. Ephesians six, fourteen, as you know we're in a study in Ephesians. And uh in chapter 6, we're dealing with the armor of God. I want to read just a few verses. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please, as we read just a few verses? Verse starting at verse twelve. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers. against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, having done all to stand Stand therefore, having your loins gird about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, we come before you today and ask you now to help us to hear the Word of God. Lord, would you please remove all the distractions from our mind and heart Help us to focus attentively on the Word of God to hear and to apply the truth to our life, that we may be blessed, Lord. As we are conformed more to the image of Jesus Christ. And we pray in his name. Amen. In his book called Fuzzy Memories, Jack Handy writes the following quote. There used to be this bully who would demand my lunch money every day. And since I was smaller, I would give it to him. Then I decided to fight back. I started taking karate lessons. But the instructor wanted five dollars a lesson. That was a lot of money. I found that it was cheaper to pay the bully. So I gave up karate and I just decided to pay the bully. Now there are too many Christians that are like that in their spiritual life. Beloved, Satan is a bully. He wants more than just your lunch money. He wants to destroy your life. However, most believers think it's just easier to pay the bully to give in to Satan than to try to defeat him. So therefore, there are many Christians today that are allowing Satan to rob them of the blessings that is rightfully theirs in Christ. And again, many Christians do not realize yet that the Christian life is not a playground, it's a battleground. As a believer, you are in war You have an enemy, you have a bully that wants to rob you. Jesus said in John chapter 10, verse 10, the thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. Satan wants to take your joy. He wants to take the victory that you have in Christ. He wants to steal away the spiritual riches and treasures that you have been given in Jesus Christ. He wants to take away really your usefulness. He knows that he can't take away your soul because if you're saved, once you're saved, you belong to God. And you can't lose that salvation. But he does want to rob you of other blessings that come with salvation. And if he can't have you, well he would like to have your family or he would like to wreak havoc in your life. And sadly, so many Christians are just giving in to the devil. But beloved, God commands us not to give in. In Ephesians 4. 27, we already looked at this verse where it says, Neither give place to the devil. The word give is present indicative, which or actually present imperative as a command. We can say it like this, stop giving in to the devil. If you're accustomed just to giving in, stop doing that. In James chapter 4, it said in verse 7, Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you Over and over again in Ephesians 6, we're told to stand. We see this in verse 11, where it says, uh put on the whole armor of God that you might be able to stand. We see it in verse 13. where it says, Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, having done all to stand. Stan, withstand is a compound Greek word, which is really a military term, and it has the idea of Standing your ground, not giving in. Because of your allegiance and your love to Jesus Christ, your desire to be more like him, you refuse to give in. You stand. And so this is why you need the armor of God. This is why Paul commands it. He says in verse 11, put on the ho armor of God. He says in verse 13, take unto you the whole armor of God. Put on is the Greek word in duo, literally to clothe yourself with. It's an airish verb, which I told you last week. It's once for all. It's the idea of permanence. You put the armor on, you don't take it off. It's not like a football player who puts on his his pads and his helmet and after the game he takes it off That's not what the believer's armor is. You put the armor on one time, and once you put it on, you keep it on. You don't take it off. It's with you all the time. And this provides the believer the divine power for each moment. The armor of God is the believer's lifelong companion There are six pieces to the armor. We want to examine each of the six pieces one at a time. And so I kind of want to give you this kind of format. We're going to talk about the adversary. We'll talk about the armor one piece at a time, and then we'll talk about the application of it. First of all, the adversary. Now we need the armor because of our adversary. Paul cautions us against the wiles of the devil. Look again in verse 13 where he uses that expression, the uh the the uh wiles of the devil Oh, that's actually verse 10. And Paul says, you're to put on the whole armor of God in verse 13 to stand against this. The whole armor. And the Greek word tanoplia, where we get the word tanoplia, it means every piece of armor. That is, don't leave off any piece of armor. Why? So you can stand against these wiles. Wiles is the Greek word methodia where we get the word method, the methods of the devil. And the word carries with it the idea of craftiness or cunning. This is the same word translated in Ephesians 4. 14 as lie and wait. Same exact Greek word. As the animal has the idea of an animal lying in wait, uh camouflaging himself, waiting to jump out, waiting to pounce on the unsuspecting. And this reminds us of what Peter said. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, is like a what? A roaring lion, right? Camouflaging himself, waiting to pounce, waiting to jump, seeking to whom he may be he may devour. So we have to always be ready at our average moment to meet what the enemy will throw at us at his select moment. And so we have to be ready. And part of that is knowing your enemy, knowing how he works. And Paul said this in 2 Corinthians 2. 11, lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. We need to know his devices. Now let me tell you something about Satan, beloved. He's a deceiver. In Revelation 12. 9 it says Satan deceives the whole world. Jesus calls Satan a liar. In John 8, 44, he said he's the father of lies. There's no truth in him. When he speaks, he speaks a lie. He's the biggest hypocrite that there is. And the evidence of this is in the very beginning when he first appears. He appears in the Garden of Eden as a serpent, and he's telling Adam and Eve, hey, God is holding out on you and I want to give you, I want to bless you, I want to do more for you than God can do. I want to give you a special wisdom and enlightenment enlightenment that God is withholding from you. That's why he doesn't want you to eat that fruit. And of course Adam and Eve they fell for it and they we're able to see what Satan really was, but he's the ultimate hypocrite. When the Apostle Paul was describing the nature of false apostles and other impostors, He also describes Satan. He said this, for such are the false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. That is, they're hypocrites. They they transform themselves. And then he says this, and no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore, it's no great thing for his ministers also to be transformed as ministers of righteousness. This is evil in disguise. This is what Satan does. He disguises himself, but he's the ultimate hypocrite And so you know what he will try to do? He will tempt other people to act in hypocrisy or to act with dishonesty. He gets people to try to present themselves as something that they are not. Why? Well let me give you a illustration of this in Scripture. Go ahead and turn to the book of Acts chapter 4, if you have God's word with you. Turn to Acts chapter 4 and verse 34. This is the story of Ananias and Sapphira. And Acts 4 records the acts of love that took place in that early church in Jerusalem. There were so many poor and struggling believers in that church. And the reason they were poor is because some of them had lost their jobs because of their allegiance to Christ. There was also a famine that had hit the world at that time. And then you add to that the taxation of the Roman Empire. The taxes were just breaking people's back. And the response of many wealthy believers was to sell a lot of their possessions and uh their their possessions and lay the money from the sale at the feet of the apostles, so the apostles can then take that money and distribute it to the poor saints that were in the church. In the result of this, look in Acts chapter four, verse thirty-four. Neither was there am any among them that lacked For as many as for were possessors of land or houses sold them and brought the prices of the things that were sold, verse thirty five And lay them down at the apostles' feet, and dish distribution was made unto every man according as he has need. And so this is what they were doing. This was an expression of love in the church. Laying it at the apostles' feet, and that was they were taking that money and they were helping out poor believers. Now the Bible singles out one man who did this, and he did it out of sincerity, he did it out of integrity And it highlights this person. Look at verse 36 of chapter 4. And Joseph, who was but by the apostles, was surname Barnabas, which is being interpreted the son of consolation a Levite in the country of Cyprus, having land, sold it and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. So here Barnabas does this. They his nickname is Barnabas, which means encourager And this is obviously a man who encouraged the congregation with his life, and he had some land and he sold it and he took the money and he laid it at the apostles' feet. And it was able to bless many people and because of that he was elevated. He was called the encourager. And he did it with a heart of love, out of sincerity. A desire to be a blessing to others, and he was honored because of that, he was exalted because of that. As a result of his elevation, another man in the church saw this, and he liked what he saw, so he decided to do the same thing. Look in chapter 5, look in verse number 1. But a certain man named Ananias with Sapphira, his wife, sold a possession, verse two, and kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy to it, and brought a certain part and laid it at the apostle's feet. Now Ananias and Sapphira wanted the church to think that they were generous and pious, so they decided to do what Barnabas did. Perhaps they were jealous of the love that he was getting and the exaltation. So they made a pledge to sell some land, and obviously in this pledge they were going to give all the money to that sale to the church and they made this pledge before God and they made it before the church. But when they sold the land and they got the money in their hands They had a second thought. They decided, you know what? We'll just give a portion of this money to the church and we'll keep back part of it for ourselves. Which really amounts to lying to the church, lying to the apostles. In short, they were pretending to be something that they were not. They were motivated by a desire to appear pious. More pious than they actually were. This is hypocrisy. This is pretending to be something that you're not. And notice what Peter says. Look in chapter 5, look at verse 3 And Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost and to keep back a part of the price of land? You get that? This is what Satan did. This was an idea that Satan put in his mind. Hey, you don't have to give all that money, do you? I mean, after all, how will they know? Just keep back part of it for yourself. And so Peter goes on to say, look at verse 4. And while while it remained, was it not thine own, and after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart? That was not lied unto men, but unto who? Under God. Not only were they lying to the church and the apostles, they were actually lying to God. Now keep in mind there was great unity in the church and love in the church. There was great trust and loyalty and sincerity in that church, and God was blessing that church in incredible ways. Ananias and Sapphira's lie and hypocrisy could have potentially divided that church and defiled that church with their sin. You know what robs churches of the blessing of God? Sin among the members. Sin in the hearts and lives of people. That'll rob the church. That'll rob the person. Remember what Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 5? A little bit of leaven leavens the whole lump. Don't ever think that your sin only affects you, it affects others, those around you. You know, you when you put leaven into a bread, you can't say, Well, I only want this part of the bread to be leavened, not all of it. No leaven is going to spread all the way throughout the whole loaf, right? And so it is with sin. And so Satan tempted Ananias to act with duplicity, to act with dishonesty. Why? That's a sin in God's sight, and sin will take away the blessing of God upon the church. And so Satan tempts Ananias to be a hypocrite, to be duplicitous. You don't have to give it all. I mean, how will they know? Just give it a little bit. That'll make you look pious and you can keep the rest of it. And what they were doing is they were sinning in the eyes of God. They were grieving the Holy Spirit of God. God was doing great things in that church. And some people ask, well, were Ananias and Sapphira saved? I think that perhaps they were, because this whole story is told in the context of what all the believers were doing there in the church They knew the Holy Spirit according to Acts 5. 3, but the best evidence that I think that they were saved is the fact that they received the discipline of God. And what does Hebrews 12 say? That when you receive God's chastisement That is evidence that you are God's child. But the sin was so great that God punished Ananias severely. Look in chapter 5, look in verse 5. And hearing these words fell down and gave up the ghost, and great fear came upon all of them that heard these things. So he died right there on the spot. Verse 6, the Bible says a young man took him out and buried him. Three hours later, his wife Sapphira comes to church. Chapter 5, verse 7. It was about the space of three hours after when his wife, not knowing what was done, came in. This is biblical proof that it takes a woman longer to get ready for church than a man. I mean, three hours, ladies, really? Come on. Give us a break. And Peter questioned the wife Sapphira, chapter 5, verse 8. And Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for so much. And she said, Yea, for so much. And notice it doesn't really give the price because that's not really important. The important part is not how much. The important part is honesty and integrity. And she lies also, which means they were in on this together. So look at verse nine of chapter five. And Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed together to tempt the spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door, and shall carry thee out. God punished her just as He did her husband. She fell down dead. Chapter 5, verse 10. She fell down straightway at his feet and yielded up the ghost, and the young men came in and found her dead and carried her forth Buried her by her husband, and great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things, I guess so. I don't want to go to that church. I mean people die there. They make a faith promise pre pledge and then they don't give it, man, they die. Just kidding, I'm not trying to put conviction on anyone The ushers had a busy day that day. They took her and buried her next to her husband. You see, Satan was seeking to hinder the work of God. And he was doing it by trying to get people in the church to be deceptive, to be hypocritical, to not walk in truth and sincerity, but to be duplicitous. To walk in falsehood. Satan tempts believers to not go all out for God. You don't have to be all that committed. You don't have to give all, do you? He tempts believers to be two-faced. He tempts believers to act one way in public and another way in private. That was the case with Ananias and Sapphira. It was Satan that filled their hearts to lie this way. This was a test. Satan tempts believers to give up their integrity, to be dishonest. To be duplicitous. This was a major sin in God's sight. That's obvious by the fact that God punished Ananias and Sapphira. severely as a illustration and as a warning to all of the importance of honesty and integrity in the Christian life. I was saddened to read about the fall of another celebrity pastor just a few weeks ago. This was a well-known pastor. He hosted a huge conference each year. Thousands of pastors attended. It was discovered that this pastor was not only claimed to be in public, according to the USA Today article, a Christian preacher and author who founded one of the largest evangelical conferences in the United States has been removed from his leadership role at a church. After elders there said he used fake social media accounts to slander other ministers online. So he used these fake accounts to spread unsubstantiated and sinful remarks against fellow pastor. So under this cloak of anonymity, he had five different social media accounts under an anonymous name. And he would invite speakers to come to his conference, and these same people he invited, he would be slandering them on social media to try to ruin their reputation. So on one hand he's acting like he's featuring them on but at the same time he's trying to destroy them. This is a serious lack of truthfulness and integrity. And when the world hears something like this, they take a story like this and they run with it. It's a slam against the church. It's a slam against Christianity, and Satan roars in victory because the name of Christ is maligned and shamed. This is all straight from the devil who is the father of lies and the father of deception. Here this man was jealous of other ministers. And that desire for self-promotion and selfish ambition caused him to do all these things that were hypocritical and duplicitous And a man that was once useful is no longer useful in the service of God because of that kind of duplicity. And that's exactly what Satan wants. He wants to take away your usefulness. You want to take away your ability to be used by God. So we see the adversary, but secondly, the armor. What is the weapon that we use to guard against this? Look in Ephesians chapter 6, look at verse 14. Stand therefore having your loins girt about with truth. Now keep in mind that when Paul penned these words, he was under house arrest, he was chained to a Roman soldier. I can imagine him just looking at the armor, looking it over, seeing that the soldier is wearing a belt. This was a belt that would go around the midsection. It was a leather belt. And uh this was the piece of armor That was he mentions first because this was foundational to all the other pieces of armor. This was not a glamorous piece of armor, but it was extremely important. And again, it was foundational What did the leather belt that went around the midsection, what purpose did it serve? Well, several. First of all, it guarded the soldiers loose garments so that he was or I sh should say it secured the soldiers loose garments so he was unhindered in battle. So soldiers would wear a tunic underneath, which is kind of like a almost like a excuse me, dress. I know that doesn't sound very manly. But they would wear this tunic and it would come all the way down to the knees. This was the outer garment of garment, the primary clothing. And it was worn underneath the armor. And when the soldier was going into battle, he would take the bottom of his tunic or any loose part of his clothing and he would gird it up underneath that leather belt. This is the idea of a soldier being ready for action. Peter uses this same imagery in 1 Peter 1. 13. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober. That is, get ready to seriously think about the truth. That's readiness. But also it provided a measure of protection for the midsection of the body. This helped the soldier from being pierced right in the midsection, right below the breastplate that he would be carrying or wearing. And by the way, the midsection many times in the New Testament is symbolized as the place of emotion, the place of affections. We see this expression a lot, bows of affection. Now that might sound strange to modern ears, but it's rooted in the ancient understanding of the human body and the emotions, and the and the people in Paul's day believed that the midsection were was the Place that was the seat of the emotions. Today we say, I love you with all my heart. Back then they say, I love you with all my bowels. It doesn't sound the same. Bowels of affection. For example, in Philippians 1. 8, for God is my record how greatly I long after you in the bowels of Jesus Christ. Other translations translate it, affections or love. Colossians 3:12, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercy. Again, it's talking about your emotions, your affections. And so it guarded that area. But then it was also a place where the soldier kept his sword. If a soldier didn't have this leather belt, He he couldn't carry a sword because that's where he would fasten the sword. That's where he would unsheath the sword when it was needed. But also it helped secure the other pieces of armor. Not only did the belt uh prevent the loose robes from being snagging or hindering movement, but it carried the heavy equipment. He could attach other things he needed to the belt. And also the breastplate of righteousness was fastened by this belt. And so it secured these other pieces of armor. Now the question that we need to ask is that what does Paul mean when he calls this the belt of truth? Well now some say that the truth here is the truth of God's word. This is talking about the objective truth of Scripture. And certainly it includes that, right? I mean, we have to know God's Word. There's not no way around that For the believer to do battle against Satan, you must know the Word of God. Without the knowledge of the Bible, we can be carried about with every wind of doctrine tossed to and fro, right? So you we certainly need to know the truth of Scripture. That's without question. But I think that Paul means something more than that. It actually means a life of truthfulness. Or an attitude of truthfulness. This seems to be the primary meaning that Paul has in mind. The Christian is to gird himself with an attitude of total truthfulness. This is the believer who is sincere who forsakes hypocrisy and sham. This is the believer who lives a life of integrity Who lives out the Word of God in his life every day? It's not just knowing the truth here, it's living it out. It is having a life of total truthfulness, transparency with the truth. They're not one thing on Sunday and another thing all the rest of the week. You know, sometimes people have a different language that they use on Sunday than they do on Monday. You know, we we speak in King James English on Sunday. How art thou, brother? And then a totally different language on the rest of the week. That's not a true believer, or it's not sincerity, I should say. You don't you're not one thing on Sunday and something different for the rest of the week. These are those who are faithful to the truth, they walk in truth. And by the way, Paul was a master of the Old Testament, and I think that the scripture that he was really thinking about when he talked about the belt of truth is Isaiah 11. 5. You need to mark this down in your margin. Isaiah 11. 5. Listen to what it says. Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist and faithfulness the belt of his loins Therefore, the belt of truth is a piece of armor that represents a foundation of truth and integrity in one's spiritual life. It symbolizes the need to hold fast to what is true, which helps us to establish a foundation for other spiritual qualities So we see the adversary, we see the armor. Just give me a few minutes here and we'll talk about the application. The application. This is why we need to put on the belt of truthfulness and leave it on. Without the belt of truth, you cannot face the enemy. Why? Well, because if your life is not controlled by truth, you will never win against the enemy. The belt holds all the other pieces together. Without this belt, all the other pieces of armor are going to fall off. The breastplate of righteousness will not stay in place. A man with integrity, with a clear conscience, can face the enemy without fear. Your affections, your emotions will not be pierced with guilt because of your duplicity. That's giving place to the devil when you live with a lie, you live with sin. Once a lie gets into the life of a believer, everything begins to fall apart. But here's the other thing: without the belt of truth, you cannot use the word of God effectively. You have nothing on which to fasten God's word. You can't use it. So in essence, you're not effective. You can try to use it, but you're not going to be effective. I was telling church Wednesday night at our last men's prayer breakfast we had a visitor come. We always have visitors and we're grateful for that. And this was a man that was kind of looking for truth. He was really Thinking about all of what Christianity was teaching, and I noticed he had a lot of questions, and I sat down with him and I was trying to tell him about the gospel, and he said the problem I have with some Christians is they say They believe in Jesus, but they're no better than me in the way they live. In fact, he said, I look at a lot of people who claim to be Christians, and they're much worse off than I am. They were giving him all these verses of scripture and trying to convince him about the truth, but the problem was he didn't see truthfulness in their life. So here they were trying to wield the sword, but there was no truthfulness in their own life, and it was totally ineffective. You have no credibility to speak the truth if you're living in falsehood. Ephesians 4. 25 Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. But also without the belt of truth we cannot walk in fellowship, nor live a life that is pleasing to God. The Bible says in 1 John 1 6, if we say that we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. You can say that you are walking in fellowship, but if you're in darkness, if you're living a duplicitous life, the Bible says you're not walking in light, you're in darkness. And you you don't live out the truth. And so you can't have a life that is pleasing to God. You can't walk in fellowship with God with that kind of life. So it starts right here, the belt of truthfulness. Not only knowing God's word, and by the way, this is all for believers. This already implies or presumes that you know Jesus. You're already saved. You've accepted Christ. You have repented of your sin. You've embraced the gospel Alright, then you put on the belt of truth and you begin to walk in truthfulness. And you do it every day. All the time, you put on the belt of truth. Which is the foundation for all the other pieces as we're going to suggest. And so let me give you some suggestions as I close. In order to live out the truth, just ask God for discernment and strength to live the truth. Each day, ask God to guide you so you can walk in truth and in sincerity. And make a commitment, number two, to honesty and integrity in all aspects of life. Be honest with God, be honest with others. Live in truthfulness. Henry Bosch, who wrote this story in our Daily Bread regarding his Christian father's integrity, listen to what he wrote. I'll close with this. He said, as a schoolboy, I worked with my father during the summer months. Each morning we stopped to pick up an early edition of the newspaper at a small grocery store. And one morning when we got to work, my father found that by mistake he had taken two newspapers instead of one. His first thought of paying the man the extra money the the the next morning. That was his first thought. But then he said after a moment's consideration, he said, you know, I had better go back with this paper I don't want to wait. I don't want the man at the store to think I'm dishonest. So he got into his car, he drove back to the store, he returned the paper. About a week later, someone stole money from the grocery store. He says, when the police pinpointed the time it occurred, the grocer remembered only two people being in the store at that time. One was my father. And the grocer immediately dismissed my father as a suspect, saying, that man is really honest. He came all the way back here just to return a newspaper he took by mistake. The police then focused their investigation on the other man who soon made a full confession. But he wrote, he said, My father's integrity and honesty made a big impression on that non-Christian grocer. And it made an impression on me. Friend, make a commitment to honesty and integrity. in your life. Walk in the truth. The Bible says, God says, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. Walk in truth. We need to be like Daniel, who purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. He would not defile himself. He would not compromise the truth of God's word with his life. He wasn't going to do it. And may God give us that same kind of heart. Can we bow together for prayer? And as your heads are bowed, just ask yourself, have I put on the belt of truth in my life? As a believer in Jesus Christ, would you ask God to help you to pinpoint and forsake any areas of Falsehood in your life, any area of duplicity, any area of dishonesty, any area of hypocrisy, and ask God to help you to walk truthfulness. To live out each day of your life the truth of Scripture, the truth of God's Word. If you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior, It starts right there. It starts with you putting your faith in the risen Christ, the one who came to this world and died for your sins on the cross. The one who took all of your sins upon himself, and the wrath of God which should have fallen upon you fell on Christ instead. He took your sin debt, he paid the price. He endured the wrath of God that should have fallen upon you. And you need to turn to Jesus Christ and you need to put your full faith in Him. Repent of your sins. Put your faith in Christ. Pray and say, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Save me. The Bible says, him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. So if you come to Jesus In faith. Ask Him to save you. He'll save you. And if you haven't done that, I'm asking you to do it right now, right where you are. Just reach out in prayer. And if you're a believer here today, ask God to help you put on this belt of truth and walk in truthfulness every day of your life. Father, again, thank you for your word. Help us, Lord, to indeed Put on this armor. Help us to stand in this evil day. May we be a testimony to who you are, to the transforming power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we pray in his name.