I invite you to take your Bibles tonight and open to the Book of Romans, chapter 3, as you know we're studying this great book of the New Testament. And tonight we come to Romans chapter 3, and I'm going to be dealing, Lord willing, with verses 21 down to verse 31. And the title of the sermon tonight is The Just Justifier. I want you to see that our God is both just and he is the justifier. Now Donald Gray Barnhouse, the former pastor of the 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, he was a great expositor of the word and he wrote a a four set commentary on the book of Romans. And in his commentary, he tells a story about a society of atheists that published and spread a leaflet that was designed to impugn the righteousness of God. And really it was a blasphemous piece of literature. And the literature basically done one thing, it uh did one thing, excuse me, it called God unjust. It said the God of the Old Testament, the God of the Bible. is unjust. And this is what they did. In this leaflet, they they had pictures of supposed pictures of Old Testament characters. And there was the character of Abraham. And under the face of Abraham, it said that Abraham was a man who did not honor his wife. He was a man who really And then it goes on to say, and yet God called Abraham the friend of God How could God do that? How could God say of Abraham, the man who lied about his wife, how could God call himself the friend of Abraham? And then it had a picture of Jacob. A portrait of Jacob there, and it talked about Jacob being a man who also lied. He was a cheat, he was a liar, he was a deceiver. And yet the Bible says that Jacob wrestled with God, and God called Jacob. He changed his name from Jacob to Israel, and Jacob became a prince with God. And again it asks this one question. How could God call him a prince after all he had done, all the wrong things he had done? And then it had a picture of Moses. And it talked about the story of Moses. Excuse me, Moses was a murderer, and he was a fugitive from justice. He ran from the law. And yet the Bible says that God used Moses to deliver the law to Israel, and one of those laws was Thou Shalt Not Kill. And they basically said in the leaflet that How could God use a man who killed someone to give the message, thou shalt not kill? That's hypocritical. How could God do that? How could God overlook what Abraham did? How could God overlook what Jacob did? How could God overlook what Moses did? And then it had a picture of David. And it talked about David. They wrote about his adultery. It wrote about his murder. And to cover the adultery. And then they say in the in the leaflet, and yet David is called a man after God's own heart. And again, it asks the question: how can David be called a man after God's own heart when he committed all of these sins? And so all this argument that these atheists used was designed to supposedly point out That God was not a just God. And then Donald Gray Barnhouse wrote this very interesting part in his commentary. He said: the remarkable thing about all this blasphemy is that it is positively true. God says so Himself. For hundreds of years there was a stain on the name of God. God knew it was not righteous or just to forgive guilty sinners. Yet he went on doing all throughout all the period of the Old Testament. And so Donald Gray Barnhouse kind of plays on this tension And the idea is this, how could God overlook the sins of these men in the Old Testament, and these are just a few men? How can he overlook those sins And then the sins of others in the Old Testament. How could God do that and call himself a just God? I mean, what would you think of a judge? If a judge just arbitrarily decided to write off all the crimes of a criminal, a murderer, an adulterer uh uh a thief, uh if a judge just decided to waive all the charges and say, let that man go free, you would not say of that judge that he was a just judge you would say that he was an unjust judge. And this was the argument that they were using to impugn the name of God. And so the question is, what's the answer to this? Uh how can God do that? That's the question By the way, did you know that in the Old Testament one of the great revelations that God gave about Himself was in Exodus thirty-four, six and seven? You remember that passage? Israel had just committed these terrible, monstrous sins of the golden calf and worshiping that golden calf. And then Moses said, God, I want to know that you can forgive him. I want you to show me who you are. And you remember in that passage where God takes Moses, he puts him in the cleft of the rock, he passes by Moses sees the afterglory of God. But in that passage, God declares his name to Moses, the Lord, the Lord. And then in verse 6, he gives exactly sixteen Hebrew words to describe his mercy And then in verse 7, he gives exactly 16 Hebrew words to describe his justice. And basically he says, on one hand, I forgive sin, I forgive iniquity, and then on the other hand, I visit iniquity, I judge iniquity. But the question is, how can God just arbitrarily forgive sin? How can he do that? And so the answer to that is found here in Romans chapter 3. Now, this passage here in Romans has been called the center and heart of the book of Romans. In fact, Donald Gray Barnhouse himself. Wrote in his Bible above these verses, he wrote these words. I am convinced today, after these many years of Bible study, that these verses are the most important in the Bible. Our Ken Hughes said it's the turning point of the Bible. But let me just get you to the answer of the question real quick. Look what it says in verse 25. whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past Listen, it's through the forbearance of God. Look at verse 26. To declare I say at this time his righteousness that he might be just Listen to this, he's the just and the justifier of him which believes on Jesus Here's the answer to the dilemma. The cross is the solution to the dilemma. You know how God could look at these men in the Old Testament? And he could be forbearing. That's what the word is used here. He could forbear. Notice where it says talks about in verse 25, the forbearance of God, of sins of the past. God could look at them, he could see their sins, and yet he could be forbearing. Why how can he do that? Why couldn't he do that? And the answer is very simple, dear friend. Because God in his mind had already provided the way of salvation. It was through the cross That tension that is felt in the Old Testament between the judgment of God and the mercy of God, and how God can overlook some of the sins of some of the Old Testament saints in the Old Testament. How could God do that? It was because God was already looking at the cross. He knew that on the cross his son Jesus would take the sins of all those people in the Old Testament, and not only just their sins. But the sins of the whole world. And all those sins would be laid upon his Son. And that's how God could be forbearing. You see, God is a just judge. God is a holy God. And let me just tell you this, dear friend, not one sin will go unpunished because God is holy. He is a just judge. But here's the deal. Your sins will either be punished by God on you. You'll either die and pay for your sins in eternity, the sins that you've committed, or your sins will be punished. Because of what Jesus did on the cross, Jesus bore that punishment for all of us. And so what does the cross reveal? The cross reveals that God is just Because he's a holy God, and sin must be punished. The cross shows that, because God is a God of love, he didn't want to punish you, so he put all of your sins on Jesus And now all the punishment went on him, so he's just, he's holy, because his holiness demands that sin be punished But he's also the justifier because he's a merciful God. And because of what Jesus did by punishing your sins, he can declare you just. He can justify you. when you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now here's the whole point that Paul's making here in this passage. That the cross Demonstrates the righteousness of God. It demonstrates the righteousness of God. And notice what it says in verse 21. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested. God has revealed his righteousness. And it's a righteousness that is without the law. You see, here's the point. You know what the Bible says? Without holiness you can't see God. Anybody want to see God one day? Anyone want to go to heaven here? Would you raise your hand? You want to go to heaven? It's certainly better than the alternative But here's what the Bible says. You can't go to heaven unless without holiness, I should say, no man can see God. Without righteousness, you can't go into his presence. But now here's the deal. None of us are righteous. All of us are sinners We've all sinned against God. And so the question is, how can Jerry Harmon go to heaven if Jerry Harmon is a sinner? I have no righteousness of my own. I can try to be righteous by obeying the law, but that's not going to work because One sin is enough to damn my soul to hell forever. And so, friend, I'm dude, except for this God has given me righteousness. It's not a righteousness that's mine. It's not my righteousness. He's given me the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And now that I put my faith in what Jesus has done, that righteousness is given to me. Look again in verse 21. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifest. This is a righteousness that's not of me. It's not my good works. It's not what I have done. But it's a righteousness that's that's of God And that's why some of the reformers called it a alien righteousness. That is, it's an outside source of righteousness. It's not of me. And here's the point. When you come to Jesus Christ and you put your faith in what he did on the cross for you, you know what God does for you? He forgives all of your sins. And he gives you all of the righteousness of Christ. That's how the cross demonstrates God's righteousness. So let me just give you a few points here. This righteousness, God's righteousness, if you're taking notes, it's number one, write this down, it's previewed in Scripture. Look again at the rest of verse 21. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested Being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Now, when the Bible says law and prophets, it's just another way of saying the Old Testament. The Old Testament is all the law, the first five books of the Bible and the prophets And what Paul is saying is this plan of God to give righteousness to those who put their faith in Jesus, this isn't a new plan. Did you know the plan of salvation was not something that God just came up with arbitrarily? God didn't look down from heaven and say, Oh man, you know, mankind ruined things. I've got to come up with a plan of salvation real quick here No, this was a plan that God had. The Bible says Jesus was the Lamb slain before the foundations of the world. And Paul said, this idea of God giving us the righteousness of Christ. When we put our faith in him, this isn't a new idea. We see it all through the Old Testament. It's all through the Scripture. In fact, Abraham could see it, although it was distant. But he could see it. Listen to what Galatians three eight says in the scripture for seeing that God would justify the heathen through faith Preached the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. You see, Abraham was able to see this plan of God, that salvation would come by faith And he saw it, and you know what the Bible says about this? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Did you know the people in the Old Testament are saved the same way people are now? It's by putting their faith in the cross and what the Savior did on the cross. You see, uh, if I had a tree up here, I can lean on it, I can lean back on that tree, or I can lean forward to that tree, but I'm leaning on the same tree People in the Old Testament, they were leaning forward to the cross. Now we we lean back on the cross as our source of salvation. But you're saying you're saved the same way by faith in God's plan of salvation, I should say the man of salvation, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we can go farther back than that. Soon as man sinned in the garden. God gave a promise in Genesis 3. 15 that He would, we call this the first gospel, that God would send someone who would bruise the head of the serpent. And so uh we see in the Old Testament God the shedding of the blood of animals, which pointed to the fact that there would come one whose blood would be shed for the sins of the world. And so first of all Paul says, I want you to know that this plan, the righteousness of God, in this plan, it is previewed in the scripture. But also right down, number two, it's possessed by faith. Look in verse number 22. Even the righteousness of God. Which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe, for there is no difference. This righteousness of God is received by faith. You know how a person is saved? By putting their faith in what Jesus did for them on the cross. It's just a matter of faith. Let me ask you a question now. Do you believe that Jesus died for your sins on the cross? Do you believe he took all of your sins and they were laid on him? That's not just preacher talk. The Bible says the Lord laid on him The iniquity of us all, and the wrath of God that should have fallen upon me, it fell on Jesus. That was the work of Christ, paying my sin debt. And now when you put your faith in Christ in that finished work, when you believe on him. The Bible says that's how this righteousness is received. It's received by faith. That's why Paul wrote earlier in the book of Romans: the just shall live by faith. Again, it's not my righteousness, but when I put my faith in Jesus, God gives me all of the righteousness of Christ. Isn't that a good deal? I am now looked upon as being righteous because of what Jesus did. It's by faith and faith alone. And so this righteousness is previewed in Scripture. This righteousness is possessed. By faith. But here's the third thing I want you to see. This righteousness is provided by grace. Look in verse number 23. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. That is, it's provided by grace. Now, what is grace? Grace is simply the favor of God. It is the love of God that we don't deserve. It is God showing love and grace to us. It's the actions of God towards us, his loving grace. We don't deserve it. We're incapable of it ourselves. But friend, it is the grace of God that gives us our salvation. It is love and his favor. Now let me give you the fourth thing. This righteousness God's righteousness is previewed in Scripture. It is possessed by faith. It is provided by His grace, that is His love towards us. But here's the fourth thing, it is purchased by Christ. Look at the end of verse twenty four. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, verse twenty five, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood To declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. You see, friend, it was purchased by Christ. You see, salvation is not free Well I should say this, it was free, but it's not it wasn't cheap. It cost God a lot. It cost God the life of his son, the precious blood of his son that was shed for your sins and mine. A news reporter once asked an astronaut what he was thinking about when he was in that rocket ship on his way to the moon. And the astronaut said, I was thinking that the ship that I was riding in was built by the lowest bidder. Think about that. You know what? The great ship of salvation that takes us to heaven wasn't provided by the lowest bidder, it was the highest bidder who paid the highest price. And the word is redemption. This is the Greek word which has the idea of freeing a slave. That was a well-known concept in that day. When a person was sold into slavery, someone could come along and pay the purchase price and free that person out of the bonds of slavery. You know what happened? Because of what Jesus did on the cross The price he paid with his own precious blood, he freed mankind from the slavery of sin. That is, those who come to him by faith. And put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the idea here. God redeemed us with the precious blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. When I say blood, I mean all that took place at the cross, his death And there's a word here that you need to be familiar with that we see in verse 25, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation. Look at the word in verse 25, a propitiation. That is a word that simply means a satisfaction. And the idea here is that God's holiness was satisfied. Because again, remember I told you God is a holy God. And that's where the gospel starts. It starts with the holiness of God. God, who is holy, demands that sin be punished. And so his holiness had to be satisfied But again, I told you, God is also a God of love. He doesn't want to punish you, but someone had to be punished. Sin had to be paid for. God's holiness demanded it And so you know what would happen in the Old Testament when they would bring an animal sacrifice to the altar and they would sprinkle that blood on the mercy seat? You know what that that action was called propitiation because it means satisfied. And the idea was that God was looking down from heaven and he saw that blood And by the way, it was on the Ark of the Covenant. By the way, uh just a little Bible trivia here. What was in the Ark of the Covenant? It was the tablets of stone, right? The law of God that all of us had broken, that all of men break And you see, between the broken law and the and God's wrath, there was the blood that was shed And you see, when God saw that blood, God's holiness was satisfied. Now just keep this in mind: the blood of the animals in the Old Testament didn't pay for sin. But what it did is it pointed to the one who would pay for sin, the Lord Jesus Christ. It pointed to his death on the cross. And so when God saw that blood God's holiness was satisfied in the sense that he was looking forward to what his son Jesus would do on the cross. And then the day came when Jesus Christ Himself On the cross, took our sins, he shed his blood, and God looked down from heaven, and his holiness was uh propitiated, satisfied with the death of his son. The Bible says in Isaiah that he would see the travail of his soul, that is, God the Father would look down from heaven and see the suffering and death of Jesus on the cross. He would see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. The cross of Christ satisfied the holiness of God But it also satisfied the mercy of God because God made salvation free because of what Jesus did. So this righteousness of God was previewed in the Scripture. It is possessed by faith. It is provided by grace It is purchased by Christ. But let me give you something else here we see. It is produced without works. Look at verse 27. Where is boasting then? Paul said, how can you boast? Where is boasting? It is excluded by what law? Of works? Nay. But by the law of faith. That is, since you're saved by faith in what Jesus did, how can you boast? Let me tell you something, dear friend. No one's going to get to heaven and say, you know what? I'm glad I was able to do this. Glad I was able to get here. It was all me, all the good things that I did. No one will ever say that. No one can ever boast about their salvation. You know why? Because you didn't do it It was all the Lord Jesus Christ. It was all the grace of God. In fact, God is the one that even gives you the faith to exercise in Him. Did you know that The Bible says, For by grace you're saved through faith, and that is not of yourself. What's not of yourself, faith? If God didn't give you the faith to believe, you couldn't do it on your own. God provides the grace, He provides the faith, He gave His Son to die for your sins How can you boast? How can any of us boast about salvation? We can't, because none of it was of us. Do you realize there's no work, religious work, that you can do that will get you saved? Nothing. All you can do is put your faith in the finished work of Christ. And so Paul says, how can anyone boast? This is produced without works. Now keep in mind, dear friend, not everyone teaches this. There are certain religions out there that teach that you're saved. Oh yes, it's faith, but also It also includes some of your works, you know why, because the pride of man wants to be able to say there's something I did to contribute to my salvation And because of that, you have some of these religions out there that say, well, you know, there's some contribution that I can make. It's not all of God. It's God and me. And friend, I want to tell you that's absolutely wrong. It's all of God. For example, did you know that um the Roman Catholic Church view of justification is this? They say you're you're saved when you're When you're baptized as an infant. Now let me just say we're having a baptismal service tonight, but let me just tell you this, that baptism doesn't save anyone. Being dipped in a water doesn't save you. You see, you say, well, why does someone get baptized? They get baptized because they're declaring their faith in Christ. Baptism doesn't save you, it just reveals that you're already saved. You know, how many ever played a little league baseball team growing up? You know how that happened? My my parents used to take me every year and I would sign up for Little League. They would make me sign the paper, my parents signed the paper. Now the moment I signed the paper, guess what? I was on the team. But you know what? They didn't give me my uniform on that first day as bad as I wanted it. You know what? You didn't get your uniform until much later. Now, the moment I signed that form, I was on the team. But when I wore the uniform, it revealed to everyone around me that I was on that team. You see, salvation is when you sign the form that says, I'm putting my faith in Jesus and what he did for me on the cross That's when you get saved. You know what baptism is? It's your uniform. You're getting a uniform now. You know what you're saying? I'm declaring to everyone whose team I'm on. I'm on the team of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm already saved when I put my faith in Christ. But now I'm letting everybody know that I'm a follower of the Lord Jesus. That's why the Bible says, whoever will confess me before men Him will I confess before my Father, which is in heaven. And the best way that you can confess to the world that you have put your faith in Jesus and that you're on his team is by being baptized But there are some religions that they want to take this religious um ordinance of baptism and they want to put a saving element to it. There are some who teach baptismal regeneration that baptism causes you to be saved. Or there like I said, the Catholic Church it teaches when you're baptized as an infant, they say that grace is infused into you at that moment. Now I'm not exactly sure what they mean by grace being infused. Because grace is not some kind of substance. They talk of it as if it's some substance, you know, like you're injected with a needle. You know, God doesn't inject you with grace when you're baptized. And yet that's what is taught there. Grace, as I said before, is the love of God. It's the activity of God. And then they say this, that when you're baptized, then you're justified, however, you can lose That justification by a mortal sin, and it's called a mortal sin because it kills the grace inside of you And that means everyone at some point is going to lose that salvation with a mortal sin. And so what do you do after that? How can you get resaved? Do you get baptized again? And they'll say, no, that's not the way that you get saved because When you were baptized, it left an indelible mark. Again, I'm not sure what they mean by that. But the way to get saved again is not to be baptized again. What they say is that you have to do good works now. And so your salvation is not just your faith, but it's also the good works that you do. And this is where you go to confession. There's priestly absolution. There's works of satisfaction. You have to say so many Hail Marys. You have to give to the poor, give alms to the poor. You have to You can rely on the treasury of merits of saints that have gone on in heaven before you. You can purchase an indulgence. And all these things are works that they want to add to faith But you know what? That's not what the Bible teaches. Because Paul makes it clear right here in verse 27 when he says, Where is boasting then? It's excluded. By what law? By works it is. That is, can I boast because I've added works to my faith? And Paul says, No, that's not the way of salvation. That's not going to work But it's all of faith. Look in verse 28. Therefore, we conclude that a man is justified by faith. Look at the rest of verse 28. Without the deeds of the what? Without any religious deeds, without any deeds of good works. That's not part of salvation. No, none of that You're saved by faith without any of those works. And so therefore, there can be no boasting whatsoever. It is all of Jesus. It is what he has done. It's like I said to you so many times before, there are only really two religions in the whole world. There's do religion, what I must do, and then there's done religion, what Jesus has already done. And Paul is teaching us here in Romans a done religion. It's what Christ has done. It is faith in his work. on the cross. And so this righteousness of God is previewed in Scripture. It is possessed by faith. It is provided by grace. It is purchased by Christ. It is produced without works But here's the last thing I want you to see. It is presented to all. It's presented to all. It's for everyone. Notice how many times the word all is used. Look again in verse 22. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus, unto all, and upon all them that believe, there's no difference. It's for everyone. Look at verse number 29. It is is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also of the Gentiles? Yes, Paul says. The Gentiles also. Seeing it is one God which shall justify the circumcision by faith and the uncircumcision through faith. So Paul says, you know what? It's for anyone. God's not just the God of the Jews, Paul said. He's the God of all and anyone. It doesn't matter your background, it doesn't matter your race, your religion, your social status. None of that matters. Anyone who comes to God by faith and you want this salvation, if you put your faith in Jesus Christ, it's available for anyone For all. That's what he's saying. Not just for a select few. It's available for all. And then Paul, and I'll close with this, verse 31. He says, Do we then make void the law through faith? No, we establish the law We don't make the law no good. No, we we actually fulfill it in the sense that the law was actually written, excuse me, to point us to Jesus, to push us to Christ. To say, you know, the law can't save you, but we can point you to the one who can save you. You know. It's like the old story of Dr. Law and Dr. Grace. Men went to a guy named Dr. Law and Dr. Law, all he could do is diagnose the illness, but he couldn't provide the cure. So he said, I'm going to refer you to Dr. Grace. Dr. Grace can help you. You see, doctor Law can't save you, but Dr. Grace can. All the law can do is prescribe your illness. So you don't cancel out the law, you fulfill the law Is what the Apostle Paul says here. And so, friend, that's salvation. That's the righteousness of God that is revealed in the plan of salvation. When I was in London, one of the things I like to do is to go to the church of John Newton. John Newton is the one who wrote the song Amazing Grace. Remember his story? He was the wild man, the sailor that was saved by the Lord. And in that church there's a plaque on the wall that is in honor of him, that the very church that he preached in, and the church where he wrote the song Amazing Grace. And on the wall, it just says this, you know, when in the final month of his life, John Newton's memory was about gone. But it said that he did remember two things. He said, I remember that I am a great sinner and that Christ is a great Savior. I remember that. And friend, if you want to get saved, you just need to remember those two things. Remember that we're I'm a great sinner. He's a great savior. Put your faith in him and he will save you. So let's bow for prayer tonight. Let's bow for prayer. And I'm going to ask the baptismal candidates if you'll go ahead and get ready And all those that will be helping, if you can go ahead and help them, go ahead and go to your place with heads bowed and eyes closed. You can go ahead and get prepared for this wonderful baptism service that we're going to have. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you something, dear friend. You know, it's our desire here at Grace that everyone knows the Lord Jesus and salvation. That you're saved, that your faith is in Christ and Christ alone. That your faith is not in your own works or in some religion or in anything that you've done. But your faith is in Christ and what he has done for you on the cross. And friend, can you say that? Like the hymn writer said, my hope is built on nothing less Than Jesus' blood and righteousness. Can you say that? Have you placed your faith in Christ? That's how you're saved. The Bible says that the one who comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. And friends, tonight, if you want to come to Christ and you want to put your faith in his finished work, put your faith in Jesus, he won't turn you away. The Bible tells us that. It promises us that. So let me ask you, have you put your faith in Christ? Are you trusting in him and him alone? And if not, would you be willing this very moment, through prayer, right there where you are, Would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, right now I'm putting my faith in your finished work for me on the cross? I know that I'm not saved by works. I know that I'm a sinner. I could never satisfy the holiness and righteousness of God. But I know that you did that for me. And today I'm reaching out to you in faith and I'm saying, save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. Is that your prayer? Could I pray for you, friend? I just want to pray for you. Anyone here say yes. I am putting my faith in Christ this very moment. Would you raise your hand so I can pray for you? That's my prayer. That's what I want I want salvation in Christ. Anyone here? Can I pray for you? All right, friend. If you know that you're saved Or if you have any questions about this afterwards, we'll be willing to talk with you. But the most important thing is that you know Jesus, that you put your faith in him and him alone. And so, Father, take these words. And seal them upon every hearing heart. Let the seed of the gospel not return void, Lord, but let it bear fruit. Use it, Lord, for your honor and for your glory. We thank you for this great salvation. We thank you that, Father, you are just, you are holy, and you're also the justifier. You're the one who declares us justified because of your mercy, because of your grace. Because of our faith that we place in the finished work of Christ. And so, Father, may we all leave here knowing that we've done that. Use these words, speak to hearts. Thank you and praise you in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Amen.