I I want you to uh to invite you to open your Bible tonight to Revelation chapter eight. Now if you're visiting here with us, we've been doing a study through the book of Revelation on Sunday evenings, and we cut we're in chapter eight now Now the book of Revelation is one of those books of the Bible that's kind of difficult to interpret. And uh we're coming to a passage of scripture that is uh that is challenging. In fact, the whole book is, but I'll try to make this as clear as possible so all of us can understand. You know, every once in a while there will be a natural disaster, and uh the news will report on it and we'll hear uh perhaps a news reporter use this expression. This is a disaster of biblical proportions. And they'll of course be referring to Scripture even though they may not have read the Bible. But they heard somewhere along the line that there's a lot of bad things that happen sometimes in Scripture. And so they'll use that expression uh as a way to describe the situation. But I want to assure you that although we have seen some natural disasters in our time and in our world, there's nothing that compares with what the Bible says is yet to happen There's a time period that is coming that the Bible calls the Great Tribulation Period. And we are looking at some of it here in Revelation chapter 8. And this is not hyperbole. Uh this is fact. These are the things that will take place that the scripture talks about. Now during the Easter uh season I I watched again a movie that I watched a lot when I was growing up. I say a lot, you know, several times. It seemed like it came on every year at the same time. It was the Cecil B. DeMille's film called The Ten Commandments. You ever remember watching that? And I remember as a kid just watching that and and being fascinated by the plagues that God brought down upon Egypt. And wondering as a child, you know, is that ever going to happen again? And back then, of course, I didn't know the Bible. But what we see when we come here to Revelation chapter 8 is a parallel between the plagues that God brought down upon the Egyptians way back uh in uh ancient history that's recorded in Exodus chapter seven through eleven and we see a parallel with the with the plagues that God will bring down Uh in one day in the future, and that's recorded here in Revelation chapter eight and chapter nine. In the Exodus account, water turns to blood. You might remember that plague. Well This is recorded again in Revelation chapter eight. Fiery hail fell of fell from the sky. Again, we're going to see that here in Revelation chapter eight. There was locusts that came around and And uh brought uh great disaster again, that's recorded in Revelation chapter nine. Then there was darkness and so on And so what we see here is a parallel between the judgments. Just as the plagues of Egypt were literal plagues that literally happened, even so there's going to come a time when God in his wrath We'll judge the world for those who refuse to repent and refuse to trust Jesus. There's a time of judgment that is yet to come Now let me just tell you, beloved, God is a God of love. We know that. He's a God of mercy. We're grateful for that attribute of God. But that's half of the truth. God is also a God of justice, and He's a God of wrath. And there's a and the Bible says in in Romans 1 that the uh that the wrath of God is revealed from heaven Against all ungodliness and righteousness of men. While it is true that God loves and he wants to show mercy and he wants to save, it is also true that God is a God of wrath and justice, and he will not allow sin to go unpunished. And that's part of what we see here in the book of Revelation when God's judgment will come yet again. And so these these plagues, these these judgments that are yet to come is given to us here in the Bible as a way of reminding us of what God has done and what God will do. It's also uh written in Scripture so that we will repent, so that we will make sure that our hearts are right with God, because those who know Jesus, those who have trusted Jesus as their Savior and Lord, will never have to experience the wrath of God. We'll never experience that if you know the Lord. And so this is a reminder of that when we come here to Revelation 8. Now let me just give you a little bit of context. Let's kind of review just really quickly. where we are because it seems like it's been a few weeks since we've been in this study. Remember in Revelation 1, John, the beloved disciple, was the writer of the book of Revelation. Revelation is is really the Greek word apocalypsis, which is really means an unveiling. And it's really a type of Jewish literature that uses a lot of symbols to communicate truth. And many of these symbols come from the Old Testament. In fact, when John wrote this, he's expecting the reader to go back into the Old Testament and look at what's written there in order to understand what he's trying to communicate in the book of Revelation. And in chapter 1, John sees a vision. He sees the resurrected Christ. He's standing among seven golden lampstands which represent the church, which gives us a picture that Jesus is Lord and his church. And then Jesus says to John, John, what you see, this vision I'm about to show you, I want you to write it down, and I want you to send it to seven churches. Back then there were a circuit of seven churches in Asia Minor, in that Roman province of Asia. And so this was a circular letter when John first wrote it. It was meant to be read to all these seven churches. And in fact the w the number seven is woven into All of the book of Revelation, the number seven symbolizes completeness is based on the seven-day Sabbath cycle that's recorded in the Old Testament. And so in chapter 2 and 3, Jesus gives a message to the seven churches. And John wrote this while Domitian was the Roman emperor, and John was on an aisle called Patmos. because he had been persecuted for his faith. He was exiled there by Domitian. And when Jesus addresses the seven churches, he addresses some of the problems that those churches were going through. Some was A apathy due to wealth and and off affluence. Others was their problem was moral compromise. There were still some who were claiming to be Christians visiting pagan temples and going through pagan rituals. But however, there were some believers that were being faithful to the truth. And Jesus warns some of the believers and he encourages some of the others. And then in this vision that Jesus gives John It's meant to bring encouragement to every believer of every age of how God is going to consummate all of his plan of redemption, how things are going to end up. And then you come to Revelation chapter 4, and John is called up to heaven in this vision. He actually goes to the throne of God. He stands before the throne of God, and that's a reminder to all of us that every one of us will stand before God one day And in this awesome vision before the throne of God, John sees incredible things. He sees uh uh twenty-four elders uh which represents the church and God's people, and then he sees four living creatures, which represents all of creation. So it's an incredible vision that he has. And John sees the one sitting on the throne, and in his hand there's a scroll, and it's a seven-sealed scroll. On the outside of the scroll are seven wax seals. But no one was found worthy to open the scroll. And so the Bible says finally, John hears someone who says, the lion of the tribe of Judah. The root of David, he is worthy to open the scroll. And John turns and he sees, as it says in Revelation, a lamb as it had been slain, a symbolic description of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because Jesus is worthy to open the seals and then to open the scroll And so in chapter 5, that's exactly what he does. He takes the scroll from the hand of the one sit seated on the throne, and Jesus Then is worshiped and praised. And this again reminds us that in heaven, part of our wonderful experience in heaven will be to worship the Lord Jesus Christ. And then we come to chapter 6, and what happens in chapter 6 is that Jesus begins to loosen each of those seals one at a time, and as he loosens those seals, judgment is fallen out upon the earth. And then you get to Revelation chapter 7. And this chapter is designed to answer one question. It's from the last verse in chapter 6. Let me read it to you. Chapter 6, verse 17. You might want to look at that. For the great day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand? That's the question. Chapter seven is kind of parenthetical. Jesus opens the first six heels The question is asked, who's going to be able to stand before the wrath of the Lamb? Chapter 7 answers that question before the seventh seal is opened. And what we see in chapter 7 are two multitudes. There's 144,000 Jewish people, 12,000 from each of the 12 tribes. They have the seal of God on them, which means they have trusted Jesus as their Savior. That's symbolic of saying they know Jesus. They have trusted Jesus and they are his servants. And then John turns and he sees another multitude. The Bible says a multitude that no man can number, and they are before the throne of God, and these are people who have been saved and who have been washed in the blood of Jesus Christ. In chapter 7, verse 14, you might want to look at that It says, And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest, and he said unto me, These are they which came out of the great tribulation and have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. And so the question is answered, Who is able to stand? Before the wrath of the Lamb in that day, only those who have been saved and been washed in the blood of the Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ. Having answered that question and shown these two mighty multitudes, we now come here to chapter 8, and that's where we are now In chapter 8, there's one seal on the scroll that is yet to be opened, and this is the seventh seal. This is the last seal. And this is probably the most serious of the seven seals because of what will take place when the seventh seal is open. Now let me just give you one other thought here. Some people think that these three uh that these judgments are uh are linear, they happen sequentially, because what we're gonna see is gonna happen when the seventh seal is open, out of that seal comes seven trumpet judgments Out of the seven seal, there are seven more judgments to come. These are called trumpet judgments. And then when you get to the seventh trumpet, seven judgments, so you have a series of seven: seven seals, seven trumpets, seven bowls. Out of the seventh seal come seven trumpets. Out of the seven trumpets come seven bowls. Now again, some people see this as linear, as sequential. Some interpreted that way, and that's certainly the way I see this here. There are others that that kind of think that these are all the same thing. It's just Three different ways to talk about the same judgments that are coming upon the earth. But I think that the way that the Bible describes them, it's sequential. Because again When the seventh seal is open, out of that comes seven trumpets. And then later we'll see when the seventh trumpets sounds, out of that comes seven bowls of wrath. So I think these are sequential in time. Which means that the last seal that's opened here is the worst of all tribulation horrors. Because the events that will take place when that seal is open will occupy from chapter 8 of Revelation all the way to chapter 19. Think about that. When the seventh seal is open, all the rest of what we see here in Revelation, all the way into chapter 19, are the things that God is going to do upon the earth when that seal is opened. So, when the seal is open, I want you to see three events that accompany the opening of the seventh seal. Here's the first one, number one. I call this the silence of astonishment. Because look what happens in verse 1. And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of a half an hour. This there the seals open and what happens is there is immediate silence that takes place. Complete silence. The Greek word here means Total quietness, total stillness. Same word is used in Acts 21. 40 to speak of a great hush. This is what we what you could call the silence before the storm. Now this is amazing when you consider the fact that as we study the book of Revelation so far, Revelation is a place of the heaven is a place of constant noise. And sounds, there's the music in heaven that we read about, the singing in heaven, the rejoicing in heaven, the fellowshipping that takes place in heaven, the loud voices and the great multitudes that sing praise to the Lamb. There's the four creatures before the throne that are constantly saying 24-7, holy, holy, holy is the Lord. So heaven is going to be a place of a lot of sound. But here, for a brief minute, well not a minute, actually 30 of those minutes, because it says in verse 1, about the space of a half an hour. For a half an hour, heaven is completely silent. There's no noise at all Saints stop their praying. Angels stop praising. Martyrs stopped asking God for retribution. And Seraphim and Cheraphim, they stop their wings, and there's just complete silence. There's this holy hush that falls across heaven. And again, it will last for 30 minutes. This is the silence before, this is what it reminds me of, the silence before a verdict is read in a courtroom. Or the silence before a conductor is about to start the orchestra, or the silence of an audience just before the curtain is about to rise. And why is there this silence? I think the silence here is a silence of astonishment, of amazement, because of what is about to happen. It's so awesome. They're just there's a stunned silence. This remind reminds me in the Old Testament of the story of Daniel. You remember the king Nebuchadnezzar had a dream and he needed someone to interpret that dream dream and he calls Daniel in before him And then Daniel hears the dream, and he knows the interpretation, but before he tells the king the interpretation, the Bible says that Daniel was astonished for one hour. I mean that had to scare King Nebuchadnezzar. I want to tell you something, but it's not going to be good. And he's silent in amazement. And so this is what this reminds me of. This silence. Listen to Zechariah 2. 13. Be silent, all flesh, before the Lord, for he is aroused from his holy habitation. And so there's this silence. But then it's followed by what I want to call the sound of the seven trumpets, because look in verse two. And I saw the seven angels which stood before God, and to them were given seven trumpets. So John sees these seven angels. They were each given a trumpet. These trumpets were significant to John. Again, John was a Jew. from Israel. They use trumpets a lot for their uh assemblies and celebrations. They were used in military service. They were used in worship to call people to worship. A lot of different s uh reasons for trumpets. We see this in scripture. The Bible says that when the rapture takes place there will be a trumpet that will sound from heaven, and the church will be taken But here these are trumpets, these seven trumpets are trumpets that will announce judgment that will come down upon the earth. I call these seven trumpets, uh the first four we can call trumpets of war. And then the last three we could call trumpets of woe. When the first trumpet sounds in verse seven, then the second one in verse eight, third one in verse ten. Fourth one in verse 12. But then look in verse 13. We'll kind of fast forward ahead here a minute where it says, and I beheld and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe! Woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet, of the three angels which are yet to sound. These are what I call three trumpets of woe. So when you get to the the the last three, it's almost as if the scripture is saying, if you think the first four were bad, wait till you get to these last three. There's a sense in which the intensity of God's wrath will pick up in these these last three horrible uh trumpet judgments that are given. God, through this, is declaring war on the earth on all those who have rejected Jesus Christ Who have refused God, who have refused his word, God is now going to pour out his wrath. Now, again, let me stop here for a minute and tell you that when we when it comes to interpreting this, again, this is apocalyptic literature. And so it it it gives some challenges to the interpreter when you study this and when you read it. And there are four views on how these trumpet judgments are to be interpreted. And let me just give them to you. First of all, there's what I call the what is called the historicist view And this is a view that looks back on Revelation. They basically say Revelation is really talking about history, the history of the world. And so they kind of look back. And they say these trumpet judgments really is about the Roman uh uh history when uh when there were invasions against Rome. That's what all this is about. They don't look at revelation as something in the future. They kind of look at it as things that God is talking about that took place in the past. And that along with that, there's the predator's view. And the preterist sees all these things has already been fulfilled, and they kind of shifted all into a period of seventy AD when the Romans invaded this the city of Jerusalem and they surrounded it. You might have heard about that event in history. And they say all this already took place and they kind of shove everything into 70 AD as if it had already happened. But then there's the There's the idealist view who says, you know, all of this that's written here in Revelation is really God demonstrating his displeasure upon the sin of man. And these trumpet blasts are a warning for all people just simply to repent. And so they don't really see this as being prophetic or something that is yet to happen. But I take the futurist view, which is the view that these are things that are yet to happen, because all the book of Revelation is prophecy, things that have not yet come to pass. And so therefore it is still going to come. And so these these trumpet judgments represent calamities that are yet to come. That's number one, the silence of astonishment, but write down number two, if you're taking notes, what I want to call the supplications of judgment, because look at verse number three of chapter eight. And another angel came and stood at the altar having a golden censer, and there was given unto him much incense that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne. And the smoke of the incense which came with the prayers of the saints ascended up before God out of the angel's hand. And verse five, and the angel took the censer and filled it with fire of the altar and cast it into the earth, and there were voices and thunderings and lightnings and an earthquake. And so I call this the supplications of judgment. Here what we see is a beautiful picture of prayer in these verses. In verse 3, it talks about a censor. What's a censor? Simply a bowl. And in that bowl they would normally have incense. And this is what would take place in the Old Testament. Kind of picture in your mind the temple, there's the outer court. And then you go inside the holy place. When you get to the holy place, as you're walking in on the right-hand side, there is a table of showbread. On the left hand side, there is a menorah, the seven golden candlesticks, but then right in front of you, if you're walking in, is a little altar called the altar of incense. And every morning and every evening the priest would come in and he would take incense and he would pour it on the altar there. He would actually take a live coal. off the brazen altar, bring it in, put it on the altar of incense. Then he would take a bowl or a censer full of incense and he would pour it onto that altar. And when he did, smoke would just billow up off of that altar And that symbolized the prayers of God's people. And that incense would give just this this sweet fragrance. In fact, the f The ingredients for this fragrance are recorded in the book of Exodus. And it was God's incense. It wasn't to be used in any other context, only there in the tabernacle or in the temple. And so it was a symbol of the prayers of God's people. What does it symbolize? Think about the fragrance of these prayers. You know what it means? It means that whenever God's people come together And pray. It's it's a sweet smell to God. It's like incense. When we come here on Wednesday night and we come together, the few of us, and we pray together as a church, I just want you to know that God is pleased with that. It's like incense to him. That's the fragrance of the prayers. But then the frequency of the prayers. How often does the smoke come up? It just continues to billow up, just continually, which reminds us that as believers, we are to continue to pray. In fact, the priest would go in in the morning and pour out incense on the altar, and then he would go into the evening and pour out incense on the altar. It was constantly going up. It's a beautiful picture of how we are to continue in prayer as the people of God. But then also think about the fulfillment of these prayers. Because look at verse 5 again. It says the angel took the censer and filled it with the fire of the altar and cast it into the earth. And there were voices and thunders and lightnings and an earthquake. What does this mean? Here one angel takes the coal from off the altar of incense, puts it in the bowl, and then it says in verse number five He casts it into the earth. In this vision, John sees the angel take this coal and throw it down upon the earth, and it comes upon the earth. And again, this is all symbolic. And it's symbolic of what? That God isn't now casting down judgment on the earth. Now think about this in answer to the prayers of God's people. Think about this. Don't ever think that your prayers aren't heard. God hears your prayers. And sometimes it takes God time before He answers those prayers. He has his own time of doing it. But this is the fulfillment of these prayers because I think that these the prayers that are prayed in heaven, they're prayed by God's people. You know what they are? Part of it is these are we already saw in chapter six or in the or in the uh yeah chapter six about the martyrs that prayed for vindication and for justice. I think part of the prayers that are being prayed are for God to vindicate those who have been martyred for the faith Those who have been treated unjustly by a wicked world. Know anybody that's praying for justice in their case? Maybe something terrible happened to them. Friend, let me tell you something. Not one sin will go unpunished by Almighty God. God will right every wrong. God will make everything right. No sinner is going to get away with what they've done. No ungodly person will get away with their evil deeds. And when this coal is taken off and the altar and thrown down on the earth, it's a picture of God now pouring out his wrath on the earth in answer to the prayers of many saints who have prayed for justice and vindication for the many things that were done. And so in verse 6, what happens is there's thunders and earthquakes and lightning. This all speaks about God's wrath. The same phenomena we see in Exodus. Chapter 20 again, all of it symbolizes God and what he's about to do. But I want you to see the third and final thing. What I want to call the sounds of punishment. We saw the silence of um the the silence of astonishment, then the supplications of judgment. And then finally the last thing is the sounds of punishment because then from verses six on to the end to verse thirteen, we see these trumpets being blown. And then God pouring out a specific judgment upon the earth. Trumpet number one, look at verse 7. And the first angel sounded, and there followed hell, and fired mingled with blood. They were cast upon the earth, and the third part of the trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up. Now again, there are some people that look at this as symbolic of something terrible that's going to happen. There are others that take this literal. This will be literal hail that will fall upon the earth, fiery hail, just like back in Egypt in the plagues of Egypt. When God rained down fiery hail upon the land of Egypt and it burned up much of their vegetation, it was literal back in the book of Exodus. When God was judging that uh nation, and it's going to be literal here one day in the future. Think about how damaging hell is And this reminds us of what one prophet said, the prophet Joel said in Joel 2, verse 30, about this blood and fire in this day, this judgment of hell. Again, it's very damaging. I was reading that in 1986 there was a hail storm in Bangladesh of giant grapefruit-sized hail. That fell down and killed hundreds of people in Bangladesh. They said that some stones weighed more than two pounds. Uh you know, w when hail comes, you know, people are not killed a lot because, you know, we live indoors or we we're in our car. You know, it's reported that animals all over the U. S. are killed every year. Thousands of them because of hail storms that come. But think about hail that's fiery hail. Think about the damage that can do and burning up So much vegetation and so much of the earth. In fact, the Bible here says that when this happens, that it says on the earth a third part of trees was burnt up. And all green grass was burnt up. And the word Greek word here for trees usually means fruit trees. You can just imagine. I don't have to really describe this to you. You can imagine how damaging that would be to the world if that took place. Trumpet number two. Look at verse 8. And the second angel sounded as it were, a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea. And the third part of the sea became blood. And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea and had life died, and the third part of the ships were destroyed. Now John sees here what he calls a mountain fall into the sea. Now again, some view this as symbolic of some serious things that are going to happen. In fact, the predators will say the great mountain here really represents uh Jerusalem and the sea represents the uh the uh the gentile nations and how Israel will be scratch scattered into the Gentile nations. All this took place they say in seventy AD, if y if that's how they view this. If you take the futurist literal view like I take here, you believe that this is something that's literally going to happen. Some kind of terrible thing where perhaps maybe Uh, you know, sometimes we hear about these asteroids threatening to hit the earth, you know. We read about this sometimes. Very easy for God to do that to judge the earth. But when this happens, it says again, the sea will turn to blood, just like back in the plagues that fell upon Egypt in that day. Trumpet number three. Look at verse. Number 10. And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from heaven, burning as it were a a lamp, and it fell upon a third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters. And the name of the star is called Wyrmwood, and the third part of the waters became Wyrmwood, and many men died of the waters because they were made bitter. So again, here's another calamity. I call this the defilement of the waters. And the target of this judgment seems to be the fresh water as a source of life. And here a great star falls from the heaven. The word star is a Greek word aster. It can mean any real celestial body. This perhaps is a meteor that smashes into the water. But notice the name of it that the scripture gives it gives it wormwood, a word that's used only here in the New Testament, and it it speaks of a of a shrub that leaves that that the leaves on the shrub are toxic, that is poisonous. And in fact they're banned in certain countries, this kind of shrub. And it literally means undrinkable, so it makes all the water undrinkable. And again, this is a judgment on the ecology of the world. Can you imagine? We're dependent on water to live. What happens if all the water is poisoned and undrinkable? Think about the effects of that. Think about uh cat animals will die. Vegetation will die, people will die, and the Bible even says that. That um many men, in verse 11, many men died of the waters. This is a terrible judgment that God will one day pour out upon the world. A terrible judgment. I was reading and researching this. Did you know that my man wrote a book here recently? It was called The Wormwood Prophecy. And this writer is referring to this here in uh Revelation eight. And in the book, the author speaks about an enormous asteroid that according to scientists will pass near the earth on April the thirteenth, twenty twenty-nine. If it's it's uh and this author kind of wonders, is this the biblical wormwood And you know, what he does in the book is he tries to say, well, if this is gonna happen on October thirteenth, uh uh, twenty twenty nine Then he kind of goes back, you know, s a few years and tries to predict when the tribulation will start and from there he tries to set a date on the rapture. We know that that is not what you're supposed to do, right? This is an example of newspaper exegesis that we need to avoid. All right. What did God tell us? We don't know the day or the hour. We don't know when the Lord's going to come. We don't know when these things are going to happen. And so, you know, I don't I don't agree with the author on this. Um you know we have we have uh according to scientists, we have you know meteors that pass or asteroids that pass by the earth all the time. But I will make this point. God the wise creator, it's a very small thing for God to allow our earth to be hit by something like that. It's not hard for God to do that. And if one day in the future in judgment that God is pouring out upon an ungodly world that refuses to acknowledge him, this is a small thing for God to do. Again, we we have a God of love, but we also have a God of wrath, who one day will pour out that wrath on the earth. And this is just part of it. We can imagine the calamity that would take place when all the water is undrinkable. But then trumpet judgment number four Look down at verse number twelve. And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and a third part of the stars. So as the third part of them was darkened, and the stay shone not for a third part of it, and the night. likewise. And so what we see here as whereas you know the world will still be reeling from the first three ecological disasters that will hit and the first three trumpet judgments that we saw, one after another, one after another, fi fiery hail that burns up vegetation, you know, the the the sea turning to blood, and now the the the waters poisoned. And you know, you can just imagine you know leaders trying to come together and finding a solution, and when all that happens, there's darkness that will take place. Again, just like in Egypt, darkness will overcome. And the Bible says here that in this, that a third part of the sun was smitten, and a third part of the moon, and a third part of the stars. And so It's hard to know specifically what will take place here, but again, this is not hard for God, our Almighty Creator. One third less light from the sun, one third less warmth from the sun temperatures will plunge, which again sets off a chain reaction of so many other things that could take place. And again, in the Old Testament, it speaks about this in Isaiah 13, 10. It says this, for the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light. And the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the moon shall not cause her light to shine. Now, all that to say, and I'm done here in just a minute, what a terrible time that's going to be. For our world that is unrepentant, what a horrible day. And again, if you look at the end in verse number 13, the final verse, the worse is yet to come. Woe to the inhabitants of the earth, by reason of the other voices of the trumpet, which are yet to sound. I want to tell you below it, those are not the trumpet sounds that I want to hear. The trumpet sound I want to hear is the one that calls us out of this world. When the Lord says to his church, his people, come home. It's time. Before God pours out his wrath and his judgment, he's always faithful to bring his people home. So you'll either go to worship with God or you'll go to war with God. That's your choice. I would rather go to worship with God. I would rather repent. And put my faith in Jesus Christ. Because, friend, just as surely as Jesus came the first time, he promised that he's coming again the second time. And he's coming this time, not as the savior, but as the judge, to judge sin. Let me just close with this. One of my favorite characters of history was Winston Churchill. And Churchill, when he died, he had, before he died, he had made arrangements at his funeral that two different trumpet sounds be played. When the church service drew to a close at his funeral, taps began to be played on one side, on one end. Taps was being played, but then on the other end, rebeli was being played on a trumpet. Both. And what that reminds me of is that, you know, the trumpet will sound, we will hear a trumpet sound. It'll either be chaps for some or revelie for others. It'll either be the end. But for some it will be the beginning. Amen. How many of you know if you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, if you're truly a child of God, we have a lot of living to do after this life. There's a lot of blessings in store for those who know the Lord Jesus. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Let's bow for prayer. So, Father, thank you for your word. This is very frightening, Father, to think about. And this incredible book, this revelation, this apocalypsis. This literature, Lord, where so many symbols and imagery is used to speak about your wrath is frightening, and it's meant to be. It's meant to draw people into repentance because we know that although you are a God of love and mercy and grace, how we thank you for that, Lord. It's only because of your grace that we're here. It's only because of your mercy that we stand. But we also know that you're a God of wrath. And for those who reject your word and who reject Christ, The trumpet sound that they will hear will be trumpets of war. And so, Lord, I pray that this will serve as a warning for all of us who To examine our own our own heart, just to make sure that we know Jesus as our Savior, that we're trusting fully in Christ and what He has done for us. the finished work of Christ on the cross, that all of our faith is in him, not in us, not in our religious rituals, not in trying to do good. We know that we are sinners that just simply need to repent and turn to Christ with all our heart. And so Father, may we examine our hearts, may we know that we're trusting in Christ. And Lord May we, may these verses in this passage stir our hearts to go and share Christ with others. Because we know that wrath is coming one day. We don't know when, but we know it's coming. And so Father help us and speak our hearts and use this, we pray. In Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. All right, John.