We're going to do scripture reading. I want you to, if you would, stand and open to Matthew 25. I want to read God's word and if you'll stand in honor of the reading of Scripture. Matthew 25, verses 1 to 13 This morning is the passage I'm going to be dealing with. And you can just follow along while I read Matthew 25, verses 1 to 13. Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were wise, five were foolish. They that were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps And while the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a cry made. Behold, the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps, and the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out. But the wise answered, saying, Not so, lest there be not enough for us and you, but go ye rather to them that sell and buy for yourselves. And while they went to buy the bridegroom came. And they that were ready went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut. Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh This is God's inspired word. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, we thank you for your word. And Lord, I ask that you help me, your servant, make your word clear. And may we hear it, may we submit to it, may we apply it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. May be seated. I'm gonna preach today on the parable of the ten virgins, the passage that we just read. Now in my ministry I've conducted many weddings. I have yet to conduct a wedding where everything goes exactly according to plan. I've never been to a wedding that started on time. Don't feel guilty, it's okay. Maybe that'll happen one day. There's always something that happens at a wedding that's unexpected. And perhaps this is why Jesus uses the story of a wedding to teach this basic idea that we are to be ready always. We're to be ready for the unexpected. Here, the story that we just read is a wedding where everything goes wrong. The groom shows up so very late. In fact, he's so late that the bridal party falls asleep. And when the groom finally arrives at midnight, half the bridesmaids have forgotten to bring enough oil for their lamps. And they end up being banned from the celebration. And as the story concludes, the rejected bridesmaids are standing outside the door. They're asking for admission into the door, tugging on the door but to no avail. The door has been shut. And so they missed the privilege and the opportunity of being part of a joyous celebration. They were shut out from the wedding banquet. This is a sad and strange ending to what should have been a most joyous occasion. Other than that, this was a perfectly normal wedding. But Jesus is giving us a very important lesson in this parable. In fact, it's a warning. This parable is a warning to be ready. I would say that of all the parables That Jesus gave, this is perhaps the scariest. It provokes fear, or at least it should, in the hearts of those who read it. It's designed to make us wake up. So let's let's take a closer look at this. Look at verse one. Then shall the kingdom of heaven. Look at the word then there. This Kind of reminds us that what Jesus is saying here really is summing up some of the things he had previously said in chapter 24. This is really a continuation of what Jesus was saying in chapter 24 And what is Matthew 24 about? This is the Mount Olivet Discourse of Jesus. You might be interested to know that the book of Matthew really is built around s like five sermons or discourses that Jesus gave. Of course the Sermon on the Mount, there was the mysteries The parables of the mysteries of the kingdom in Matthew 13, then so on, until you get to the Mount Olivet discourse. This is a very important chapter in the Bible. And here in Matthew 24, Jesus is teaching about his second coming. He's telling his disciples about the second coming. And so in chapter twenty five, he's continuing this. And what he does is by wrapping up everything that he said with three parables. Matthew chapter 25 consists of three parables. There's the parable of the ten virgins that we just read. There's the parable of the talents in verses fourteen to thirty. Then there's the parable of the sheep and the goats, verse thirty-one down to verse forty-six. And all these parables serve as a warning. And it's a warning to keep watch, be ready. So notice the parable. I want you to see first of all the distinction of the ten virgins. The distinction of the ten virgins. Look in verse one. Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps and went forth to Now it's an honor to be asked to participate in a wedding. And these are really the ten virgins are really just bridesmaids. Perhaps this is where We get this whole concept of bridesmaids that descends from the Jewish custom here. They're not just invited to come to the wedding, they're invited to participate. Again, this was an honor for a Palestinian girl, it was a girl's dream to be a part of the procession and a wedding, being a bridesmaid. And so they were really part of the inner circle, you might say. These weren't just strangers. And they weren't just friends, they were really more than friends. The fact that the bride herself would invite these ladies to be a part of her Procession, her bridegroom. Now, obviously, the parable is speaking about the bridegroom who is the master, the Son of Man, the Lord Jesus Christ, and his coming to receive his church To celebrate his wedding. That's really the basic point of the parable. One day Jesus will come. He will receive his bride, the church. There will be a celebration afterwards. But really to understand this whole thing we have to understand a little bit about the custom of a Jewish wedding. Now you remember when I dealt with the parable of the wedding banquet, we kind of talked about this a little bit, y'all remember? Do I need to give you an exam this morning? Let me just review it with you. You remember that in a Jewish wedding, uh, it really had three stages to it There is the first we could call the covenant stage or the claiming. And this is when the bridegroom would leave his father's house. He would go to the house of the bride and her father. And he would negotiate with the father for a wedding price. He would pay a specific price. And after they would negotiate the price, the bridegroom would then pay that purchase price. for his uh to purchase his bride. And that relates, doesn't it, to the Lord Jesus? He left the Father's house. He came down here. And he paid the purchase price for his bride. What was that purchase price? It was the precious blood of Christ. On the cross. But once the bridegroom paid the purchase price, the bride then was his. They were espoused. That was a legal marriage at that time. Unlike today, he didn't take his bride immediately. He went back to his father's house and he began to prepare to come and get her. He would prepare a place for her. Now they were legally married. This is a spousal. Remember, Mary was a spouse to Joseph in the Bible. They were legally married at that point. But he had not yet come together. Paul said this in 2 Corinthians 11, 2, I am jealous over you with a godly jealousy, for I have espoused you to one husband. Talking about the church, we are espoused to Christ. Paul said that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ. So when the covenant was uh agreed upon, the contract was made, there was normally a uh a celebration, there was a a little bit of a a toast that was made and a cup of wine that was that was given. And so the bridegroom would then go back to the father's house. He would then begin to prepare a place, and he was going to come back and receive his bride, but she didn't really know when. Normally it was about a year that he prepared. But they always had to be ready. The bride had to be ready. The the bride's maid's had to be ready because normally at nighttime is when he would come. And there was a torch-lit procession. That would take place. He would leave with his attendants. He would come down to the bride's house, and he would receive her And so we know that this again relates to the Lord Jesus. One day Jesus is going to come back, right? He's going to receive his bride. And then what was the next stage? There was the Contracting, there was the claiming, he would come and claim his bride. Then there was the celebrating. They would have a marriage supper together. This would be a big elaborate affair. It normally lasted seven days A lot of preparation in a banquet like that. And so no expense was spared. They would go back to the place, the groom's house, there would be a wedding banquet. And by the way, when they went back to the house they normally shut and lock the door. Why? Prevent party crashers. No wedding crashers. You didn't have an invitation? And if you didn't come in the right time, then you couldn't come. So in this parable here, and if you ever notice in Jesus' parables, he does several parables about a wedding. And always he seems to focus on a different aspect of the wedding. Here in this particular wedding, he's focusing on the processional. That's the idea here. Someone studies this. I've read one commentator who said we don't know why he doesn't really focus on the bride. Well, I know why, because that's not really the point of the parable right here. The point here is to be ready. So he's going to talk about the procession. This is the focus. Being prepared And the bride and the bride is always their responsibility was was to to uh escort the bride when the bridegroom came to receive her. And again, normally it was at night, so they had to have lamps, they had to have oil. There was a law back then that if you didn't have uh an oil lamp after dark, you couldn't be out. And their job was to illuminate the path, to light the way, to escort the bride back with the bridegroom to the The bridegroom's house for the wedding banquet. One man who went to Palestine, Dr. Alexander Finley says this. He said he saw in Palestine, he said, when we were approaching the gates of a Galilean town, he writes, He said, I caught sight of ten maidens clad and playing some kind of m instrument. They danced along the road, and when I asked what they were doing, the reply was they were going to keep the bride company. Even today they still have this tradition. And normally, when the bridegroom was coming, someone was sent ahead announcing to everyone: get ready, behold, the bridegroom cometh. Go out to meet him. And again, why did they need lamps? Because normally this happened at nighttime. And so these ten virgins had the distinction of being part of this wedding. They were going to be in the processional. But notice the description of the ten versions. Look in verse 2, how Jesus describes them. And five of them were wise, and five were foolish. And they that were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil and their vessels with their lamps. Five were wise. Five were foolish. The foolish virgins did not take enough oil for their lamps. They didn't have enough foresight to understand that the bridegroom might come A long longer. It might take longer. He might tarry longer. And again, this is going to take place at night And another thing to consider is that normally when a procession will happen back to the groom's place, they took the long way around. You ever go the long way to somewhere? Why would they do it back then? Because When the procession was taking place, people all over in the town would come out and give them well-wishes. So they always took the long route. They always took their time. And sometimes more people would join in the procession. So and another important point is again at nighttime you had to have a lamp or you couldn't be out in the dark And laycomers to the to the wedding banquet would not be admitted. This is why it was important to be ready. You had to be ready at all times. And so Jesus describes these ten bridesmaids, five of them were wise, five were foolish. Now, there's a lot of things about them that are similar. No doubt they had their wedding garments because you all had to wear the same kind of wedding garment. They probably all looked the same. All of them had been invited to the banquet. All of them responded positively. All ten went out To wait for the bridegroom. All of them had their lamps with them. All of them wanted to see the bridegroom. All of them were at the right place at the right time for the right reason. All of them had oil in their lamps. Some of them just didn't have enough. They all fell asleep while waiting for the bridegroom. All were awakened at midnight by the midnight cry. They all got up to trim their lance and go. There was one big difference, and I already told you what it was. Some didn't have enough oil Five were wise. They had the foresight to plan to bring extra oil with them. This might be a drawn-out occasion. But five did not. That's the difference. That's the reason they're foolish. They were unprepared when it was time for the wedding Now we need to stop here for just a minute and emphasize the kind of people that we're describing here. In this parable to relate, the application is this is people that are in the church. These are not people outside the church. Again, these ten bridesmaids were all invited. They were all in the inner circle. And the application is this is talking about people in the church, not people outside of the church. These people are friends of the bride. And they're expecting to be at the wedding, they're expecting to participate Again, the only difference between the two groups is that the wise virgins brought enough oil and the foolish ones did not. And so, as it turns out, the wedding was delayed. It was delayed. So notice the next thing. We see the distinction and the description. Notice the discussion. Look down at verse 5. And while the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a cry made, and behold the grow the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out. But the wise answer said, Not so, lest there not be not enough for us and you. But go ye rather to them that sell and buy for yourselves. So in the interim, while the ten bridesmaids are waiting, they fall asleep. Again, it's all late at night. Here comes the cry, behold the bridegroom comes. They get up, trim their lamps, the five foolish look and they say, You know what, we're not going to have enough oil for this thing. So they said to the five wives, Lend us some of your oil. And the five said, No way. Now they weren't being stingy. You see, the it was responsibility of these ten bridesmaids to illuminate the way for the bride. That was their responsibility. And they knew that if they gave them some of their oil, all ten would run out. And the way would get dark. It was impossible for them to share their oil with the uh the five foolish ones. And so they said, No, we can't do that. What you need to do is you need to go down and get some oil from the oil buying place. Now wait a minute. It's it's it's late at night. It's it's it's way late. Who's gonna be open? You know, the 24 hour Walmart maybe But actually when you uh if you study this, uh it was interesting to find, and that was my big question, I thought, well, where in the world are they going to get oil this late at night? But uh for this occasion, this was such a big occasion that many men in the marketplace would keep their place of business open. to get extra profits. This was kind of be like a a sporting event, you know, a concessions, you know, keeping things open later than usual, you know, to get the profit. And so uh There would probably be some places in town for them to go and buy oil and come back. And so that's what they did They listen to the advice of the five wise virgins, which in itself is kind of unique that the foolish would listen to the wise. And so in verse number 10, it says, And while they went to by, the bridegroom came. Now, let me just back up here for just a minute. So they go to the marketplace to buy oil. What does the oil represent? Now you when we study this, you know, I found that there's a lot of different interpretations as to what the oil might represent. I don't want to give them all to you for lack of time, but By far, the prevailing view is that the oil represents the Holy Spirit. And that would make sense, right? I mean, oil in the Bible symbolizes the Holy Spirit. But I don't think it is the Holy Spirit. And let me tell you why. Why? Well, because all ten have oil in the beginning, but five run out. We know that we receive the Holy Spirit by faith in Jesus Christ, right? And when we get saved and the Holy Spirit lives inside of us, he's not there for just a little while and then leaves. We don't run out of oil, as it were. So I don't think that this is referring to the Holy Spirit here. Believers don't run out of the Holy Spirit. Once you're saved, you're sealed by the Holy Spirit. You don't lose your Holy Spirit. You don't lose your salvation. Secondly, they go to buy oil. And you don't buy the Holy Spirit with money. Remember what Peter said to Simon, the sorcerer in Acts, when he wanted to buy the Spirit's power? Thy money perish with thee. You have no part or no lot. So, what does the oil represent? Well, I'll tell you later. Let me keep you listening until the end of the sermon. I'll tell you in a minute, all right? So notice the next thing. There's the distinction, the description, the discussion. Here's the next thing, the division of the ten virgins. Because look at verse 10. And while they went to by The bridegroom came, and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage, and the door was shut. Afterward came also the other virgin saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and said, Verily I send you, I know you not. So they went, they go to get their oil. The moment of truth came in the person of the bridegroom. He came, he went to the wedding as was the custom. The doors were shut when they got to the wedding banquet. And they were locked. That was the custom. And these people that were supposed to be the honored guests, part of the wedding, they were shut out of this joyous wedding celebration. When the foolish virgins come back, they realize that the wedding has started and so they begin tugging at the door and they tried to get in, but the door was locked, and they're pulling at the door and they're knocking on the door and they're you know that you Imagine how this might create a little bit of commotion on the inside. And they're shouting through the door, open, Lord, Lord, open to us. You know, there are about 15 times in all of sacred scripture where somebody addresses another person twice in succession. That happens 15 times in Scripture. Abraham, Abraham. Don't lay your hand upon the lad. My father, my father, Elisha said to Elijah. Martha, Martha, you're cumbered about. Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? And so on. Absalom, Absalom. My son Absalom. So here's the point. Whenever a name is repeated, this is a Jewish idiom that expresses personal intimacy. Personal closeness. So when the virgins came to the door and it's locked, they didn't just say, Lord! They said, Lord, Lord. The idea there is personal closeness. You know us? Lord, Lord. You're my Lord. You know that we're supposed to be here. I want to be here. Lord, Lord, open. You know me. I'm not a party crasher. Open. But notice what is said in verse twelve. But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. You might have invitations and you might have lamps, but I don't know you I don't know who you are. Hold your place here. Go with me to Matthew 7. Let me just show you something. There's a little parallel here. I want you to see this. Hold your place. Flip back to Matthew 7 and look at verse 21. Notice what it says there in Matthew 7. 21. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Notice this is Jesus here speaking. This is he's kind of summing up, he's really giving the invitation, you could say it, the Sermon on the Mount He's bringing it to a close. And he says, not everyone that saith to me, Lord, Lord In fact, look at verse 22. Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. That's pretty sobering. Lord, uh you remember me. I I'm the preacher. I prophesy in your name. I cast out devils in your name. Lord, I was a Sunday school teacher. Lord, I was a deacon. I did all these things in your name. But then what did Jesus say? And I will profess unto them, I never knew you. I never knew you. Now obviously here he's not talking about a cognitive knowledge, because our Lord knows everyone, right? He knows everything about everyone. He's not talking about a cognitive knowledge here, but he's using the word here in a phalail sense, in a redemptive sense. I didn't know you in redemption. I didn't know you in salvation. I never knew you savingly. So what was missing from these virgins? Real saving faith. Real salvation. It's obvious that they didn't have the regenerative power of the Holy Spirit. They were lacking then in saving faith. Now because we know that because if they were truly saved, if they had saving faith, then he would have said, shame on you for being late. Shame on you for not being prepared. But he never would have said, I never knew you. I never knew you. And again, this parable is not about pagans. It's not about the unsaved. It's about professors. And I'm not talking about professors in a university. I'm talking about people in church who make a profession to know Jesus, who profess to be Christians. If we tie this in with Matthew 7, Jesus says. There's not going to be just a handful like that. He said, many will come to me and say, Lord, Lord! You know me? Many. Many in that number. So go back to Matthew 25. We see then the declaration about the ten virgins. Really, it sums it up in verse 13. Watch therefore. For ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh. Now, in the few minutes I have left, let me just give you a few application principles. Number one, here's the first one: the coming of our Lord might be delayed. Might be delayed. Now that's from our perspective, where it says verse 5, tarried Kroni Zontas to linger long in its coming. Dr. James Boyce says, this is an unmistakable inference from the story. Why did he linger so long? Why did he wait so long? Well, because he's getting everything ready. Some people might wonder why is the Lord taking so long? It might be long from our perspective, beloved, but the Lord always is on time from his perspective. And you know why it's so long from our perspective? He's getting things ready for us, folks. You know, there's a lot to go into putting together a banquet like this. And preparing a place for us. Write down Isaiah thirty eighteen. Therefore will the Lord wait that he might be gracious unto you He's just being gracious unto us. He's getting everything ready. And I know we live in a world today where when you talk about the second coming to the secular world, you get a sympathetic smile And they say, oh yeah, you believe in that Lord's coming thing. And if he's coming, why ha why hasn't he come yet? They scoff at it. Peter reminds us, he says this in 2 Peter 3. 3, knowing this first that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? You talk about Jesus coming, where is he? Since the beginning, everything has just continued just as it is. Things haven't changed. Nothing has really broken into this world. And Peter kind of reminds him, you ever hear of anything called the flood? Noah's flood? People back in Noah's day, they scoffed, they made fun of Noah while he was building that Ark. Noah had a grandfather named Methuselah. You know what Methuselah is known for in the Bible? He's the oldest man in the Bible. 969 years. And you know what his name means? When he is dead, it shall be sent. Methuselah had a father named Enoch who walked with God, and God said to Enoch one day, Enoch, that baby that your wife's going to have, when he dies, I'm going to send the flood And so Enoch said, I'll call him Methuselah. When he is dead, it shall be sent. And he lived 969 years. He's a symbol of the patience and the long-suffering of God. And the reason he lived so long is because God was waiting for people to repent and get saved. And that's the reason why he's delaying right now. He's waiting. But you know what? Methuselah did die. And the flood did come. And one day the Methuselah of God's mercy will die, and Jesus will come again. The Bible says in Matthew 24, 14, In this gospel the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, then shall the end come. Here's the second lesson. The coming of the Lord might be delayed, but here's the second thing. Being prepared is non-transferable. I can't give you my oil. We can't transfer that. This is one of the striking features of the parable. The foolish virgin said, let us borrow some of your oil. They said we can't. There's a sense in which I can't give you my faith. I can't transfer my faith to everyone else. I can't make you prepared. That's a personal matter. When you stand before the Lord and he says, Why should I let you in? And you might say, Well, you know, my mother was a godly woman, and the Lord says, Yeah, I know, but what has that got to do with you? You don't have any of her oil. You've got to get your own oil. My father was a pastor, I know, but that doesn't transfer to you. I went to thus and such Bible college. That faith doesn't transfer to you. It's a personal matter. Being prepared is non-transferable. But here's the next thing True saving faith is demonstrated in an alert preparation for the Lord's coming. So what does the oil represent? Let me tell you I think it represents true faith demonstrated by continual obedience and good works. That's what it represents. Write down Matthew 5, 16. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. I think the same idea here is in the parable. Works does not save you, it only shows you that you are saved We're not talking about works for salvation. We're talking about works that demonstrate that my faith is real. And if your faith is real and genuine, you know how it's going to be demonstrated? You're going to continue to obey Jesus. And you're going to continue to do the good works that He has ordained, and you're not going to stop. You're not going to say, well, you know, I've been doing this since I've been saved, and the Lord hasn't come back yet. I'm done. You're not going to do that. You're going to keep obeying. You're going to keep doing the good works. You're going to keep persevering in faith. Remember, and we don't have time, but in memory in Matthew 7, right after Jesus said, you know, not everyone who says to me, Lord is going to enter the kingdom, then he gives the story of the wise man who built his house upon the rock. And the foolish man who built his house upon the sand, and the storm came and the winds blew, and the wise man's house stood, but the foolish man's house fell. What was the difference between the two? The wise man heard the word of God and he obeyed it. The foolish man heard and he didn't Obedience is the key. Your faith is made real by demonstration through obedience, continual obedience to Christ, continually doing good works, not just doing it for a time and then quitting Not just doing it for a certain era and then quitting. Because I really get fed up with Christians saying, well, you know, I've already served my time. Really? Have you run out of oil? We're to be faithful and obedient to Jesus until He comes. That's the point. So I think this is faith demonstrated with works and continual obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ. Luke said, let your loins be girt about and your lights burning. Always be ready Always keep the lights burning. But here's another thing. The Lord's coming will bring separation. And that's another common denominator in the parallel. It's going to bring separation. And that's part of the theme here of Matthew twenty four. Look in chapter twenty four, look at verse thirty six, where Jesus is talking about his coming. But of that day and hour knoweth no man, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only But as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. For as in the days that were before the flood, there were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered into the flood And knew not until the flood came and took them all away. So sh shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. Then shall two be in the field, one taken the other left. Two women shall be grinding at the mill, one shall be taken the other left. Get the idea? His coming is going to bring separation. Separation. He will separate the wise from the foolish. He'll separate the sheep from the goats. He'll separate the wheat from the tares. It's going to be separation. I can't bear the thought of being separated from my loved ones for all eternity. I can't bear that thought. That's why we have to share the gospel. We have to pray. We have to get serious about their salvation. And let me give you the last thing and we're done. Many will find the value of salvation too late. Too late. The door will be shut. And it'll be too late. And some people will find the value of it only too late. So the question is, which group do you identify with? Which group are you in? Now you might say, well, I identify with the the wise ones. Are you sure? Are you sure? When I close my eyes in death and breathe my last breath, and the face of Jesus is the first one that I see, will He say to me, Who are you? Who are you? I didn't know you. And so this parable is fearful. It provokes us, it makes us to make sure of our own salvation. Everyone is invited to the wedding. Not everyone's going to make it. Make sure that you're you're one of them. Let's bow for prayer together And so, Lord, we are humbled We're sobered by this parable. And it provokes us to think, to examine our own heart. To make sure that we know that we are in the faith. And Lord, it also in my own heart. Just stirs up a passion to make sure that others know that they're in the faith. And to be prepared, to be ready. We don't know. We know you're coming, Lord. We know you're coming. And we know it's delayed. We know you're getting things prepared, but we know you're coming. Lord, help us all to be ready. Help us to be ready. With heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just ask you, would you just take a moment and examine your own heart in light of this here? And can you say that I I know, I know whom I have believed. I'm trusting in Jesus and Jesus alone Have you just gotten to the point where you've just thrown up your hands and say, you know what, I'm not I'm not doing this anymore. I'm not I'm not gonna do this Christian thing anymore. I've been waiting. And things aren't going the way I want them to go. Well, friend, that might be an indicator that you need to have real faith. Because those whose faith is real, you know what? They persevere. They bring enough oil. They persevere in faith. So ask God to deal with your heart. Reveal to your heart where you are. And take this this message seriously. And if you know that you know that you're saved, what about your family? When the Lord comes, it's going to bring a great separation. It may be that you need to get serious about praying for lost loved ones. Praying for family members and friends who don't know the Lord Jesus. So Father, use these words To strike fear, godly fear, holy fear into our hearts so that we will be ready when you come. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.