Tonight, the book of Matthew, chapter 13. And I want to just speak tonight. I want to give you a bird's eye view of this chapter. Now we're going to go through this whole chapter, but don't be afraid. I'll let you out before midnight. We're going to actually do a survey of this chapter Obviously, we can't do all the verses here in detail because there's so much here. But I think in really to understand Matthew 13 is to understand what God is doing in this age, this kingdom age. And someone asked, what's going to happen in the church in 2015? Well, to understand Matthew 13 helps to answer that question. Now let me just say by way of introduction, there are some things that need to stay concealed, and there are some things that need to be There are some things that God will conceal and other things that He reveals. I was reading a reader's digest blurb And uh it said this, it said the difference between private enterprise and government is this. The formula for making Coca-Cola and Kentucky fried chicken are still secrets. I didn't know that. But how to make a hydrogen bomb is on your newsstand. Of course the implication of that is the govern government can't keep anything a secret, but private enterprise seems to keep their secrets in order to make more money. Well, again, that is really the theme of Matthew 13, is concealing some things and revealing other things. Why would Jesus want to conceal truth? That is what I want to show you here tonight. In this chapter, Jesus is revealing truth to some while at the same time revealing it to others. Now, Matthew chapter 13 marks a distinct turning point in the ministry of Jesus. And Matthew gives us here in this chapter the parables of Jesus. Jesus begins to teach profound spiritual truth, profound insights. Using parables. Now look in chapter 13, look in verses 1 through 3. That same day went Jesus out of the house and sat by the seaside, and a great multitude were gathered together unto him, so that he went into a ship And sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore. And verse 3, and he spake many things unto them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow. Now notice where it says that same day. What happens here happened the same days as in the preceding verses in chapter twelve. If you go back to chapter twelve, verse forty-six, we're told that Jesus is in a house. that his mother and brothers came to speak with him. Prior to that, in chapter twelve, uh he had condemned the Pharisees because they accused him of blasphemy. And now in verse two of chapter thirteen, many people had gathered together to hear the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, wouldn't you like to hear Jesus teach? I mean I'd be in that group. I'd want to hear the Lord. And a multitude had gathered together. to hear Jesus. And so what does he do? The Bible says that he basically got into a ship in verse 2. And he sat down and the whole multitude stood on the shore. So the ship was his pulpit, the shore was his church or his congregation, we could say And in the beginning of his ministry he spent a lot of time in the indoors teaching in synagogues and uh in houses, but now the the his ministry goes outdoors. And how now here's Jesus. He's beginning to teach a whole multitude of people. And there's a sense in which when he sits in the boat The sea there becomes almost a help to echo his voice so that the whole multitude could hear now what he begins to speak. And verse 3 tells us that he spoke in parables Now, the first question is, what are parables? Some think that they're just stories, but they're much more than just stories. In fact, the word parable comes from two Greek words, para, which means alongside, and balo is the Greek verb which means to cast. And so you put those together to cast alongside. And so thus it's throwing a story alongside of a spiritual truth. And really the idea here is that you place a known earthly story alongside of a spiritual truth in order to help someone to understand that spiritual truth. And so a parable is taken from everyday life, a real-life situation that is used to convey a moral or spiritual truth. in that story. One person said it like this. They are earthly sayings with heavenly meanings. Now when you get to Matthew chapter 13, these are not ordinary parables because look in verse 11 And he answered, they said unto him Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom. Jesus calls these parables the mysteries In other words, he's going to use these parables to reveal spiritual truth or spiritual secrets about the kingdom to his disciples. Now again, why parables? Notice verse 10 in chapter 13. And his disciples came and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables? Lord, why are you doing this? Why are you speaking in parables? You see, the disciples could see the distinct change in the ministry of Jesus. They knew him, they heard him teach many times, but here now he teaches in parables. In fact, look at verse 34 of chapter 13. And all these things spake Jesus unto them, unto the multitudes, rather, in parables. And without a parable spake he not unto them. that it might be fulfilled which is spoken by the prophets, saying, I will open my mouth and parables, I will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of And so for the rest of his ministry, when Jesus speaks to multitudes, he uses this method predominantly when he speaks, when he speaks to the multitudes. Now again, the disciples wonder, Lord, why are you using parables? And Jesus gives the answer. Look again in verse 11. And the answer that said of them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not Given. So what's Jesus' response to this? I want to reveal truth for you. And I want to conceal this truth from others. And so Jesus uses parables as a way to reveal truth to those who are spiritually responsive, to those who have received what Jesus had to say up until this point, he wants to give them more. But to those who have heard Jesus speak and have heard his truth and have not received it but rather have rejected it. Jesus says, I'm not giving you anymore. I conceal that truth from you. And again, this answers the question, why would God want to conceal truth from someone? I mean, doesn't God want everyone to know the truth? But again, look at verse 11. There are two groups. To you, who is that? That's the disciples. That's all those who believed on Jesus. But notice also to them, who is that? That's those who have rejected his ministry, that have rejected him, that have not received what he had to say. Now remember I said in Matthew 13 is a turning point in the Gospel of Matthew. Now, let me just give you a little background. again into this before we get into chapter 13 because I think you need to hear this in order for this to really uh make sense to you Now remember that Matthew, and I've told you this before, Matthew, like a lawyer, presents evidence that Jesus is the Son of David. He is the Savior. And in the first ten chapters of the book of Matthew, he just gives evidence after evidence that Jesus is the son of David. He starts in chapter one with the genealogy to prove that he was the rightful son. He speaks about the virgin birth In chapter 3, there's the testimony of John the Baptist. In chapter 4, there is the testimony of Jesus' power. In chapters 5 through 7, which is the Sermon on the Mount, there is the testimony of Jesus' words. And then in chapters 8 and 9, there's the testimony of his miracles. If you look in chapter 8 and 9, you're going to find that Matthew selected certain miracles That point to this fact that Jesus is the Son of David. And then in chapter 10, there's a testimony of his disciples. And then when you get to chapter 11, uh Matthew is looking for a verdict from those who have been there, who have heard Jesus, who saw his miracles. And what do we see in chapter 11? In fact, go back there for just a minute and look at some of these verses. We see the rejection of So we could say it like this, chapters 1 through 10 in Matthew is the revelation of the king. Chapters 11 through 13 is the rejection of the king. Because what chapter 11 begins to give us is a series of negative responses to the ministry of Jesus. And one of them is doubt, verses 1 through 11. This is the doubt of John the Baptist. Even John the Baptist, who's in prison, doubts. Jesus. And then in verses 16 down to verse 19, there's criticism. Look at verse 16. Jesus says, But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is likened unto children sitting in the markets and calling to their fellows, and saying, We have piped unto you and you have not danced. We have mourned unto you and you have not lamented. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say he hath the devil. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold, a man gluttonous and a wine beebber, a friend of publicans and sinners, but wisdom is justified over children See what's Jesus saying? He's saying about that generation of listeners of Jews who would not receive him, he said, I can't make you happy. You're acting like spoiled children. You criticize John the Baptist. You've criticized me. Nothing we do can prove to you that we are really sent from God And so there is unfair criticism, and then there's indifference. Look at verse 20. Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done. Because they repented not. Verse 21. Woe unto thee, Corazan, woe unto thee, Basaidah, for if the mighty works which were done in you had been done entire inside them, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes And then in verse 22, but I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment than for you. So what is he saying here? There was indifference, apathy. Jesus was doing miracles. He was preaching the word of the kingdom. And a handful of people had believed. But for the most part, multitudes, of course, they wanted to come and see his miracles. But for the most part, many had rejected Jesus. And then when you get to chapter 12, what happens? Outright apostasy. In chapter 12, Jesus heals on the Sabbath. But notice verse 22 of chapter 12. Then they brought unto him one possessed with the devil, blind and dumb, and he healed him insomuch that the blind and the dumb both spake and saw. And all the people were amazed and said, Is not this the son of David? Verse 24, but when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow does not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub, the prince of devils. And there is the ultimate rejection there. That's outright apostasy. They said that he does miracles by the power of Satan. And then look in chapter 12, verse 38. Then certain of the scribes and the Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee. What a slap in the face. Here Jesus had done all these miracles. He had healed people, cast out devils, and they say, oh, you do that by the power of Satan. We want a sign. We want a sign from heaven. And this showed the hardness of their heart and their total unbelief. And then really the first parable that we see in Matthew is in verse 43. Notice Notice the parable that Jesus gives them. When an unclean spirit has gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest, and findeth none. Then he saith, I will return into my house from whence I came out. And when he has come, he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished. Then goeth he and taketh with him s himself seven other spirits more wicked than himself. And they entered in and dwelt there, and the last state of that man is worse than the first, even so shall it be also unto this wicked generation Now, in this parable, Jesus is showing how that this generation of people had rejected him, and they had really sinned away the time of grace. Jesus is saying the house of the man here represents that generation. The sweeping of the house represents the ministry of Jesus You see, when Jesus came and preached and did great miracles, there was a sense in which Satan was cast out. That left an empty space, that left a vacuum. And now it's time for them to receive the Messiah. But rather than receive Jesus, they rejected him. So Jesus said, you know what's going to happen? Seven other spirits are going to come back in. And the last state of that man is worse than the first. That is, this generation will get even worse. If you think that they had rejected Jesus before, It's going to get worse than that. They hated Jesus before, but now the hatred they will have for Christ will be a satanic, fanatical hatred. They loved corruption before, but now they will sink to an all-time low. Now all of that leads up to Matthew 13. Because in Matthew 13, again I said, the whole tone of Jesus' ministry changes now. Now he begins to speak in parables. Why? Because he wants to reveal truth to those who have received him, to those who have believed on him, and at the same time conceal it to those who have utterly rejected his ministry. And so that's why he speaks in parables. He refuses to give them any more, those who have rejected him. And by the way, he's practicing himself what he preached in another place. Look in Matthew 7, verse 6. Let me show you this. Matthew 7, 6. This is what Jesus told his disciples. Give not that which is holy unto dogs. Neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and rend you Jesus is referring to the hypercritical Pharisees. And he says, look, don't cast your perils before swine. That is, don't give your the things that God has given the precious truth. Don't give it to those who will count it as nothing, who will trample it under their feet. And that's exactly what Jesus is doing here in Matthew 13. He refuses to give precious truth any more to those who have completely rejected what he had to say thus far. In fact, look in chapter ten, look in verse fourteen. This is when he was training his disciples. Look what he told them there in Matthew 10 verse 14. And whatsoever shall not uh whosoever excuse me shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out of that house or city, do what? Shake off the dust of your feet. Verse 15, Fairly I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. And Jesus is basically did that in chapter 11. When he left Capernaum, he basically shook the dust off and said, that's it, I'm done here. And he said to the rest of those Jewish cities that did not believe on him, it's going to be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for you. And you, Capernaum, you've been exalted to the heavens. But you're going to be brought down to hell. Because they had the personification of truth right there. And so Jesus is refusing to impart spiritual truth anymore to those who will not receive it. Look in chapter 13 again and look down at verse number 12. For whosoever hath to him shall be given. And he that hath more, or shall have more abundance, and he shall have more abundance, excuse me, but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath. Now look at that verse. Whosoever hath, who is that? These are those who have received the truth. If you've received the truth and you have truth, then you know what's going to happen? And by the way, if you're a good steward of the truth that God has given you, you know what God's going to do? He's going to give you more truth. He's going to reveal more to you. They that have re have believed have received the light, and so now he's going to give them more light. Whosoever hath, to him shall be given. God says, I'm going to give you more light, and you're going to continue to grow. By the way, some people say, well, I come to church, I don't get anything. Well, maybe it's because you haven't done anything with what you already have Maybe it's because you haven't really put to practice what God has already revealed to you. And God says, if you will take what I've already given you and use it and be a good steward of that truth, I will give you more. But look at the next part. But whosoever hath not, who is that? These are the ones who have rejected the light, that have rejected the truth. They haven't they don't have a heart of belief. They were exposed to Jesus' ministry. They were exposed to his words. They were exposed to his miracles. But they didn't believe And Jesus says, whoever hath not, notice this, from him shall be taken away even that he has. To those who have superficially received the truth. But not really, really received it in their heart. They've listened skeptically. And they may have taken a little bit of it. God said, if you haven't believed, I'm going to take away what you already have. And I'm not going to show you any more. You know what this principle is? It's the old principle. If you don't use it, you lose it. If you don't use what God has given you, if you're not faithful with what God has given you, then he's not going to share with you anymore. And really There's a principle here. You're either progressing spiritually, you're growing, you're maturing, God's giving you more, or you are regressing. spiritually. God is either giving to you more truth or he's taking away what you have because you haven't done anything with it. You're either growing or you're regressing, but you don't remain in the in a static position. The longer a person knows and is faithful to Jesus Christ, the more God will give, the more God will reveal, and the more they will become like the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why I don't understand bitter old saints. That's an oxymoron. If you've been saved for a long time and walking with the Lord, you're not going to be bitter You're going to be more like the Lord Jesus Christ. And if you've taken the truth that He's given you and you have mixed it with faith and you have applied it to your life, He's going to give you more, He's going to reveal more, and you're going to know more of Him And so Jesus says, first of all, to conceal. Now look again very carefully at verse 13. Therefore speak I unto them in parables. Because they seeing see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. And verse 14, and in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear and shall not understand, and seeing ye shall see and shall not understand So Jesus quotes here from Isaiah 6, verses 9 to 10, to show that his ministry actually is fulfilling Old Testament prophecy, and that he is speaking in parables as a form of judgment on those who have not received him. When he starts speaking in parables, this is a sign of judgment on that generation. Some people say, why don't you speak more stories, Brother Jerry? Well if I start speaking more stories, that means that's a sign of judgment on you. Just kidding. Now, not all the parables that Jesus spoke were a form of judgment, but here clearly, and these string of parables that we see in Matthew 13, they were They were a form of judgment because God is concealing the truth from those who would not believe. And notice that people seeing did not see. Hearing they did not hear. Now they could hear what Jesus was saying, but you know what they weren't getting it. They just did not get it And you know something? This leads us to another truth. You can come to church and you can hear sermons, but I want to tell you something, friend. If God doesn't show you the truth, you're not going to get it I can make it as crystal clear as I possibly can. But if God the Holy Spirit doesn't enlighten your mind and open your heart so that you can understand and receive truth, it doesn't matter, friend. You're not going to get it. That is the ministry of the Holy Spirit. And so this was a sign of judgment to conceal the truth to some. But then to reveal it to others. Notice verse 16. Because now here he speaks to the disciples, but blessed are your eyes, for they see. And your ears, for they hear. Here Jesus pronounces a blessing on the disciples because God had given them the ability to hear what Jesus was saying and to understand. You see, that's why when you come to God's house, you should pray, God, help me to understand truth. Anytime you open the scripture, anytime you study the scripture, your prayer should be, open my eyes. That I might understand your word. You see, friend, the Bible wasn't written to theologians. The Bible was written to average, ordinary, lay people like you, like me And you know, you don't have to have a great mind or be very, very uh uh a very sharp, though you are very sharp, all of you here. You don't have to be very, very intelligent. I don't mean to insult you when I uh by implying that you're not. You are. Okay, let me qualify that But the point is, friend, it doesn't matter your IQ. If you have the Holy Spirit revealing truth, you're going to get it. You're going to get it. Okay? The Bible wasn't written to theologians, it was written to ordinary lay people who was under the illumination of the Holy Spirit could understand truth. Let me read you what Tasker had to say about these parables here. Listen. He said when such people heard a parable about the kingdom It would be for them an interesting but pointless story. Talking about those who Jesus was concealing truth from. Conveying no revelation of divine truth. The disciples, on the other hand, had already grasped some of the supernatural character of their master and of the kingdom that he came to inaugurate. To them, therefore, he could explain the truth embodied in these parables, and as in fact he did. And the interpretations here recorded in the parable of the sower and the tares, the result was that the powers of spiritual understanding developed, and the mysteries of the kingdom became clearer to them. And that's exactly what happened with the disciples. And I pray will happen to us as we just look at these parables. Now, with all that in mind, and that was the introduction to the sermon. And we're halfway done. I'm just going to take a few minutes. And what I want to give you then is a general overview of these parables. What is the main theme of these parables? They're all about the kingdom. They're all about the kingdom of God and how God is going to advance his kingdom. And if you understand these parables, you will understand how God is operating today in this age that we call the church age. Because this tells us what's going to happen between the first coming of Christ and the second coming. You see, when Jesus came the first time, they rejected him, and so he's going to come again the second time to set up his literal kingdom. But for now his kingdom is a spiritual kingdom. And it will spread through the Word of God being received, the Word of God being planted. And so this is really this period now, the church age, is what we call, I'm sure you've heard this, a parentheses, until Jesus comes again and he will inaugurate his literal physical kingdom when he comes to earth. Now, with all that in mind, I just want you to write down number one this parable about the origin of the kingdom. Jesus talks about the origin of the kingdom. Notice again in verse 3, and he spake many things unto them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow. And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them up, and some fell upon the stony places where they had not much earth And forthwith they sprung up because they had no deepness of earth. Now, just to give you just a quick overview. Farmers back then would carry a canvas sack over their shoulder, and they would just spread seed indiscriminately. And here's a sower and he begins to spread seed. Now the seed in this parable represents the word of God And we're talking about the origin of the kingdom. How did God initiate his kingdom? How does the kingdom begin in this parable. It begins by the word of God planted in the hearts of people. Do you know every time a preacher stands up and preaches the Bible, he is spreading the seed of God's word. And he's spreading it indiscriminately in this place called the field, which is the congregation of hearers. Whoever hears the word of God, he is spreading the seed of the word. into a field. Now what we notice in this parable are the soils. We see the seed, which is the Word of God, that life-giving force And then the soils, which represents what? The different hearts of the people who receive the Word of God. And you have four different kinds of soils. In verse 4, there's the wayside soil or the hard soil Or verse 4, rather. And verse 5, there's a stony or shallow soil. And then if you look in verse 7, there is the thorny soil. And then in verse 8, there's the good ground. And again, the soil represents the hearts of people. Notice the seed only bears fruit on one kind of soil. And what is it? It's the soil that receives the truth, the good soil. Now, that means that out of all those different soils, there's only one that really produces fruit. Now, what is that saying? That one type of soil that receives the seed and bears fruit represents those who are truly saved. You know when a preacher or anyone shares the gospel, This is something we have to accept. Not everyone is going to receive it. Not everyone is going to take it in. You say, well, there are multitudes that follow Jesus. Let me tell you something, friends. Jesus was not impressed with the multitudes that followed him. Many of them were given over to miracle mania. They just wanted to see him do another miracle or get a free meal because he would feed the multitudes When it came to speaking the truth, many of them walked away. And many times Jesus wanted to spend time with just those who really embraced the truth. He wasn't impressed with the multitudes. But those who received it. Look at verse 23. But he that receiveth seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word and understandeth it, which also beareth fruit. And bringeth forth some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. Now some preachers preach this as if there are four different kinds of Christians, but this is not talking about Christians. There's only one who's the true believer here. It's the one who receives the seed and bears truth. The other, you say, what about the other soils? That represents people who are lost. The Word of God has never fully been received into that heart. And so the one who bears fruit is the one who is the true believer. So we see the origin of the kingdom in that parable. But then write down number two the opposition to the kingdom. Look at verse twenty-four This next parable shows the opposition of Satan. Another parable putting forth unto them saying, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man which sowed good seed in his field. But while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way. For when the blade was sprung up, he brought forth and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir, this thou not so, good seed in thy field, from whence then hath it tares So we see here in this parable another message that Jesus is giving, and that is the opposition. Satan will try to oppose the spread of the kingdom. And how does he do that? Well, wherever God plants choice wheat, you can rest assured that the devil's going to plant tares. And that's how he opposes the kingdom of God. When God does his work, Satan will do his work. Notice there are three stages in this parable. There is the sowing. God is sowing good seed, but Satan. is the enemy who comes and he sows bad seed in the field. Now by the way, this was customary in that day. If you had an enemy, one of the things that you would do is you would do what they called oversowed his field You would put in weeds where he put in weeds. And when the servant sees this, he says, what should we do? When it begins to spring forth, they look and they see, they say, well, uh you know, there's tares among the wheat. What shall we do? Shall we uproot it? And what did the man say? He said, no, don't uproot it Why? Because you might uproot some of the good wheat. Look at verse twenty-seven. So the servants of the household came and said them, Sir, didst thou not so good see? From whence then hath it tears? And he said to them, An enemy hath done this And the servant said to him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? And he said, Nay. Lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. This is the growing stage. There's the sowing, then there's the growing And by the way, do you know what? It's not my job to go around and say this is a true believer and this is not. You know why? Because I don't know the difference. And sometimes wheat and tares, you could not tell the difference. It took an expert eye to know. Only really the master of the harvest knew the difference. And so he says, no, if you go around trying to pull up some of the tares, you'll accidentally pull up some of the wheat. In other words, the point is we don't know who's really saved and who's not. But I want to tell you something, friend. One day it's going to be revealed. And that's the third stage. That's the knowing. There's the sowing, the growing, then the knowing. Look in verse 30. Let both grow together until the harvest. And in the time of the harvest I will say unto the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them into bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn So the tares will be burned and the wheat will be barned, so to speak. That's going to be in the day when God will discern who is real and who is not. But what do we learn by this? What does Jesus teach That when the when the kingdom uh is advancing, Satan will oppose it. And he does it by sowing tares among the wheat. So we see the origin of the kingdom And we see the opposition to the kingdom, but then write down the third thing, the operation of the kingdom. The operation of the kingdom. How is that? Look in verse 31. And another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a grain of mustard seed which a man took and sowed in his field. Which indeed is the least of all seeds, but when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof. What is Jesus teaching here? that the kingdom will start out small, but it'll grow big. Just like the mustard seed, which is the smallest of all seeds. Just a tiny little thing. But yet when it grows, it becomes the biggest of the tr the herbs. Or the trees, we could say. And that's what the kingdom will be like. It will start out small But it will grow to be big. Now, by the way, this is answering a question that the disciples had, because the disciples were looking around and they were wondering, Lord, aren't there not more people that are going to become a part of the kingdom? Because back in Jesus' ministry at that time, there were just a handful of people that had believed on him. And Jesus gives them this parable to encourage them. The kingdom will start out small, but it will continue to grow. And it'll get bigger. And it'll become the largest. I want to tell you something, friends. The gospel is going to continue to grow in 2015. Isn't that good to know? Because the kingdom is going to continue to advance. But also notice the next parable, verse 33. And another parable speaking unto them: The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven. Which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal till the whole was leavened. What is this talking about? The influence of the kingdom. The kingdom of God is going to continue to influence the world just like a little bit of leaven spreads throughout a whole loaf of bread, even so the kingdom of God, the influence of that kingdom, is going to continue to spread. Someone says our world is in bad shape. Yeah, but if the church and the kingdom of God wouldn't hear, it would really be bad. What's kept this world from being totally turned over to depravity is the presence of the kingdom of God in this world and the influence of the gospel and the kingdom. So friend in 2015 you know what you can expect? You can expect the Word of God to be preached. Some will receive it, some will reject it. In 2015, you know what you can expect? Satan will oppose the kingdom of God. He will sow tares among the wheat. You know what you can expect? You can expect the kingdom of God to continue to grow. And to advance and to influence other people. That's the operation of the kingdom. But let me show you another thing. Not only the origin And the opposition and the operation. But write down number four, the obtaining of the kingdom. Now these next two parables go together, just like the last two kind of went together. Look in verse number 44. And again the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hid in a field, the which when a man hath found he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and sells all that he has. And he buys the field. And again the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking goodly pearls. And when he had found one pearl, great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it. This speaks about how someone Becomes a part of the kingdom. How the kingdom is obtained. And here Jesus gives two parables. Here's a man, he's just walking in a field. Maybe he's working, maybe he's plowing that field. Or maybe he just happens to stumble over something in that field. And he looks down, you know what he sees? He sees a buried treasure. Now that wasn't unusual in that day because sometimes when a man had a fortune that had a lot of money or gold, he would bury it And here this man just happens to come upon this treasure and he sees it. And notice what he does. He doesn't just take it and run. That would have been illegal. He does something that's legal What does he do? He sells all that he has in verse 44, and then what? He buys the field. This is a legitimate way to make that treasure his. And it takes everything he has What does this talk to us about? That when a person gets saved, here's one way that a person gets saved. They may not be looking for the kingdom of God, but suddenly they're confronted with the truth of the gospel. Suddenly they are their eyes are open and they see the exceeding value of being saved, the value of the kingdom And they want it so bad that they're willing to turn from everything and leave everything and sell everything. My way, we're not talking about a work salvation here. We're talking about an attitude of true repentance where they're willing to part with everything that they might be a partaker of the gospel and the kingdom because they see the value of the kingdom And so here's a person who where the kingdom of God just uh comes upon him, he stumbles upon it. But in the next parable Jesus describes a merchant man who is looking for the pearl of great price. And this represents people who are out there and they're seeking for truth. They're looking for something to satisfy their soul. We see people like that. They're striving, they're looking. And finally, here this man, he's looking for the pearl of great price. And finally, he sees this pearl. And look in verse 46. So when he had found one pearl, great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it. Now notice The first man stumbles upon the treasure. The second man has been seeking it. And finally he finds it. Or we could say God finds him. But it represents the two ways in which people come into the kingdom of God. Both men recognized the value of what they had found. Both men were determined to get it. Both men were willing to give up everything And both men acquired it. The only difference is one stumbled upon it and the other was looking for it. And friend, that's how people come into the kingdom But let me give you the fifth thing, the outcome of the kingdom. Look in verse 47. Again the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net which was cast into the sea, and gathered of every kind. Which when it was full and they drew to shore and sat down and gathered the good in the vessels, but cast the bad away, so shall it be at the end of the world the angel shall come forth and sever the wicked from among the just And shall cast them into the furnace of fire, where there shall be weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth. And this pictures the end of the church age when Jesus brings everyone together and he sorts out the true from the false. You see, the the church age, the gospel is like a big dragnet that's cast out into the sea, and it pulls in all manner of creatures in that net. And then what does a fisherman do once he's got it all there? He separates the good from the bad. And that's the way it's going to be in the end. God will separate those who are truly his and those who are not. So you can expect God to judge righteously. You say, so what's the future hold regarding the kingdom? Well in this age, you can expect many to receive the gospel, but many will also reject it. You can expect Satan to oppose the kingdom During this age, you can expect the kingdom to grow and the influence of the kingdom to continue in this world You can expect people who will be seeking the kingdom and they will find it because God will graciously Bring them into the kingdom, and you'll see those who will stumble upon it, and they will become a partaker of the kingdom of God. And then, friend, you can expect God to judge righteously. Now, all these things are what Jesus taught his disciples so that they can get an understanding of how God is going to work in this church age. And it's helpful for us to know this as well. This is why the way things are. Some people say, well, I look out in the world and it just seems like not many are calling upon the Lord. Let me tell you something, friend. The word will not return void. The seed is being planted. There's nothing wrong with the seed. The problem is the soil. But some will get saved. Some will reject it Satan will oppose the kingdom. Friend, that's the way things that's why things are the way they are in this world. But now let me show you this last thing and we're done. Notice what Jesus said in verse 51. After he was done, these parables In verse 51, Jesus said to his disciples, he saith unto them, Have ye understood all these things? And they said unto him, yay Lord, yes, Lord, we get it. Friend, do you understand? You understand? You see, so you say, how do I apply this? Well, when you come to God's house, make sure you're ready to receive truth. Make sure that your heart is open and prepared. And also remember, how does the kingdom spread? By the spreading of the seed. You know, all of us, we have a responsibility to help in the kingdom by spreading the word of God. May we all be committed to doing that very thing. And know that the word will not return the way God is accomplishing his purpose in the church age. And friend, what we do for Jesus in 2015 is not in vain. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you for revealing truth. We thank you, Lord, that we have the Holy Spirit that can help us to comprehend and to understand. And Lord, this is a sobering passage because it reminds us again that we are stewards of the truth. So Lord, remind us of this. And remind us that the gospel is not failing. that the seed is effective and that people will get saved and the gospel will continue to grow and influence this world. And Lord, let these things encourage us, just as Jesus sought to encourage his disciples in his ministry, let these things encourage us. And so, Father, use this in our heart, in our life. And just with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just wonder how many here would be willing to say, you know what? I haven't really been involved in sharing the seed of God's Word. And I realize now that that's part of my responsibility. See, the sower here in this parable, it represents primarily the Lord Jesus, but also any believer. Any believer. Who's knows the Lord, we are responsible to be sowers of the truth. And you know how we sow the word? Indiscriminately. Just everywhere we go, we we plant the seed Whether it be a gospel tract, whether it be a witness, whether it be a testimony, whether you invite someone to come out. You know what we need to be involved with in 2015? Sowing the seed. Now God doesn't make us responsible for the results, but He does hold us accountable to sow the seed. So how many would here would be willing to say, you know what, in 2015, I'm going to be more committed. To sowing the seed. Friend, I believe in formal visitation, but you know what really gets it done? It's not just coming one night a week, it's every day wherever you go Just sharing Christ. Sowing the seed. How many of you will say, I'm going to make a commitment? Not to me, not to this church, because I'm not important. But to God. Before my Lord, I want to be faithful in sowing the seed of God's word. Would that be your prayer? Would you say that's my prayer tonight? Would you pray for me That God will remind me and help me to be faithful, to be a sower of the word. Would you lift your hand and say, that's me? I want to be faithful to do that. God bless your friends. All over hands are up. Let's pray. Father, and Lord, I want to be responsible. And faithful as a steward of the truth. So Lord, help me and help those who have raised their hands. Lord, remind us wherever we are, wherever we go. That we are to sow the seed. We know the kingdom's going to advance. We know Satan is going to oppose it. And we know that not everyone's going to receive the seed, but many will. But Lord help us to be faithful. And to trust you in what you're going to do to build your kingdom. And Lord, we just thank you that we get to be a part of what you're doing. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.