Would you take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of Romans, chapter thirteen, as we continue our study in Romans, and we come tonight to verses eight to fourteen, and the title of my sermon tonight is Because the Day is Near. Now it seems like here in Romans 13 that Paul is dealing with the theme that we are to live a certain lifestyle because the hour is late. And that's really the theme of the whole passage here, the lateness of the hour. Look in verse eleven of chapter thirteen, where he says, and that knowing the time that now it is high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. And the word for time here in this verse 11 is kairos. Which does not refer to the normal passage of time, but to a certain moment in time that is of special significance. It really refers to a particularly important, decisive moment in And I think that what the Apostle Paul is referring to here in verse eleven is of course the the the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, the second coming of Christ. I read one time in the Capitol building in Washington there is an inscription in the dome of the building which few people know about. It reads one far-off divine event. towards which the whole creation moves. And uh one uh guide said that it was uh ordered to be put there when the capital was erected. And uh they etched that there believing that it was a truth, that it was a vital concern to the nation, and it should be the concern of our nation. In fact, it should be the concern of every nation and every Christian, the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Paul is saying here that we have to understand the time. I believe the time is late. Don't you believe that? I think that we're coming closer and closer, one day closer to the ri the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Dr. Adrian Rogers used to say it's getting gloriously dark gloriously dark because we know the darker the time gets, the closer we are to the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. It reminds me of that farmer who had a grandfather's clock. And uh one night at Malfunction, it chimed eleven times, twelve times, thirteen times, fourteen times. He jumped out of bed and said, it's later than it's ever been. And I want to tell you something, friend, it's later than it's ever been. We are living in a time w that is close, I believe, to the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul is saying that. We have to be able to read the time. We have to know the time In Matthew chapter 16, the leaders came to Jesus, the Jewish leaders, and they asked Jesus for a sign. And Jesus rebuked them and said, You know, I've given you all kind of signs. And then he said this, he said, you know how to read the sky. In Matthew 16, he said, When it is evening, ye say it will be fair weather, for the sky is red. And in the morning it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red, and lowering, O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky, but ye cannot discern the signs of the time And his point was that they were ignorant of the time. And I believe that God has given us his word, he's so that we will not be ignorant of the time, so we will know that the time in which we are So with all that in mind, Paul is giving us here some things, three exhortations, because we are living in the last days, because the day is drawing near. There are three exhortations that he gives us because the time is near. And if you're taking notes, here's the first one. Number one, the exhortation is pay up. Pay up. We are to practice love. Look in verse number eight. Back up to chapter 13, verse number eight. Owe no man anything but to love one another, for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. Now Paul had just been talking about paying taxes. If you were with us on our last study in Romans chapter 13, he just talked about our relationship with the government. And part of the our relationship includes giving uh honor to whom honor is due, or rendering to them dues. Look at verse seven, back up one verse, where he says, tribute to whom tribute is due, custom to whom custom Fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. And Paul is saying, look, uh, you just as a citizen and your relationship with the government, make sure that you're doing your civil duties and giving custom to whom custom is due. And he's talking there about paying taxes and financial obligations. And then he kind of continues to train a thought in verse number eight where he says, Oh no man anything. Oh no man anything. And so the big question here is Does this passage mean it is wrong for a Christian to borrow money? That's one of the big questions that comes when you go to a passage like this. In fact, some see this as a prohibition to entering into debt They read this verse where it says, Owe no man anything, and so they say it is wrong therefore for a Christian to go into debt or to or to have credit cards. or to have any kind of uh debt. And so they say, well, I'll pay cash for everything. Well, good luck with that. They don't buy a house or a car until they have the cash. They owe no credit cards. And I'm not saying that's a bad way to live if you can do that. But that's the way some people interpret this. They read this verse and say it's wrong to be in debt. There's another way to interpret this, however, and that is this, that once we borrow money, we have an obligation to pay our debts on time. And I think that this is the proper interpretation. And let me tell you why. First of all, because there's no prohibition in the Bible against borrowing something from someone else. There's no prohibition about that. In fact, Jesus assumes the right to borrow in Matthew 5. 42 when he said, Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you. Jesus said if someone comes to you and they want to borrow from you, then don't if you have that, then don't turn away. And that assumes look listen, if it's wrong to uh to get a loan, it's wrong to give a loan, right? But Jesus here assumes the right to borrow. And he says, give to the one who asks you. I wish some banks would put that verse on their wall. Give to the one who asks you. And then there are other texts. You might want to write down Exodus 22, 25 If you lend money to my people, this is God's saying, if you lend money to my people, to the poor among you, you're not to act as a creditor to him. You shall not charge him interest. And when you loan something to another person, another believer, uh God says, look, don't be a creditor, don't try to make money off of that person. Don't charge interest to them. You just And then Leviticus 25, 35 says the same. If your brother becomes poor and cannot maintain himself with you, you shall support him as though he were a stranger and a sojourner, and he shall live with you. Take no interest from him or profit, but fear your God, that your brother may live beside you. Ye should not lend him your money at interest, nor give him food for profit. So God again says it's okay to lend to others But don't charge them interest. Don't don't uh make anything off of them for yourself. In fact, the Bible says in Psalm, who are the ones that will approach the presence of the Lord? Psalm 15, 5, he who does not put out his money at interest to really capitalize off of someone else's poverty. And so I think the point of verse 8 is not that Christians should never borrow, but that they should never leave their debts unpaid. When you do borrow, make sure that you're on time to fulfill your part of the agreement. In fact, the word for borrow here is an imperative or or uh actually where it says o men and no man anything but to love Leon Morris points out that the verb is a present imperative, a continual force. Don't continue owing. When he says owe not, don't continue owing. In other words, the idea here is just look, just pay your debts. When you have a debt, you pay it. John Murray says this, this cannot be mean to take to mean that we may never incur financial obligations But it does condemn the looseness with which we contract debts and particularly the inference so often displayed in the discharging of them. And I agree with that. This doesn't mean that you can't incur financial obligations. It just means that you need to be diligent in making sure that you pay back those debts. Now think about it. Many businesses could not operate without borrowing money to invest in in things like buildings or equipment or raw materials. Many farmers couldn't plant new crops unless they had the ability to borrow. They need money for seed, they need money for equipment and fertilizer. Most families could never afford to uh to buy a home unless they were uh were able to go into some debt and take out a mortgage. And so when the Bible says, owe no man anything, it's just saying, just pay on time, paying in full, so that you don't owe anyone anything in that respect. And that's that's the idea here. So the bottom line is pay your debts is what it's is what he's saying here. Owe no man anything. So in fact look the word O there, just look at that. That word there, um Is actually where it says, owe no man anything but to love. That is actually a double negative, we could say. In other words, the Greek text literally reads Two times where it says, oh no man, uh it says no one, no one actually is the way that that reads there. And so it's a double negative. In other words, it has the force of a double negative here. So it's very strong. No one, no one, is literally how it reads. Oh, anything And so, however, having said that, there is one debt that all of us owe that we have to constantly pay And will never be done paying this one debt. And you know what that debt is? To love. Look what he says again in verse 8. Owe no man anything but to love. He says here. And so we are to love one another, it says. For it look again in verse 8, for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. For this, thou shalt not commit adultery, and then he goes in and gives some commandments, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, and so on. And so he gives the rest of these, some of these commandments, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet. If there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And what he's saying here is that you have this one debt that you have to pay. It's the debt of love. So as a Christian, pay up. Make sure that this one thing is true in you, then you're constantly paying this debt of love. that you owe as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. And he basically is saying this is the whole sum of the law. All of the law is fulfilled in this one thing And he says in verse 11, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. So all the laws really in the Old Testament are really basically fulfilled in this one thing, that you love God With all your heart. We love God vertically with all our heart. We love all men horizontally as ourselves. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. And friend, if you're doing those two things, guess what you're doing? You're fulfilling all of the purpose of the law. Now I hear sometimes believers say, well, we're not under law. Well, you're under this law. This is one debt that you owe. That's to love others. Love your neighbor as yourself. Love God. This is, should be characteristic of us as believers And beloved, if you look in the uh scripture and look at the law in the Old Testament, it's all fulfilled in that. Every law that God gives in the Old Testament is accomplishing one of those two things. You're either loving God the way you should or loving others the way you should. All of God's civil laws, all of God's moral laws, they're all fulfilled in that one thing of love to others. Now Paul gives an illustration of this. Hold your place here in Romans. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 9 real quick. Let me just show you this. 1 Corinthians chapter 9. Let me just show you this. Um where it talks about this. First Corinthians chapter nine, verse number nine. And Paul is actually giving an argument about But look at verse 9 of chapter 9. For it is written in the law of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. Now that's one of the Old Testament civil laws Now you say, well wait a minute, that doesn't apply to me. I don't I don't have an ox. And uh my ox doesn't, you know, if I do have one, it doesn't muzzle out corn. Anybody here own an ox tonight? And you say, well, how does that apply to me? Well, this is a law, this is a civil law back in Israel, that if you were a farmer and you borrowed your neighbor's ox to do some work. For instance, tread out the uh the grain and sometimes in order to separate the wheat from the chaff they would have an ox on a on a on a uh basically a circuit where they would walk around in a circle and they would be treading on the corn and then they would throw the chaff up in the air and the and uh the wheat and the chaff would separate. And that was treading out the corn. Now, the law was don't muzzle the ox. In other words, if the ox is hungry, let him go ahead and eat while he's treading out the corn. Now that was the law of God. Now, Paul here asks an interesting question in verse number 9. At the end of verse 9, he says, does God take care for oxen? Do you think that Paul's saying, do you think that the reason God gave that law is because he's so concerned about oxen? Or In verse 10 he says, or saith he it altogether for our sakes? Is this law for the animal, or is it altogether for our sakes that God is giving us law? And of course the answer we know, Paul says, it's for our sakes. It's for us. Because what's he teaching there? He's teaching a principle that you are to be kind and considerate to your neighbor You see, if you borrow an animal to do work and then you return him a half-starved That that's not very kind to that other man because that ox is going to dip into that man's grain, not yours. That's being very inconsiderate. Be like borrowing somebody's vehicle You know, and then they give it to you on full tank and you return it on empty. Anybody ever do that? Don't raise your hand. Borrow someone's vehicle, they give it to you on a full tank, and when you return it, the needle is on empty. That's not very considerate. And so Paul is proving a point that even in all the civil laws that don't really apply to us today, there is one principle that does apply that you can extract from all of the law And that is to love others. Simply love others. This is a debt that all of us owe. Go back to Romans 13. And then you can go through the commandments. For this, thou shalt not commit adultery. This is a disregard for another person's purity to commit this sin. It's it's uh it's not loving others. Uh it's something that comes from an impure, sinful lust. It's a love of yourself, not others. You remember when Joseph was tempted by Potiphar's wife He refused. And he said this, Behold, because of me my master has no concern about anything in the house. He's put everything in my charge. How can I do this to him And how can I sin against God? There's the fulfilling of the law right there. He loved his master so much that he said, I can't do this against my master. And I can't do this against my God. It was that's the true fulfillment of the spirit of the law. It was love for others. It was love for God that kept Joseph From committing that terrible sin. This will keep us from, of course, killing. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not steal, taking something from someone else, or lying, or coveting, all these things. And so Paul says it's all fulfilled in this love your neighbor. Look at verse number 10. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. And so here's the first thing then. Because the day is near, pay up. We are to practice And I want to tell you something, friend, as the time of the Lord Jesus straws closer, we need to practice this more and more and more. Don't let the world and the hostility and this age of rage get into up to the to the church. We need to demonstrate true love like never before. In this day in which we live. So number one, pay up. We're to practice love. But here's the second thing. Number two, if you're taking notes, write down, wake up, cast off the works of darkness. Look in verse number 12. For the day is, verse 11, and we know that the time is now is high time to wake out of our sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. And so really we could say that verse 11 is the alarm clock verse of the New Testament. Kind of sounds the alarm and it says, wake up, wake up Knowing that the time is now, it is high time to awake out of our sleep, for now is your salvation nearer than ever before. And what Paul is using here is more imagery. More imagery because look down at look just continue to read. Look at verse number 12. For the night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. Let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly in the day. Now the imagery here I think is one of a Roman soldier who is sleeping at the dawn, and the dawn is approaching And it's time for him now to awake out of his sleep. I think this is the background of this text, this scenario that Paul's giving. Uh it's it's a Roman soldier. Uh he has perhaps spent the evening in carousing with his friends. And he has gone to bed and consequently now the dawn is approaching. And this is the next day when the battle will begin. It's time for him now to awake out of his sleep, and it's time for him now to put on the armor and get ready for the battle. And so this text, again, is kind of like a bugle blast. Did you know that the Romans had three trumpet sounds at the dawn of a new day? It's like your alarm clock going off three times. How would you like to have that? Anybody have a snooze button? I've destroyed more alarm clocks because of that thing. The first trumpet blast meant wake up a just before the dawn There would be a trumpet blast, and that trumpet blast said it's time to wake up. Then there was a second trumpet blast, and that trumpet blast meant pack up. It's time to pack up all your things And get ready and put on your armor. Get ready for the day. Then there was a third trumpet blast, and that meant it's time to march. away. And I think this verse here is the trumpet blast that says it's time to get up. And now Paul's applying this to us as believers. Because did you know that as a Christian you are in the Lord's army? And it's the dawn, it's coming the dawn of a new day. And we need to get ready. You see, when you got saved, you joined God's army, you're his soldier, you have to arm yourself, you have to get ready for battle It's time to wake up. It's time to put on your armor. It's time to cast off the sleep. And so it's time to get ready for Because look what he says in verse 11, the second part, for now is our salvation nearer than when we first believed. What does Paul mean by that? Well, I think he's just referring to the stages of our salvation, and you know these. You see, salvation is in three stages. We are justified, we are now being sanctified, and one day we will be glorified. You see, when we were justified, we were saved from the punishment of sin. When we are sanctified now, God is delivering us from the power of sin. One day, when Jesus returns, he will deliver us from the presence of sin. This war that we have is against sin. And so Paul is saying here, the third stage of your salvation is about to happen. The third stage, when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back, that's when our salvation is complete That's when glorification will happen. And so he's saying that your salvation is nearer now. The complete full manifestation of our salvation is nearer today than ever before. Isn't that wonderful to know? God right now is working on you and I to sanctify us. But I want to tell you one day we're going to hear the trumpet sound. And when that happens, you know what? We're called up to be with the Lord, and our salvation is complete. No more struggle with sin. No more war against sin. We will be made just like the Lord Jesus Christ, and we will be like him, the Bible says in 1 John And so our salvation is getting closer and closer. And this is what Paul is saying. The coming of the Lord is getting closer and closer. And so you need to wake up. Wake up. Write down 1 Corinthians 15:34. Awake to righteousness and sin not. For some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. Again in Ephesians 5:14, he says, Awake thou that sleepest Arise, and Christ shall give thee light. And Paul's not talking to the unsaved here, but to those who are believers that are spiritually lethargic. That are careless. I want to tell you something, friend. This is the thing that we need to guard against. We need to guard against getting apathetic, getting indifferent. I heard about two students that were in class and the teacher was trying to teach, but the students were just not paying attention. And the teacher finally, in exasperation, wrote on the board, apathy and indifference. And then uh are apathy and ignorance. And uh one of the students elbowed his friend and he said, Well, what do those two words mean? And the other student says, I don't know and I don't care. Friend, we need to be careful that we don't get to that point in our life where we just become careless. And there's kind of like a spiritual sleep. Do you know that can happen to God's people? We can become lethargic spiritually. We can kind of get into the going through the motions mode where our heart is not on fire for God. Where there's no passion for the Lord Jesus Christ. And sometimes throughout the history of the church, we have read where the church has kind of been lulled into asleep. That's why in history, whenever God brings revival, you know what it's called? The Great Awakening. An awakening. Because it seems like at times God's people are just asleep That they're very careless. They don't care about serving the Lord. They don't care about getting engaged and reaching out, reaching a lost world. They don't care about serving. They don't care about those that are dying and going to hell. They don't really care about their own close walk with the Lord. And friend, if you get to that stage in your Christian life, that's a dangerous place to be. We should pray that God will wake us up. And this is what Paul is saying here. Wake up. It's time to wake up out of your sleep. And and uh the cause the day is approaching. Then let me give you the uh the third thing here. that Paul tells us here. And that is, number three, it is time to dress up, we could say. And put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Look down in verse number 13. Let us walk honestly. As in today, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envy. And here he's listing a bunch of sins that we need to be aware of These sins here that can get even even Christians can commit. He's saying, let's not walk in those things. But notice the next thing here he says in verse number 14. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. This is the third exhortation. Number one is pay up. We're to practice love. Number two is wake up. Cast off these works of darkness. Don't Be involved in any of these sordid sins that are mentioned here. But then number three, dress up. Put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, did you know that in the New Testament, the process of sanctification is often compared to taking off dirty clothes and putting on clean clothes? That's imagery that we see a lot in the New Testament. The Apostle Paul uses this a lot. In fact, he uses this in the book of Ephesians. He uses this imagery in the book of Colossians, where he says, put off and put on. We are to put off the old works. We are to put on the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, just write down Colossians 3 verse 8. What says this, but now ye also put off these things, anger and wrath and malice and blasphemy and filthy communication out of your mouth. And then he says in verse ten, and put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him. And then in verse twelve he says, And put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved Mercies and kindness and humbleness of mind and meekness. You see the imagery there? Put off and put on. And this is literally what we do when we get saved. We it's like the Lord resurrects us. And then we begin to take off what I like to call the grave clothes. Remember the story of Lazarus? Jesus went to the grave of Lazarus and he said, What? Lazarus come forth. And one preacher said it's a good thing he called Lazarus' name. If Jesus would have said, come forth, everybody would have come out of their grace, such as the power of the Lord Jesus. But he said, Lazarus come forth. And Lazarus, the Bible says, came out of that grave, and he still had the grave clothes on. Wrapped in grave clothes. And what did Jesus say to the people there? Go and loosen. Take off those grave clothes. You see, friend, when we get saved, you know what it's like? Jesus calls our name and he gives us spiritual life. But you know what? Our problem is we still have on the grave clothes of the old life And this is sanctification. We're taking off the dirty grave clothes of the old life, of the deadness of our sin, and we're putting on the new clothes of sanctification. All the things that Paul mentioned in Ephesians. But here in verse 14 he says this, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ. Put on Christ. This is part of your sanctification. We are to walk in purity and righteousness. We don't associate with the flesh. We put on the armor of light, he tells us. And actually, if you back up to verse number 12, where he says, the days at hand, let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. Let us put on the armor of light. Again, the same idea there. Put on works of righteousness. And then he says here, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Friend All of us fight this battle with sin in our life, every one of us. And if we're going to win this battle, Paul tells us here that we can't make provision for the flesh. What's the old saying? If you don't want to fall down, don't walk in slip slippery places And if you're battling against a certain sin, you need to make sure that you don't make any provision for your flesh so that you'll yield to that sin. It's like the man I heard about that was uh on a diet and he was doing very well, but every day he drove by a Krispy Kreme donut shop. And he prayed one day, he said, Lord, I've been doing so good, and if it's your will for me to have a donut to reward me, would you please allow there to be a parking spot right in front of the Krispy Kreme donut shop? And he said, sure enough, on the seventh lap around, there was a parking spot right in front of the donut shop. You know what? We don't need to make provision for the flesh. If you're tempted with alcohol, then don't walk into a liquor store. If you struggle with lust, then make sure you put safeguards on your computer and on your television Don't make provision for the flesh, the Bible says, to fulfill the lust thereof. That's part of putting off the works of darkness, cast them off. Don't allow any of those things in your life. Don't even allow yourself to get into the place where you can be tempted by those things. And then you put on the Lord Jesus Christ. One time a pastor in Australia by the name of Frank Borham preached an interesting series of sermons, and he titled it Texts That Made History And what he did was he talked about certain Bible texts that changed the lives of certain individuals that were greatly used in the history of the church. For example, he preached on Romans 1. 17 as the text that changed the life of Martin Luther. Romans 1. 17 is the just shall live by He preached on the text that was the life verse of David Livingston. That was Matthew 28-20. Lo, I am with you, even unto the end of the age. He preached on many texts. He preached on the text that was used in the life of John Newton, the former slave trader who got saved. And his text became Deuteronomy 15, 15, Thou shalt remember that thou wert a bondman in the land of Egypt, and the Lord thy God redeemed thee. But the one verse that changed the life of one of the great early church theologians Is this verse here that we just read in verse number fourteen, actually thirteen and fourteen, these two verses together? Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness and in chambering and wantonness Not in strife and envy, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. You know that verse changed the life of a man by the name of Augustine. Augustine was born in November of 354 A. D. His father was a pagan, but his mother, Monica, was a godly Christian woman And she prayed passionately that her son would become a Christian. Augustine wanted nothing to do with Christianity. In fact, he was very skeptical, very harsh against Christianity. His father wanted his son Augustine to have the best education of the day, and he did give him that education. Augustine was educated in the corrupt city of Carthage. He became a brilliant and successful professor of rhetoric. He was really considered one of the great professors of his day. And because of that, he rubbed shoulders with a lot of important people. And his mother thought perhaps he would never come to know Christ. But she continued to pray. She prayed fervently. She prayed hard. But what she saw was a dark side to her son Augustine. He was very immoral. In fact, he would later write about it in his book. uh confessions, how very sexually immoral he was. He lived a wild and wasteful life. He fathered illegitimate children. He was later caught up into a cult I mean, he was really living just a terrible life. But his mother continued to pray, asking God to change the heart. of her son. And one day Augustine was in Milan, Italy. He was with a friend. He was visiting. This friend had a huge estate. Augustine was empty. He was miserable. His life was had no purpose or direction. And this friend was trying to help Augustine. And they were reading the Bible together day after day. And one day Augustine was walking through his friend's backyard. He had a big backyard. And it was a garden, and there was a bench there in the garden, and he sat down, he was by himself, he sat down on that bench, and next to him, there was a Bible that was open. And there were children playing there in that garden, you know, they were playing one of those children's games, you know, like Ring Around the Rosie or something like that But they had a little saying that they were singing as they were playing, and the saying was tolalegge, tolalege, which simply means pick up and read, pick up and read. So think about this. Here's Augustine. He sits down on this bench in the garden. Children in the background are singing a song. Pick up and read. Right next to him is a Bible. It's already opened. And you know what he does? He picks it up and reads it. And you know the first verse his eyes fell upon was here in Romans chapter 13, verses 13 and 14. Let us walk honestly in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantingness. This is exactly what his lifestyle was made up of. And when he saw that, his heart was convicted. And then he read the next verse, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh. And Augustine would later write in his confessions about that moment, this is what he said, no further would I read, nor did I need to. For instantly, as the sentence ended, by a light, as it were, of security infused into my heart, and all the gloom vanished away You see, at that moment he had believed and he put on the Lord Jesus Christ. And he said, at that moment, all the gloom vanished. He was instantly converted. You know the first thing he did is he went to his mother. He went to his mother and told his mother, and she rejoiced that finally her prayers had been answered. It wasn't long after that that his mother passed away, died. But she died a happy woman because God had answered her prayers. And Augustine went on to become one of the famous early church theologians. Great pastors. We still read some of his books today because he was such a brilliant man. And he goes on to write in his book, Confessions, that one day he was back in the city of Rome. And suddenly one of the women from his past life saw him and she called out to him, Augustine! And when he haul heard her call his name, he turned in the other direction and he ran away And she said, Augustine, it is I. And he said, Yes, but it is no longer I. He would not allow any uh opportunity for him to fall. He would not make provision for the flesh. And he lived his life according to that that one verse that he or these verses that he read here. Later on in his uh his confessions, he would write this, Thou hast formed us for thyself. And our hearts are restless until they find rest in thee. And this was the major testimony of his life. Augustine had tried everything that the world could offer and found that it was empty. It was nothing. But when he found the Lord Jesus Christ, he found that his heart was truly filled. Because and then he would write that expression, our hearts are restless until they find rest in thee. He found rest in the Lord Jesus Christ. He had put on the Lord Jesus. Christ. Friend, have you done that? Have you put on Christ? And are you walking in the light that He has given you? Are you casting off The old grave clothes, the works of darkness, are you putting on each day of your life? The Lord Jesus Christ. Because this is what we have to do. The day is near. We're getting closer and closer to the coming of Christ. We need to practice love. We need to cast off the works of darkness. We need to put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer. Tonight. And so, Father, I pray that you will help us to do exactly what Paul tells us here. Lord, we're living in a very dark day. May we be children of light. We're living in a day of hatred. Of anger. Lord, may we practice love more than ever and show forth Christ, casting off the works of this dark world Each day of our life putting on the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us, Lord, to wake up. For those who may be slumbering spiritually in their life, Lord, wake us up, wake them up, that we may be all that you call us to be That we might be children of light and live living out living this out in a dark world where people will see Christ in us. Father, help us to obey all these things To apply these things. And again, friends, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, do you know Christ? Have you put on the Lord Jesus Christ? If not, would you do it right now? Would you just reach out to him in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, right now, I'm placing my faith in you, casting off the works of darkness. Putting on Christ. Lord, do in for me in my heart what you did so many years ago for Augustine and what you've done for so many millions of people Lord, give me light. Forgive me, save me, make me your child. Friend, would you pray that? Would you reach out to God in prayer? And maybe you're here and you're a believer tonight, and maybe you had kind of been in a spiritual slumber. You need to wake up. Just take a minute. Just talk to the Lord right there where you are and say, Lord, revive my heart. Help me, Lord, to practice what Paul's written here So Father, speak to our heart, we pray and thank you, Lord, for your word. In Jesus' precious name. Amen.