Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the New Testament book of Luke, Luke chapter two. We will get in First John again next week. We'll pick up the series in First John, but I wanted to bring something appropriate for this Sunday. And so we're looking at Luke chapter 2, verse 25. We'll look at verse 25 down to verse 35. I want to read a few verses with you. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word this morning? Luke chapter 2 verse 25. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came by the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, then took he him up in his arms And blessed God and said, Lord, now let us thou, thy servant, depart in peace according to thy word. Thank you very much. You may be seated. Father, thank you again for the message of Christmas, the coming of Christ, the hope that it gives us in this world. And so Lord bless us as we look at this story here and look at these witnesses that are presented here in the New Testament, all that bear witness to the Messiah, Jesus Christ, as the Savior of the world. May you speak to our hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. For years in Baltimore, commuters noticed a slight uh uh an older man slightly older man at a busy intersection. Every day, every weekday Whether it was rain or snow or sleet or hail, this elderly man stood at the corner wearing reflective track traffic gear. And uh he would help the traffic. He was not a policeman, he was not authorized to do that. He was just a normal person that decided he was going to go out and help direct traffic at this b busy intersection And so when the light turned red, he would hold up his hands and tell everybody to stop. And when the light changed green, he would wave everybody through. And so this man every day was a fixture at this certain spot Uh day after day people would uh see him there. People waved, some laughed, others shook their heads, they said, you know, why does this person keep coming to this place? He's not official, he's kind of odd But he was there every day, and over time the city just kind of rather noticed him, but they kind of can continued on and moved around them. And what was remarkable about this was that he was there all the time, seemingly helping to wave the traffic through. And then one day he just was not there anymore. One day he just did not show up. His name was Bill Davis. And reading about this man reminds me of an interesting character in Scripture, a man by the name of Simeon. He's somewhat of a mysterious figure in the pages of the New Testament. He kind of appears for a short time and then suddenly he disappears. And all we know of Simeon was that every day he would appear at a certain we could say major intersection in Jerusalem there at the temple where there was a lot of traffic. And every day he was there looking at the people that were coming through. What was he looking for? Well, uh he was had a special thing that he was looking for there in Jerusalem, there at the temple. something particular that God had revealed to him that he would see. He was a godly man. The Bible says that he was very devout. And God had laid upon his heart a special revelation that he would see with his own eyes the Messiah The Lord Jesus. Now, again, we don't really know much about him. He was not a prophet. The Bible doesn't say anything about him being a prophet. It doesn't say anything anything about him being a priest or a Pharisee. But it just pleased the Lord to give to this ordinary person this special revelation that you will not die until you lay your own eyes upon the Messiah. He was looking for the Messiah. And the Bible calls it the consolation of Israel. Look at verse number twenty-five where it says, Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and the same man was just and devout. Waiting for the consolation of Israel. This is another title for the Messiah and the Gospel of Luke and his narrative. There are many names and titles that are given for the Messiah, there's Jesus, the Christ, the Son of the Highest, the Horn of Salvation, the Dayspring from on high. Here he is called the consolation of Israel. Which would basically is the idea of bringing comfort to suffering people. And that's part of what the Messiah would do with to bring it would was to bring comfort. So year after year Simeon waited there at the temple because he believed that God told him that he would see the Messiah. And years stretched into decades. And many times we are called upon to wait upon something in our own life. Perhaps you're here and you're waiting for God to answer a specific prayer. You've been praying that prayer for many, many years and you just continue to wait and to hope in God. Sometimes the most difficult part of the Christian life is to wait upon the Lord for him to do what you want him to do. But Timeon is an example to us. He did wait, so much so that he kind of became a fixture there at the temple in Jerusalem. And by the way, did you know that the first century Jerusalem was already a city that was over a thousand years old? It was already a tourist attraction, sporting one of the Seven wonders of the ancient world, the temple that was built there by Herod, which was an architectural marvel to the ancient world at that time. And I could just imagine people going to Jerusalem just to look at the temple and they would ha if you'd allow me to have a little bit of imagination here, they probably had tour guides with uh not you know chariots that were you know m m multi seat chariots like we have buses today, you know. And people coming along and taking the tour and the tour guide pointing out the the uh the features of the temple and people would see this older man there And they would say, who is that old man? He uh he was here yesterday, and the tour guy would kind of laugh and say, Well, that's old Simeon. And the reason he is here is because uh he believes that God told him that one day he would see the Messiah himself with his own eyes. That God gave him that revelation that he would see the Messiah. And so the guys would laugh. And uh they would probably question him, What are you doing here, Simeon? Why are you still here? You've been waiting for all these years. Do you actually believe that you're gonna see the Messiah? And I can imagine Simeon saying, Well, God told me that I would. And all of my hope is in what God has revealed to me. So what does this man Simeon teach us? He was a man who placed all of his hope in the promises of God. So he lived each day of his life in light of those promises, filled with hope that God was going to do what he said. And so the thing that we learn from him is that those who hope in God's promises in Christ will be rewarded if you live in the hope of the promises of God. So I want you to see just some three important lessons that we can learn from Simeon and we can apply to ourselves today. First of all, those who Hope in Christ, live righteously. We see first of all about this man Simeon that he was a righteous man. And so to hope in Christ means to live godly. The Bible says he was just, that means righteous. Virtuous, someone who is obedient. He excelled in practical righteousness. We can learn this from him. As people of God, we must live righteously. Is there a practical righteousness in your life that bears witness that you are a child of God? But also the Bible says he was devout. If you look again in verse number 25, he was just and devout And this word here means conscientious with reference to spiritual matters in his life. It means to be careful And so it's the idea that he was very conscientious and diligent in the spiritual disciplines and matters of his life. It means that he wasn't careless about his spiritual life. You can kind of skim over these words if you're not careful reading about his whole life, but you have to remember that they reflect a lifetime of cultivation. Here is a man who was righteous. He lived a practically righteous life. He was devout, which means that he was very conscientious about the spiritual matters, about his walk with God and his life. He was conscientious about his prayers. He was conscientious about his worship. How about you? How devout are you in your walk with God? Let me just tell you something, beloved. No one accidentally becomes godly. You don't accidentally become righteous. That has to be something that you determine to do. There has to be something purposeful in your life. You have to determine to be devout. And on the edge of a new year here, I would just challenge you. That you will uh make a commitment to be more devout in your spiritual walk with God than you ever have been in your life this next year that you'll be more committed to your walk with Christ, to being a devout believer. And the key to Simon's righteous life can be seen in the his view of himself and his relationship to God. We see it in verse number 29 where he says, Lord, now let us thy servant depart. The word Lord there is an unusual word and used for Lord. It's the Greek word despotas. It's where we get the word despot from. And it kind of has a negative connotation because it's normally used to speak about someone who is a tyrant, a despot. someone who is uh who rules with brute force. But that's not the idea and how it's used here. It's used more in a positive connotation here. Simon calls himself the slave, when he uses the word servant there as Dudlas, the slave. I am the slave of the despotess, the God and what he meant by that was that God was sovereign over all of his life, that he was in absolute control, and that he, Simeon, was the willing slave of God. Slavery is not a bad thing if you have a good master. And Simeon considered himself a humble servant, totally loyal and submitted to the authority of God in his life. So if he had a high view of God and he had a humble view of himself, that's really what motivated him in his godly walk. But also to live to hope in Christ means to live expectantly. We see this again in verse number 25 where it says He was waiting for the consolation of Israel. And this expression here is referring to a prophecy of Isaiah chapter 40, verses 1 and 2. when God promised that he would send comfort to his people by sending them the Messiah, the anointed one. And so he's waiting. This is an eager anticipation of the coming of the Messiah. How long had Simeon been waiting? We're not really sure, but tradition says that he was 110 years old at this time. Would have been easy for him to give up. Would have been easier for him to say, you know, I've been waiting all these years, and uh generations have come and gone, and these promises have not yet been fulfilled. But you know what? Simeon never lost faith. He never gave up. He continued hoping in the promises of God. And he's an example to all of us because just like he was waiting for the Messiah in the first Advent, guess what? We are waiting for the Messiah in the second Advent. We're waiting for the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. It would be easy for us in our waiting to say, you know, we I've been waiting all my life and the Lord hasn't returned yet, and for some people to throw up their hands and to give up hope But that's not what God calls us to do. He calls us to continue to live expectantly. Do you live expectantly? When you pray, do you expect God to answer your prayers? Or are you surprised when you get an answer and say, well, you know, that may have been a coincidence? No, we're we're to live expectantly. We're to live our life based on the promises of God. And so To hope in Christ means to live expectantly, but also to hope in Christ means to live spirit-filled. What I notice about Simeon here in this passage is that he was a man who walked in the spirit. He lived in tune with the Spirit of God. He lived close to the Lord. He must have been very close to God. And the fact that God would reveal to him that when the Messiah would come and give him this promise, that suggests a close walk with God Now, some people might say, well, how did Simeon know this? Well, Luke tells us how he knew it through the Holy Spirit. In case you missed it The Holy Spirit is mentioned three times in three verses here with reference to Simeon. In verse 25, it says the Holy Spirit was upon him. And verse number 26, it says, it was revealed unto him by the Spirit And in verse number 27 it says that he came by the Spirit into the temple. And so the Holy Spirit was all over this man He was a man who was filled with the Holy Spirit. Here is an Old Testament believer living before the time of the pouring out of the Spirit on Pentecost, and yet he had more of the Holy Spirit in his life, and he was yielded more to the Holy Spirit than a lot of New Testament believers. Would you would would your week have gone any different if the Holy Spirit pulled out of your life and was completely absent? Would you even notice a difference in your life? To walk in the Spirit means to depend upon Him conscientiously for everything. Everything. You depend on the Spirit to resist temptation. You ask him for insight into his word. You rely on him for the right attitude when you're going through difficulty and trials and you carry burdens. You seek his wisdom in difficult circumstances in your life. We rely upon the Holy Spirit for everything. And as we learn to live in the fullness of the Spirit of God, God fills us with hope. That's all part of What the Holy Spirit does. And if you lack this, then you need to get on your knees and you need to ask God to fill you with the Spirit of God. That you might welcome the Spirit of God. Amen So those who hope in Christ live righteously. This is what we learned from Simeon. But here's a second lesson that we learned. Those who hope in Christ will be rewarded. will be rewarded because God rewarded Simeon's hope, so much so that he was able to hold the Lord's anointed in his arms. That's just what the Spirit promised. When I read about this story here, though it's brief, I read about a man who was a fulfilled man I don't sense any regret in his voice, no bitterness, no remorse for spending his life the way he did, waiting and hoping that he would see the Messiah as the Lord promised. He was rewarded in several ways that I see here. First of all He was rewarded with an understanding of the things of God. He had an understanding of God's word and insight. If you look carefully in this narrative, you'll discover that Simeon, he possessed an amazing spiritual grasp. For just a person who was a a simple man. You know, some of the people that know God and know his word better than a lot of PhD uh PhD people I've met are simple people who Read the Word of God, who live yielded to the Spirit of God, and you know what? God gives you insight into the Word of God. And you have more wisdom from God than a lot of people who have a lot of letters after their name Because when you walk with God and you're yielded to the Holy Spirit, God gives you insight. You remember that when uh Jesus was born, King Herod had to call for the chief priests. To to let him know where where would the Messiah be born? And of course they all had to go to the the Old Testament prophecies and they all knew about it, but there was something about which they missed it all They missed it. Simon knew through the Holy Spirit who the Messiah was. He didn't miss any of it. Because he knew that the Holy Spirit had directed him in this, but he also knew this. He knew that not all would welcome him. In fact, there would be a lot of opposition to the Messiah when he came. Look at verse number 34. Just drop down to verse 34. When he talked about the Messiah, he said this. And Simeon blessed them and said unto Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is set forth for the fall and the rising again of many in Israel And for a sign which shall be spoken against. Simeon was alluding again to an Old Testament prophecy here, Isaiah chapter 8, verse number 14. This is the image of the rejected cornerstone. This is the stone which the builders rejected. And this Old Testament prophecy says that when the Messiah comes, there would be many who would stumble over him. You would think that there were all the world would open their arms and welcome the Messiah when he came, but not so. There would be many that would stumble because of him. Many in Israel would fall. in conviction, they would stumble over him. There would be many who would rise because of him. So you have these two results. Some would stumble and fall and be judged. Some would rise and be exalted in salvation. That's the two responses that people have. But Simeon knew that this child would be for Israel a stone. A rock to stumble over, but also a sign, he says in verse number 34. A sign. This is the word simion. It's a word for miracle, but it also can be used to speak about a demonstration of the divine truth. Jesus himself was that personification of the of divine truth. He was God the Father sign to all the world. He was the truth incarnate And yet Simeon says that this sign would be spoken against. Others would speak against him. In a sense, he's warning Mary, Mary, you better prepare yourself because others will speak words of hatred. and hostility against Christ, they will oppose him. And indeed they did. I think even the disciples were surprised at the hostility and the animosity that came against the Messiah Christ by many people that were there in Israel. But why? Because Jesus spoke the truth. Because Jesus lived the truth. You show me a preacher that everybody loves, and I'll show you someone who's not preaching the truth. Because when you preach the truth, not everyone's going to love you. In fact, many will be hostile against you, and we certainly see this here of the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh the world hates Christ even today. Don't let the warm feelings and the expressions that you hear around Christmas tr time fool you. People love the superficial shallow things, but when it gets right down to professing that Jesus Christ is the only way of salvation, that He is the Lord and the King, people rebel against that. They rebel against it. We see that opposition all around, even today. But Simeon knew all this. He didn't go to seminary to learn all this. He was just a careful student of the Word of God. And this is the kind of understanding that you should seek, that I should seek. We should ask God to give us an insight into His Word to understand the things of God. Those who hope in Christ are rewarded with an understanding of the things of God, but they're also rewarded with the fulfillment of their godly desires. Because at this one moment in the temple Simeon had all of his desires fulfilled. It made all of his life worth living. It was the deepest desire of his life to see the consolation of Israel, to see him with his own eyes. And each day he would go to the temple hoping to see, waiting to see. And notice verse number 27. I love this verse. And he came by the Spirit into the temple. The Holy Spirit impressed upon his heart one day to get up and go to the temple. God ever impressed something upon you? Put something on your heart that you should do? You know, yet just you have a a strong compulsion. And that morning Simeon had a strong compulsion to get up and and go to the temple. Maybe Maybe uh he woke up that day and he thought, you know what, uh I'm not going to the temple today. I I'm I'm tired. I'm old, I'm 110. It's not easy to get out of this bed. I I I think I'll rather than go to the worship service at the temple, I'm just gonna watch it by live stream. I'm just gonna sit here and watch the Saints by live stream. Now if he had done that, he would have missed the greatest blessing of his life. He wouldn't have been able to do that by staying home. Uh you guys that are home watching, you understand the point I'm making, right? You ever feel like that? You feel like, well, I believe I'm just going to miss church today. That might be the very day that God has something special for you. Something that he wants to do in you and for you. And so he was compelled by the Spirit to go to the temple. And while he was there at the temple, he happened to notice a young couple. They were obviously not wealthy. They were not from an elite aristocratic people of Jerusalem. He noticed that they were poor, and yet they seemed to be very happy, and they were carrying in their arms a newborn baby. And Luke kind of answers the question that some of us would naturally ask in verse number twenty-seven, where it says that when they brought the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law We ask ourselves why were Mary and and Joseph there in Jerusalem? We know that uh they're from Nazareth, and we know why they came down to Bethlehem. We understand that because Luke, the meticulous historian, tells us because of the decree. of Caesar Augustus and that had to co leave Nazareth and make that ninety mile journey south into Judea and there to uh because of taxation, they had to return to their ancestral home and be registered. They did all that. And while all that was going on, of course, we know the prophecy was fulfilled that Jesus would be born in Bethlehem. We would expect for Joseph and Mary to pack up in that and go right back to Nazareth Well why go to Jerusalem? That's kind of out of the way. Why would you do that? And Luke here is telling us why they would do that. Because in verses uh actually in verse 21 to verse 24, the things mentioned in these verses all take place after the birth of Christ These were parents that were utterly devoted to obeying God. Actually, back up to verse number 21 to verse 24. We won't read over all of them particularly, but Luke is telling us that three things had to happen here, three aspects of the law had to be fulfilled. And so this is a young couple that are conscientious about obeying God's law And three things needed to happen. First of all, the law required that all male children be circumcised on the eighth day after the birth. That's verse number 21. And just as Jesus was baptized later on in his ministry to fulfill all of the righteousness of the law, he will likewise here, eight days after his birth, be circumcised to fulfill the law as well, to fulfill every part of the law. And secondly, the law also required that women wait forty days after the birth of a son before presenting themselves in the temple for their purification. That's verse number 22. And a third thing, the law also required that a mother and father present the firstborn son before the Lord to kind of give that child to the Lord. You might call that kind of an Old Testament baby dedication where they're Dedicating that child is holy unto the Lord. And when they do that, they're going to bring in a sacrifice. That's verse number 23. All these things are happening here. Verse 21, it takes place eight days after Christmas. And it's Jewish tradition that during the circumcision to name the child, and so they name him Jesus in verse number 21, just like the angel told them, which is an expression of their faith. And they're bear wit bearing witness to who this child is by giving him that name. Actually what we see here in Luke narrative or three witnesses that all bear witness to Jesus as to who he is. Mary and Joseph, that represents one witness and then Simeon and then later on Anna. These are witnesses as to the birth of Christ, of who he was that we don't really spend a lot of time on around Christmas time. We spend more time on the on the wise men and the shepherds, and that's fine. But here are three godly groups of people that all bear witness to who Jesus is. But another thing that we see here is the poverty of Mary and Joseph. Because after the time of purification, they were to take the baby to the temple, and a sin offering was required there. And normally a lamb was offered. as the offering, but the law made provision for a couple if they were poorer and they could not afford a lamb. They could give two turtle doves. And we see this look at verse number twenty-four, where it says, and to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the Lord a pair of Turtle doves or two young pigeons. And so that's what they did. They they brought turtle doves or two young pigeons there, which tells us that they were poor. Jesus was born into a poor home. He knew heart the hardship of poverty from the very beginning. And then right after that there's the presentation. Because after that they then bring their child to be presented there, to present him before the Lord, just like the Bible says, and we see God's sovereign control in this story. Because right when they're coming to the temple to present Jesus, there happens to be Simeon, who's been waiting year after year, year after year. I kind of sometimes wonder how all this happened. You have to remember that this temple was a busy place. People all over the place. And here was a divine appointment. God ever give you a divine appointment, someone that you happened to bump into. But it was all of the Lord And this is the way it's happening here. Mary and Joseph come to the temple, and Simeon sees this young couple with this child. And there's something instinctive about it. The Spirit of God moves and he suddenly knows that they are carrying the Messiah. And uh let me ask you moms a question with new babies. If you're in public, maybe on a busy street, and an older man comes up to you And tries to snatch that baby out of your arms. What what's your response going to be? I I don't think that's what happened here. I think it would have been totally wrong for Simeon to come up and just snatch that baby out of the arms of Mary I think we get a key of what happened here with the word uh uh took in verse number twenty-eight. Look at verse twenty-eight. It says, Then took he him up in his arms. and blessed God. The word took is decomi in the Greek, which is the idea of to accept what is offered. It's the idea of welcoming or receiving. And so I think what took place here is that uh Simeon walks up to this young couple, and maybe m uh Mary and Joseph can see in his eyes There's a communication that can take place just by looking. And they they can see the longing in his eyes. Maybe his eyes fill up with tears. He's looking at the child. And Mary and Joseph can see love, they can see warmth, they can see hope, they can see joy. And I can just imagine Mary saying, would you like to hold him? Would you like to hold him? And he reaches out and he takes the child. Decomai, he receives the child. Isn't that gracious of God? God often does more than he promises. God promised that he would see him. He didn't say anything about holding them. But here, Simeon holds the baby Jesus. And sees the fulfillment of all of his desires. And for that moment, he is holding the one who upholds all things. He's holding Jesus in his arms. He holds the infant who is infinite. Those who hope in Christ are rewarded with the fulfillment of their godly desires. Let me ask you a question. What are some godly desires that you have? Some things that you long for, that you desire, that you want, if you hope in Christ, I believe God will fulfill those godly desires. Notice I said godly desires Those desires have to be godly. Listen to a few verses. Proverbs 10. 24. The desire of the righteous will be granted. Psalm 34, verse 10. They who seek the Lord shall not be in want of any good thing. Psalm 84, verse 11: No good thing will he withhold from those who walk uprightly. Psalm 37 verse 4, delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Where do we ever get the idea that if you follow the Lord, you're going to be miserable? You're not going to be able to do the things that you want. You won't have the desires of your heart met. As a loving father, God will desire satisfy the desire of our heart if we hope in him. Again, it doesn't mean that God's going to fulfill all of our selfish wants. Each of those verses I read has kind of the condition. He grants the desire of the righteous, righteous desires. Those who seek the Lord will not lack any good thing. Are you seeking the Lord? Are your desires holy and righteous? God will grant those things. We have all the assurance of God's word that God will grant those things. We don't pray when we pray, My kingdom come, my will be done. We pray, Lord, your kingdom come. Your will be done. If you're hoping for your kingdom to come, you're going to be very frustrated. But if you're focused on his kingdom, You can hope and God will fulfill the desires of your heart. What is the one thing that you're hoping for before you die? You want to see it happen Is it a loved one to be saved? Is it some uh area, some mission that you want to fulfill Are you willing to pray, to seek God, to wait? Because those who hope in Christ will be rewarded with the fulfillment of their godly desires. But also the readiness for death. Look at verse number 29. When he finally holds the baby Jesus in his arms, I love this expression in verse 29. Lord now. Letest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word. His response was, Now I'm ready to die Now I'm ready to go to heaven. This saying here is known in church tradition as the Nuke Domitis from the Latin expression. Nucdominus simply means uh now Lord from these first two words now Lord uh again there was a sense of fulfillment in his life. He had done what God said, he had fulfilled The will of God, which was at this point for him, was to be one of those who would bear witness to the Messiah as to two as to who he was, and his whole story is recorded in Scripture for all eternity. For people to see that he bore witness to who this baby was, the Messiah, the consolation of Israel. So there's a sense in which now he has fulfilled the thing that God had called him to do. And this is a picture of a sentinel being relieved of his duty. A soldier who had the battle was over for him. He had watched for the Messiah all his life, and now he's seen him. And he's ready to be relieved of his duty, and he's ready to go home. And he's ready to die in peace because he has seen the Lord Jesus Christ. And let me just tell you this, friend, you're not ready to die until you've seen Jesus. I don't mean see him literally or in a vision. What I mean is that you're not ready to die until you see Jesus Christ as the only Savior. And you have welcomed him. Into your life, you have repented and placed all of your faith and your hope in that one person, Jesus Christ. That's what Simeon did here. And once you've done that, once you know that your sins have been covered by the blood of Jesus Christ, whether you live for another 60 years or sixty hours, the sting of death is removed. And you're ready. You're ready to go home. You're ready to see Jesus. When I think about this, I can't help but think of Pastor Johnson. You all know Pastor Johnson, don't you? And how uh that one uh Sunday When uh he was here with us and at the end of the service he asked for a microphone. Pastor John said this time with our founding pastor, and when he asked for a microphone, you give it to him. And he took that microphone and he uh he announced to the church he said this will be my last service here with you. My last service. And he said if you want to say goodbye, you can Say goodbye right now. And people lined up around the auditorium there at his wheelchair just to say their goodbyes. And sure enough, that next week the Lord called him home. He went home to be with the Lord. You know what? He was ready. He was ready. He was a soldier being relieved of his duty. He had done what God had called him to do. He knew Jesus. He was ready for the Lord Jesus. That was his now Lord moment. Now, Lord. Let your servant depart in peace. And friend, it's a beautiful thing to see a Christian facing death that's ready to die. That's ready. There's peace. There's not turmoil. There's complete and total peace. I think of the death of my own father. He knew his time was ready, or had time that had come, and he was ready. He was ready to go. There was no fear. There was only hope and anticipation. That was his now Lord moment. Paul said this, I'm now ready to go. I'm ready to depart. And be and be with Christ. When Cory Tinboom, the Cory Tinboom of the hiding place uh fame, when she was a little girl in Holland, Her first realization of death came after a visit to the home of a neighbor who had died, and it impressed upon her heart that her parents would die also one day. And Corey was very concerned about this and she asked her father about this and her father tried to comfort her with words of wisdom about death and when that day finally comes and he said, Corey, when you and I go to Amsterdam, when do I give you the ticket? And she said, Why, you give me the ticket just before I get on the train. And he said, Exactly. And our wise Father in heaven knows When we're going to need those things too. And when it comes time for God to place his children on the train of death, God in his wisdom will give to that person the ticket of grace. At that moment, so they'll be ready. And Simeon had that ticket. He said, Now let thy servant depart in peace according to thy word. And when the time comes That some of us will have to die. You will need to look into your heart. And God will have that ticket of grace. If you know Jesus Christ and you're sure of that, when the time comes for you, for God to call you home, he'll give you that ticket of grace in your heart. And you know what? There's going to be expectancy. There's going to be hope of all the things that God has laid up for his children. For Simeon, death was not something he dreaded. It was something that he looked forward to. He says those words with rejoicing. Now, Lord, let us thy servant depart in peace. For those who hope in Christ, death is joyful. It is a blessing. It is gain. It is the reward for those who have been faithfully serving him It's reward. Those who hope in Christ will be rewarded. Let's bow for prayer together. And I would just ask you, friend, if your head's bowed and eyes closed, that do you know Christ He brings salvation to all who receive him. The Bible tells us that his coming would lead to the rising of many, rising in salvation. Because when you put your faith in Christ, you're exalted in his grace. He forgives you for your sin, he saves you. But also he'll bring judgment to those who reject him. Set for the fall of some who reject him. There's no neutrality with Christ. No neutrality. You either receive him or you reject him. That's it. He'll either be a savior that will save you or he'll be a stone of stumbling. I pray to hear that no one will stumble over salvation, but that you'll open your heart and receive them. If you've never done that, would you take a moment right now? Would you just pray? Pray something like this, Lord Jesus, I know that I am a sinner. I know that I cannot save my own soul. There's nothing I can do. But I believe that Christ is the way of salvation. Today I'm turning from my sin and putting all of my faith in Jesus Christ Father, forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart, save me. Make me your child. Friend, if you pray that and mean it, the Bible says, Him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out You can be absolutely certain of your salvation. I asked my prayer preacher, would you pray for me? Would you lift your hand so I can pray for anyone here like that this morning? I just want you to know Christ. I just want you to know it. Maybe you're here this morning, you're hoping for something. There's something that you want God to do for you before you die Don't give up. If it's a righteous desire, if it's a holy desire, those who hope in Christ will be rewarded. Just tell the Lord right now, Lord, I'm waiting expectantly. I'm trusting in you, trusting in your promise. Let's all stand together. We're going to sing an invitation hymn. If God has spoken to your heart, friend, I want you just to come. We'll have ministers here in the front. If you have a knee, you do what the Spirit of God says.