Now open to the book of Mark, the Gospel of Mark, as we've been started a series in here and going through Mark, chapter one this morning. We're going to start in verse 14 and go to verse 39. I'm going to do that in twenty minutes, I guess. So you have to listen fast this morning. When I was a student in college, we were assigned to go out every Saturday and go visit in Chicago, which was about 45 minutes away. We students would normally carpool into Chicago and go out and share the gospel, spend hours there sharing the gospel. And we had a a group of guys that would go out together. One guy in our group was a a a guy from uh Kentucky, his name was Robert Blake, just a a wonderful Christian young man who loved the Lord from the hills of Kentucky. He had an old white falcon Some of you might remember that car. It was white. But what was unique about this car was that he had put on the side of it in big red letters on one side of the car, it had the word repent And then on the other side of the car, on the hood of the car actually it had the the expression Jesus is away. And on the back of the car it had the expression turn or burn. Uh kind of an in-your-face type vehicle, you know. Uh I didn't mind riding in it. If you get used to things being thrown at you, it was fine. That old Falcon wasn't always very dependable. And uh on a cold morning, I remember one Saturday morning, you know, sometimes on cold morning is It was hard to get it started. On one Saturday morning it wasn't starting. One of the guys was in sitting in the driver's side tr trying to turn over the ignition. Another guy had the hood open and he was emptying a can of WD forty into the carburetor. I mean just a steady stream. Robert, he was a more spiritual of us, and so I remember Robert, he he knelt down in the snow with just one knee, with his hands divinely clasped together. An angelic look on his face looking to heaven. And I just remember looking at him and hearing his prayer, and with his Kentucky accent, he said, Jesus, please start my car. And and when he said that, this is the truth, a flame shot out of the carburetor. And the car just started. Robert didn't even turn around. He just smiled and he said, Thank you, Jesus. I was amazed. Wow. Amazed at that guy's prayer life. You know, every once in a while people will do or say something that leave the rest of us in amazement I don't think anyone has ever been as amazed or astonished as the people in Jesus' day when they heard his words, when they saw the works that Jesus did. They were just totally amazed. In fact, look at verse 21 where it talks about this. It says, and that they went up in the Capernaum, and straight away on the Sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught in verse 22. And they were astonished. This is the word ekfiliso. There's many New Testament words that can be translated amazement or astonished or wonder. This is the strongest. of the words. Literally means to strike a person out of the senses. To say in our day, he literally blew their minds They were just astonished. We also see in verse 27, again, the word amazed in verse 27, and they were all amazed. Insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, what thing is this? This is incredible. What was it that amazed the multitude about Jesus? The thing that we see here, the common denominator in all these verses here was the thing that amazed people was his awesome authority. They had never seen authority like this in anyone. Now remember in Mark's gospel, Jesus is presented as the servant. A servant normally doesn't have authority, but Jesus is unlike other servants He demonstrates that he has an authority that is godlike, that is from heaven. No one has ever seen this authority before that Jesus demonstrated. Now you remember that in the opening verse of Mark, Mark declares that Jesus is the Son of God. That's a huge claim. And Mark immediately begins to marshal Unmistakable testimony and evidence to that fact that Jesus is the Son of God. There's the testimony of Mark himself. He himself saw Jesus do great things. There's the testimony of the Old Testament prophets. Mark points to Old Testament prophecies that talk about this. There's the testimony of John the Baptist. John said, I can baptize you with water, but there's some coming someone after me who will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. And that's regeneration. Then there's a testimony of the Holy Spirit. At the baptism of Jesus, the Spirit descended upon him like a dove. The Bible says the heavens were open. Literally, the word rent, the heavens rent open, and the Holy Spirit came upon Jesus That was the testimony of the Holy Spirit. And then there's the testimony of the Father. There was a voice from heaven that said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And then we had the testimony of even the temptation itself. The temptation that Jesus faced against Satan in itself bore witness that Jesus was all he claimed to be. But if that's not enough evidence, what Mark is going to do is show us another piece of evidence, and that is the astounding, amazing authority that Jesus had. His own words and his own works support that weighty claim that Jesus is the Son of God, his godlike authority. Now one key expression is found in verse fourteen. Now after that Jesus John was put in free prison. Jesus came So I'm going to kind of use that, and I want you to see four actions that Jesus demonstrated in giving his amazing authority. Number one, Jesus came communicating salvation with authority He came communicating salvation with authority. Now in verse 14, the Bible says John the Baptist is now put in prison. He was the one on the center stage at that point. Everyone was coming to hear John He was the key person at this moment in redemptive history. However, John said, he must increase. I must what? Decrease. And providentially that happens. John is put into prison. And now the only one preaching repentance is Jesus himself. In verse 14, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God. This is the beginning of his Galilean ministry. And he comes preaching. Now, John was a great preacher, but he's nothing compared to Jesus. And we see, first of all, Jesus preaching with authority. And his message is very simple: the kingdom of heaven is near, repent and believe. Now I told you that repentance is simply a turning metanoie to change the mind literally. You change your mind about sin and Jesus You turn from your sin, you turn to Christ. Repentance and faith are really two sides of the same coin. When you turn from your sin, you turn to Jesus, you are believing on him. And it involves all who you are, your mind, your heart, your will, your complete person is turning to Christ. That's the idea of repentance. And Jesus gives this with authority. But then he teaches with authority. Look at verse 21. And they went into Capernaum, and straightway on the Sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught And they were astonished at his doctrine, for he taught them as one that had authority, not as the scribes. Now Capernaum was one of the villages in Galilee. This is where Jesus actually made his headquarters. This is where Peter lived. He had a house there. Living with Peter was his brother Andrew and his mother-in-law, along with his wife, of course. And this is really the Capernaum is from the Hebrew Kafar Nahum. We could say the village of Nahum. It stretches all the way back into the Old Testament. Perhaps the prophet Nahum himself was from this little village. And so there was a tremendous fishing in uh industry there. There was a Roman colony there that was friendly to the Jews. There was a synagogue there. In fact, you could go to Capernaum today and you can see the foundation of that synagogue. The very place where Jesus walked is still there. Now, on the Sabbath day, Jesus goes into the synagogue and he begins to teach. And no one had ever heard anyone teach like Jesus. In fact, the reaction of the people was astonishment. Now, it was normally the custom of the administrator of the synagogue to invite rabbis to speak. They would come in and they would speak. And the people would listen. And so they've had hundreds go through there, but they never heard anyone like Jesus. The Bible says he spoke as one who had authority. The word authority is exusia, ex meaning out of. Usia is really the um the to be verb, a present particip, well the to be to be verb Literally means we could say being, or we say it like this, out of his being. He spoke out of his own being. And who was he? He was God. He spoke like he was God. Not like the other rabbis. Now they had their authority. They were like the PhDs of that time. But when they spoke, they were normally quoting each other. Rabbi Hillel said this, and Rabbi Shema said this, and they would have about five references, and so they were constantly quoting each other. Jesus didn't quote anyone, he quoted himself He had absolute total authority. And the people were not used to hearing that. And so they were blown away. When he spoke, it was final. I mean he could I mean if you had a chariot back then and had a bumper sticker for your chariot, it would probably say something like this: you know, Jesus said it, and that settles it. You know, we have the bump of sticker, uh you know God said it, I believe it, that settles it. Well well really the truth of the matter is when God said it, that settles it, whether you believe it or not, right? Take out the middleman there. When Jesus spoke, that was it. He spoke with authority. He taught with authority. And no one had ever heard this before. He came communicating salvation with authority, but here's the second thing. He came calling soul winners with authority. Look at verse 16. Now as he walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, his brother casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers. And Jesus said unto them Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. And straightway, remember that's one of Mark's favorite words, Uthus, immediately straightway they forsook their nets and followed him. And he went, and he had gone a little farther thence, and he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship, mending their nets. And again immediately straightway he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants and went after him. Here's Jesus now he's calling soul winners walking along the shore of Galilee He comes to Peter and Andrew, he calls out to them, and immediately they leave their nets, and they became his disciples. The word disciple, methetos, which literally means a learner. And Jesus would walk around while he taught, and it was the job of a disciple to learn from the rabbi, Jesus being the rabbi. By the way, this was unusual because back then, in order to follow a rabbi You would have to enroll just like you enroll in college today. But Jesus was different. He handpicked his followers He points to Peter and Andrew and he just says, with authority, follow me. And then he comes to James and John. They're there fishing. Their father's there. Zebedee had spent years setting up a productive fishing business for his sons. But here comes Jesus, and he says with authority, follow me. And immediately they drop their nets and they follow the Lord. That's authority. I mean you try that. You try going into a business and say to the business owner, You're not doing this anymore, you're gonna follow me and do what I say. See what kind of response you get. They say you're crazy. But Jesus could do that because he spoke with authority. And there was something about this one, this man called Jesus of Nazareth. He wasn't just a normal man, and they could see that. And so they followed the Lord. By the way, Jesus is still calling people to follow him, to be soul winners, to be fishers of men. We're giving you opportunities with these things that we're doing here, for you to be fishers of men, to invite people to come to Jesus Christ I hope that you'll do that because that is all of our responsibility. To be followers of Jesus, to be fishers of men. But then here's the third thing. Jesus came confronting Satan with authority. Look at verse 23. And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the holy one of God. And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace and come out of him. And when the unclean spirit had torn him and cried with a loud voice, he came out of him. Now it's interesting to me that everyone else is trying to figure out who Jesus was, but the demons knew exactly who he was. They understood his identity. They knew he was a son of God. They said, We know who you are. The rabbis didn't know who Jesus was. And the Pharisees rejected him. The crowds were curious about him. They were largely uncommitted. The disciples themselves even demonstrated doubt. They kind of lingered, had a lingering hardness of heart, but the demons knew for certain who he was. They had no doubt Mark 3. 11 makes this clear. It says, and the unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God. They all knew it. And verse 24, notice when a demon speaks out of this man, he says, Us, have you come to destroy us? He uses the plural there. What does that mean? It could mean that there were more than one demon in this guy. Or maybe he's speaking for the man and the demon himself, or perhaps the demon is speaking for all of the kingdom of darkness. I think that's what's going on here. Whenever Jesus confronted a demon spirit, he was confronting the whole kingdom of darkness. And you know what? They were terrified. They knew that when the Son of God appeared on earth, their doom would be certain. They knew that he had come to bind the strong men. He had the authority to determine their destiny in hell. That's what he means when he said, Did you come to destroy us? That's the word perish. Or did you come to cast us into perdition to destroy us? And what did Jesus say? Hold thy peace. Be quiet. Literally, be muzzled. Shut up. I don't need you to advertise who I am. By the way, the the church doesn't need help from the world to advertise Jesus. Jesus says, be quiet. And then come out of him. And immediately that happened. And again, the people were just blown away by that. They had seen so-called exorcisms before. They had never seen anything like this. There was no dialogue, no negotiation, no formula, no prayer, no real exorcism. By the way, there is no such thing as exorcism in the Bible with Jesus. He commanded they left, it's over Done. That's the authority he had. They didn't want to be around him. They wanted to be away from him because they knew who he was. We had a few weeks ago a dear lady who watches our TV program, The Ever Living Story, called and she asked if I would come to her house and bless her house and get rid of the demons that were in there. She said she had two demons in that house And she was telling me of some of the strange things happening in her home. And she wanted me to go and, you know, pray and bless the house. Now, I have no problem going to someone's home and praying with them and praying for them. But I'm not a Catholic priest. I I don't have any power really to bless anything. I mean I don't have any holy water. What is that anyway? Go around sprinkling water. That that's gonna do the trick. I can't give papal blessings. Let me tell you something, the only one that can bless a house is Jesus The only one that can get rid of those spirits is Jesus. It's not rocket science. If you want the demons out of your house, just invite Jesus in. And they're going to leave. You want them out? Ask Jesus to come in. They'll leave. They're terrified of him. They're terrified of his authority. You don't give place to the devil. Listen to 1 John 5 18. We know that whosoever is born of God Sinneth not, that uh that is, doesn't continue in sin, but he's begotten of God, and God keepeth himself. Listen to this, and that wicked one toucheth him not. You understand if you know Jesus and you're walking in fellowship, the devil can't touch you? And so Jesus confronted Satan with authority. Let me give you the last thing. He came communicating salvation. He came calling soul winners He came confronting Satan. But here's the fourth thing. Jesus came curing sickness with authority. Look at verse 29. And forthwith when they were come out of the synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever, and anon they tell him of her And so what happens here? Right after they leave the synagogue, they go to Peter's house. By the way, I've been to Capernaum, I've been to this synagogue. I've been to the place that was uncovered by archaeologists that they believe to be the home of Peter And you know what? It's not a very long walk from the synagogue to Peter's house, literally a stone's throw or less. And so they walked to Peter's house, the Bible says. And you know, this was the Sabbath day. And it was customary to eat the main meal immediately after you went to the Sabbath, to the synagogue on the Sabbath. Be like today. What are you going to do after you get out of church? You're going to eat, aren't you? Main meal It's exactly what happened back in this day. In fact, some of you are thinking about it already. Give me a few more minutes here, all right. Right after the synagogue, they go to Peter's house, they're going to eat the main meal But something's wrong. They enter into the house, they seat at the table was set, but the meal was not ready. Instead what they found was that Peter's mother-in-law, who was cooking this meal, was seriously sick. By the way, some want to make Peter the first pope of the church and say he was not married, they need to look at this passage here. Peter had a mother-in-law. We assume then that he had a wife, right? In fact, it says Peter's wife's mother. So She's sick, and in fact, she's grievously ill, and so much so that she had to lay down the Greek word as ballo, meaning to cast, and she was literally thrown into bed. She was cast down into bed because of a fever. And the rook's account, it calls it a great fever You see, back then they didn't have a you know a uh thermometer, and so they really divided the fever into two categories, either it was great or it was small, and Luke says, Mega, this is a great fever And the tenses of the verbs, the verbs suggest that this is very severe. This is life-threatening. And when they see this, the Bible says that they tell Jesus, they told Jesus about it. And notice the compassion. Look at verse 31. And he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up. And immediately the fever left her. That's incredible. We see the compassion of Jesus. They come to Jesus and say, Lord, help. What is he going to do? And I love this. When you're the neediest, he's the most sufficient. When you're completely helpless, he's the most helpful When you're totally dependent, he's absolutely dependable. And they come to Jesus. And by the way, Luke says that he stood over her. That's a doctor's term. You would expect Luke to say that He kind of had a bedside manner. He's he went beside her like a doctor. Matthew 8 15 says he touched her hand. So putting this together, and by the way, Jewish rabbis normally didn't touch a woman, especially one that was sick, but Jesus doesn't care about any of that. He is a compassionate, loving Savior. So he goes to her, stands beside her like a loving doctor, he touches her hand, and then he helps her up. The Bible says. He took her by the hand and lifted her up. Luke says he rebuked the fever. Epitomeo. Same word for rebuking the winds and the waves with authority. With authority, Jesus rebukes the fever. And what happens? It's gone. Gone. Not a progressive. She didn't say, Well, I'm starting to feel a little better. No. Immediately, she got up. And what does the Bible say that she did right after that? She ministered unto them. This is the Greek word where we get the word deacon. It has the idea of serving tables. She finished cooking the meal. She finished serving Jesus and the and the rest. That's incredible. We see the commencement of the meal here. She She started feeling a little better, and then uh she got immediately better, and we see Jesus, he healed with authority, he healed instantly, he healed totally, so that she begins to serve the Lord after the master's touch. You know, that's really a picture of salvation, is it not? We serve Jesus because he touched us. Because we were on The bed of affliction. We were dead, literally, and he gave us life, he gave us salvation, and now we serve him not out of obligation, but because we just want to As an expression of our gratitude and thanks to the Lord. This reminds me, you know, when my my dad first got saved. Uh I saw such a dramatic change in his life and he was constantly up here at the church doing things after that. Remember when the the bus was broke down. Baptist churches always have buses that are broken down. And he would came and he he fixed the bus. I remember on one particular occasion he brought me with him to fix the church bus. I was just a teenager, I don't think I was saved at that point. I kind of resented going to church fixing a bus. But he brought me with him. I remember Pastor Johnson. He came walking along there and talked to my dad. And I don't know, Pastor, if you remember this, but the very first words that Pastor ever said to me He looked over to me after he was talking to my father. He didn't say hello, how are you? He didn't say what's your name. He just looked at me and he said, What have you done for the Lord lately? And I was like, Why why are you picking on me? But that was a that was a penetrating question. What have I done for the Lord? I never forgot that. You know what? As God's people, we should be serving the Lord. What have you done for the Lord? Here's this woman, she's healed. And now here she is, she's serving, this is the imperfect tense, she just keeps serving now, and she's serving the Lord out of gratitude And so she is completely healed and she's serving the Lord. You know, it seems like there's so much selfishness around where people want others to serve them. Instead of us serving others. I heard about a mother who was preparing pancakes for her sons, Kevin 5 and Ryan 3, and the boys were arguing over who would get the first pancake. And the mother saw an opportunity to show a lesson there, and she said, If Jesus were sitting here, he would say, Let my brother have the first pancake. And Kevin turned to his younger brother and said, Ryan, you be Jesus. But you know the truth of the matter is that's the attitude of many people. You be Jesus When really it ought to be us. And so here's this woman, she's healed. And not only that, all the sickness of Capernaum, look at verse 32. And at even when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were diseased And them that were possessed with devils. And all the city was gathered together at the door. Now notice Mark is careful to point out that it's at the evening. This is after the Sabbath You see, the way the Jewish people counted a day was a day was over when the sun set. And according to the law put out The Jewish law, the Mishnah, it said that when you could see three stars, the Sabbath was over. That's how they determined it. So at the evening, people began to bring sick people to Peter's door. Word had already begun to spread about Jesus. And all the sick were coming. I mean, this is the first emergency room right here. This is triage right here at Capernaum. They're bringing the sick to Peter's door, and Jesus heals them Oh, in fact, Matthew says he heals them all, Matthew 8. 16. When Jesus got done, there were no sick people left in Capernaum. He touched and healed them all. And then all all the sick of Galilee, look at verse 35. Jesus went out and prayed, it says in verse 35. And verse thirty six, and Simon and they that were with him followed him. Verse thirty seven, and when they had found him they said unto him, All men seek for thee, Lord everyone's looking for you And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also. For therefore came I forth, and he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee and cast out devils. And so he's doing the same thing all throughout Galilee. Josephus says there were two hundred and fifty towns in that region of Galilee. And Jesus went around doing all of this with his authority. That's what astounded him. Now let me just say this, and we'll be done. You say, what does this have to do with me? How does this affect me? We see that this is amazing authority from Christ, the Son of God. Well, here's the first thing. If you haven't already, make sure you submit to his authority. Make sure that you do what he commanded, repent and believe. That's a command, that's an imperative. Have you done that? Have you repented? Have you turned from your sin and turned to the Savior believing in who he is? But secondly, what we see here in Mark are others are being brought to Jesus. Bring others into contact with his authority so they can be changed by it. It's the authority of Jesus that changes our lives because he is who he claimed to be. He still wants to change lives today. Outside these walls here is a city that is broken, it is bruised, it is sin sick, there are people that have great needs. We're not here just to sit and soak. God has called us to go to a broken world and bring Jesus into contact with these people. And let him, by his authority, change their lives. That is our calling. We need to serve. If you look at this passage here, Jesus was just constantly serving others. Just constantly serving. I mean, that's a long day. He starts out in the synagogue, teaches, comes home for a meal, heals Peter's mother-in-law. By the evening time, the whole city's there. He heals everyone. I mean, it's a long day. But Jesus is selflessly serving. Again, Mark presents him as the servant, serving others. And may we Do the same thing. Will you help us? Bring Jesus to a broken world. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we are amazed at your authority. And I pray that if there's someone here that's never repented and submitted to your authority, that today they would do that. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, can I ask you, friend, are you willing to do that today if you haven't already? Will you repent? Before the Lordship of Christ. Turn to Him. Turn from your sin. And believe on Christ. Hallelujah. That's my prayer. I'm going to do that right now, preacher. Pray for me. I want to turn to Christ. Is there anyone here like that? We just want to pray for you, friend. We want to help you. Anyone here like that? Secondly, as God's people, then, we are called to be fishers of men. We're called to take the Savior to a lost world. And we need people who are committed to being servants to do that, that very thing. Maybe God's speaking to your heart about it. Let me ask you a question, friend, that was posed to me. What have you done for the Lord lately? Are you serving him? Would you be willing to employ your gifts to invite others to Christ? That's the question that you must ponder. Father, bless these words then to hearing hearts. May we apply them As we're amazed at the authority of our Savior. We're astonished at the works and the words. And may that motivate us to serve Him with all our heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen