That this is the one major theme that Paul is dealing with in chapter one and in chapter two. Now you might remember that as we introduce the book of Corinthians We uh gave you a little bit of background and let you know that the Corinthian church was a church that was filled with a lot of problems. There were a lot of things going on there in the church. And we kind of l talked about some of that. There was carnality there in the church. There was immorality there in the church. People were suing one another. There was a contra controversy over eating meat, sacrificed to idols There was a controversy about marriage and singleness and there were the abuse of spiritual gifts. So there was a lot of things going on there in the church. And the Apostle Paul writes this letter because a delegation had come to him while he was in Ephesus. Remember, Paul had been in the uh Corinth for about a year and a half, planted that church, and then God moved him on to Ephesus, and he was doing a But a delegation came and reported to Paul all these issues that were going on in the church at Corinth. And Paul writes this letter to correct a lot of these things. But in the first part of the letter, Paul really attacks the root of the problem. Remember, we said a lot of the problems that were being listed that we talked about were really the fruition of a deeper issue. And the deeper issue that the Apostle Paul saw was the Corinthians' love of human wisdom. And a lot of the times they would try to deal with things based on the wisdom of man rather than the wisdom of God. And it was causing problems. And so that's why in the first two chapters, Paul takes some time, a lot of space, to talk about the superiority of God's wisdom over the wisdom of man. Now, this was part of the culture, this love of wisdom. Remember I told you this was part of the ancient Greek culture. In fact, the word philosophy comes from two Greek words, Phileo, love, Sophia, wisdom, the love of wisdom And the Corinthian city, there were as many as 50 identifiable philosophical parties or movements that people identified with, groups where they had teachers of wisdom that were teaching Greek philosophy. And so Paul tries to persuade the believers to, rather than operate according to the wisdom of man, operate based on the wisdom of God. And so that's what he's arguing for. And so what he gives us here in chapter 1 and 2 are seven reasons for the superiority of God's wisdom over man's. Now, I think this is a message that the church needs today. You say, why? Well, because I see a lot of mingling man's wisdom with the wisdom of God. It's like putting tares among the wheat. It's because a lot of times people don't believe in the sufficiency of Scripture to give us what we need for our spiritual growth And so rather than trusting in the Word of God and what God has given us through Christ, there are a lot of people that are looking for wisdom outside of the Bible, outside of Christ, and they're looking to the wisdom of the world to solve a lot of their problems when In fact, you already have all the wisdom that you need in Christ. And that wisdom starts at the cross. And so this is what Paul is trying to tell the Corinthians. You don't need to trust in human wisdom You need to have faith in the wisdom of God. God's wisdom is superior to the wisdom of man. And so he gives us seven reasons. Now we went over three reasons last week, and let me just review them with you. God's wisdom is superior, number one, because of its power. Look down at verse number 18. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish, foolishness But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. You see, God's wisdom begins at the cross. You say, what is the wisdom of God? It's the message of the cross at Calvary It's the message that Jesus is the Savior, the one who died for our sins, satisfied the wrath of the Holy God, and that salvation is available put by putting your faith in what Christ has done for you on the cross That's where God's wisdom begins. It begins at the foot of the cross. But now a lot of people they look at that and they think it's foolishness. That's what Paul said. The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. And remember, we said the word for preaching here is the word logos, the logic of it, not the actual proclamation. But the logic of it, the logic of the message. You see the world, they ask the question, how can one person who died on a cross 2,000 years ago change my life today? That doesn't seem logical to many people. They call it foolishness. But Paul says to us who are saved, it is the power of God. You see, we who have been saved, we know the power of the cross, don't we? Because we've seen the life changing power, we've seen it change our life, we've seen it change the lives of other people around us, we've seen the power of the cross, and so so to us It is the power of God. We see people constantly being saved by the power of the cross. And so the wisdom of God is superior in its power. Philosophy never changed anybody from the inside and made them brand new. But the cross has number two, it's superior in its permanence. Look at verse 19. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise And will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. And the argument here is that man's wisdom will come to an end, but God's wisdom is eternal. And Paul is quoting a verse, and verse 19, he's quoting a verse from the Old Testament where he says, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise And you remember he was quoting from Isaiah twenty-nine, and that was the story when Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians, came down upon Jerusalem, and Hezekiah got together with all his generals and tried to figure out a wise plan to get out of that mess. But God stepped in and God says, look, I'll take care of this. And you know the story? God sent an angel who basically wiped out that Assyrian army and the problem was solved. And so the question after that was, where are the wise men now? Where's man's wisdom now? Hezekiah and Jerusalem was delivered, not because of the cunning of man, not because of the wisdom of man, they were delivered by the power of God. And Paul quotes this by saying uh quotes this verse to prove the point that man's wisdom can do nothing and it'll come to nothing when it comes to giving you real answers to your problem. And so he goes on in a string of rhetorical questions in verse 20, where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? It's almost like Paul is imitating some of the teachers of wisdom back then who love to string out rhetorical questions, part of their oratory. And Paul does a little bit of this here, but his question is, where are all the wise people now? Where are all the smart people now? Where is the wise, the sophist? Where is the grammatos, the one who writes things down, the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Where are the scholars and the scribes and the skeptics? God has made foolish the wisdom of this world. It can do nothing really to help you. And then here's the third reason. God's wisdom is superior in its power, it's superior in its permanence. God's wisdom will continue. Man's wisdom will come to nothing. God's wisdom is superior in its product because it leads to the knowledge of God. Look at verse number 21 For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. And it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. In other words, Paul is saying In God's wisdom, he determined that you would not get to know him through worldly wisdom. That's not the way that God ordained that you get to know God. You're not going to get to know God through philosophy You get to know God by the simple preaching of the gospel, by the foolishness of preaching. That's the God-ordained way that you get to know God because when you hear the preaching of the Word of God. That's what God uses. That's what God blesses with His power. And that's what God uses to enlighten minds and open up eyes to see the real truth. You don't get to know God through philosophy or some great orator as far as man's wisdom is concerned. Someone said a philosopher is a blind man in a dark room looking for a black cat that doesn't exist. And the problem is that he finds it It offers nothing. It's false. But you get to know God through the preaching of the cross. That's the God-ordained way. And in fact, it's so simple. That many people miss it. So simple. People stumble over it because it's so simple. Look at verse 22. For the Jews require a sign. All through the ministry of Jesus they were asking, give us a sign, give us a sign. We want some great sign. They were always looking for that. And they stumbled over the simplicity of the message that Jesus gave. In fact, in Romans 9, Paul said this. They stumbled over the rock. This rock of salvation, the rock called Christ, rather than them standing on that rock and finding salvation, they stumbled over it. Because they didn't seek salvation by faith. They were looking for some other means. They were looking for some sign. And they missed it. And the Greeks, many Greeks missed it also because look in verse 23 or excuse me verse 22 and the Jews require a sign and the Greeks seek after what? Wisdom. They want some great philosophical idea They want some great system of thought that they can ponder and think about. But the gospel message is so simple. That they they miss it. By the way, let me also say it's also very profound. I challenge anybody to get to the bottom of it all. You're not going to be able to. The cross is so incredible. All that took place there at Calvary is so so beyond us. And yet it's so simple that even a child can understand, and yet it's so profound that PhDs can't get to the bottom of it. But they missed it because it was so very simple. And so God's wisdom is superior in its product. Because of what it produces. You get to know God through it. Now let's move on. Let me give you the fourth reason God's wisdom is superior. It's superior in its plan. Look at verse 26. For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many mighty men after the flesh, not many wise men after the flesh. Not many mighty, not many noble are called. Verse 27, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world. To confound the things which are mighty, the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, the things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are You say this is why God's wisdom is superior, because God uses his wisdom to save people that the world doesn't really want. That the world doesn't really care for. And what he does is he takes the people, the base of the world, the foolish And he saves them and he exalts them and he uses them in a great way. He takes normal people, those that are despised, and he does great things with them. He takes nobody's and he makes them somebody's through the cross. God's wisdom does that. Philosophy can't do that. But God's wisdom can. You know, when I grew up in our neighborhood, we like to go out and play football, you know, choose sides. We had a field next to our house, we would go to that field sometimes on a Saturday and you know a bunch of the guys from the neighborhoods would get together and then we would have you know uh uh two captains and then they would choose uh guys you ever do that when you're growing up, you know, choose your team And we had one guy in the neighborhood that was such a good athlete that he would let the other captain say, look, you choose whoever you want, and I'll take the leftovers. And you know what he would do? He would take the leftovers. The ones that were not chosen, you know, these are the guys that um they're they're great at math, but they're not really good football players And but they would play, they would do their best, and he would take those guys that were not really athletes and you know what he would do? He would put them on his side and he was such a good athlete, such good leader, that he could teach them how to play and he could take those guys and beat the other guys Mm-hmm. That was an incredible thing. You know what God does to uh to the uh to us, to the world? God takes the ones that the world does not choose. The ones that the world looks over, passes over. And you know what God does? God puts says I'm going to put you on my team. I'm going to take the unwanted. I'm going to take the weak. I'm going to take the ones that the world feels are insignificant, and I'm going to put them on my team, and then you know what? Through my power, you're going to be able to do great things That's what the wisdom of the cross does, you see. Now, I'm not saying that God doesn't save prominent people, he does. Thank God for some of the pro-athletes that come to get to know the Lord, some of the politicians. Although it's funny how that around election time they all come out of the woodwork. But there are some politicians having said that that do have a genuine faith in Jesus Christ. Thank God for some of the politicians. Thank God for some of the superstars that do know the Lord. Thank God for some of the beauty queens But the honest truth is when they get up and they give their testimony about what the Lord has done in their life, ordinary people like us, you know, we really can't track with that. You know. We kind of get discouraged sometimes. Well maybe it's just me. Maybe you guys are okay. But you know when you hear those superstars giving their testimony, it kind of leaves you like, I could never be like that. But what the world forgets is that they are not God's first choice. God's first choice are the ones that everyone passes over. Those are the ones that he chooses. And that's what Paul is saying here. Look at ver again in verse twenty-six. For you see your calling, brethren How that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, and that's as Paul is saying to the church at Clara, hey, look around at yourself, look at your congregation, look at who the people are there You don't have a lot of PhDs in there. You don't have a lot of the wise people there in your congregation. You don't have a lot of the mighty there that are with you. Take a look at yourself And see that not many wise or mighty or noble or called, but God has chosen the foolish of the world to confound the wise. When the world puts together its team, it chooses the superior It chooses the intellectual. It chooses those that are beautiful and strong. But when God puts together his team, God says, I'm going to take the ones that nobody else wants. Now, three times Paul says, not many. Not many wise, not many mighty, not many noble. So notice whom God does not normally select. People of intellectual Attainment verse 26. Again, not many wise. And again, he's talking here about intellectual people, people that their iTune might be off the charts. And we might have a few here like that tonight. That your IQ is just way up there. But you know it's not many. You know why? Because sometimes people are so smart, they're too proud to embrace the gospel It's not it's it's it's but it's beneath them. Some of the PhDs in the world, some of the scientists in the world, they're unwilling to embrace the Bible as the literal word of God because They have a scientific philosophy about how origins came and they're unwilling to let go of that great system of philosophy, even though it's it's irrational when you get to the bottom of it It's just it doesn't make any sense. You would have to jump into the abyss of irrationality to believe that something came out of nothing by chance. Which is what evolutionist believes. And they look down on the person that would just simply believe the literal truth of the Bible because they're too smart. And so You know what? God's not looking for PhDs. He's just looking for people that will believe his truth. A simple, uneducated, untalented, clumsy believer who has trusted Jesus Christ as Savior And who faithfully and humbly follows his Lord is much wiser than any brilliant PhD who scoffs at the Bible. Much wiser. You got much more truth. God doesn't choose those. He doesn't choose people of influence influential achievement. Again in verse 26, not many mighty, the word mighty, dunatos, meaning people of great influence, people in powerful positions. And then people of inner social advancement, look in verse 26 again, not many noble. The word noble here means of noble birth. Not many of noble birth. Many years ago, Lady Huntington was won the Christ by a British evangelist named Roland Hill. And Lady Huntington was from the highest of British society, the highest ranks, and she was extremely refined and and trained in in culture. And when she would give her testimony, this is what she would say. She said, I was saved by an M. She said, I'm glad that the Bible says that not many are chosen who are wise, mighty, and noble. I'm glad the Bible says not many instead of not any. She said, I was saved by an M. But notice who God puts on his team. Look at verse 27. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world. And so on, to confound the things which are mighty, the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, has God chosen. Yea, the things which are not. To bring to naught the things that are the foolish, that's the word moras, where we get the word moron. Stupid, dull nonsense. Weak, without strength, base, not of noble birth, low, insignificant, the things that are not, literally the things which do not exist. That's what the Greek word means. Treated as if they don't exist. That's the idea. You say, boy, you're making me feel really bad tonight. Run I have no problem confessing that that's me. That's me. I I was was one of those. But when I came to Christ, now that I'm a Christian and the Holy Spirit lives in me, I'm highly exalted in Christ. And so are you. So are all of you. We were nothing before Jesus brought us into his kingdom, put us on his team, and now in Christ we are highly exalted. Thank the Lord for his wisdom. I love talking about D. L. Moody. He was a uh an illustration of this. He was very uneducated. And yet here's a man that God used to confound the wise. Just an incredible man. It was said of Moody, he was so uneducated that when he pronounced the word Jerusalem, he only used two syllables. Try to do that sometime, not right now. Say Jerusalem in two syllables. But that's what Moody did. And yet he was so very powerful. And God used them in a great way to bring many to Christ. Many from all different social levels. When he went over to Great Britain, a great revival broke out. And people who had before scoffed at them now looked at them differently because God used them in such a great way. In one service Moody was conducting, a man in the congregation wrote a note with one word on it. It said, Fool. Moody got the note and then he read it. Then he quieted the congregation and said this, this is the most unusual note. I've received messages where the person forgot to sign their name, but this is the first time when a person signed their name and didn't give the message. God amazes us with the ones that He chooses and uses. in such a great way. And we can go through the Bible. There was Moses. God had to humble him. He was a prince, but then he became a pulper, really. In the wilderness, and then he became a prophet. And on Wednesday night we've been looking at the life of David. He was someone that people just passed over. He wasn't even thought of. And yet God used him in such a great way. And on we could go. This is what God does. That's why God's wisdom is superior. It's superior in its plan God's wisdom takes nobodies and makes them somebody. But here's the next thing. It's superior in its purpose. Look at verse 29. That no flesh should glory in his presence. You see, why does God make nobodies into somebody's? To bring to naught, back up to verse 28, where it says, to bring to naught the things that are Verse 29, that no flesh should glory in his presence. So that people will not place their faith in the abilities of man or the intellect of man or the wisdom of man, that no flesh could glory in the presence of God. You see, when God does that, when God takes people and he exalts them and he uses them, common ordinary people, those that others pass over, when he does that, guess who gets the glory for all that? It's God He's the only one that deserves the glory, so that no flesh can glory in God's presence And notice what God does. Look at verse 30. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom. And righteousness and sanctification and redemption. I want you to look at that phrase, but of him. And if you don't have it circled, you've got to circle that phrase, but of him. In other words, God is the one doing all this. He's the source. This is what he does. It's all of God, not of man. It's not of us. Again, friends, we have nothing to boast about except the cross. That's it. It's all of him, but of him. Are ye in Christ? God places us in Christ. That's how nobody like me becomes of somebody in God's eyes is because God takes me and He puts me in Christ. And now in Christ. I'm from him, I'm made unto, look at the rest of it, wisdom and righteousness, and sanctification and redemption. If any man be in Christ, he's a what? Brand new. So God takes a foolish person like myself, and then he puts me in Christ. And then he begins to work on me, and he begins to give me his wisdom. He's given me his righteousness And he's using me in ways that he wants to, and he's doing the same for you. I'm just using myself as an illustration. You know, a lot of times people will say, you know, oh Dr. Harmon, Dr. Harmon. You know, let me tell you something. Before I got saved I was lucky if I got a C in school. I mean I was not a studious person. I did not like to study, didn't like to read, none of that. You know what happened? I got saved. And God did something in my heart where I began to read the Bible. You know the first book of the Bible that I read when I got saved. I remember right after I got saved, my mother went out and she bought me in a department store, she bought me a little Bible. And I took that Bible home and I started to read. I opened it up to the New Testament and I started reading the Gospel of Matthew. I still remember that. I would just go to my room and spend hours reading the Gospel of Matthew, reading about the life of Christ. And I just remember being so thrilled about the life of Jesus, the kind of person he was. And God used that to captivate my heart. And then God gave me a hunger for his word. And I began to dig into the Word of God more and more and more. And I wanted to learn it more because I knew that the way I know Christ is through the scripture. The way I get to know God is through the Word of God. The way I can grow closer to the Lord is by knowing who He is. And so I studied more and more and I went to college and studied there And then decided I didn't get enough of college. I wanted to go back to seminary. I wanted to study the original languages because of this hunger that God put in me. And so I went to the Master of Divinity program and studied original languages, Greek and Hebrew. And then I signed up for the PhD program. And when you do that at the seminary I went to, you have to uh go through all these battery of tests And you have to be interviewed. Why? And I remember them asking me, why do you want to get a PhD? Do you want to teach at some university or something? I said, no. I'm not even sure. I'm not I don't even care about the PhD. I just want to learn more about the Bible. I just want to learn more about the the Lord. I I feel like I'm going to have to teach others, so I want to get as much as I can while I'm here. I'm not concerned about the letters. I'm not concerned about securing my future with a teaching position or anything like that. I just want to study Greek and Hebrew deeper And I majored in Hebrew because I believe that in order to understand the New Testament, you have to understand the Old Testament. In order to understand the Old Testament, you have to know Hebrew. That made sense to me And so I majored in Hebrew and Old Testament, I minored in New Testament, Greek with a minor in theology, and took off a big bite there. And I studied it all. Why? Not because I'm smart, friend. But because I had a hunger to learn about Christ. And that's the difference that Jesus made. I couldn't get a C in school. Before I met the Lord Jesus. But that's what the Lord does. But of him are ye in Christ. God places us in Christ. And notice again what he gives us and what we become in verse 30. Who's made unto us wisdom? We get saved. We have all the wisdom that we need. Christ is our wisdom. Friend, I don't need the wisdom of the world. I have Christ. I have his word In him is all the wisdom that we need. In him there's wisdom, there's righteousness, there's sanctification, there's redemption, you see. So this is what God does. He puts us in Christ This is what we become, wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. And this is what God gets. Look at verse 31. That according as it is written, He that glories, let him glory in the Lord He gets all the glory because we glory in him. It's what he has done, not us. What he has done. And I think the Apostle Paul is quoting here. From Jeremiah 9. 24. Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Let not the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him that glories, glory in this, that he understands and knows me. That I am the Lord. That's what we glory in. We learn of Jesus through sacred scripture. And we glory in the Lord. Now let me give you the next point. God's wisdom is superior in its power, it's superior in its permanence. It's superior in its product, in its plan. It's superior in its purpose. God gets the glory, but also, here's the sixth one. God's wisdom is superior in its presentation. In its presentation. Look in chapter 2 now, look in verse 1. And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech. Or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling in my speech and my preaching. was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstrations of the spirit and of power. And what's Paul saying here is this when I came to you And I gave you the gospel. I didn't come to you with all this rhetoric, with all this great oratory, all this great skill in speaking. The way the Greeks prized, boy, they loved their orders back then. They loved rhetoric. They loved being spellbound by great speakers. They loved all that. That was part of the whole system of wisdom. This incredible logic and rhetoric and all that, the way they put it together. Paul said, look, when I came to you, I I d I didn't come that way. I didn't have the Greek rhetorical skills that you prize. I didn't come with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring on you the testimony of God He didn't use any of that. Now by the way, could he have? Listen, Paul was a brilliant guy. He could have done that if he wanted to He could have used all of those oratorical skills, but he didn't want to do that. Notice the simplicity. Paul said, look, verse 2, I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. Paul said, look, I just I just gave you the simple message of Christ crucified. That's it. I didn't do it with great skill and oratory. I didn't bowl you over. With my mighty skills as a speaker? You know, I really believe today that some preachers preach in a way where they get in the way of the message. You're getting in the way of the message because rather than people hearing the message, they're watching you. You ever see those guys? They run around on the pulpit. They do jump and jacks and you know run all over, and they scream and snort and spit. And all this this hard breathing, Henda, Henda, Henda You know, you really think you're helping out the gospel with that? You know what you're doing? You're getting people to think about all this fancy, stylish oratory. You know what's getting lost? The message. That's right. The message is getting lost. And by the way, that doesn't just apply to preaching, it also can apply to music. There's some music where the beat and the rhythm is so overpowering that the message of the song is lost. Completely lost. And people are more in love with the style of the music rather than the message of the music. And I'm not preaching against any certain style. I'm just saying that the way in which the message is given shouldn't be so overpowering that the message itself is lost. And that can happen in speaking and preaching, that can happen in music. You see, the vehicle should exalt the message. And how do we do that? We do that by clarity. Just make it clear. And get out of the way. I believe in the power of the Word of God. I believe in the power of the gospel. And what I'm called to do is not make a name for myself and bowl you over with oratory. I'm called to make that message clear. It's not Jerry Harmon that's going to do anything for you. I'm just a vehicle. I just make the message clear. The power is in the simplicity of the message. The clarity of the message. That's what Paul said. Look, he said, look, when I came to you, I didn't come to you with all these grace-welling words. Verse 2, I just wanted you to know Jesus Christ and Him crucified. In fact, look at verse 3. I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. Paul said, when I was speaking to you, men, I was trembling. I was in a lot of weakness. I was afraid. I didn't know how you were going to respond. You say, why was Paul afraid? Well, he was beaten in Philippi. He was chased out of Thessalonica. He was chased out of Berea. I mean he had been stoned in a few places. That would make me could be a little bit fearful the next time I got up. People were throwing stones. I mean if you all were throwing stones at me on Sunday morning, I'd be a little fearful tonight. Let me say that. Anybody got any rocks? Be a little careful. And that's the way Paul felt. Physically he was weak. Mentally, he was fearful. Emotionally, he was trembling. The word trembling here, trauma is the Greek word. Paul wasn't strong when he came to Corinth He was quite the opposite. He was at his weakest point, and quite frankly, he felt very insufficient to stand and speak. And yet, when he gave the gospel, you know what happened? God saved people. That's right. He saved people. Why? Because of the message itself. Look in verse 4. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. Paul said, when I spoke to you, it wasn't with all these enticing words of man's wisdom. But I just I just spoke the word of God. I just made it clear in simplicity. And the preaching was with demonstrations of the spirit and of Power. It is the power of the Holy Spirit who takes his word, and he is the one who makes the changes. He is the one who applies it and does great things in the lives of people. I was reading one time about Sp Spurgeon. There was a butcher who ran a little shop on the edge of London, and one day he decided to go and listen to Charles Spurgeon His wife didn't go with him. She just sent him. And so he went to church and then he came home. And his wife began to quiz him about the church. What were the hymns? He said, I don't remember. He said, well what was his text? He said, I really don't remember. And she was frustrated. She said, well, what good did church do you? He said, well I'll tell you this. He said, you know those scales out there in our shop that really weigh just 14 ounces to the pound? I'm going to change them to 16 ounces to the pound and stop ripping people off. That's a demonstration of the Spirit and of power. What the Lord does with it. D. Al-Mudi preached very effectively until there was a time in his life where he was filled with the Holy Spirit, and he would preach the same sermons Same outlines, and yet God did greater things because it was the power of the Holy Spirit. that did the work once he was yielded to the Holy Spirit in his life. Jerry Vine said that somehow the Spirit of God can take the weakest words of a preacher And use them to bring conviction to the hearts of lost people. And that's so very true, friend. And notice, and uh why does God do it this way? Look at verse five. That your faith Should not stand in what? The wisdom of men, but in what? In the power of God. That's why That's why God doesn't bless so much fine, polished oratory or any of that. What he blesses is just his message being clearly proclaimed. So that your faith, when you leave here, I don't want you to leave here saying, Oh man, you know, what a great preacher. Your faith doesn't need to be in that. Your faith doesn't need to be in me. Your faith needs to be in the message, the power of the Word of God, the power of the message itself. That's what you need to leave saying, what a savior. What a great God we serve. What an incredible message is the message. of the cross. That's what your your faith is. Your faith is not in the wisdom of man. Your faith is in the power of God. And there needs to be demonstrations just of the Spirit's power. The Spirit working. Friend, if g if anything happens as a result of any preaching, friend, you could rest assured it's the Spirit of God who does it. The Spirit of God. Not in style of preaching. But in the actual substance of the message, under the power of the Holy Spirit, that's what gets the work done. Demonstrations of the Spirit's power I'll close with this. When I was pastoring in Tennessee, we helped plant a church in Honduras. It was in a place called Copan Ruinous, because there in that little village There was the ruins of some ancient uh Mayan temples that were there. And uh we in that village, that mountain village, we decided to plant a church. And we went down there and we did a lot of evangelizing there in that area. And we found a man who felt called to be the pastor of that church. and put them there and we supported them and we would go down from time to time to do evangelism and encourage the church that was there. But we noticed that there in the village, the local people there in the village, just didn't have any clean water And it was a problem. So we found these little water purifying systems. It's a little pump. You just kind of crank it. And you could take putrid dirty water And you could just pump it through this little purifier into a bucket and that water was became pure and clean. It was just an amazing thing that we were able to find these things. And we bought hundreds of those And we took them down to this little village, and we began to hand them out. We got all the people of the village together, and we began to hand them out the families. And we through a translator, we explained to them what these things were and how they could use them to purify their water, and they could use the water that was around them. They wouldn't have to go miles to find clean water Well, after being there a few days, you know what we discovered? Nobody was using them. They just didn't use them. And so my daughter Abby was on this trip. And so we gathered the people in the village together, and Abby, my daughter, took some really bad water that was in one bucket. And then she pumped it through the purifier into another bucket where the water came out pure and clean. This was everybody watching. And then she took a cup and she put it into the bucket and she drank the water. The rest of us were too afraid to do that. But Abby did it. She drank the water and they were all looking at her like is she gonna kill over a sick? She was fine. And when she demonstrated that the water was pure, you know what happened? They all began to use them. That's what they needed. They needed more than just some words. They needed a demonstration of that. And friend, I think about that, I think about the gospel. You know what purifies us? It's the gospel. that makes us pure and clean. And you know what? When the world sees that demonstration of the purity of our lives because of what the gospel the Lord Jesus Christ has done for us. I want to tell you something. It makes an impact to the world. It really does. That's the power of God. That's the wisdom of God. And friend, that's why God's wisdom is so much And Paul doesn't want people's faith to be in the wisdom of man. He wants it to rest in the power of God. Not in man's wisdom, but in God's wisdom. And so I ask you tonight, where does your faith rest? Does it rest in the wisdom of man or in the wisdom of God? I love that hymn that we sing. My faith has found a resting place. Not in device nor creed. I trust the ever-living one, whose wounds for me shall fleet. I need no other argument. I need no other plead. It is enough that Jesus died, that he died for me. That's where the wisdom of God rests. Let's bow for prayer tonight So Lord, we thank you for the cross of Christ. And Lord, tonight, I just pray for Your church, Lord, that we would be a people that place our full faith in the power of the wisdom of God. And that, Lord, we shun the wisdom of this world. We know that it can do nothing for us. It can't help us grow. In fact, it becomes a stumbling block. It becomes a divisive force when we put our faith in the wisdom of man rather than the wisdom of God. So Lord, help us. Help us to say like Paul that we glory in the Lord. We glory in the cross. That our faith would stand in the power of God. Lord, let that be our testimony tonight. And for those, Lord, who are maybe searching for answers. Lord, I pray that the Spirit of God would so move in the heart and show them that all the wisdom that we need to live for you, to live a godly life, is found in the Word of God. It's found in the Spirit of God that you've given us It starts at the foot of the cross. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, maybe you're here tonight. Maybe you've never been to the cross for salvation. That's where it starts, right there. The wisdom of God is found at the foot of the cross. And the wisest thing you could do tonight is to turn from your sin and turn to Christ. Is that you tonight? If you're here tonight, you've never done that. Would you be willing to pray right now? Say these words in your heart. Let them come from your own heart. Just say, Lord Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner And I need salvation. So, Lord Jesus, please come into my heart. Save me. Make me your child. Cleanse me from my sin. He'll give me salvation. And friend, if you'll pray that, he'll save you. He'll make you his child. And he'll change you by the power of the cross. He'll change you. And if you made that decision tonight after our service, just come to one of the ministers here, come to Pastor Earl or Pastor John or Pastor Aaron or myself. Let us know that you have made that decision to trust Jesus. As your Lord and your Savior. Father, bless these words again to every hearing heart. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.