For the book of Matthew, chapter thirteen. For a few weeks on Sunday nights, we're going to be looking at the parables of our Lord Jesus called the Mysteries of the Kingdom. And last week we kind of gave a bird's eye view and We we touched on Matthew 13 and we looked at the whole overall summary of it. And with that in mind, what I'd like to go back is and go back and I would like to deal with each of the parables that are here in this chapter and glean as much understanding as we can because our Lord wants us to understand the mysteries of the kingdom. Look at Matthew chapter thirteen and look at verse number one. And follow along as I read. That same day when Jesus out of the house and sat by the seaside And great multitudes were gathered together unto him, so that he went into a ship and sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore. And he spake many things unto them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow. And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them up. And some fell upon stony places where they had not much earth, and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no depth of earth. But when the sun was up, they were scorched. And because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprung up and choked them. But other fell unto good ground. and brought forth fruit, some a hundredfold, some sixtyfold, some thirtyfold. Who hath ears to hear? Let him hear. And the disciples came and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables? And he answered, they said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but unto them it is not. Now, let me ask you a question. Why don't we see better results from the preaching of the gospel? Have you ever wondered that? Many times people see the world in its wickedness and the church in its weakness And some get the idea that the gospel has failed. Why don't we see more people being saved? It amazes me that people come and hear the gospel message and they turn away and they don't repent, they don't get saved. That is amazing to me when they hear about the reality of heaven and the reality of hell and the reality of Jesus, the one who died for them on the cross. Why don't they run down the altar and ask Jesus to save them? Why do people reject the gospel? Many people are asking this question. And in fact, the disciples were asking this very question, I think when we come here to Matthew chapter 13. More specifically, they were wondering why was Jesus getting such negative results from his own preaching of the gospel? Jesus was constantly preaching the word of the kingdom. He was inviting people to come unto him. In fact, one of the greatest invitations in all of the scripture is back in Matthew chapter 11. You might want to look at it, verse 28. Where Jesus said, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you what? Rest. And take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest for your souls For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Now, this is a universal invitation given by our Lord Jesus for all that are heavy laden to come unto him. But that invitation there signaled the end of one phase of Jesus' ministry, and it actually started another. Right after Jesus gave that invitation, the religious leaders' hatred for Jesus seemed to reach a zenith. And it was in chapter 12 that we see them accusing Jesus of doing miracles in the power of Satan. And that response of the Pharisees represented the feelings of many in the nation of Israel towards the ministry of Jesus. While there was a remnant of people that believed on him, most rejected his offer to come. Most rejected the kingdom. And when you get to Matthew chapter 12, the whole tenor of Jesus' ministry changes. When you come to chapter 13, he's no longer preaching the kingdom of heaven. is at hand. And even the style of Jesus' teaching changes because now he begins to speak in parables. Now, as we mentioned last week, let me review again with you what are parables? Parables, some someone has given a de definition of earthly stories with heavenly meanings, and that's good. That summarizes it very well. But even more specifically, the word parable comes from two Greek words para, which means alongside, and balo, which means to cast. And so it's the idea of casting alongside. And it's this idea, it's casting alongside a spiritual truth, you cast alongside it a story that is well known. That is an earthly story that is known by all. And that story cast alongside a mystery or a spiritual secret reveals what that mystery is. It brings to life what that story is about. And so in these parables in Matthew 13, Jesus is describing the mysteries of the kingdom. He wants his disciples to know the mysteries of the kingdom. Now remember I told you there were two two reasons why Jesus spoke in parables. The first one was what? A form of judgment. It was a form of judgment. Look at verse 1 again, and we're viewing just a little bit before we get into the parable. The same day went Jesus out of the house. Now, same day as what? The same day as when the Pharisees accused Jesus of doing miracles in the power of Satan. The same day as when they said, give us some kind of a sign that you are the Messiah. Never mind that he had already done so many miracles The same day as his own family came to him and wanted to take him away because they thought he was crazy The same day as he had been doubted and criticized and blasphemed and rejected and ridiculed by the vast majority of people. That same day, the Bible says Jesus went out of the house. That house was there in Capernaum. That was the place where he had set up his earthly ministry. Where he had done so many miracles, and Jesus comes out of the house. There was a multitude of people that were waiting there to hear him. It's interesting to me that they didn't want to receive his message But yet they were still interested in listening to him. They were still interested in hanging around him. They were always looking for him to do some miracle or wanting to be fed. You remember in John 6. When he fed the multitude, they were there, and they looked for him the next day. They wanted another meal. But what happened when Jesus began preaching the gospel? The Bible says they began to depart. And Jesus said to his disciples, Are you going to go away also? They were many didn't want to hear the message of the kingdom. And so Jesus then is not going to continue to give light to those who have already rejected the light And he's not going to continue to give precious pearls to those who have trampled those pearls already under their feet. Remember Jesus said that in Matthew 7, cast not your pearls before what? Before swine. Don't do that. Neither give that which is holy unto dogs. If you give out precious truth and people reject it, then after a while that's it. It's over And then he told his disciples the same thing in Matthew 10. He said when he was training them, when you go into a city, whoever will receive you, stay there and abide there. But if they don't receive you, then shake off the dust from your feet and depart out of that city. Jesus is doing the same thing in a sense. And so he comes out of the house, and verse 2, there were great multitudes who were gathered together unto him So much so that he went into a ship and he sat down. Now why was that? Here is a multitude of people on shore. Jesus gets into a boat. And he uses a boat as his pulpit and he speaks to these huge multitudes. And I think the water would serve to help the acoustics as his voice would bounce off that water and many could hear what he was about. Now, someone might think, wow, what a great opportunity to preach the gospel and give a clear message and give an opportunity for people to repent. Well, Jesus had already been doing that. In fact, he'd been doing that all of his ministry And we just saw the invitation where he said, come unto me. But now the tone of his ministry changes. He doesn't give A great message to all of the gospel. He's speaking down to a specific group. And verse 3 says he spoke on the parables, and in verse 10 The disciples wondered why, and Jesus gave the answer in verse eleven, look at it again, he answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but unto them it is not Who's to them? It's to them that did not receive the truth that they already heard. Those who had rejected the light that they were given. And so Jesus gives parables to conceal the truth from some But to reveal it to others. It's the old principle, if you don't use it, you lose it. Look at verse number 12. For whosoever hath To him shall be given, and he that shall have more abundance, but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he has. If God has given you light, and you act on that light, he gives you more light. But if God has given you light and you don't receive that light, even that light will be taken away from you. You see, it's a very serious thing to sit under the preaching of the Word of God. And again, we see the principle, you're either progressing or you're regressing spiritually, but you don't stand still. You're either receiving more light and acting upon that light or you're not, but you don't remain in a static position. But they'll see, but they won't see, Jesus said again in verse 13. Therefore speak I unto them in parables. Because they seeing see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. They'll see, they'll hear, but they really won't get it. Now in verse 14, Jesus speaks about the fulfilling the fulfillment of prophecy, and in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear and shall not understand, and seeing ye shall see and shall not You see, this unbelief was not unprecedented. This happened back in Isaiah's day when there were multitudes that did not believe the message then, and even so there are many that don't believe today. But now, so it was a form of judgment, but also then it was a form of instruction because while he is concealing truth from some, remember what we learned, he is revealing it to others. And he's showing the mysteries. of the kingdom of God. He is telling the disciples that the kingdom will advance. Look in verse 16, but blessed are your eyes, for they what? They see. And your ears for they what? Let me ask you a question. Do you have eyes to see? Do you have ears to hear? Do you understand the truth that's being preached? We only can, as God the Holy Spirit, opens our mind, illuminates our mind and heart, so that we seeing will see and we hearing will hear and will hear with understanding. And so, now remember Put yourself in the disciples' shoes, they're seeing much rejection. And they're wondering what's going on. Why don't we see better results And so Jesus gives this first parable. Now I have just two points in this parable. First of all, write down this, the information of the parable. Let's just look at it. And really, parables, they really speak for themselves. And so look in verse 3. Behold, a sower went forth uh to sow in verse 3. Now remember this is a story that's familiar. It's something that is very well known. And this would have been very well known to the people that Jesus was speaking to. Wheat was a staple diet in Palestine. The land was filled with farmers who would take a canvas sack, throw it over their shoulder And go out into the fields and grab handfuls of seed, and they would scatter those handfuls of seed onto the ground. Now, seeds were sown on ground that often was not plowed Often it was not turned over. And they would spread this seed abundantly. Now, if we saw a sower today doing that, we would probably think, man, they're wasting so much seed. They're just reaching in and they're just scattering that. They're just throwing it all out there We would think, man, what waste, but that's the way they did it. He would just spread seed in all directions all around in a field. Now Notice what happens. If you're taking notes, here's the first subpoint, the wayside soil. The wayside soil. Look at verse 4. And when he sowed some seeds, fell by the wayside. And the fowl came and devoured them up. Now what is the wayside? Now picture this in your mind. There was fields, but on the sides of those fields, actually criss-crossing all through those fields were hard pathways that people would walk upon. Now you know what happens if you walk on a path con continually? I'm talking about a path of soil or a path of dirt. What happens to it? It gets packed down. It gets hard And pretty much it becomes as hard as cement. Well, crisscrossing these gigantic fields through Palestine, where these pathways, they were about three feet wide. And the farmer would actually use those paths as he would scatter the seed and throw it into the field. He would walk along those pathways. Travelers, when they wanted to travel through Palestine, often would walk along those pathways In fact, right down Matthew 12, 1, we see Jesus and his disciples walking through the fields of grain. No doubt they were walking on one of those pathways through the fields. Now in those fields there were no fences, there were no walls. There were just these pathways, these narrow paths that travelers would use that pretty much bordered these fields. And again, it was hard. It was packed down because people were constantly walking on it. So what would happen when a sea would fall on the wayside? Well, the ground was too hard The sea could not penetrate that hard ground, and so it would just lay there. And finally, Jesus said some of the birds would come and they would uh Gather up the the seed that was on that pathway. In fact, it is not uncommon I have read to see birds hovering over a sour. Because when sometimes those seeds would fall on those hard pathways, they would come down immediately, swoop down, and scoop up that seed. because that seed would not be planted. And so we have the wayside soil. But then write down the next A, the shallow soil. Look at verses 5 and 6. And some fell upon stony places where they had not much earth, and forthwith they sprung up, because they had not no deepness of earth. And when the sun was up, they were scorched. And because they had no root, they withered away. Now, sometimes when you read this, some people think that it's soil filled with rocks. Now I want you to get that out of your mind because that's not really what's happening here. You see what's going on? Well, in these lands, in these fields, sometimes there was a thin layer of soil on top of a plate of limestone. And the farmers couldn't see where the limestone was because it was covered by soil. All the fields looked the same. And so this thin layer of soil on top of this limestone was not deep enough to really grow anything permanently. So here's what would happen. The farmer, unawares, would throw seed on the soil And the seed at first it would seem like it had taken root, that it would germinate. And the roots would go down, but they would only go down so far. Because the shallowness of the soil. And what would happen is these seeds would produce foliage quickly. In fact, the foliage would grow so fast that A farmer would get excited and think, oh, this is going to be a good crop. Because really, it had no place to go as far as growth. It would only go down so far, the roots could only reach down so far, and the foliage would explode from the top And so there would be excitement at first. They would think, boy, here's a great crop. But then what would happen? The sun would come out, and because the roots could not sink down deep into the ground and and gather moisture to sustain that growth, what would happen to that plant? The sun would come out and scorch the plant and it would wither away and it would die because it could not go deeper for moisture. Now, notice the third kind of soil, the crowded soil. Look at verse 7. And Jesus said, and some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprung up and choked them. Now here's what I call the crowded soil. Now again, this soil looked good on the surface. It was deep and rich and fertile. But when a seed was planted and it began to germinate and grow, what happened is that weeds began to grow with it And that weed, that fibrous, those fibrous weed roots were there in that soil without the farmer seeing it And as the plant would grow, the weed would grow. And the weed would then choke the life out of that growth that was there. It would choke the life out of the grain. You see, the weeds were natural to that soil. They were at home there. The grain seed was a foreign element in that soil, and because the grain had to be cultivated and the weeds didn't, the grain got choked. And the weeds outgrew it. It took all the sun, it took all the moisture, and there wasn't room enough for both to grow there in that same spot, and so the weeds choked out the life of that growth. And so there was no growth. Now here's the fourth kind of soil, the fruitful soil. Look at verse 8. But another fell on the good ground, and brought forth fruit, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. Now, here's another kind of soil then, the rich fertile soil in Galilee. The soil here is soft. It's deep and it's clean. It's soft unlike the hard wayside soil. It's deep unlike the stony limestone ground. It is clean unlike the weed-infested soil. And on this ground, when the seed is planted, it takes root and it brings forth a tremendous harvest. And notice what Jesus said. Sometimes a hundredfold, sometimes sixty, sometimes thirty. By the way, the average yield would be about fivefold to sevenfold. Tenfold was a really good crop. So when Jesus says here 30fold or 60fold, 100fold, what's he talking about? He's talking about an incredible harvest here A great harvest. So the summary then is we see these four soils, when the sower is sowing the seed, on the ground. Now again, the people of Israel would be very familiar with this. They would understand all about this. But now here Jesus lays this familiar scene. And he's cast it down alongside a spiritual truth to help us understand the way things are going to be in the kingdom. Notice what Jesus said in verse number 9. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. Jesus said, if you can understand them, pay attention. There's an important message here. The one who has ears to hear what I have to say, the one who can receive this truth, and those who don't. Will not get it. So write down here's the second point. Not only we see the information of the parable, but then write down number two the interpretation of the parable. Look what Jesus says in verse 18. Later on, when he has the disciples with him, he gives them the interpretation of this parable. Look in verse 18. Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower? Jesus says to his disciples, now you listen, now you hear. By the way, the you, the ye, is in the emphatic in the Greek. Who's he speaking to? Speaking to his disciples. He's speaking to those that had believed on him. And by way of extension, who is he speaking to tonight? He's speaking to you. He's speaking to me. He's saying, I want you to understand this. I want you to get this. I want you to understand the kingdom. So, the sower, notice in verse 18. Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. Now, here's the first question then. Who is the sower? in this parable. Well, the sower is the Lord Jesus himself. The sower is the Lord Jesus. You say, how do we know that? Well it's confirmed later on. Look in chapter chapter 13, look at verse 37 He says later on, after he gets done explaining some parables, and answered and said of them, He that soweth the good seed is who? The Son of Man. That's Jesus. So really, he's the original sower of the gospel, the word of the kingdom. But let me just tell you something, friend, by way of extension, this can also apply to any preacher of the gospel Any preacher of the Word of God, when we stand and we give the truth, we are sowing seed. By the way, this can also apply to a faithful Sunday school teacher that is teaching This can also apply to any person who leads a Bible study. This can apply to anyone that is going out there, sharing the gospel, handing out tracts of the gospel. You know what you're doing? You're sowing. the good seed. So the sower. Then secondly, the seed. Look at verse 19. When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom, And understandeth it not, then the wicked one uh then cometh the wicked one, and catches away that which was sown in his heart, that uh that is he which received the seed by the wayside. So what does the seed represent? And again in verse 19, anyone who heareth the word of the kingdom. So what does the seed represent? It's not hard. The seed is what? The seed is the word of God. The Word of God. And Mark 4. 14 says the sower soweth the word. And Luke chapter 8, verse 11, it's even clearer. The seed is the word of God. So again, I say anyone sharing the Word of God, in whatever context, in whatever capacity, is a sower of the seed. Now think about a seed with me tonight. A seed was not created by any man. Is that true? I have not found a scientist yet that can synthesize a seed. No man can create a seed. A seed is something that is created by God. And you know, when God created everything, he created it with the ability to reproduce to give out seeds so more seeds can be planted and there could be more reproduction. But that original seed was created by who? By Almighty God. And friend, that speaks to me about the Word of God, because I want to tell you what we have in the Word of God is not of man, it's of God. It is God's word. Now, you know what? I'm glad that God has given us seeds to plant for farmers, or we would all starve to death. Because if we left it up to man, man's not going to be able to create a seed. So everything, every food that we have, it all comes from God. And it's the same with the Scripture. You know what? I'm glad that when God called me to preach, he didn't have to say, Nigeria, you're going to have to figure out what you're going to say when you get up there You're going to have to figure out what message you're going to preach. He never asked me to do that. You know what he said? This is my word. You just say what's here. You just preach what's in the Word of God. I'm glad that I don't have to invent a message I'm glad that I don't have to be original, that I don't have to sit around and think about something I'm going to say. I'm glad that God has already given me something, and all I have to do is just make this clear And sow the seed of God's Word. You know why? Because when you throw seed into a ground, it's going to produce something. And friend, if if I, by the grace of God, can make the word of God clear, it will do something. It'll accomplish what God wants. So the whole point I'm trying to make is that we are utterly dependent on the divine revelation of God. Amen. We're utterly dependent on this. So we see the sower and we see the seed, but then notice the soils. Look in verse 19 again. Look closely at verse 19 where it says this. And uh when one anyone heareth the word of the kingdom and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one and catches away that which was sown in his what? His heart So then here's the question. What does the soil represent? The soil then represents the what? The heart. The heart of the hearer. Now remember, Jesus is answering a question that's in the disciples' mind. And that is this. Why aren't we seeing more results? Why aren't we seeing more people coming into the kingdom? Why are so many people rejecting the message? Of the gospel. And why is our master being treated this way? What's the problem? Was the problem the sower? Was there a problem with Jesus? Maybe he wasn't spirit-filled when he preached. Do you think that's a possibility? No, I don't think so. I think he was the most spirit-filled person there ever was. I don't think the problem, well maybe he wasn't very clear in what he said No, the problem was he was very clear in what he said. The people understand fully what he had to say. Well, maybe he just wasn't winsome enough. Maybe he wasn't just nice enough. And maybe that's why he wasn't getting results. No, the problem was not in the sower at all. There was no fault with Jesus. Well, what about was the problem the seed? Maybe the seed isn't powerful enough? Maybe the seed really isn't sufficient enough? By the way, there are some preachers that believe that. And you say, well, they won't ever say it behind the pulpit. You say, well, how do you say that? Because they move away from the Word of God and they do other things. They think there's some kind of power or that that can be found in other things beside the Word of God, or they think the gospel needs help. Or the Word of God needs help. Or it's not relevant enough for today. But friend, I want to tell you something. There is nothing wrong with the seed. The seed is perfect. The problem is not in the sower, and the problem is not in the seed. The gospel hasn't failed, and anyone who stands up and preaches the word of God has not failed. You say, what's the problem? The problem is the condition of the soil. A person's response to the gospel is dependent upon the condition of the heart. And that's what Jesus is trying to say here. Again, Jesus was giving this parable not to discourage them, but to encourage them. He was letting them know, you know, what you see here is just a small part of what you're going to see as the gospel continues on, because Jesus said later to them, if they've rejected me, they're going to reject you I mean the servant is not better than the master. And if I have opposition, you're going to have opposition. Okay? You've got to understand that. But understand this, that the kingdom is going to spread, and there's nothing wrong with the scene The problem is is in the soil. So let's look at what Jesus said. First there's a wayside soil, and this is the unresponsive heart. And again in verse 19, when anyone heareth the word of the kingdom and understandeth it not Then cometh the wicked one and catches away that which was sown in his heart. This is watch this, this is he which received the seed by the wayside You see, this is the listener who comes and they hear the word of God, but that word did not penetrate their heart. You know why? Their heart was hardened. Their heart was not ready. The soil was too hard. And the birds were waiting to snatch that seed away. Because that seed was not received, because the heart was so hard. The the birds which what does the bird represent? This represent represents the work of Satan, the wicked one. Oftentimes birds represented the forces of of demons in Jewish literature. And so here's a hearer who comes and he hears the word of God. He hears a clear message. But because his heart is so hardened The seed does not find lodging. And the bird, which is the work of Satan, just comes and he snatches that seed away. I want to say something. When the Word of God is preached here and pastor has preached it for 40 years here in this church, think about how many people have heard the Word of God that have come through the doors of this church. You say, why didn't all of them come to Christ? I'll tell you why, then, because there were some hard hearts out there. And when the seed was planted, it didn't germinate. It didn't find fertile soil. And Satan is good at just coming and snatching away the Word of God. Isn't that what Jesus said? To him that hath shall be given. To him that hath not, it will be what? Taken away. And so Satan will come and he will snatch that seed away, and he'll use whatever he can to snatch that seed out of the heart. He'll use liberal professors that will tell you that the Bible is not true. He'll cause you to question the Scripture, and there'll be no repentance and no sorrow and no guilt and no concern over the things of God Because the heart is so hard, there's no brokenness. By the way, who's Jesus referring to here? He's referring to the religious leaders. He's referring immediately to those who got to hear the Lord Jesus Christ every day. And hear what he taught. And by the way, the Pharisees were always tagging along. They were looking for something to find fault with Jesus. And so they were recipients of some of the greatest revelation of truth that anyone has ever had the privilege to hear And yet the seed did not lodge in their heart. You know why? Their hearts were so hard. And this describes many people today. To allow the word of God to be snatched away. Well, then notice the next one. Then there's the shallow soil. Look at verse 20 and 21. But he that receiveth the seed into stony places. The same is he that receiveth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it, yet he hath not rooted himself, but dureth for a for a while For when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word, by and by he is what? He's offended. Now here's a person. This is the shallow soil. Remember, this is a soil where it seems like it's been received. And there's immediate growth. There's tremendous foliage there. And yet there's no fruit. Who is this? This is the person who may come to church and they may come down the aisle and they may give all the outward evidence that they have received the gospel But they do it so quickly there's not much thought in it. There's such a quick response. There's an emotional response, and by the way, there's nothing wrong with emotions. God often works through emotions. But if it doesn't go any deeper than that, friend, it's not deep enough. And so what happens, there's a quick response. There's not much depth of thought. It can be an emotional response to the gospel, but this person does not count the cost of following Christ. They don't truly understand the idea of repenting And what happens is they will cry tears, but they never really seem to grow. And they end up walking away. Maybe something happens that causes them to say, you know what, I didn't get into it for this. Somewhere along the line they have to pay a price for following Jesus. Somewhere along the line they have to pick up their cross. And you know what they say? They say I didn't get into it for this. William Arnott said this. He wrote this in 1896. Great commentary. If the law of God has never rent the stony heart and made a contrite, that is, bruised it small, you may by receiving the gospel on some temporary superficial softness of nature. Obtain your religion more easily and quickly than others who have been more deeply exercised, but you may not retain it He that endureth to the end shall be saved. That is, someone who is truly saved will show it by persevering. No matter what the persecution, no matter what the trial They're not offended by any of that. They just continue on for God. There are many people like that today. They jump on the Jesus bandwagon. They just add Jesus to their life that's already cluttered with so many things because they think it's a good idea. And what happens is somewhere along the line They get offended. Something causes them to jump off the bandwagon and say, that's it. Let me read to you what Boyce had to say. He said many people Fit that description. We see them thriving in churches. Their shallow hearts are attracted to the joy and excitement of a church where much is happening. They hear the gospel and seem to fit it. Many even make a profession of faith, but then some difficulty comes, loss of a job, a misunderstanding with other Christians, sickness, even a bad romance And just as suddenly as they once seemed to embrace the faith, they fall away. Why? Because they were never truly born again to begin with. They never really receive the seed. There's a lot of foliage, a lot of green leaves. But there's no fruit. And the fruit is what manifests a Christian. Well then there's the crowded heart. Look in verse 22. He also that receiveth the seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word, and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word. And he becometh unfruitful. Here's the person who is preoccupied with the cares of the world. This simply refers to worldliness. Deceitfulness of riches, that refers to the mundane, temporal things that promise happiness. But can't deliver a house, a car, wardrobe, prestige, good looks, riches, lifestyle, and so on. Some come to church And they can't focus on the Word of God. Why? Because they're too caught up in all the mundane, temporal things of this world. They're caught up in the deceitfulness of riches. They're caught up in the cares of this world. They're more concerned with how can you help me fulfill all my dreams? How can you, preacher, tell me how I can fulfill the American dream? How can you make my life more comfortable? How can you make my life more easy? How can you help me to be successful? In fact, they want you to preach on those things. Rather than really dealing with the deep issues of the gospel, rather than dealing with the issue that you have offended a holy God and you better get your sin right. They want you to deal with the superficial stuff. How can I have a better life? Their heart is so divided. And by the way, again, there are preachers that bow to that. to that superficial approach. And by the way, I'm not saying there's anything wrong with practical living, because the Bible has a lot to say about good practical living. There's not a greater book about practical living than the Bible. But I want to tell you something, friends. You can dress up and get all the practical things you want on the surface, right? But if you have not truly repented of your sin, it does you absolutely no good. No good. A lot of people just skim along the surface because that's what people want to hear. They're more concerned about the cares of this world. And they can't concentrate on the message because they're worried that somebody outside might park too close to their brand new car and scratch it. They're concerned about all those other things. And their heart is so divided, so divided, that they they can't focus. Reminds me of the girl who uh she was uh engaged to this young man and he said, darling, I want you to know that I love you more than anything in the world. And I want you to marry me. I'm not rich. I don't own a a yacht and a Rolls-Royce and a and a beautiful house like Johnny Brown, but I love you And she said, Well, I love you too, but tell me more about Johnny Brown. There are some people whose hearts are that divided. Oh, yeah, I love Jesus, but I want to know more about the things of the world I want to know more about how I can have all the things that I want. And because of that, what happens? The word of God is choked. And it can't, and there's no growth because it chokes out the Word of God. And there's no fruit. And then finally there's the good soil. Look at verse 23. But he that receiveth seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word and understandeth it, which also beareth fruit. And bring it forth some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. Now it's interesting. Notice where it says receive the seed. And Mark's account of this same parable, the Greek word for received is different from all the other words for received. The normal word that is used for receive in Greek, which is kind of the general word for receive, lumbano, just to receive, but Here is the word decomai, different word, much more intense, to deeply receive. And then there's a prefix that's added to that, which really intensifies it. Paradecomai Which means to really receive down deep. That's the person who receives the word of God into their innermost being. And the word is lodged there. And there's fruit. This is a person who receives the seed so as to be saved. Here's the person that repents. This soil represents the true believer, the one who has responded to the word of God. And again, this is the whole point of the parable. This is why there's such little response. There's nothing wrong with the sow or nothing wrong with the seed. It's the soil. And when the seed is planted, the heart better be ready to receive that seed down deep into the soul. This soil has no weeds, no rocks, there's no hard surface, it's rich, it's deep. It bears fruit. Something has caused that heart to be ready to receive the seed. That's why I think, you know, it's such a good idea. in crisis times in people's life to go to them and share with them the gospel. Because a lot of times it's the difficulties and the crisis things and the hurtful things that plow up the hardened heart. They get it ready to receive the Word of God so that it can bear fruit. And by the way, here's the difference. Here's how we know that this person is truly a believer. How? Because it bears fruit. This seed bears fruit That is always the telltale sign of someone who is truly a child of God. What kind of fruit? Holiness Write down Romans 6. 22. Being now made free from sin, you become servants of God. Listen to this, and ye have your fruit unto holiness. You know what happens? You're going to start to want to live a holy life What other kind of fruit? Christian character? But the fruit of the Spirit is what? Love, joy, peace, and so on. That is the Christ-like virtues begin to appear in your life There'll be Christian character, good works, Colossians 1. 10, that you might walk worthy of the Lord and the all-pleasing, being fruitful in every good work. And then winning others to Christ. Where Paul calls that, he says, I want to come to you there at Rome. Why, Paul, that I might have some fruit among you. He was talking about winning others to the Lord Jesus Christ and simply worshiping and praising God. But Him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise that is the fruit of our lips. When we come to God and we worship with our heart and we praise Him, that is fruit. And so Jesus is saying that there's different kind of soils out there. But there's only one soil that really bears fruit. The first three soils reflect the opposition and the rejection and the indifference and apathy that came as a result of Jesus the sower. Showing the word of the kingdom. Their hearts reflected that. And so you say, well, how come we don't see more people coming to Christ? Let me tell you something, friend. I believe that as Christians, It is our responsibility to sow the seed as much as we can. What does the Bible say? He that sows what bountifully is going to reap bountifully. But I want to tell you something, friend. Once we sow the seed, the seed doesn't need any help after that. We have done our job. We sow the seed and then what do we do? We entrust it to the Lord and we let the Lord do the rest Let me show you something. I'm closing, but look in Mark chapter 4. Look at this real quick. I want to show you this because in Mark's gospel, Jesus adds on to something, onto this parable of the sower. Look at Mark chapter 4. Look at verse 26. Look at this with me, and we're going to bring this to a close. Mark 4:26. And he said. So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed into the ground. Now, isn't that what we've been talking about here? The kingdom of God is like a man who cast seed into the ground. Now what does he do next in verse 27? And should what? Sleep! Isn't that interesting? What does he do after he plants the seed? He goes to bed. He goes to sleep. You know why? Because there's nothing more he could do after that. You know why a farmer goes to bed? Because his job is done. There's nothing more to do. Once you have cast the seed into the ground, what does Jesus say you do? Rest after that. Just go to sleep. You know what, friends? I preach the word of God and I sleep good at night. I preach the Word of God and I lay my head on the pillow. And you know what? I believe that in the power of the Word of God that God will accomplish his purpose. That God will do what he wants to do. Now look what Jesus said. And should sleep. Now watch and rise night and day And the seed should spring and grow up. And watch this, he knoweth not how. Man, I don't know how, but it's just growing. You know why? I I can you explain to me how a seed grows? I don't know how it grows I'm just glad that the seeds I plant in my house don't die. I planted a tree over in Africa and I heard at last that it's still alive. I'm just glad because I'm not really that good, but you know what? I can just put the seed in and I can walk away and say, you know what? The rest of it's up to God. Now I might go and check on it, and it's growing, but I don't know how Look at verse 28. For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself. By the way, you know what it means there of herself? That the Greek word is only used one other time. And all the New Testament, the Greek word is automatos, automatically. The other time it's used is when Peter's in jail and the church is praying for Peter to get out of jail. And you know what happens? The doors of the prison open up what? Automatically. Automatas. They just opened up. Nobody was there to open them. They just opened up automatically. First automatic doors are in the Bible. They just opened up. You know what happens when you put the seed into the ground? It just begins to grow. You know what? It does it. The fruit? It just bears fruit. It's the earth. It does it automatically. That is to say, by the way, who opened the doors of those prisons? That prison? What it was God that did it. And who causes the seed to grow? And who advances the kingdom is God who does it. Friend, I don't know how, but God does it. And so I'm just glad that I got to be a part of it. I'm just glad that I got to be a participant, that I got to even throw the seed down. But I want to tell you something, friend. God does all the rest. And notice what it says in verse 28, the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself, first the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear. But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he put it in the sickle because the harvest is come. It just produces a harvest. It just will. And so I believe that that's what we are to do. We are all to be involved. in sowing the seed of the gospel. All of us. And so I want to ask you, what are you doing to sow the seed? Are you witnessing to others? I believe in formal witnessing. I believe You ought to be involved in our grow program. You ought to be out witnessing to others formally but also informally wherever you go. When you're out at the job or you're out at the restaurant or out shopping, leaving the gospel track. Planting the seed. You know why? Because that's when the harvest will come. You just plant the seed. We all need to be doing that. But then here's the second application. We need to guard against discouragement. When we don't see the results that we want, don't get discouraged, friend. Because you know what? When we sow the seed, we did what God required of us. We did what he wanted. And then the next thing is this. We have to examine our own heart. What kind of soul do you have? Friend, have you received the seed? So as to be saved. Is there fruit in your life that bears witness that you have received the seed? And there's a harvest in your own life. That way you know that what you have is true. It's true faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, thank you for revealing to us This mystery of the kingdom. Thank you, Lord, for not leaving us in the dark. And showing us, Lord, that it doesn't really all depend on us. There's a sense in which it does. We need to be busy sewing. But Lord, once we've done that, we look to you to bring the harvest. So Lord, help us to do our part. In 2015, as we look out into a new year, let us all be busy, sowers of the seed, sharing the Word of God. And Lord help us also to realize we can't force anyone into the kingdom. We can't argue anyone into the kingdom. We just plant the seed and we entrust it to you. And then, Father, I pray that you'll speak to hearts. May people here tonight examine their heart to know that the soil of their heart has truly received the Word of God. Not just a superficial receiving, but down in the depths of our soul The Word of God has lodged. And the proof of that is there's fruit. There's a desire for holiness. There's a desire to obey the Lord Jesus. There is a desire to see others come to know Christ. There is good works that are taking place. There is the fruit of praise and worship that comes, that flows out of our heart unto you. Father, use this word to speak to hearts tonight. And with heads bowed, let me just ask, before I turn this over, Friend, are you absolutely sure that you have received the seed, the seed of the kingdom, the seed of the gospel, that you've heard preach, perhaps you've heard it over and over again. If you've been in this church for any length of time, you've heard it. But friend, have you received it down into the depth of your soul? Do you know the Lord Jesus? And if you're not certain about that, friend, I would make it sure. Right there, right where you are. Say, Lord Jesus, I turn to you. I turn away from the world, I turn away from my sin, and I turn to you, and I receive you as my Savior Yes, I'm a sinner. Yes, you died for my sins. Yes, you are the only way. And I trust you right now, you and you alone, Lord Jesus, to save me My friend, if you'll pray that meaning, God will save you.