Well thank you. It's so good to see all that has happened tonight. This has been a blessing. Now make your deal. I won't be that long if you listen well. So I want all these young people here to sit up nice and straight. There we go. Oh, I can see it. You guys are looking great. Give me about five good minutes. And then I'm gonna take five up more minutes. No. I'm just kidding. You know, I want to just give you a passage of scripture tonight You know, everything that we do here, everything that all these coaches do, under the leadership of Coach Chris, and aren't we grateful for all the work that he does? Thank the Lord for him. I just wish he would coach a few more basketball teams. That's all I wish. You know, all that we do here, listen up nice and straight. Everything that takes place here, and I'm so glad that everyone's working together to make this a success, but let me just tell you something The reason we do all this is for one purpose. One reason. And I want to read it to you. It's here in Romans chapter 10. It's in verse 1. And listen to what the Word of God says. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God. For Israel, and I can say this is our prayer to God for you, all of you here, is that they might be saved. That's the whole reason for all of this. You see, we want our the young people, your your children, they're precious to us, to come and and have a good time playing basketball. But the reason we share the gospel is because Mom and dad, ladies and gentlemen, we believe the the greatest need that your children have is to know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. And I think the greatest need that any family has is that dad and mom know Jesus Christ as their Savior, that they raise their children to know the Lord Jesus Christ. And this is the reason why we do this. This is just an opportunity for us to share the gospel of Jesus Christ in the context of friendly athletic competition. Now, what I want to talk about tonight then is this greatest need. Did you know what the Apostle Paul is going to tell us here in this passage is that salvation is simple. And here's the bottom line. One of these days all of us are going to die. That might be hard for us to comprehend right now, especially for you young people, but all of us are going to face death. We're going to live on this earth about 70, 80 years, and then after that, or 90 years, 100, some if by strength, more We all face death, and the question is, when you die, where will you spend eternity? Because there is an eternity, and everybody here tonight We have an everlasting soul. Inside our body is an everlasting soul that God gave us. And when the body is placed into a grave, that soul will either go to live in heaven. or it'll go to a place of judgment called hell. And by the way, God wants all of you to know to go to heaven. But the question is where will you go? And this is what we talk about the Bible talks about when it says that you might be saved. Saved. And you know what? The Bible also says, these things have I written unto you, that you might know that you have eternal life. Sometimes people say, is it possible for anyone to know that they're going to heaven? Absolutely. That's one of the reasons why God gave us the Word of God so that you can know. 100% know. That when you die, you're going to go to heaven. That's why we do this. And my friend, let me talk to you then about the simplicity. Well first of all the source of salvation. You say, how can a person know that? Listen to what Paul said. You see, he's talking about the whole source He said to about these people, he said that they, being ignorant of God's righteousness, go about to try to establish their own righteousness. You know, a lot of people today, they think in order to get to heaven, they have to go about to try to be good themselves And so a lot of people they go through all these religious rituals. Some people do these hard, difficult things. I've heard of people trying to make God happy by doing certain religious things, and you know what? None of that is the way to salvation. None of it. You say, how does a person get saved? It's very, very simple. Very simple. You say, what is it? It's so simple that even a child can understand it. In fact, Jesus said, Except you become like little children, you will now wise enter to the kingdom of heaven. It's so simple that any child can receive this. And you say, how does it happen? It doesn't happen through trying to be good because you know what, ladies and gentlemen, all of us are sinners. All of us have a sin nature that causes us to do wrong We can't be good in and of ourself. Sometimes people think you know when you get to heaven there's going to be a great big scale. On one side is going to be all my good works, and on the other side is going to be all my bad works, and if my good works outweigh my bad works that I'll go to heaven, but if my bad works that way my good works, then I'm going to go to hell. But that's not the truth. Because if that were true, all of us would go to hell. All of us, because we're all sinners. And the Bible says that even our righteousness is like filthy rags in the sight of God. You say, how then does a person go to heaven? It's by believing. Now listen very carefully. There's two kinds of religion. There's due religion and there's done religion. Some people think it's what I do, it's something I have to do. And then there's the other idea, it's what Jesus Christ has already done. And that's the point. It's by believing on what Jesus Christ did on the cross for all of us. That's how a person is saved, by putting our faith our belief in what Jesus did on the cross. Because, see, now listen very carefully. Did you know that God is a holy God? And the gospel starts with that. And since God is a holy God, God must judge sin His holiness demands that every sin be punished. But God is also a God of love And he doesn't want to punish you. And he doesn't want to punish me. And so there was a dilemma with God. His holiness said sin must be punished. His love said, I don't want to punish man for it. So how could God's holiness be satisfied and his love be satisfied? There was a divine dilemma. And the answer to that dilemma is Jesus Christ. You see, because here was the plan. God said, I'm going to send my son, Jesus Christ, to this earth. He was God in the flesh, virgin born. He lived a perfect life. He fulfilled all of the righteousness of God. All of the law of God he fulfilled. He was sinless. And at the end of his life God the Father took all of the sins when Jesus died on the cross. Let's just say this book here represents all of your sins, all of my sins. You see, God the Father laid those sins on the Lord Jesus Christ. Because the Bible says, And the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. All of our sins were laid upon Jesus, and all of God's holy wrath that should have fallen upon me for my sin. You see, Jesus took all of my sins upon himself, all your sins, and the holy wrath of God fell on Jesus on the cross. Sometimes people say, why did Jesus have to suffer and die? Because sin is so exceedingly sinful, that's why. And God's holiness demanded that sin be punished. God had to punish sin, but he didn't want to punish you. And so therefore Jesus took all of your sins upon himself on the cross at Calvary. He satisfied the holiness of God. He paid the penalty for sin. And listen, when something is paid for and you want to offer it and give it away, what is that called? It's called a gift. Here's the point. Salvation is not something that you work for. It is a gift that God has provided, a very costly gift, because it costs God the Father, his Son. To purchase your salvation. You say, what do we have to do now? Believe on Jesus. Believe on Jesus. You say, what does it mean to believe? One time there was a missionary named Robert Moffitt. And he was translating the Bible and in a language, he was he was a missionary to South Africa, and he got to the place in the Bible where it had the word believe. And he was trying to think of a native word that or a concept in that native language where he could write that word which included the idea of believing and he couldn't figure it out And while he was there thinking about what word can I use to translate the word believe, a native came running into his hut. And there was a chair right there, and he flopped down in that chair. Out of breath, his full weight was in that chair. You ever do that? You just flop down in a chair? I mean all of your weight is in that chair. And Robert Moffat said to that native, he said, what do you call what you just did? What is the word for that? What you just did. And of course the native gave him the word, and that was the word that Robert Moffat used to translate the word believe. Because you know what it means to believe on Jesus? It's to put your full weight on Jesus It's to fully thrust yourself upon Jesus and say that all of my hope, all of my faith, all of my dependence is on what Jesus did on the cross for me. That's the way of salvation. That's believing on Jesus Christ. And Paul later says this here in Romans chapter 10. He says this in verse 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And then he says this, for with the heart man believeth. Unto righteousness. And with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. So you see, salvation is very, very simple. You don't have to do some hard religious ritual In fact, Paul says here in Romans chapter 7, or excuse me, Romans chapter 10, verse 7, he says, you don't have to go up into heaven and knock on the door of the gates of heaven and say, Jesus, Jesus, I want to be saved. He said, you don't have to ascend up to heaven. He said, you don't have to go down to beneath the earth to hell and bring Christ up from the dead. Friend, he already rose from the dead. You don't have to do that. But what does Paul say? But what saith the Scripture? The word is nithy, even in thy mouth and in thy heart. Let me tell you something. Salvation is so simple. It's right there in front of you. Paul said it's right there. So what do you have to do? Just believe on Jesus. Believe on Jesus. Now, you know what? When I die, I know I'm going to heaven. You say, boy, that sounds awful proud. Well, let me tell you something. It's not because I'm a good person. I'm a sinner. You know why I know I'm going to heaven? Because all of my faith is in Jesus, what he did for me at Calvary. When I was 14 years old, I heard the gospel. I've prayed, I put my faith in what Jesus did for me on the cross I asked Jesus to come into my heart and save me, and I know this very moment that if I die, I would go to heaven because not of what I have done or what I'm doing is because of what Jesus did for me Now, friend, that's your choice. It's either do religion or done religion. A lot of people out there trying to do stuff. And I want to tell you, you can be as righteous as you can try to be all the rest of your days. But friend, in God's bank account, that's monopoly money. Take some mo monopoly money, go to the bank and see if they'll let you deposit it. They say that this money doesn't work in our bank. And all of your so-called goodness will not be deposited in heaven's bank. God said it doesn't work here The only righteousness that heaven accepts is the righteousness of Christ. And when you're saved, when you call upon Jesus, you know what God does? God gives you all of the righteousness of Christ. It's not what I do, it's what Christ has done for me. So you can know certainly That if you die, you go to heaven by putting your faith in Jesus Christ. You say, do I have to get baptized? Well you should, but let me tell you something. Baptism doesn't save you. Remember the people on the cross? Jesus said, Today you're going to be with me in paradise. He didn't have time to get baptized. He didn't have time to do anything religious. All he could do is say, Lord, remember me. And Jesus said right there, that's enough faith to save you right there. If you'll just believe. Believe on Jesus. Believe in your heart that He died for your sin. Believe in your heart that He rose from the grave and he lives victorious in heaven. Believe and put your faith in Jesus for salvation. Friend, that is what the Word of God has to say. It's what Jesus did for you So my question to you tonight is this. Are you absolutely 100% certain that if you died today you would go to heaven? I can say by the grace of God I am, because I put my faith in Jesus. And if you're not certain of that, remember what Paul just said. It's not hard. You don't got to go to heaven, knock on the door, or go to hell, and bring Christ back from the dead. The word is right here. It's right here. Put your faith in what Jesus did. Put your faith in Him right now, right where you are. Let's bow for prayer together And so with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask you a question tonight. If you're absolutely one hundred percent certain That if you die today, you go to heaven. Because you put your faith in Jesus. Would you say that's me? Would you lift your hand, no one looking around? I know that. I've put my faith in Jesus. Alright, you can put your hand down. Some of you are very honest, and I admire that. You didn't raise your hand. Because you don't know. But friend, I'm telling you, based on the authority of the Word of God, you can know. You can know. Would you be willing right now to put your faith in Christ right where you are? You say, how do I do that? Just pray. Reach out in prayer. The Bible says, if you call upon the name of the Lord, Thou shalt be saved. So would you pray a prayer? Just say these words in your heart. You don't have to say them out loud. Say them in your heart. Say, Lord Jesus, I'm the sinner. I know it And I don't deserve to go to heaven. But I know that you came to this earth to die for my sin. And I'm asking you, Lord Jesus, to please come into my heart and save me right now. I'm placing all of my faith in you and what you did for me on the cross. All of my faith, all of my hope is in your work at Calvary, your finished work. Save me Lord Jesus. And friend, if you'll pray that and truly mean it in your heart, you can be saved today. Right where you are. He will forgive your sin. He'll cleanse your heart. He'll give you eternal life. He'll make it his child. If you reach out by faith, this is what faith does: it reaches out And Jesus reaches out to you. How many say I pray that prayer and I mean it? No one's looking around. I'm not going to embarrass you. But that's my prayer today, to trust Jesus. This very day. Now, friend, you may put your hands down. If you pray that I want you to either see myself, see Pastor John, Pastor Johnson, see one of the coaches. Let them know that you've made a decision to trust Jesus Christ. as your Savior. Now everyone look up at me. Parents, I want you to look at me. The hope for your family is Jesus. Now, if you're not in a church home, now if you already have a church home where they're preaching the Word of God, be faithful. Take your children to church. Let don't send them to church. Lead them to church. But I'm here to tell you, if you don't have a church home where you're Worshiping and hearing the Word of God and hearing the gospel where your children under the sound of the word of God. If you don't have a church home, I'm inviting you to make this church your church home. I want you to come here. You say, well, that's very bold. You're being very dogmatic. That's exactly right. I believe in what we do here. We preach the word of God. We care for your family, and it's important for you to be in God's house, worshiping together. And so, Mom and Dad, I want to challenge you. Lead your children to church. And if you don't have a church home, consider coming here to grace and making this your church home. Because here you're going to hear the word of God. You're going to hear about Jesus and you'll be loved. Alright? God bless you, thank you so very much