Would you take God's word this morning, please open to the book of Luke? Luke chapter fourteen And we're going to look at verse 25 down to verse 35. We're just going to read a few verses. When you stand for the reading of God's Word, we're going to look at start at verse 25 of Luke chapter 14. Verse twenty five. And there went great multitudes with him, and he turned and he said unto them If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea, in his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. And whosoever does not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, as we come before you today, we are absolutely dependent upon you to help us, Lord, to understand spiritual truth Open our eyes that we might behold wonderful things out of your word. And Lord, be ready to apply truth to life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The title of my sermon this morning is The Parable of the Careless Builder and the Careful King. A recent Gallup poll that was taken reports that 10% of Christians um could be called deeply committed, ten percent. Most of those who uh the poem went on the say profess Christianity don't really know the basic teachings of Christianity or they really don't act any differently because of their Christian experience. Another pollster, George Barna, found that almost half of evangelical Christians read their Bible only once a week or not at all. He went on to say that most who call themselves believers are nominal in their commitment, unfaithful, sporadic in their public worship, and give very little to the cause of Christ. There are polls like this that reveal an appalling lack of commitment on the part of those who call themselves followers of Jesus Christ. The question is, is that true Christianity? What does it mean to be a true disciple of Jesus Christ? This passage that we're going to look at makes very clear that if you want to be a true disciple of Christ, it will cost you everything. It'll cost you everything. Now don't misunderstand me. Salvation is absolutely free. It was purchased by the blood of our Savior Jesus Christ Nothing you can do to work for your salvation, you put your faith in what Christ did for you. It's absolutely free. And yet It will cost you everything. It'll cost you everything, your your very life. You receive it freely at no expense, but once you receive it You have just committed everything you have and all that you are to Jesus Christ. You say, now wait a minute, that's a contradiction. How can something be both free and at the same time be costly? Well, let me illustrate. Let's just say that I had a desire to climb Mount Everest. Now I don't have that desire, thank God. But if I did have that desire, you know, it would be very difficult because it costs around eighty thousand dollars to do something like that. I don't have that kind of money. But let's just suppose a wealthy businessman knew of my desire, and he came and he said, Jerry, I'm going to fund your whole expedition to climb Mount Everest. It's totally free for you. You just have to accept this offer. Now if I decide to accept that offer, I have just committed myself to months of rigorous training, of you know, you know Getting all the equipment together, learning all the survival skills that I need. It's a incredible commitment. Uh I could even it could even cost me my very life because A lot of good climbers die trying to climb that mountain, Mount Everest. You see, it's free for me, this offer, and yet once I receive that offer, it's very costly. It costs me everything after that. Or consider a friend who offers me a free ride in his airplane. He invites me to come along at his expense. I accept his free offer. By accepting that free offer, I have just committed my very life to him. If he flies safely, I'm safe. If he crashes, I die. The instant I say yes to his free offer, I have totally committed myself to him. I have entrusted my whole life into his hands. You see, friend, Jesus offers everyone to drink of the water of life freely. If you're thirsty, you can drink of the water of life freely. There's no charge But we need to understand that once we have received his free offer, we are no longer our own because we have been bought with a price We're no longer our belong to ourselves. And so to truly follow Christ, we have to consider the craw the cost. We must not follow him superficially. We have to understand all that is involved. You know, superficial followers, they want all the benefits of being a Christian, but they don't want to really you know, be committed to following Christ and all that comes with it. And so therefore there are many that, you know, make an a ri uh an initial uh acceptance of the offer of salvation, but in the end when things start getting rough they turn back. This is what J Jesus warns against in our text. What Jesus teaches in this passage is amazingly extreme. Being a true disciple of Christ is not a superficial makeover, but it is a permanent takeover. When Christ permanently takes over your life. So let's look at Luke chapter 14. Think about the context here with me. In Luke 14, the Pharisee invited Jesus over for a meal at his house. On the Sabbath, word had spread that Jesus was there in that house, and pretty soon multitudes of people began to gather and wait for Christ. And you know, you read you read that and you say, wow, you know, multitudes were following, uh, waiting for him, following him. Man, that's great. Jesus had a multitude of followers. You know, every pastor would love to have a congregation that is that big. Pastors with large cong large congregations, after all, they are the ones that are most popular, successful. They get their books published, invited to speak, yada yada, all that sort of thing. We measure success by numbers, but Jesus was very different. Large crowds didn't fool him. He knew that many people were out there following him for superficial reasons. They wanted to see a miracle. They wanted him to do something on their behalf, not necessarily because they were following him because of who he was. And Jesus knew that many people in that crowd were not the least a bit interested in spiritual things. And so He teaches what is required to be a disciple. Now I know that there are some people that teach today that there's a difference between being saved and being a disciple. You can be you can have salvation free. But you can choose to be a disciple later on sometime whenever you're ready. Sometimes what that is is where people divide up Jesus from being Savior and Lord. Oh, you can trust Jesus as your Savior right now, and you can be free from hell, and you can have the benefits of being a Christian, but you don't have to be his disciple. He doesn't have to be Lord of your life. You can choose to do that at some later time, maybe, if you want to. But I see no such division in the Bible. I see no such dichotomy in the Bible. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth Jesus as Lord. You see, you can't divide Jesus up from being Savior and Lord. You know, we don't come with our conditions to him about salvation. We receive him just as he is the Lord Jesus Christ. If you claim to be a believer, but you're not seeking to grow in obedience to Christ. If you claim to be a believer, but Christ is not Lord of your life, and you're seeking to obey him in all things, and I'm not talking about a perfect life. I'm just talking about a life where Christ is Lord of your life. If you're not trying to obey him, then friend, you're fooling yourself. You'll hear him say, I never knew you, one day, when you say to him, Lord, Lord. So it's possible to follow Christ superficially And it's to this type of follower that Jesus lays out the demands of discipleship. In fact, in the passage here, three times Jesus says, you cannot be my disciple. We see it in verse 26 at the end. He said, you know, he cannot be my disciple. Verse 27, the same phrase at the end If you're not willing to bear your cross, you cannot be my disciple. We see it at the end of verse number 33. If you're not willing to forsake all, you he cannot be my disciple. Jesus is discouraging superficial faith, half-hearted commitment. So what I want you to see then as we look into this parable are three things. First of all, the conditions of discipleship. The conditions of discipleship. Again, this is what Jesus is talking about. Discipleship. Several times we see that word in our passage. Discipleship in the Ancient world was pretty common. It would be equivalent to our practice of apprenticeship today. A disciple was someone who learns by watching and learns by doing. The word disciple is from the Greek word mathetes, where we get the word mathematics, and it actually means learner And if you lived in Jesus' day and you walked around Jerusalem, what you would see were rabbis that had a group of suits that would follow the rabbi wherever he went, and the rabbi would be teaching him as he walked. That was typical of that day. And this is what happened with Jesus and his disciples. Wherever Jesus traveled all over Galilee, he called out his twelve disciples. They would follow him and he would teach as they were walking. Much of the gospels that we have Written down were things that Jesus said while he was walking and teaching his disciples. Sometimes on the steps leading up into the temple there in Jerusalem, Jesus would sit. And the disciples would be around him as he would teach them. And that was common in that day. A rabbi having disciples, but there was something different about the discipleship of Jesus Christ. It required more. Any person could go to a rabbi and submit himself to be in that rabbi's school and follow that rabbi. But Jesus says to these people, look, I have some conditions. You can't follow me unless you meet some of these conditions. And he spells them out. Look at verse 26. If any man come to me and hate not his father, And mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea, in his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Now when we read this, this is shocking. We say, wait a minute, wait a minute. Doesn't the Bible say that we're to honor our parents and we're to love our family? Is Jesus contradicting the Bible? Of course not. No. We are to honor our parents. Then what does Jesus mean when he says this here? Well Jesus gives these statements for shock value, first of all, to get you to stop and think. Stop and think about this. Think about the demands. And by the way, when we think of love and hate, we think in terms of emotion. That's the way we think in our culture But in the Jewish idiom or Semitic way of talking about preference or choice is to use these expressions love and hate. It was an expression of preference or choice. It's used this way several times in the Old Testament. For example, in Malachi 1, 2 and 3, where it says, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated. Now, hatred there does not mean God had an animosity towards Esau. In fact, if you read about Esau in the book of Genesis, what you'll find is that God blessed Esau in a lot of ways. I mean you'll see how God gave him so many gifts and blessings. And so when God says, Jacob have I love, but Esau have I hated, God wasn't expressing an animosity and hatred toward Esau. What God was saying is, I choose Jacob above Esau. They were twins, but I choose Jacob, he will be the one He will be my choice through whom the promises that I made to Abraham would pass. I choose Jacob. I prefer Jacob over Esau. And that's what this means here. It means that we choose, of all the relationships that we have in life, we choose Christ above any of those earthly relationships. He is preferred above any earthly relationship. So to hate one's family simply means I prefer God over them. If there's a conflict of desires of doing what my family wants or doing what God wants, I choose Christ. He is my choice. And so this is what this means. Now most of us in our days, and by the way, in Jesus' day, for someone that Follow Jesus for them, it may have meant turning their back on their family. Their family may have disowned them. We see that sometimes in countries today. Where to choose to be a follower of Jesus Christ, they have to turn away from their family. We don't really get that here much in America, Howard. There might be times when there's a little tug of war going on between a husband who's committed to Christ and a wife who's not. Or a parent who's not a believer, and a child is a believer and wants to follow Christ. Francis Schaeffer uh was is a great name you may recognize a great theologian who wrote many books and uh had uh had a great influence on many people by the way a graduate of Faith Theological Seminary many years ago Francis Schaefer, his father was not a believer. And Francis Schaefer, when he was saved, he knew God wanted him to follow him and and to be a preacher and go to college. But his father said, You're not going to a Bible college and following God. And Francis Schaefer knew that God was calling him. And his father said to him, You're going to have to make a decision. And Francis Schaefer said, Okay, let me, Dad, let me go downstairs into the basement. Let me just Pray about this and I'll give you my decision. And Francis Schaefer went down into the basement and he says he did something that he doesn't recommend anyone do. But he was weeping in tears and he said, God, I need to know what to do. So he took a coin out of his pocket. And he said, Father, if it's heads, I'll follow you. I'll go to college. He flipped the coin, it was heads. He fought he was still praying and crying. He said, Father, please be patient with me. If it kind of tails, I'll follow you. He flipped the coin, it was tails. The third time he said, Father, please give me one more opportunity here. If it's heads again, I will follow you. And he flipped the coin and it was heads. And he went upstairs and said to his father, I'm going to follow my call, I'm going to follow God. And his father, in a rage, stomped out of the room. But just before he slammed the door, he said, I'll pay the first year of your college. And Francis Schaefer later went on to say that he believes it was at that moment that my father saw my commitment to Christ that had a impact, and later his father became a follower of Jesus Christ. When Jesus said this, he simply means you need to put me above any family member. But also there's another one, look in verse 27, another condition. And whosoever does not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Those listening to this would understand immediately what Jesus was talking about, because their land was a land that was occupied by Romans And for someone to pick up their cross meant that they were on their way to execution, that they were dying. Their future was already set. Their sentence had already been passed. You see, the cross is not a symbol of burdens and problems. It's a symbol of death to self. Bearing the cross simply meant that you would follow in the footsteps of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's being committed to doing his will and not your own will. Jesus said you have to be willing to do that. And that might even mean death, because that's what the cross symbolized. Missionary Chet Bitterman graduated from Columbia Bible College in South Carolina, but then he went to Columbia, South America as a Bible translator in 1981 with his wife and his children. He went down there to translate the Bible into the language of the people group. And he was kidnapped by terrorists on January 19, 1981, and he was killed with a single shot to the chest. Before that, eight months before that, he penned in his journal, he said, maybe this is just some kind of self-inflicted martyr complex, but I find this recurring thought That perhaps God will call me to be martyred for him in his service in Colombia. And then he wrote this. I am willing. I'm willing. Are you willing? Are you willing to pick up your cross and follow Christ? That's the condition of discipleship. But also notice the cost. Now, on the heels of these two shocking statements that Jesus gives, he gives us two parables. And in these parables, what he's trying to emphasize is that if you want to be a disciple of Christ, you must count the cost. If you're going to decide to be a disciple, it should not be an impulsive decision. It should be something that is very deeply thought out. If you want to accept the free offer of salvation, good. But then you have to remember to follow Christ, it will cost you everything. Everything. So you better seriously count the cost. So he gives the first parable, look in verse 28, building a tower. For which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost, whether he hath sufficient to finish it. Lest happily after he had laid the foundation and is not able to finish it, all they behold it began to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. In this first parable, we have a man contemplating building a tower. Now this could be a tower for storing goods. It could be a tower. Sometimes shepherds would build towers to watch over their sheep. Sometimes it was used for defensive purposes against the enemies. Anyway, whatever kind of tower it was, this would be a large visible object for everyone to see. And this would require a lot. You would require a lot of materials. You'd have to have a blueprint, some know-how on how you're going to build this thing. It would require stone and mortar and manpower. If the tower was not built properly, it could fall, it could injure someone, perhaps even kill someone. In Luke 13, Jesus told the story of the tower, the tower of Saloon, that fell and killed 18 people. Perhaps the builder there cut costs and didn't really uh consider all that was really required. And by the way, several years earlier in AD twenty seven a poorly built amphitheater collapsed and thousands of people were killed in that So half-built buildings and shabbily built buildings were were something that was common in that day. There was no building codes or you know by the government And so the crucial point here, however, is the shame that would come upon this builder if he did not think through everything and build it correctly. Honor and shame in that society was a huge thing. And here, Jesus talks about this man and he wants to build a tower, but if he doesn't really count the cost of labor and materials and commitment and doing it right. It could bring shame. So you better count the cost. Because you don't want people later later saying this man began to build. But he was not able to finish. But then notice the next parable, battling an army. Look at verse 31. On the heels of that, Jesus says, Or what king going to make war against another king? Sit him not down first And consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand. So in the second parable, Jesus uses the illustration of a king facing a battle. Here's a king contemplating the idea of going to war against his enemy, but before he makes this momentous decision where he has to commit to soldiers to battle, where people can get killed. And face an enemy that is perhaps double in strength to his army, he's got to really think it through. He's got to think about battle strategy, he's got to think about tactics, he's got to think about um, you know, terrain and weaponry. And tactical advantages. And if he looks at all of this through and he decides to go to war and yet he doesn't do it with enough thoughtful commitment, that battle could be a disaster. It would be better for him to go and to make peace. And by the way, the people listening to this parable again would understand this. Did you know that King Herod of Antipas had just recently lost a war? against a small vassal state because he entered the the battle haphazardly and he did not count the cost But the key ideas in each of these parables is found with, you know, you have to sit down first, you have to think it through. And then again in verse 31, sit down and take counsel. You have to carefully think about this. Don't make an emotional decision. Don't make a haphazard decision. Don't make a quick decision. You know, a lot of our evangelistic methods today are big on emotion. They're little on reason. We we have a way of just trying to get people down the aisle to make a commitment. And I'm not against people coming forward and making a commitment, but by the way, you can get saved wherever you are. You don't have to come to the front of a church to do it. People get to uh come together in these big stadiums. They hear testimonies from famous athletes or movie stars about how Christ changed their life. Then they hear a rousing speaker promise how Christ can meet every personal need that they have. And then there's this wonderful music where everyone stands together and people are invited to come forward. And the song is playing in this invitation, and a lot of people in an emotional moment, they come forward, they make a decision. But did that person get saved? By the grace of God. Some of them do, yes, some of them do. But even the well-known evangelists admit that the stickability rate, the long-term stickability, is very, very small. People make a decision and then they too often later on go back to what they were, what they were doing. Here Christ says to the crowds who were coming to him, Jesus wasn't calling them forward, he was trying to weed them out. You're trying to say, look, you know, you can't be my disciple. You haven't thought this through. Consider the cost of following me. Count the cost. Jesus shows the wisdom of carefully assessing the commitment involved in following him. Jesus does not want Self-seeking, temporary, transient, nominal followers. He wants committed disciples. Committed disciples So let me that leads to the third point. We saw the conditions of discipleship. We saw the cost of discipleship and finally the commitment of discipleship. After telling these two parables about counting the cost. Jesus then makes another bold declaration. Look in verse 33. So likewise, whosoever he be of you That forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Again, a very bold, bold declaration. He wants surrendered disciples. Does Jesus mean this literally? Do we have to get rid of everything? What he means is this To be a Christian means that you have to have you've been bought with a price, and therefore you're not your own. You're not your own. Nothing you have is your own You understand that? He owns everything. Everything. It's like, you know, remember the pearl, the parable of the pearl, great price, here's this huge pearl. It's It's the most valuable pearl ever, and you know you can you can purchase this pearl. Jesus was using that as a symbol of salvation. Here's a this a man sees this pearl and he says to the merchant, I want this pearl. How much is it? And the seller says, Well, it's very expensive. Well he says, Well, how much? The seller says, Well, it's a lot. Well do you think I can buy it? Well the seller says, Oh yes, of course. Everyone can buy it. But I thought you said it was very expensive. He said, Well I did, and it is very expensive. Well how much? And the seller says, Well it's everything that you have. It'll cost you everything. All right, says the buyer, I'll buy it. Well the seller said, Well how much do you have? Well he says, Well I have ten thousand dollars in the bank. Good, ten thousand dollars, great. What else? He says, Well that's all I have. You don't have anything more? Well, I might have a few dollars in my pocket here. Let me check. Well, I have a hundred dollars. Good says the seller. That's mine too. What else do you have? Well that's it. That's all. I definitely have nothing else. Well where do you live? The seller says. Well I I have a house. Oh really you have a house? Well that house is now mine. I own it now. Well the buyer says, Well where do you expect me to sleep? In my camper? He says, Oh, you have a camper too Well that camper now belongs to me as well. Well, you you took my home, you took my camper. I don't have anywhere to sleep but in my car. Oh, you have a car. Yeah, I have two cars. Well they're both mine. Both of them are mine now. They both belong to me. And the buyer says, Well look you've taken my money, my house, my camper, my cars. Where is my family going to live? Oh you have a family. Well yes, I have a wife. I have four children. Well, they are all mine. They all belong to me. Oh, and I almost forgot. You belong to me too. You as well. Everything is mine. You, your wife, your children, your house, your money, your cars, everything is mine. And then he goes on to say, now listen, I'll allow you to use these things for the time being. I'll let you use them. But don't forget that they're all mine. Just as you are, you are mine. And whenever I need any of these things, I can take them at any time. And you have to give them up because now I am the owner of all of this. You see, that's what Jesus means when he says you have to be willing to give all. You have to be willing to yield up all. He isn't just Lord of a tenth, he's Lord of everything, of all that we have. We are just managers for his glory. And of course, in return, we gain the true riches of heaven. We get heaven. But still we need to sit down and we need to think it out and determine if we're willing to follow the Lord Jesus Christ, if we're willing to give him all, everything that we have, and ourselves. Every fiber of my being, all that I am and all that I have, I'm willing to lay it down and give it to my master who bought my salvation with his own precious blood. I accept the free offer of salvation, but I lay down all for him. Any person that's not willing to count the cost and make that kind of commitment is not his disciple. You can call yourself that if you want. But he's the one who really knows whose are truly his. You're like salt without flavor, if that is what you are. He talks about saltless disciples. Look at verse number 34. Salt is good. But if the salt have lost its sabre, wherewith shall it be seasoned? It is neither fit for the land nor yet for the dunghill, but men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. Salt was a very valuable item in that day. In fact, it was so valuable, did you know that they paid soldiers with salt? Part of their pay was getting salt. That's where the Latin word salary comes from. It means salt money. You know, did you get your salt money this week, your salary? And if a soldier was derelict in his duty, he was said to be not worth his salt It's not worth his salt because he's derelict in his duty. And so salt was a very valuable commodity. But what good is salt if it loses its flavor? Now our modern salt is pure and it doesn't lose its flavor, but in Jesus' day it could lose its flavor, especially if the salt then came in contact with the ground and once the saltiness was gone it was no longer any good. Sometimes they would use salt and mix it in with manure for fertilizer. But this salt, if it lost its flavor, it wasn't even good for that. It's good for nothing. Salt that lost its flavor can just be thrown onto the path Where it can be trampled down, meaning it's utterly, completely useless. And Jesus is using that illustration to talk about someone who may call themselves a disciple, but you are you have no salt. You're not worth your salt if you're not willing to make this kind of commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he ends it with this: He that hath ears to hear, let him. Here. Are you listening? Can you hear this? Can you bear this? Do you truly want to be his disciple of Christ? Jesus, he's not looking for superficial followers He's looking for those that are willing to commit all, to give them all, to yield all. Yes, salvation is free, but it will cost you everything if you want to follow Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want you to take a moment. Pretend like you're gonna build a tower. Think about what it's gonna take. Or or or you're gonna go out to battle All that what we require. To put Christ above every other relationship? Are you willing to pick up your cross And follow him. Are you willing to give up everything? Does your heart say Jesus Because of what you did for me on the cross, your precious blood that was shed for my redemption. I do reach out and receive this offer of salvation, freely given, paid for with your own precious blood. No, and there's nothing I can do to earn salvation. It's it's all of you, Lord Jesus, and what you did. And I received that offering, yet I know that now I'm bought with a price I'm not my own anymore. And I don't want to be. I want you to be my master. This this doesn't turn me away, Lord Jesus. This is appealing to me. I want to be your Slave. I want to be your servant. I can think of nothing better than to know that you are master and lord of my life That's what I want. That's what I desire. And I pick up my cross and I follow you. You are my heart's desire. And that's what Jesus wants. Father, bless this word to hearing hearts. And through the power of the Holy Spirit, Lord, may you call out among a people true disciples who bow and call you Lord and pick up the cross and follow you. We pray in Jesus wonderful name, Amen.