And we've been studying Ecclesiastes here on Wednesday night, and we're going to be in chapter 7 in verse 19. And uh just follow along as I read from verse 19 on down to verse 29 Tonight I want to talk about the value of wisdom. Verse 19. Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city. For there is not a just man upon the earth that doeth good and sinneth not. Also take no heed unto all the words that are spoken, lest thou hear thy servant curse thee. For oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others. And all this have I proved by wisdom I said, I will be wise, but it was far from me. And that which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find it out I applied mine heart to know and to search and to seek out wisdom and the reason of things and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness. And I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets and her hands is bands, whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her, but the sinner shall be taken hold or taken by her And behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by one to find out the account. One day these generators came to a halt. And the repairmen that were hired by Ford couldn't find the problem. So Ford called Steinmetz again and asked him to come in. And so look at these machines. And after a few hours of just uh tinkering around with those machines, he was able to find a problem. He flew he threw a switch and all the generators came on and it all began to work. Well then uh Steinmetz gave the bill to Henry Ford for his services, and the bill was ten thousand dollars. Now Henry Ford was a bit tight-fisted and he was kind of flabbergasted by the bill. And so he asked the man, he said, uh you know, through a uh a mail, through a letter, why should I have to pay so much money? I mean after all all you did was tinker around with some machinery for just a few hours Well Steinmetz gave back a reply, and this is what he said. For tinkering with the generators, $10. For knowing where to tinker, $9,990. And Ford paid the bill. Now the moral of this story, of course, is there's a value in wisdom. The value in this case was this man's wisdom and knowledge and knowing where to tinker. There's a sense in which Solomon in chapter seven is going to give us some wisdom. He's going to tell us how to tinker around in life but to know where That's the value of wisdom. Now in chapter 7, basically, Solomon has been praising wisdom. He has been showing us the practical benefits of it. And also keep in mind that Ecclesiastes is wisdom literature. And generally, in wisdom literature, it celebrates wisdom as a precious gift. Now, of course Ecclesiastes is wisdom literature, but also in other places in the Bible, the Bible puts a high value to wisdom. For example, just write down these verses. Job 28. 18, for the price of wisdom is above rubies. And Proverbs 8. 11 says basically the same thing, for wisdom is better than rubies. In Proverbs 16, 16, how much better is it to get wisdom than gold? And then in Proverbs 4:7, wisdom is the principal thing, therefore get wisdom. So the Bible puts a high premium on pursuing wisdom. But now what kind of wisdom is Solomon talking about here? Let's kind of clarify. He's not talking about man's wisdom because if you've been with us in the study, you know that in previous chapters he has shown us the bankruptcy of human wisdom. So the wisdom that he's talking about here is not man's philosophies or theories or human genius, any of those things. He's talking about the wisdom of God. In fact, the word wisdom, the Hebrew word, is chokma. And it appears 300 times in the Old Testament. And it has the idea of God in its teaching. The wisdom of the Old Testament is reflective of the holiness of God and the character of God, and how that we should reflect that character of God in the way that we live. In fact, the word hopelem really is a word that means skill. Skill of all sorts. In fact, this word is used in context with all different kinds of skills. For example, it was used to talk about the high priest Taylor, the one who made the high priest's robe, the clothing, and the skill with which he used to make those clothes And so that's how it's used. Great skill. And it's used in many other places to talk about the skill of a laborer Now applying this to life, it actually means living this life in a very skillful way. That's the whole idea behind this idea of wisdom to take what is chaotic and to bring order and harmony and peace out of that. And so Solomon is going to talk to us now in this chapter about some challenges that we all face in life and how wisdom helps us to meet those challenges. So Here's the first one. Wisdom helps us to deal with number one the problems we encounter. The problems we encounter And look at verse 19 again. Wisdom strengtheneth the wise, more than ten mighty men which are in a city. Solomon's whole point is this, wisdom makes us strong. How strong? Solomon says, well, it'll make you stronger than ten mighty men, ten mighty rulers in a city. And Solomon says it like this, here are ten mighty men on one side, ten strong warriors on one side, and here's uh perhaps uh a scrawny man on the other side, but he's wise And Solomon said, if you could take the ten men on one side and the man of wisdom on the other, I'll put my money on the man of wisdom. He's going to win out every time. One man filled with the wisdom of God is better than a platoon of mighty wisdom. And that's what he's saying here. Again, write down some verses. Proverbs 21, 22. A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, and he cast down the strength of the confident. And Proverbs 24, 5. A wise man is strong. Yea, a wise man of knowledge increases strength. You see, here's the deal. A man who is wise, a man or a woman who is wise is wise because they fear the Lord. Because the fear of the Lord is what? The beginning of wisdom. And if you fear God, that means you don't fear what men can do. If you fear the Lord, that gives you courage in the face of many difficult crisis situations And so a person who has the wisdom of God is able to face the greatest challenges, the greatest crisis, and is able to win out and skillfully navigate through those difficult times. Now let me show you an illustration of this. Hold your place here in Ecclesiastes. Go back to the book of 2 Samuel. I want you to just see an illustration from the Bible. I think this illustration really uh does a great job showing the very principle that Solomon is talking about. 2 Samuel chapter 20 and then um I'll just give you the context. We're going to start at verse number 15 But let me tell you what's happening here in 2 Samuel 20. There was a wicked man from the tribe of Benjamin by the name of Sheba. And he started a rebellion against King David. In fact, this is the point in David's rule and reign where he's trying to establish himself as the king. But this man Sheba is leading a rebellion against them. And that's what we see in verses 1 to 3 in chapter 20. Verses 4 and 5, David goes back to Jerusalem, asserts his authority, and then he sends out an army to put down this rebellion When we get down to verse number 15, Joab is leading the army of David, and uh in verse number 14, and he went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel. and to Bethmeakon, and unto all the Beerites, or Beerites, I should say, and they were gathered together and went also after him. So here's Joab, and he's got a big army, it's a mighty army. He's pursuing after this rebel Sheba. This man had his forces. And this man Sheba takes refuge in a city called Abel And this city is in the north part of the land of Israel. It's about four miles west of Dan, in the north of the Sea of Kenerith. And the territory of the Beerites, it says. And here is Sheba, and he's hiding behind the walls of this city. So what's Joab going to do? Joab's going to take his mighty army, and he's going to besiege this city, and he's going to knock down the walls. He's going to just basically uh tear this place apart, find this man Sheba, and bring him to justice And so a funny thing happens while he's trying to do that. Look at verse 15. They came and besieged him in Abel at Beth-Mahakh. And they cast up a bank against the city, and it stood in the trench, and all the people that were with Joab battered the wall to throw it down. So here they are, they're going against this city, and a funny thing happens, you see what happens? Here comes a wise woman out of this city. One woman. And she cries out to Joab in verse 16. Then cried a wise woman out of the city, Hear, hear, say, I pray you unto Joab, come near hither, that I may speak with thee. Here's this woman and she says, Joab, she's crying out from the wall. I want to talk to you. I want to come and see you. And so she does. In verse 17, and when he was come near unto her, the woman said, Art thou Joab? And he answered and said, I am he. Then she said unto him, Hear the words of thine handmaid. And he answered, I do hear. Now I just picture in my mind, I don't know how you picture this. Here's this mighty warrior Joab, and here's this old woman coming out on a king, pointing her finger in his face, saying, I want to talk to you. I have a few things I want to say to you. And he goes, I'm going to listen. What do you have to say? And this woman uses wise arguments to talk to this warrior. What does she say? Well, look in verse 18. She says, then sp she spake, saying, They were wont to speak in old times, saying, They shall surely ask counsel at Abel And so they ended the matter. What's she saying? The city of Abel was known as a city where many good, wise people lived. And this city had served Israel very well. It was a place where you could go and you could get an answer to a difficult question. Or if you were seeking counsel from the Lord, or you had to make some decision, you would go to this city of Abel and there were people in there that seemed to know how to lay hold of God in prayer and give a good answer. And this woman says, this city is known for its character, for its wisdom, and when people would come and get and want a decision We would give them a decision, and the matter would end right there. This is how this city has served Israel. And then notice what she says in verse 19 I am one of them that are peaceable and faithful in Israel Now, evidently this woman was one of those that gave wise counsel. And then she said, This city is peaceful and loyal. She was arguing that her city not be overthrown. Perhaps he was referring to Deuteronomy twenty, verses ten to sixteen, requiring that a city first should be given offer of peace before its attack But then notice what she calls the city in verse 19. And thou seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel. That is, this city. has produced m much offspring to help the nation of Israel. Many good people have come out of this place to serve this nation. This city was part of the inheritance of the Lord. So here's this wise woman who's giving Joab a historical and cultural lesson about this city, saying, shame on you for trying to overthrow this. city. And she ends up with a a good question. Why wilt thou swallow up the inheritance of the Lord there at the end of verse 19? Why are you doing this? Why will you swallow up the inheritance of the Lord? Now, what was the result of this woman? Well, I think she puts Joab on his heels. Look at verse 20, and Joab answered and said, Far be it, far be it from me, that I should swallow up or destroy This matter is not so, but a man of Mount Ephraim, Sheba, the son of Bikri by name, hath lifted up his hand against the king, even David, deliver him only, and I will depart from the city. And the woman said unto Johab, Behold, his head shall be thrown over to thee over the wall. Tough old lady, I would say He's saying, if this is the problem, if this one guy is the problem, you don't worry about it. We'll toss his head over the wall. And uh and that'll be in. And so what happens in verse twenty-two? Then the woman went into all the people in her wisdom. Now she goes and she persuades the people in the city. We got a scoundrel among us We got a wicked man and he's brought this trouble on us and we need to take care of business and let's just deliver him over, let's deliver his head over to Joab And verse twenty two, and they cut off the head of Sheba, the son of Bikri, and cast it out to Joab, and he blew the trumpet, and they retired from the city, every man to his tent. End of problem Head cut off, thrown over the wall. Now here, now think about this. Here's this one woman, and with her wisdom And with her her skill, she basically turns back a mighty army. She basically saves the lives of many people in that city. Here's one woman filled with wisdom. You say, well, wait a minute. They cut that guy's head off. Well he was a wicked man. The Bible calls him a child of Belial in chapter 20. He's a wicked man. He deserved it And here's this woman bringing him to justice, saving the city, and how does she do it? She does it with wisdom. Now, I think that's exactly what Solomon is talking about. And so let me ask you a question tonight. What problem do you have? What crisis are you facing? Uh what army is besieging the walls of your your heart and your mind and your soul and and where you don't have peace, you know what you need? You just need wisdom from God. You say, how do I get that? It's very simple. James said, if any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God. I want to tell you there is no problem or no challenge you face, but that God can't give you enough wisdom to deal with it and to overcome him. And so wisdom makes us strong. Now go back to Ecclesiastes, because that's one problem. But then notice the next thing he talks about in verse twenty, for there is not a just man upon the earth that doeth good and sinneth not. Here's the one of the biggest problems we face is sin Solomon says, nobody on earth is sinless. We all struggle with our own unrighteousness. There's not a just man on the earth that doeth good and sinneth not. That is, none of us always do good. We all sin, we know that. This is why godly wisdom is necessary, because we have a tendency to transgress the commands of God. And you know what wisdom does? It shows us what we really are. It shows us what the problem is And then it points us to the right solution. I want to tell you, a big problem in humanity today is people depending on the wisdom of man. And you know what the wisdom of man does? It points you to the wrong problem It tells man, oh, you're basically good. You just have a few hang-ups. Sigmund Freud says, oh man, the problem with man is his standards are too high. The reason you have guilt is because someone gave you high standards. You can't do what comes natural And guilt causes you to act irrational. We just need to shift the guilt onto somebody else. Let's probe into your background. Let's find out who gave you those high standards. And let's lower the standards. The problem with man, he says, his standards are too high. And then a man comes along named Skinner, B. F. Skinner, and he says, well, the problem with man is he's a victim of his environment The reason man is bad is because the environment is bad. And so let's change his environment. And then Carl Rogers comes along and says, well the problem with man is he needs encouragement and motivation. And if we just encourage him and motivate him, he'll be fine and he'll do good That's all man's wisdom. You know what God's wisdom says? The problem with man is sin, and the answer is salvation. You see, in the beginning, in Genesis 3, the problem wasn't the standards were too high. God gave Adam one standard. Don't eat fruit off that one tree. And he disobeyed. The problem wasn't the standard. And the problem wasn't he was a victim of his environment because what kind of environment did Adam have? A perfect environment. And the problem wasn't that he needed encouragement and motivation, because God came down and walked with him in the Garden of Eden every day. And I want to tell you, when the Shekinah glory of God comes and walks with you, that's all the encouragement that you need. The problem with man is sin. And that's what Solomon says right here. And I want to tell you, if you don't get the problem right, then you won't get the solution right. Wisdom points us to the problem, and then the wisdom points us to the cross of Christ, because that's where the solution is. So wisdom helps us deal with the problems we encounter, but also write down number two. Wisdom helps us with the people we employ. Look in verse 21. Also, take no heed unto all words that are spoken, lest thou hear the servant curse thee. Now here's a practical piece of wisdom. This is a principle that we should know. Good good advice. And what is Solomon saying? Don't go around eavesdropping and listening on what people say about you. Don't worry about what people say about you. Listeners standing on their tiptoes, being suspicious, seldom hear good things about themselves. If they're listening in on others. And Solomon is basically saying, don't worry about it. If you have servants, and and and he may be speaking from experience, because here he is a king, and he had a lot of servants working under him And he says, if you listen, if you overhear people talking, your servants talking, what you might hear is your servants cursing you, not saying good things about you. You know, you hear about these stories of employees standing around the water cooler, talking about the boss. Solomon says, look, don't take that to heart. And here's the principle in general, don't take what people say about you, whether good or bad, don't take that to heart in general. Don't be quick to believe it. When people flatter you, when they lavish praise on you, don't don't take that to heart too much, because you're not half as good as what they said. Wisdom has a filtering system. It knows how to filter out the real wheat from the chaff of the things that are said So don't listen too much when people flatter you and praise you, and don't listen too much when people gossip and when they criticize you. Listening to mean-spirited input Will only cause you agitation and heartache. Don't worry about it. One man said this. He said, quote, I never worry about people who say evil things about me because I know a lot more stuff about me than they do. And it's worse than what they're saying. And so don't don't believe every criticism about you. Now I know there's constructive criticism And with criticism I always weigh it and and take what's right and try to let it help me. But friend, don't listen to all the criticism about you because there are people out there that have the gift of criticism And they're faithful to come to you and make sure that you know what they think you need to know. And they'll and they'll do it quickly. But let me tell you something. Flattery is somebody saying to your face something they would never say behind your back. And gossip is someone saying behind your back something they would never say to your face. And so they're related. And Solomon says, don't pay attention to it. Charles Spurgeon once told his pastoral students that the minister ought to have one blind eye and one deaf ear. He said, you cannot stop people's tongues. He said, and therefore the best thing to do is to stop your own ears and never mind what is spoken. But friend, with all leadership, there's going to be that And wisdom helps you to know what to hear and what not to hear. And also he gives us some perspective so that when we Perchance may hear some bad things. We can receive it humbly, we can receive it graciously. You say, how do we do that? Well here's the perspective. Look at verse 22. For oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise has cursed others. You know, he's saying you've done the same thing. You've been uncharitable in your words at times to others. What Solomon is saying is, look, let's be honest, if we get upset when people talk about us, we're holding them to a higher standard than we hold ourselves because we're prone to do the same thing. And so just just remember that. And I mean it's true. We say this to our own shame. Sometimes out of frustration we said things we shouldn't say. Sometimes we don't really know the whole situation and we say things we shouldn't say out of ignorance. The Bible says that he that answers a matter before he hears it's a shame and a folly. If you don't know the whole matter, you don't know all the facts. But sometimes in our own chain we have spoken without really knowing all the background, and at times we have been unkind. not fully understanding a person. And so friend, this is something that we all need to work on in our own life. And the reason I'm not going to get angry when I and by the way, if you know someone who said bad things about me, don't come and tell me. I don't want to know that. Alright? I just don't want to know. Okay? Sometimes Christians think it's their mission. Oh I gotta tell br you know what I heard. No, don't tell what you heard. Just keep it to yourself Friend, I have, to my shame, I've said things I shouldn't say. And we should repent of that. But it also keeps it in perspective that I'm not going to be too harsh On someone else, so that perhaps spoke in a moment of frustration. And by the way, Paul told Timothy, Speak evil of no one And avoid quarreling and be gentle. And he explains why we should be courteous. Listen to what he says. He says, For we ourselves also know something foolish, disobedient. But after that, the kindness and love of God, our Savior, towards men appeared. Because of the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why we should be kind and gentle. Now let me give you the third thing quickly. Wisdom helps us to deal with the problems we encounter, the people we employ, but also, number three, the perplexities we experience. Look at verse 23 and notice what it says. All this have I proved by wisdom. I said, I will be wise, but it was far from me. Then which that which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find out? Now, the sum of what Solomon is saying in these verses is simply this: Wisdom gives you the power to live with what you don't understand. And let's face it, there's a lot of things we won't understand. There's a lot of mysteries that we'll never really have the answer to here on this side And Solomon, he had a quest. He was trying to find out the meaning of life. He's trying to find out the mysteries of life. He's trying to find out the reason of things. Look at verse 25. I applied my heart To know and to search and to seek out wisdom and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and of madness. No one ever made a more serious attempt to understand mysteries and wisdom and the meaning of things than Solomon. He determined in verse 23, I will be wise. And through the years he learned a lot. But you know what he says? I never really fully learn the answer to some of the most deepest questions. And he says in verse 23, it was far from me. I still, there are things I just don't understand. There are things that are too deep for me. There are mysteries that I just can't solve. And Derek Kidner calls this the epitaph of every philosopher. You're going to have to get to the point in life where you realize this. There are questions that you and I won't have answers to here on this side. There are mysteries we won't be able to figure out. Now, at that point, once you come to that realization, you have really two choices. You can give up in despair and throw your hands up and become cynical. You can become critical and fatalistic, or you can trust God that he knows what he's doing. You can do one of two things. Now, Solomon is saying wisdom provides us with the power to release the things that we don't understand, to release them into the hand of God. And then to trust him in those things. Faith is reason at rest in Almighty God. You understand that? Faith is reason at rest. When I get to the end of my reason, and I still can't figure things out, and there's still mysteries too deep for me, too hard for me, at that point my reason rests in God. And knows that God knows what he's doing. And that's what Solomon is saying here. Part of wisdom is to know the limits of wisdom. That's what he's saying. God's plan is good. His purpose is clear, but his program is mysterious. And we are not always going to understand it. But can I tell you this We can know God. We can't know all about his ways, but we can know him. And that's where we rest, knowing God. It's like Abraham said: Shall not the judge of all the earth do what is right? Of course he will. We can know him. It's like one time, so when we came to uh Albert Einstein's wife. Albert Einstein who invented the theory of relativity and he said, Do you understand the theory of relativity? Do you know it? And she said, No, I don't know that, but I know Dr. Einstein. And friend, you can't know all the plan and the program of God, but you can know God. And wisdom rests in knowing God. Now here's the fourth thing. Wisdom helps us to deal with the problems we encounter, the people we employ, the perplexities we experience, but also the pitfalls we escape. Look in verse 26. And I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets and her hands as bands, whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her. But the sinner shall be taken by her. Now Sodom is saying, look, there's some pitfalls we need to escape in life. And Solomon here is referring to a woman, a woman to avoid. He's describing the kind of a woman that you should avoid, and he describes a woman as someone who traps men and leads them to death, he compares their heart like a a trap, a snare that a hunter would use to catch his prey. But who is she? I think he has somebody specific in mind. Now commentators make a comparison with the book of Proverbs. In the book of Proverbs, Solomon personifies Wisdom as a woman, and folly as a woman. So there are two women in Proverbs. One's called wisdom, the other's called folly. And he says to the young man, choose lady wisdom over lady folly And some commentators think that's what Solomon is referring to here. But I think the trouble with that interpretation is basically it's based on what the Bible says in another place, not here in Ecclesiastes. Besides that, notice the phrase where it says in verse 26, I find more bitter than death the woman, where he says, I find. Solomon is sharing something that he learned from his own experience You see, along the way of life, Solomon met a woman who tried to destroy his life. And I think what he's referring to here is the immoral woman, the harlot, the adulterer. If you read in 1 Kings the life of Solomon, you'll find that many strange women robbed his heart, took his heart away from the Lord, enticed him away. And Solomon basically is saying is, look, learn from my mistake. Don't do that. Watch out for the strange woman. For the immoral woman. Here he's preaching against uh immorality and he's warning about the consequences of immorality. And we don't really have time to delve into that, but sometime if you get a chance, read Proverbs chapter 5, where he lists the consequences of committing that scarlet sin, that sexual sin, and what it does for you, and the devastation that it brings into your life. And Solomon says, you need to watch out for that. You need to escape that. You say, is that a problem today, friend? You just look at the statistics yourself. Pornography is all over the place, available on the internet. But you say, well, how do we avoid all that? In this X-rated world, how do we keep ourselves right? Wisdom does that. Wisdom teaches us to fear the Lord. And if you really fear the Lord, you're going to shun that kind of stuff. You're going to get it out of your life. You're not going to allow it to have one little bit of dominion in your heart whatsoever. You'll rip it out. You'll forsake it. And you'll cling to the Lord. That's what wisdom does. Wisdom teaches you what to forsake, what to turn away from. In fact, in Proverbs chapter 2, I just want you to look at this quickly. I just want you to see this one passage. Look in Proverbs chapter 2. This is the very thing that I'm talking about. What Solomon says it right here. Chapter 2. Look at verse number 10. Now in these words, of course Solomon is the writer of Proverbs. He's talking to his son and the his son, my son, if thou wilt receive my words in verse 1. Look at verse 10. When wisdom entereth into thy heart and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul, discretion shall what? Preserve thee, and understanding shall what? Keep thee Wisdom is a defense. Wisdom will preserve you. Wisdom will keep you from what? Look at verse number 15. Or verse 16 rather, to deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the stranger with f which flattereth with her Let's with forsake the guide of her youth, and forsake and forgetteth the covenant of her God, for her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead. None that go in uh go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life, that thou mayest walk in the way of good men and keep the paths of righteousness. You get what he's saying there? That's what wisdom does. Wisdom gives you the discretion. It's a it's a shield around you to keep you from falling into the enticement of these ungodly things in the world. Now let me give you the last thing Wisdom helps us to deal with the problems we encounter, with the people we employ, the perplexities we experience, the pitfalls we escape, but then number four, the philosophies we entertain. Let me show you this last thing. Look in verse 27. Solomon says, this, behold, this have I found, says the preacher, counting one by one. To find out the account, which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not. One man among a thousand have I found, but a woman among all those have I not found. Lo, this only have I found that God had made men upright, but they have sought out many inventions. Now, although Solomon doesn't come right out and say it, the implication of these verses seems to be that he's looking for a truly wise person. A truly wise person, a person that really is filled with the wisdom of God. And he's kind of like doing the math here. He said, In all my experience, I've counted them one by one, the people that I've met. And Solomon says, of all the ones that I have met, all the people that I have encountered, counting them one by one. He said, in a thousand, I've only found one really wise man. And he said, of all the women I've met, none. I know that sounds insulting, I'm sorry. Now Solomon is not sexist, ladies, okay? You say, why that? Well you just keep in mind here In 1 Kings 11, 3, Solomon had a thousand wives, and they all took his heart away from the Lord. And besides that, he didn't have the chance to mingle with women as much as he did men. And women were not really given the ability to exercise their intellect and education as men did in this time and in this society And so he's not saying that women are less smart than men. That's not what he's saying, because if you look in Proverbs, he exalts women. And wisdom is personified as a woman. What he's saying is, in all the people that I have encountered, men and women, I've only found one truly wise person. What is he saying? This kind of godly wisdom is truly rare. It's rare. Why? Because look in verse 29. Lo, this only have I found, that God had made man upright, but they have sought out many inventions. What's he saying? Well in the beginning God made man right. God made man perfect. But what happened to man? Man fell, he chose sin, and since then he has sought out his own inventions. And the word inventions here means schemes, plans, philosophies. Part of the fall of man, part of the depravity of man, is to turn to his own ways and his own philosophies. instead of the wisdom of God. But I want to tell you, there's no ism out there. Dr. Lee used to call them isms that ought to be was-ms There is no man-made wisdom that's going to help you more than the wisdom of Almighty God. In fact, what does the wisdom of man do? It causes you to depart from the Lord Instead of clinging to the Lord. What did Jeremiah say in Jeremiah 17? Cursed is the man who trusts in man. Whose heart departs from the Lord. The moment you put your faith in the wisdom of man, you begin a path of moving away from God. But when you put your full trust in God, that's trusting in the wisdom of God. And this right here, this is the wisdom of God right here This is it. This is all that we need for life and godliness. The word of God is sufficient. But the reason Solomon was having a problem finding Truly godly, wise people is because there is innate in the fallenness of man the desire to turn to his own schemes. And his own inventions, and his own devices. And friend, we need to resist that. God has given us Wisdom in his word. And in Jesus Christ. Friend, if you have Jesus Christ, you have the wisdom of God. You have all the wisdom that you need. Let me let me just close with this illustration. George Washington Carver was born in slavery. But he became known as a great scientist and an agricultural chemist. And of course, if you have read anything about him and you know your history, you know that he worked with the peanut. And was able to do so many things because of his work with the peanut. And he was so successful at this that one time he was asked to appear before a Senate committee And answer some questions. And so he appeared in the Senate Committee, asked them a few questions. This is what they said. They said, Dr. Carver, how did you learn all these things? And he said, I learned them from an old book. And they said, what book? He said the Bible. They said, does the Bible talk about peanuts? One senator asked. And Carver said this, no, Mr. Senator, but it tells me about Jesus, God, who made the peanut. And I asked Jesus to show me what to do with this peanut. And that's where he got his wisdom from. In Christ are hid all the treasures of wisdom. And knowledge. Friend, if you have Jesus Christ, you have in you all the storehouses of the treasures of God's wisdom. You just need to listen to Him. And he will navigate us through the difficulties of this life together. So you say, well, I've read the Bible. I don't find any specific area where it tells me what to do. Friend, if you have j you have Jesus Christ. Just listen to him. Just yield to the Spirit, and He will give you the wisdom that you need. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for this encouraging word to our hearts. And Lord, may it motivate us to look to you, to depend fully upon your wisdom in our life. Lord, I'm so thankful that you didn't leave us here in this world without a compass or a rudder in a ship on a dark and stormy night. But Lord, you have given us light. You give us daily direction. You've given us the storehouses of wisdom in the person of Jesus Christ. And so, Lord, with that, you've given us strength, the ability to navigate through whatever problem, whatever difficulty, whatever challenge. That life brings. Lord, you've given us strength in Christ. Lord, may we lay hold of it. May we tap into that great resource. May we never be ignorant of it or forget it, but to depend upon you and you alone. Lord, grant to us your wisdom and help us to see the exceeding value of it. And we pray in Jesus' name, Amen