Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the little epistle of 3 John. The little epistle of 3 John. We've been going through the epistles of John, and we come to the last of his epistles. 3rd John is just a very small letter. In fact, you may be careful, you might pass by it on your way to Revelation. It's just right there, one little page. We could call this really a postcard epistle. The shortest book in the New Testament. And I just want to read a few verses. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Why don't we read the first few verses of this letter? Be elder unto the well beloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth. Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth. For I rejoiced greatly when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. Thank you so very much. You may be seated And would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, as we're here today to hear from your word, please help us, Lord, and direct our thoughts. to the scripture, to this word of God. Thank you, Lord, that we have the inspired scripture you've given to us, Lord, to guide us, to sanctify us, to help us, Lord, indeed, to walk in truth. So bless our hearing today and help me, Lord, as your servant, to preach your word clearly for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And this morning the title of my sermon is The Prosperous Soul. This seems to be what John is referring to here in this letter when he w is writing ri really to a man by the name of Gaius, and he is uh uh giving a wish in the first part of this epistle that he would prosper, that he would hope that his physical body would prosper as much as his soul is prospering. So here's a man who is prospering. Are you interested in being prosperous? Because God certainly is. We have a gracious God and he wants you to prosper in every way. In fact, Psalm 35, verse 27 says, Let the Lord be magnified, which has pleasure in the prosperity of the servant. God wants you to prosper. Now a lot of times when we think of the word prosperity, we think more in terms of physical or financial prosperity. We think of uh a fleet of cars and a big bank account, that sort of thing And uh that's not the prosperity that that John is referring to here, although God is the one who gives us every good and perfect gift. And he's so gracious to take care of us in every way. The prosperity that John is really focusing on here is a spiritual prosperity. And this is what gives him joy when he hears of those that are under his ministry prospering spiritually. And let me just say that the greatest joy that I have in my life is to see you prosper spiritually. That's my payment, that's my reward, that's my joy. It's like John said here in verse number four, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. That's true of me as a parent. I want my children to walk in truth. That's true. With me as a pastor, I want you to walk in truth, and I want you to be prosperous. And so John is really making this wish upon this man Gaius. But what is the purpose of this letter? This is another one of these personal letters from John. We already saw 2 John last week. Really, this letter has the same style and structure. And he uses the same introduction in verse 1, the elder unto the well-beloved Gaius. This is John writing, calling himself the elder. He's writing to a man named Gaius. We don't really know a lot about this man. This is a popular name that's used in this time. We see it three times in the New Testament for three different men. We have no reason to believe that this is any one of those three. And what's the purpose behind the letter? Well this the purpose is commendation You remember that when we study 2 John, that John was writing to a woman, he called her the elect lady And uh he was writing her about the practice that she had of admitting false teachers into her home. And he warned her about that, that that could be dangerous. And so here in 3 John, John is writing to a man by the name of Gaius, and he is actually commending him for bringing in true teachers into his home and giving them hospitality. And so really second and third John deal with the issue of Christian hospitality, but they deal with it from a different uh angle or different sides. 2 John deals with the negative side of Christian hospitality, how there are false teachers out there that could take advantage of Christians and use their hospitality for their own personal gain. But here is the other side. In 3 John, he's showing a man named Gaius who is receiving true teachers of the word into his home. These are authentic teachers. And he's showing them love. And not only is he doing that with true teachers of the word, he's doing it with strangers. People that he doesn't really know But he's doing it out of love. So we're seeing the two sides of love. Love doesn't open up its arms to receive everything without discernment But love is very discerning, and it's kind and it's gracious, and it's never closed to those who truly are in Christ, those who are true teachers of the Word of God. But on other reason for this letter is the purpose not only of commendation but recommendation. You see, uh John is writing to Gaius, and he's putting this letter into the hand of a man by the name of Demetrius. And Demetrius is actually the one that's going to deliver this letter to Gaius. And John is recommending Demetrius for the help of Gaius so that Gaius will support him and his ministry. That's the idea. Sometimes I'll get a phone call from a preacher or a or a missionary and they'll say, would you please write a letter of recommendation for me? And I'll if I know this person and I I can recommend them, I'll write them a letter of recommendation. And they will use that to go out to other churches and ministers to try to raise support for their own ministry. Well, that's nothing new. This was practiced in this day, having letters of recommendation. And so John is actually writing a actually 3 John is a letter of recommendation. And John is writing it to this man by the name of Gaius, and he's recommending Demetrius. And we we ask the question, why was this necessarily in the early church? You remember I was telling you last week how that when the Romans built roads all throughout the empire, it made easy the spread of the gospel. And traveling missionaries and preachers would walk and travel on those Roman roads, a lot of the towns and uh cities were built along those roads. And they would go and they would share the gospel. But as these traveling preachers and missionaries went out, they did not want to stay in the inns in that day because they were so filled with wickedness And there was so much temptation in those places. So they depended upon the hospitality of Christians on their travels. And so it was the duty of Christians to show this hospitality. But we also saw that false preachers use this system as well. And a false preacher or teacher could come to the home of a Christian and ask for hospitality. That's why John wrote 2 John to the lady that he wrote it to, warning her that you don't want to entertain those who are not true preachers of the gospel, because in doing so you become a partaker of their ministry of their deeds and you could lose your reward. So one way to ensure that the person that you were hosting was a true preacher of the gospel, a true believer, is that that person would have in their hand a letter of recommendation from someone that was well known. For example, the Apostle John John would write a letter of recommendation. And this was a practice that was adopted. It was very important in that world. Now we we see this in the New Testament. There are examples of letters of recommendation. For example, when Paul wrote uh the book of Philippians, in that letter he recommended Timothy. He said, you know, I I I trust to send Timothy to you shortly. I have no one like Timothy who will care for you. So in the book of Philippians, there was a little part of that that was a recommendation about the ministry of Timothy to them. And Paul rebukes the Corinthians because they're questioning whether Paul was a legitimate apostle, and Paul kind of says to them, Do I need to carry letters of recommendation? I mean, I was with you already for a while. And you that you're walking in the Lord, that you know Jesus, you're my letter of recommendation if you want to know if I'm authentic or not. But he was alluding to that practice in that day. The book of Philemon is another letter of recommendation. It is uh written from Paul to his friend Philemon recommending Onesimus who was a runaway slave who got converted to faith in Jesus Christ in Rome and he's going back now to his home And Paul is recommending him and saying, boy, he's a profitable servant. Now he's in Christ. Now he's a believer. So John is writing here in this third letter, a letter of recommendation. But it also he mentions another person in this letter. Look down at verse number nine. He mentions another character. I wrote unto the church, but Diotrephes, who loves to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not. There was a man by the name of Diotrophes who would not receive John's recommendations. He didn't respect John's authority, and therefore he would not receive the missionaries or preachers that John sent Because he was a man that John says loved to have the preeminence. He was a power-hungry person. And he openly attacked the authority of the Apostle John. But in this letter, John is commending Gaius. You know why? Because Gaius, despite the strong-armed tactics of Diatrophes, he's not being swayed by by diatrophies. He continues to receive the brethren. He continues to receive those who are true missionaries and preachers of the Word. And John is commending him for that very thing. So as we look at this a little closer, we're going to look at these three guys. We're really learning lessons about being prosperous and your soul prospering. So here's the first person. Let's look at Gaius a little closer. And what we learn from him is that a prosperous soul walks in love and in truth. And again, John in the very first few verses of this letter Gives three attributes about this man. First of all, he's lovable. Notice how he greets him unto the well-beloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth. And then he uses the word beloved about him in verse two and in verse number five. Those are all the same Greek word. Three times he uses this word about this man who was well loved. He was well loved. He was loved by John in verse 1, whom I love in the truth. John loved him because he loved the truth and he walked in the truth. And people like that are people that are easy to love if you're a lover of truth. And so he was loved because of that. And again in verse 4, he brought John great joy. Again, in verse 4, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. And when he when John says, my children, that leads me to believe that perhaps it was John that led Gaius to faith in Jesus Christ. And now he's watching him grow spiritually. And it gives them great joy. Again, that's the joy of any real believer when you are able to lead someone to faith in Christ and then you watch them grow in Christ. Boy, that is the greatest joy. That you're having an influence spiritually in the life of someone else. That's tremendous joy. And so this man was John's Other believers loved him in verse 3. Look what it says, for I rejoice greatly when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth. Other people would comment on the life of Gaius and they would see a godly person who lived the truth. He walked in the truth. He's he's a glass house Christian. What you see is what you get But he lived a life of walking in truth. He was lovable, he was spiritual. In verse 2, this is where John says, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prosper. What a way to greet him here. He's saying, you know what, I just pray that you're as well physically as you are spiritually. What would happen to you if someone prayed that for you? Would you be energized or hospitalized? I want I I just hope that you prosper physically as well as you're prospering spiritually. Because your soul is doing really well. Gaius had the right priorities. He was more concerned about his spiritual life than his physical life, and John could see that. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with taking care of yourself physically. In the Greek culture, they prized the human body. But the problem there is it was an obsession. And we see the same thing in America today. People are obsessed with the physical body. Again, it's good. Take care of this house that God gave you, right? It's the only one you got. And we can't serve the Lord without w if we're not able to do it in our body. So take care of it. But also remember this. What's more important is that your soul is is well. More so than your body. Because what does the Bible say? The outer man perishes. But the inner man is renewed day by day. For all of us, our outer man is is perishing, but we can be renewed spiritually. The Bible says bodily exercise profits little. It profits, but it's just a little. But godliness is profitable for this life and the life to come. So focus on your soul. But also another thing about Gaius was he was hospitable. In verses five to eight, John writes commending him for being so hospitable to strangers and to missionary travelers. Look at verse five. Beloved, thou Do as faithfully whatsoever thou doet to the brethren and to strangers, which have borne witness of thy charity before the church, whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sword thou shalt do well So here is John just commending them. John is saying, look, I'm getting word. People are telling me of how loving you are, how you're taking care of strangers. People that have genuine needs and you're taking care of them and you're and you're showing love. Love is not just an emotion, it's it's action, it's actions, it's practical deeds that you do for someone in need. It manifests itself in practically and practical good deeds. And again, hospitality was so important in that day. Uh it was d it was important in the Greco Roman world where um they would actually travel with a little token that they would they would carry with them. We're talking about not not we're not not talking about believers now, but just people in the Greco-Roman world itself. they would carry around this little uh token called the tessera hospitas. Or it was just this little coin that they would carry with them and it would If they wanted hospitality from someone, they would show them that coin. It kinda operated like a passport does for us today. Shows that they're legit, that there's a connection there. that, you know, please help me, please take care of me. And so that was uh something that was in that culture, but how much more so was it important for Christians? Christianity took that up to another level because believers were sharing the gospel, so therefore they were again dependent upon the love and hospitality of others. The Bible says in Romans 12, 13, we are to practice hospitality. And so it's important It was important to the Lord Jesus. Jesus said this, and as much as you have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, you have what? You've done it unto me. You've done it unto me. And so it was so important. So here, John commends Gaius for being a tremendous helper of the truth. Again, in verse number six, which had which have borne witness of thy charity. before the church, whom if thou bring forth on their journey after a godly sort thou shalt do well. When he says after a godly short sort, it actually in the Greek reads, worthy of God In other words, you have done this practice in a way that is worthy of God. You're serving God in a way that is worthy of his name. A lot of times Christians when they serve the Lord, they don't do it in a way that's worthy of God. They kind of serve God, you know, in a s not with excellence. But as uh kind of a a beside the point. And you know, you're some for some Christians their giving is not worthy of God Their service is not worthy of God. And here John is saying to Gaius Man, You really serving God, your service is really worthy of the Lord in the way that you do it. You're a fellow helper of the truth. And John is saying, you know, keep doing that. Why? Well, look at verse 7, because that for his name's sake they went forth taking nothing of the Gentiles. Christians need to help others, especially those who are missionaries and evangelists out there sharing the gospel. Why? Because these people take nothing from the Gentiles, that is to say, those that are outside the church, those that are not real believers Every once in a while I'll see someone on a street corner with a bucket with the name of a church on the side of it, and they're taking money from anybody that'll give it. That's not the way God's work is to operate. God's people are to take care of God's work. We don't go to the lost world and ask them to support the church. That's what he means here by taking nothing. from the Gentiles, taking nothing from the world. How does God get glory in that? So it's our responsibility. Look at verse 8. We therefore ought to receive such that we might be fellow helpers to The truth. And that's why he commends Gaius. You're doing the right thing. This is what God wants, and you're doing it in such a wonderful and worthy way. You're a prosperous soul. Let's look at number two Diatrophys. And we learn from him that a prosperous soul submits to spiritual authority. Again, verse number nine. I wrote unto the church, but theotrophes who often have the preeminence among them receives us not. Unfortunately, not everyone is like Gaius. Diatrophies is the exact opposite. He doesn't help the truth. He's hindering the truth because of his egotistical and selfish attitude. Thank God that we have the gayest type people in our churches. But also you have to watch out, there's some diotrophies out there as well. You need to be careful about. He didn't submit to John's authority. He didn't accept what John said or whoever John sent. He's not a prosperous soul. He is a destitute soul. And John gives us like five characteristics about this guy, and I'll go through them quickly. Here, first of all, the destitute soul demands to be first. In verse 90 says, who loves to have the preeminence among the brethren? The word preeminence is phaleo love protuo to be first. Love to be first. This guy loved to be first He was a lover of self and being first. And therein lies the problem in a lot of churches, people who want to be first. And so, by the way, this word here is the same word that's used in Colossians to speak about the preeminence of Christ. There's only one person who's first in the church, and that's Jesus Christ. He's preeminent. It's like we sang just a few minutes ago. He gets all the glory. He's worthy of all the praise. He gets the preeminence. He's first. And anyone who tries to get preeminence for themselves is usurping the lordship of Jesus Christ. And so this man is destitute because he desires to be first and he has a lot of pride. But also the destitute soul is defiant of authority. In verse 9, John says he receives us not. Another way to translate that will have nothing to do with us. This man so elevated himself above everyone else, he wouldn't even receive John, who was an apostle sent by Jesus Christ personally. He rejected John's authority. And this is how egotistical this guy was. Heard of a little boy who started a boys' club and he said, we have two rules in this club. Here's the first rule. I'm the boss of this club. And here's rule number two, you don't boss the boss. That was the Diotrophy's rules. Dr. Fee said, I'm the boss, and you don't boss the boss. And he was intimidated by John and he wouldn't receive anyone that John sent, and he wouldn't receive John's authority, didn't recognize John's spiritual authority. And I think that what we're seeing here is that if you remember in 1 John, John was giving us the marks of those who are true believers, and part of that is love and walking in God's truth and walking in God's commandments. It's it's like the under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, we're getting an example of someone who may profess to be a real Christian, but the marks show that they're not. Because anyone that's not willing to submit to the authority of God, you need to check your salvation. Anyone who is always concerned about themselves and putting themselves first and not concerned about the church, that's a real red flag as to whether they are truly a believer in Jesus Christ. The destitute soul uses malicious gossip to run down his opponents. Look at verse number ten, where John says, Wherefore if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth pratting against us with malicious gossip words and the word pratting here, interesting word in the Greek. It has the idea of a bubble uh you know getting bigger but it's empty on the inside. And when it you touch it, it will instantly burst. It's hollow, foolish talk. This guy was just gossiping. He was using malicious words, evil words. Uh he was running John down and uh because he didn't want John to have preeminence. He wanted to be first. And so a destitute soul will use gossip to run other people down, but also the destitute soul uses relationships for power. Look again in verse number ten where he says, Wherefore if I come I will remember his deeds which he doeth pratting against us with malicious words. and not and not content therewith, neither doth he r himself receive the brethren. Any one that John recommended again he rejected. Association with John meant rejection by doctors And why didn't he welcome these godly Christian workers? Why didn't he value those relationships? Well, he would rather use people to build his project or his power base. than to actually want to minister to people. Beware of those who will use people to build their ministry rather than using your ministry to build people. We're here to help people. We're here to build the lives of people. But also the next thing, the destitute soul bullies others through intimidation. Look at the latter part of verse 10. And he forbiddeth them that would Not only does he personally reject John and the other preachers, but he prevents or hinders anyone else. If people in the church didn't agree with diatrophies, he bullied them into compliance. Or he would just put them out of the church. He had the power to do it in verse ten where it says, and cast them out of the church. Ek ballow, throw them out. This is not church discipline. This is a tyrant. This is a power-hungry, selfish person controlling people in the church and throwing others out that didn't follow what this person wanted. This is a abuse of authority in the worst way. He's playing King of the Mountain and protecting his power base. And you ask yourself, how do people like that get into the church? How do they get this power in the church? It's amazing how subtle, how devious that people can be But John says this. Look at the again at verse 10. If I come, I will remember his deeds. How do you deal with people like this? Face-to-face confrontation. This is what John says. When I come, I'll handle this. I'm going to come and expose this guy. I'm going to come to him face to face. John's saying, I'm not going to forget this guy. So he's really an example that we want to learn from, and not in a good way, but we want to see the negative things that he does and say, I don't want to do that. That's not who I want to be. Because the prosperous soul will submit to spiritual authority, not resist it, not resist it and hinder the truth because of their own selfishness. So we see Gaius, who walks in love and truth. We see Diotrophes who does not submit to the truth. But then we see Demetrius, and we learn from him that the prosperous soul imitates godly examples. So notice verse 12. Demetrius hath a good report of all men and of the truth itself. Yea, and we also bear record, and you know that our record is true. Now, again, Demetrius is the one that John is recommending here. He is the man that will receive the hospitality of Gaius And John is saying, I want to confirm to you, Gaius, that Demetrius is worthy of your support. He's worthy of your help. And John encourages Gaius, look, Gaius, you follow what is good, not what is evil. Look in verse 11. Beloved, follow not that which is evil. But that which is good. He that doeth good is of God, but he that doeth evil hath not seen God. And so the word follow here is mime. Oh my, where we get the word mime. You know what a mime is, someone out there imitating Mimicking someone else. John is saying, look, don't mimic evil. You mimic what is good. Because Diotrephes was trying to persuade Gaius to follow his example, and John says, look, don't follow that example. Not everyone who comes to church is someone's that you should follow. You need to be careful whose example you follow. John says, don't follow that which is evil. Don't follow that person. But that which is good. In other words, Demetrius is the type of person that you can follow. You can follow his example. Don't follow the example of diocraphy. Don't mimic his evil. You mimic that person that is good. And you know, this is another lesson here. You know what? Godly Christians here at Grace, you need to be an example to other believers that God sends in or other people Be an example so that I as a pastor can say, if you want to know how to live the Christian life, just follow Brother So-and-so. Just look at their life. Or follow Sister So-and-So. If you want to know what godliness is, if you want to walk in truth, just Follow that example there. We need Christians all over that we can point to. My fear is a lot of times in church when new God sends in new people that they're wrongly influenced by some. And they get into patterns of behavior that are not healthy for their Christian growth. We need to make sure that we are people that God can entrust with new people that He sends in. So that they see our life. And if they follow our example, they will be walking in the truth. And John says, look, mimic Demetrius, follow him. Why? Well, because everyone speaks well of them, that is those who are believers. Again, verse 12, Demetrius hath a good report of all men. And the idea behind the verb here is that it's been testified of him, it continues to be testified of him, that he has a godly walk, he's a godly good person, and those who know him, who love the truth, they speak well of him. All men doesn't mean necessarily from the entire world, but just from the Christian brethren who value and recognize godliness that are in those circles of knowledge. That's what he was talking about. He's reported well by all men. And then the truth itself speaks well of him. Again in verse 12, Demetrius had a good report of all men, and the truth itself The second witness is the truth. It's not just others, but the truth itself bears witness that this is a godly man. That is to say that his whole life was aligned with truth. It's one thing to speak sound doctrine. It's another thing to live it out in your life. And the best way to make doctrine beautiful is to live it out. That's what the Bible calls adorning the doctrine of God. You live it out in your life, and the truth itself speaks well of you. But then also John speaks well of him. Look again in verse 12. Yea, and we also bear record, when he says we here, it's a kind of humble way to refer to himself. We also bear record, and you know that our record is true, guys. You know I wouldn't recommend anyone that I wasn't sure of And you know that I've recommended others to you before, and every time you can you can bank on that recommendation being right. And as an apostle of Jesus Christ. I bear record to Demetrius, and I I'm putting my credibility behind him, and you know my record. John was not a man who flattered other people. He was a guardian of the truth. He was an ancient apostle by this time. He knew how important it was to guard the gospel of Jesus Christ. So he was very careful who he'd give his recommendation to. But here John says, you know my record. You know how I served. And I'm telling you that Demetrius, he walks in the truth. You can support him. You can help him. So we see these three men then, Gaius, he's a prosperous soul that walks in love and truth. Diatrophies, he's a destitute soul that refuses to follow spiritual authority, and he destroys others. He's all about living for himself. And then we have Demetrius. He's a prosperous. And he's someone that walks in the truth. And you can imitate him. You can imitate his godly example. And so the question that we ask ourselves as we come to a letter like this, at least I ask myself, am I walking in the truth? I mean, do I walk in the truth like Gaius? Am I showing love and hospitality? Do I resist correction like a diatrophis? Wanting to be first all the time? Do I reflect a godly life like a Demetrius? Because in the end what matters most is what God sees in us, what the truth says about us, what other others see us walking in the truth, that's what matters whether we're real. in our Christian life and whether we are prospering spiritually in our walk. Again, I want you to be prosperous. God wants you to prosper. But it's a spiritual prosperity where you receive all the blessings of God, and you're an example to other believers in the church. The story is told of a Texas millionaire who wanted to be buried in his Cadillac. So when he died The undertakers dug an enormous grave, and they placed the Cadillac on a huge lowering device. That would be his coffin. And they dressed up the corpse of this man in his sportiest clothes. They put a cigar in his mouth They seated him behind the steering wheel and they set the steering wheel, the speedometer at 80 miles per hour. That was the way he wanted to be buried. And the mourners gathered around that unusual burial. And one of his millionaire friends had a tear come down his eye. And he said, Man, that's living. That's not living. That's dying. True prosperity is not living like you're a millionaire and being buried in buried in your Cadillac. That's not true prosperity. Jesus warned of that foolishness when he told the parable of the rich man who stored up his treasures for himself, and he said, So, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease. Be easy. And God's response was Thou fool, this night thy soul will be required of thee And then Jesus concluded with this principle: So is he that layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich towards God. True prosperity is being rich towards God. And walking in spiritual prosperity. And that's what John is talking about here in this letter, that you walk in truth. And so again, are you walking in true prosperity? Let's bow for prayer together Just take a moment and just uh examine your own heart today in light of what you've heard from God's Word. And can you say that you're prospering spiritually? Does it matter more to you in your your what you are like in your spiritual life or in your physical health? The priority is our spiritual walk. And I would ask you this, friend, are you absolutely certain that you know Jesus as your Savior? There's no way for you to prosper spiritually until you first come to know Jesus as Savior. in your life. If you've never done that, I'm inviting you right now to turn to the Savior Jesus Christ. Put your faith in him, what he did for you on the cross. Turn from your sin, turn to Christ. That's where it starts. If you're here and you've never done that, I'm inviting you right where you are, just pray a prayer. Just say, Lord Jesus, I believe you are the Savior. The Son of God took my sins upon you on the cross and you paid my sin debt. And Lord Jesus, today I come to you and I ask you to save me. Save my soul. Forgive me for my sin. And the Bible says, Him that comes to me I will know I is cast out. You say, Well, I've done that, Pastor. Well, are you prospering? Are you walking in spiritual prosperity? Walking in truth. We're going to take a moment, we're going to have a time of invitation. We're going to sing an invitation hymn, a few stanzas of it, and if God has spoken to your heart, we'll have ministers here in the front If you want to know more how you can be a true child of God, come. Let's all stand together. But do it