Now take it and open to the book of James, chapter 3, the passage we read just a moment ago. As we continue preaching through the book of James on Sunday morning. And this morning we'll deal with these first 12 verses here in James. And this morning, I'm going to talk about the taming of the tongue. That's what James talked about. Yeah, oh boy, he's right. I almost titled this sermon the meanest member in the church. You say, who's the meanest member? Don't look around. It's that little animal that lives behind ivory bars there in your mouth, that member called the tongue. And James says this is an untainable Animal. We can tame just about every kind of animal in the world. You go to the circus, you see all kinds of animals tame. But James says the tongue can no man tame Now, we've been talking about authentic Christianity and having a show-me faith. And so far, James has given us some things to think about. To take spiritual inventory and evaluate ourselves. How do I respond to trials? We talk about that. How do I resist temptation? And we talk about that. How do I receive truth? This morning, how do I restrain my tongue? Now medical doctors tell us they can tell a lot about your health by just looking at your tongue. Remember you go to the doctor, what's the first thing you see? It says, open up your mouth. Stick out your tongue and say, ah, Jane uh Justin Martyr, the church father and apologist, wrote this. He said, by examining the tongue of a patient, physicians can find out the disease of the body Philosophers find out the disease of the mind. Christians can find out the disease of the soul. And so the great physician is saying this morning, stick out your tongue. Let me look at it. Because I want to find out where you are spiritually in your life. Now it's obvious when you read the book of James that he's dealing with people in his in his ministry and his congregation that uh are using the tongue but perhaps they're not using it altogether in the right way. He mentions talking and speaking and the tongue often in this letter. Look in chapter one, look at verse 26 Just by way of introduction, if any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue. In chapter 2, verse 11, or excuse me, verse chapter 2, verse 12, rather, so speak ye. And so do, as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. James there is saying, watch what you say, knowing that you'll be judged. Look at chapter 4, verse 11. Speak not evil one of another, brethren. He that speaketh evil of his brother and judges his brother speaks evil of the law. And so we see here that James is perhaps dealing with people that don't have a lot of discipline in their Talk. Some people just need to learn to control their tongue. Now we sing all for a thousand tongues to sing. But I'm grateful God doesn't give some Christians a thousand tongues. Because they're not using the one they have faithfully. So James is going to teach us about the power of the tongue. And if you're taking notes this morning, I want you to write down there's four things I want you to see. Write down number one the importance of the tongue, the importance of it. James tells us how very important it is. And he gives us some reasons why it's important. Number one, it's important because of ministry. Look in verse 1 of chapter 3, my brethren Be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. Now the word masters here simply means teacher of the word. James is saying, Don't be too anxious to be a teacher of the word You know why? Because they will receive the greater condemnation. You know, when we all come to be judged, preachers and teachers of the Word are going to receive a twofold judgment. They're going to receive a judgment that is more strict. Why? Because God will inspect everything that comes from our tongue from our lips. It is a very fearful thing. And that's why he says, you'll receive the greater condemnation. Literally heavier judgment. William Barclay writes this, he must have every care, talking about the teacher, that he is teaching the truth and not his own opinions or even his own prejudices. It is fatally easy for a teacher to distort the truth and to teach not God's version, but his own. So we better be careful. And so it's important then because of ministry. But also it's important because of maturity. Look again in verse 2. For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body. Now James says we stumble a lot, but we stumble over our tongue more than anything else. I mean ha ha have you ever put your foot in your mouth? I think all of us can say yes we've done that. Ever said anything that has offended someone? Someone said that a lot of indigestion is caused by people eating their own words. Now the ability to speak in a way, in a manner, without offending someone, is a sign of maturity. Subtlety is the ability to speak God's truth without offense. Now I know that there are some times that the truth is just going to offend. It just will. The truth itself sometimes brings its own offense. But my friend, when I speak, it is never my goal to be offensive, to offend people when I speak the truth. I just try to make the truth clear. Sometimes the clarity of the truth will do the offense. But I never want to do it in such a way to cause offense. Write down 2 Timothy 2. 24. The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach Now the word where it says strive, it's the Greek word macho mine. You ever heard of a macho man? You know? Macho man. The Bible says the servant of the Lord must not be machemai. He can't have an attitude as if he wants to bully and offend, but he needs to be gentle. I don't mind offending people because of my position. I just don't want to offend people because of my disposition. Now, the tongue therefore is important because of ministry It's important because of maturity. But also write down this, it's important because of mastery. Look again in verse 2. Many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same as a perfect man And notice the last phrase, and able also to bridle the whole body. And that is, if you ever want to have self-control in general, if you ever want to have self-discipline, it starts with the tongue We all need self-discipline, we all need temperance, but the first place it's developed is in reference to the tongue, how we speak One writer wrote this, the control of the tongue is more than an evidence of spiritual maturity. It is the means to it. So you want to have spiritual maturity. You want to have self-control. It starts with the tongue. Now someone might say, well that's not that hard, really. Well, let me let me face some saints that struggle with it. Moses. Moses struggled with it. Psalm 106, verse 32, the Bible says they angered him also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses. Moses for their sakes, because they provoked his spirit, so he spake unadvisedly with his tongue. Moses struggled with it Isaiah said, woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips. Isaiah struggled with What he said. David struggled with it. Psalm 39. Just write down Psalm 39. David said, I will say, I will take heed to my ways that I say not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle while the wicked is before me. I was dumb with silence. I held my peace and my sorrow was stirred. My heart was hot while I was musing the fire burn. Then spake I with my tongue. What happened to David? He said, I'm going to guard myself. I'm going to watch what I say. And then he got around some people that were saying a lot of dumb things. And David said, I just couldn't resist. I got angry. Then I spake with my tongue. Moses struggled with it, Isaiah struggled with it, David struggled with it. And later David would say, Lord, set a watch before my mouth. Before the door of my lips. You know, sometimes I wish that the tongue came with a control-Z function. Some of you that may not be computer savvy, you know what control Z is? Whatever you're typing on the computer, if you don't like it, you push control Z and it's gone. It disappears. I wish the tongue had that function I mean you're you're talking, you're blabbing away, you shoot off your mouth, your wife is giving you a look as if to say whatever you're saying, shut up. And you think, no worry, I just have a control Z, I'll just No, the tongue doesn't come with that. Once you say something, it's it's out there. And you can't bring it back. No wonder David said, Lord, set a watch! Before my lips, set a guard before my mouth. A careless word may kindle strife. A cruel word. May recolife, a bitter word may smite and kill, a brutal word will accomplish nil. For the gracious word may smooth away A joyous word may brighten the day. A timely word may lessen stress, excuse me. A loving word may heal and bless. So there's number one, the importance of the tongue. But write down number two, the influence of the tongue. The influence. Look in verse number three. James talks about it in verse three. Behold, we put bitch in the horse's mouth That they may obey us. And we turn about their whole body. Now James is telling us that the tongue is very influential and has power to direct It has power to destroy. It has power to delight. And to prove his point, he gives us three illustrations. Remember, James is the master illustrator. And he illustrates it by one small piece of metal in the mouth of a horse that can control that huge animal. Here's this, a bit in the horse's mouth, here's this great big animal. I have this huge mighty beast, and how do you control that animal? You know, any of you ever been horseback riding? I don't do it often. I remember one time I did it. They gave me a horse called Lightning Lightning was an old race racehorse. And the man said, whatever you do, keep the reins tight. Don't let them loose. And I obeyed that pretty much until the end when I kind of let it loose and lightning just took off He had a lot of race left in him. And I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, when he took off, I'm ashamed to say, I screamed like a little girl. I learned a valuable lesson that day It is the bit. That little bit in that horse's mouth that controls that huge animal. And James is saying that's the same with the tongue. Words have power Just as that little bit controls that mighty animal, so even that little member in your mouth has power. Colors fade, temples crumble, empires fall, but words endure. It has power. So to a physician, it's just a little two-inch slab of membrane, but without a tongue, no mother could sing her little baby asleep at night, no ambassador could ever represent a nation. No teacher could stretch the mind of their students. No pastor could ever comfort troubled souls or teach the truth of Scripture. No controversial matter could be settled. The tongue is a powerful, powerful thing. One small word can determine a person's destiny. Just one small word. One time a man came up to a preacher and said, Thank you for leading me to Jesus. The preacher said, I don't remember telling you about Jesus. He said, Oh, I overheard you talking to someone else about Jesus. He said, when I heard what you said, I got saved. The power of the word of God Our founding pastor, Pastor Johnson sitting here. I remember the first time I ever met Pastor Johnson. I was 14 years old. I was here on the property. I remember the first words. That Pastor Johnson never spoke to me. You know what it was? I was standing out here, I was helping my dad fix a bus. I say I was helping, which is to say I was watching him. Fix the bus, wondering how did I get here? What am I doing here? And Pastor Johnson came walking by and he looked at me and he said, Son, what have you done for the Lord lately? That was his first words to me. Now I never forgot that. My response was, I didn't know I was supposed to be doing anything for him. Why are you picking on me? But I never forgot that. Those words, they directed my life because that question echoed in my heart. Words have power. Power to influence. Not only like a bit in a horse's mouth, but a rudder on a ship. Look in verse number four. Again, behold also the ships, which though they be so great. and are driven of fierce winds. Yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listets. That is, whatever way the captain turns the wheel, that's which way the ship goes. What controls the ship? Just a little rudder. Just a small rudder. Here's this huge ship. And what controls which way it goes, even though it may be driven of winds, it's not the winds that necessarily control the direction. It's the little rudder on that ship. that governs the direction. Power to direct. On May twenty-first, nineteen forty-one, the unsinkable German battleship The Bismarck was sighted in the North Atlantic. Immediately, planes and ships from the British Royal Navy were sent to the scene. After the Bismarck was headed towards the German-controlled French coast Astonishingly it began to zigzag out of control. And because of that, a torpedo found its way and sunk the unsinkable Bismarck. What they later found out was the rudder was damaged. And because they had no control of the ship, the ship was sunk. You see, friend, we have to control the rudder. The rudder controls the ship, and the rudder's like the tongue. The Bible says in Proverbs 18, 21, death and life are in the power of the tongue. Think about Adolf Hitler with his tongue. He killed millions and brainwashed a nation. Just with the power of his tongue. Proverbs 20 or 10-20, the tongue is the of the just is as choice silver, the heart of the wicked is worth little. Proverbs twelve eighteen. There is that speaks like the piercings of a sword, but the tongue of the wise is health. And so the tongue is like a bit in a horse's mouth, the tongue is like a rudder on a ship, power to direct, but also the tongue is like a spark in a dry wood. Look at verse 6. It says, actually verse 5 again, even so the tongue is a little member, but boasts of great things. Behold, how great a matter! A little fire kindleth And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. James is saying the tongue is like the spark in a dry wood. It can start a chain reaction, you see. You ever think about how your words can influence someone else? Look at the word matter there. It could be translated wood or forest. Kenneth Weiss translates it like this. Behold, how great a forest, a little fire Sets ablaze. And the idea here is that one little word can just set in motion a series of events. It's what he's talking about. When October the 8th, 1871, Mrs. O'Leary was milking her cow, and the cow accidentally knocked over a lantern. She couldn't put out the fire, and the fire spread to the barn and then spread to the house. And then it continued to spread. Finally it was put out. That was after 1,700 buildings were destroyed 250 people were killed. 125,000 people were made homeless, and it cost the city of Chicago 400 million dollars. That was in 1871, and that was the start of the Great Chicago fire. Just one little spark One little spark, and it just spread. And even so the tongue can do that. Did you know that one word you say? can spread. It can spread. It can start a chain reaction. Now Zig Ziggler tells how this can happen. He uses this illustration. He makes up a story here, but it proves the point. He he calls the man Mr. Sparks. And Mr. Sparks was late for work. He was a big executive. He was driving 90 miles an hour The cops pull him over, the cop gives him a tongue lashing. How dare you drive like this, you big executive, think you can get away with anything. And that man thinks, Well how he should never talk to me like that He gets angry and Mr. Sparks goes to work. He calls in his assistant. Did you finish that work I gave you? No. Well you know what? Uh you may have been here seventeen years, but you know what? I can find an assistant easily You don't do what I tell you to do, you're going to be fired. And the assistant says, well, how dare he talk to me like that? He leaves the office thinking, you know, he's just a figurehead here. He doesn't really do anything I'm the one that does all the work. So the assistant calls in his secretary. Did you finish typing those letters? No. Why wouldn't you know secretaries or a dame that does it? I can find a good secretary, no problem. If you don't do what I say. Well the secretary gets mad. How dare he talk to me like that Well she calls down to the receptionist, the switchboard operator, and chews her out for not putting through calls. And the switchboard operator gets angry and says, how dare her talk to me that way And she goes home and her son's laying there on the carpet, he's watching TV. She sees a rip in his jeans, and she chews him out Because he got a rip in his jeans and he says, well you know, he walks away angry. He says, you know, I I ripped my jeans cutting the grass like she told me to. Uh why is she talking to me that way? And he goes upstairs and walking down the hall is his cat And he kicks the cat. Poor cat. Now, Zig Ziggler says, wouldn't it have been easier for Mr. Sparks just to go over to the home of the switchboard operator and just kick the cat himself? That would have saved a lot of trouble. But you see how it starts a chain reaction. It can be for the bad, but you know it also it can be for the good. Edward Kimball taught a Sunday school class in Chicago. He taught teenage boys. One day a teenage boy came into his class. And Edward Kimball got a burden over this young man, and later he decided to go and share the Lord with him. This young man worked selling shoes, so he went into the store. And as Edward Kimball was witnessing, he was kind of shaking. He was nervous and he kind of fumbled through the gospel. And then he said, I asked him to come to Christ. And that shoe clerk, that shoe salesman, prayed and asked Jesus to come into his heart. And that young man was named D. L. Moody. And then D. L. Moody, one day in England, had a tremendous influence on a man by the name of F. B. Meyer. F. B. Meyer was life was changed because of Moody's preaching And F. B. Meyer was invited to come to America by Moody, and F. B. Meyer preached, and he had a tremendous influence on J. Wilbur Chapman. J. Wilbur Chapman got saved. Because of F. B. Meyer. And Jay Wilbur Chapman discipled a young man by the name of Billy Sunde. And Billy Sundy Led a man to Christ by the name of Mordecai Ham. And Mordecai Ham one time was invited to preach in North Carolina, and he led a young man to the Lord by the name of Billy Graham. It started with Edward Kimball. Just that one word, fumbling through the gospel. Later Edward Kimball, he thought he boxed the job, but he did the greatest job you could ever do. And think of all the lives that were influenced by that one spark of the gospel. That he gave. That's the influence of the tongue. But quickly, let me give you number three the iniquity of the tongue. James is going to talk about not only the importance of the tongue And the influence of the tongue, but the iniquity of the tongue. Look in chapter 3, look at verse 6. And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members that it defileth the whole body, and set on fire the course of nature. And is set on fire of hell. Now here James describes the iniquity, and he uses several word pictures. It defiles in verse 6. like a broken sewer. It can defile. You know, it's a shame to say there are some people who profess to call themselves Christians whose mouth is full of cursing. That should never be. Never be from a child of God. Someone said some Christians are bilingual. They use one language at church on Sunday, and they use a totally different language during the rest of the week. They're bilingual. A farmer drove his team of mules into town. He was very late returning home. And his wife said, What took you so long? He said, well, I was on my way to pi uh to come home and I picked up a preacher. And from there on out the mules didn't understand a word that I said Yeah, it's it's sinking in, right? I wish that uh sometimes you know we have in restaurants a smoking and a non-smoking section. I wish in restaurants we would have a cursing and non-cursing section. Because I get so tired of hearing of that. A tongue can defile. And that's what James is saying. It can defile the whole body. But it can destroy like a fire. James compares it to hell. It could be a hellish tool. Notice where he says in verse 6, it is set on fire of hell. The word for hell is Gehenai And this is a word that was used by Jesus himself to talk of a certain trash heap in Jerusalem. And uh that's what he used to talk about hell. Why did he use that word? Well, because in Jerusalem there was this gate where they would take all the refuge to the city. And it was constantly burning. They would burn their garbage. And if a person went by Kahenai, you would see it constantly on fire. You would see uh defilement there. When Jesus said hell is like that, where the worm dieth not and the fire is not quenched, a person could walk by and see Gehenna, they could see the maggots crawling on dead things, and they could see the fire constantly burning and Jesus said that's hell. Hell later became of course associated with Satan. That was the dominion of Satan. And James is using it here in that sense Basically what he's saying is that Satan can inspire words for people to say, not inspired like the Word of God is inspired, but you know what I mean. Satan can put a thought in the mind of a Christian, and that Christian can say a word, friend, don't ever let your tongue be used by the devil. Ever. You say, how can that be? Well Jesus said it to Peter. Remember Peter came rebuking Jesus and Jesus said, Get thee behind me who? Satan. Jesus knew that the words that Peter was speaking were not of Peter. Satan was trying to use those words. That's what James means. The tongue is sometimes can be set on fire by hell. Satan can use words. to bring devastation and destruction. And also it can devour like a beast. Look in verse 7. For every kind of beast and of birds And of serpent of things in the sea is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind, but the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poisoning. And so again, James compares the tongue here to a wild animal that cannot be tamed. And sometimes it's like that. Sometimes Christians will use their tongue. The Bible says in James 5. 15, but if you bite and devour one another, take heed that you be not consumed one of another. Morgan Blake was a sports writer, but he wrote these words. He said, I am more deadly than the screaming shell from a howitzer. I win without killing. I tear down homes, break hearts, wreck lives. I travel on the wings of the wind. No innocence is strong enough to intimidate me No purity pure enough to daunt me. I have no regard for truth, no respect for justice, no mercy for the defenseless. My victims are as numerous as the sands of the sea And often as innocent, I never forget and seldom forgive. My name is Gossip And that's so very true, isn't it? I heard of a lady that went to the newspaper place to put a ad in the society column and she was a town gossip. She was wearing a white dress and she happened to lean on a printing press And when she when she walked away from the printing press, printed on the back of her dress unbeknownst to her was the words Daily News Some people are like that. James says, you know, the tongue is like an animal that just can't be tamed. We have all these animals that we've tamed. But the tongue can no man tame. Then he said it's deadened. It deadens. Look in verse 8, like poison. But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. It not only kills w another, but it but he also kills the one who uses it A. B. Simpson said, I would rather play with fork lightning or play with a live wire with all this current than to speak a reckless word against any servant of Christ. Let me give you the fourth thing and we're done. We talked about the importance of the tongue, the influence of the tongue, the iniquity of the tongue, but number four, the inconsistency of the tongue. And James concludes his argument by noticing how inconsistent our tongue is at times. It's like a Dr. Jekyll Mr. Hyde type thing. Look in verse number nine. He says, Therewith bless we God, even the Father. And therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. Out of the same mouth receives blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. It's inconsistent. How can we, and he uses the illustration of worship, how can we just come on one hand and we just worship God? And we use our tongues to praise him and thank him and bless him. And then five minutes later, when church lets out, it's amazing what's said after church is let out sometimes. We bless the Father, and then we ultimately curse man, made in the image of the Father. He uses the illustration of worship, but also from w of water. Look at verse 11. Doth a fountain send forth at the same time sweet water and bitter? Ever happen to you you go to a fountain it gives you bitter water and then it gives you sweet water? I mean you never know what you're going to get. That's not true of a fountain Also uses illustration from the wilderness in verse number 12. Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? Either a vine figs? So can no fountain yield both salt water and fresh. Never come upon a tree in the wilderness which grows sweet fruit and at the same time sour fruit. Can't happen. It's either going to be sweet or sour. It's not going to be sweet one moment and sour the next. That's inconsistent. And James's whole point is this. What is impossible in the natural world ought to be improbable in the spiritual world If you don't see this happening in the natural world, this shouldn't happen in the spiritual world. Our children should not hear us talk one way at church and then another way when we're out of church. What they should see is consistency. So we get back to our point, who can bridle the tongue? Who can do it? James says in chapter 3, verse 8, no man contain the tongue, but in chapter 2, verse 2 he says, we ought to bridle our tongue. You say, now wait a minute, that's inconsistent. James says, bridle the tongue, but then he says, no man can tame the tongue. Well, what are we supposed to do? Well, friend, it's very simple. I can't tame my tongue, and you can't tame yours, but I know someone who can. And that's the Lord Jesus. That's the Holy Spirit. You see, the bit moves the horse, but someone has to control the bit. And the rudder moves the ship, but someone has to control the rudder. The captain has to control the rudder. And you know, here's the secret. You don't you're not the captain. You turn the wheel over to Jesus. You turn the wheel over to the Holy Spirit. And my goal for you here this morning is that you'll leave here saying, Holy Spirit, you control my tongue. I want my tongue to be dedicated to Jesus Christ. I want people to be blessed. As a result of the things I say. I want people to be moved to God. You see, that someone has to be God. Can you imagine what it would be like if we leave here as an army of people filled with the Holy Spirit, our tongues dedicated to Jesus Christ to do the work of God? Do you know how much good can come? From just this group of people right here. Your words can start a chain reaction that will spread all over Catonsville and in Woodlawn and in Baltimore and in Maryland and all over. We can change things if we just give our tongues to the Lord Jesus Christ and say, I'm not going to use my tongue for bad. It will not be set on fire of hell. It'll be dedicated to Jesus. That's my goal for all of us. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we thank you again for the word of God and how clear that it is for us. Lord, I pray that we'll take to heart these words. That you'll speak to us, Lord, all of us from time to time. We've abused our privilege. We've used our tongue in the wrong ways, Lord. Forgive us. May we be determined as we read here in James. To turn the wheel over to the Holy Spirit. Let the captain be our Lord Jesus, who can turn the rudder, to direct the ship. So that whatever comes out of our mouth will have power to direct your way, to direct people to Jesus Christ. To the Word of God. Words that will bless, encourage, warn, exhort. Let our tongues be used to do your work, we pray, Lord Jesus. Help us, Lord, to take advantage of every opportunity to speak a word for Christ. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. How many of you say that's my prayer this morning? I dedicate my tongue to Jesus Christ to be used for his glory and his glory alone. Father, bless. These hands, these hearts, every member of our body, may it be used for your glory. We pray all this in Jesus' name. With heads bowed and eyes closed. Let me just ask one more question Perhaps you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior. The greatest thing you can do this morning is to turn your life over to Christ, to turn to Christ. He died for you on the cross. He took your sin upon himself. He paid your sin debt. His salvation is a gift that he offers to everyone. And friend, if you're not sure of your salvation, we want you to know Jesus. And after the service, I'll be available. Other pastors here will be available to tell you more about this if you want to know anything about Jesus. But if you're here today and you say, preacher, right where I am, I want to trust Jesus this very moment. Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? Anyone here today say, I want to trust Jesus? That's my prayer today. Father, bless again your word to every hearing heart. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.