Would you take God's word tonight? And I invite you to open to the Gospel of Matthew chapter one. The Gospel of Matthew chapter one. I want to talk tonight about the family tree of Christmas, but it's not the kind of tree that you might be thinking about. I want to talk about the tree of the family tree of Christ that's listed here in Matthew chapter 1. You know, a genealogy can be pretty important. I read of a man by the name of David Howe from Frederick, Maryland, right up here. He was a small business owner, married to his high school sweetheart. He was minding his own business and something unusual happened one day. He was contacted by a United Kingdom genealogist and 2006 and he was informed that he was uh he had the right to the crown of the Isle of Man, that he was the next king of the Isle of Man. Now what's the Isle of Man? That is a little island in the Irish Sea right between England and Scotland. And according to the gene genealogical record, he is a direct descendant of Thomas Stanley II who was the last king of man, who happened to reign a few hundred years ago, and since that time there's been nobody on the throne. And uh how how had uh uh suspected that he may be a descendant, so he filed a claim. They did the research and sure enough, uh he, according to the genealogical record is the uh the legitimate king of the Isle of Man. And so what what they did was they sent him a crown, a robe, and an anointing spoon in the mail. Can you imagine getting one of those in the mail Here's my crown, here's my robe, here's my anointing spoon. I don't know who did all of that, but he was anointed as the king of the Isle of Man. Now, when he went over to visit his subjects, he didn't exactly get a royal welcome. In fact, they pretty much ignored him and um, you know, but nevertheless Uh he was the legitimate heir. He is now King David of man. He still lives up here in Frederick, by the way. He set up a web a website where you can actually go to that website. It's called nobility. co, where he's selling royal titles if you want to buy one. Uh if you want to be a Duke or a duchess, it would only cost you $180,000. If you would the cheapest title is a knighthood, it's all yours for $40,000. Now what he says he's going to do with that money is uh he's gonna donate it all to charity, um charities around the world that help people, and so that's what he says he's gonna do anyway. But Just up the road, we have a King David living in Frederick. King David of the Isle of Man. Well Uh let me tell you about another king and and by the way that whole genealogical record proves his legitimacy. Now think about that when you come to the book of Matthew, because the book of Matthew, as you know, starts out with a lot of names in the first seventeen verses. This is the family tree of Christ. I I like to call this the real tree of a real Christmas tree here, the uh the family tree of Christmas, because what what Matthew does here when he starts writing his gospel is he lists all these names And I'm sure you probably in your Bible reading maybe skipped over some of these names because they're so hard to pronounce. But let me just say that everything in Scripture has a purpose. There's nothing in there accidental. There's nothing in there just to take up space Every one of these names are important because what they do is they show the record of the tree of Christ, and they show that he is the legitimate son of David. He's the only one that could be the Messiah. You might even call this the birth certificate of Jesus Christ the King. And and we're not going to go through this verse by verse, and I know you're thanking God that I said that. But what we'll do is we're just going to point out a few interesting things in this tree, this tree of Christ, that is so incredible to me, some of the things that are in it that show again that Jesus Christ Could only be he's the only one that could be the Messiah. He's the only one that could be the son of David, the our our king. And so here's the first thing I I I I I see when I look at this. Number one, I call this the promised coming of the king because notice how verse one starts out. It mentions two prominent men. Look at verse one. The book of the generations of Jesus Christ, the son of David. Son of Abraham. Now these two prominent men are mentioned. Why these two? Why are these two picked out? Well, because you you've heard me speak about this before, that God made a covenant with each of these men about a future heir who would be a blessing to the world. And that's why Matthew seizes these two men because the promises were concerning their offspring. First of all, there's the covenant with David, and you don't need me to remind you that in Genesis 12, God came to Abraham and said, Abraham, I'm going to bless you, and I'm going to bless your family so that you can be a blessing to the world. I'm going to bless your seed. And in your families, in your family, all the earth shall be blessed. And so God made that promise. And Paul picks up one that's just right in your margin, Galatians 3. 8. And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel before to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. Abraham from your seed, I'm going to bless the nation. And then Paul focuses in on the word seed. He says it's not seeds plural, but seed singular, focusing in on one descendant from the family of Abraham that is going to bless the world. And Paul said this in Galatians three sixteen. Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. Listen, it does not say unto offsprings, plural, referring to many, but referring to one and to your offspring. singular who is Christ. Abraham, your family's going to bless the world. How God, you're going to have an offspring, a person who's going to bless the world. And that's the promise to David. That's why Matthew, who's writing primarily the Jewish people, was careful to point this out about Abraham. And then David. And of course, again, you know that God made a promise to David in 2 Samuel 7. When David wanted to build a temple, God said, David, you're not the one that is going to build me a temple out of brick and so on, but I'm going to build you a temple. That means dynasty. You want to build me a house? I want to build you a dynasty. And from your uh seed, from your family, there's going to be one who's going to reign on the throne of David forever and ever. And you're going to have a dynasty that will not end. You're going to have a son who will sit on the throne, and he's going to reign forever. That's the promise that God made to David. So this coming Messiah will be from the from the family of Abraham, and he will be from the family of David Now, of course, Jesus is that King. And you remember that we looked in Luke chapter 1 a few Sunday mornings ago, and where the angel came and said to Mary that you're going to have a son, and he will be great, and he will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his Father, David. Jesus is the fulfillment of that promise to David. Now remember Matthew is presenting Jesus as the king. Each of the gospels have a different emphasis. Remember that? Mark, written primarily to a Roman audience, presents Jesus as the servant. Luke, who writes primarily to Greeks, presents Christ as the perfect man. John, whose gospel is really universal in its appeal, presents Christ as the eternal Son of God. And Matthew, who's writing primarily a Jewish gospel, is presenting Jesus as the Messiah, the son of David. In fact Matthew will use that title about Jesus more than any of the other gospels. Jesus Christ, the son of David, the one who will sit on the throne of David. Remember, Matthew is constantly pointing back to the Old Testament 129 times. He'll point back. to a prophecy that was fulfilled in the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. So we could write down, number one, the promise coming of the king is seen already in verse 1. Here's a second thing that I see when I look at this genealogy. I call this the proven credentials of the king. Now, one of the main purposes of this genealogy, again, as I said, is to present Jesus and his credentials, and he does so in such a way as to prove that no one else could fulfill this role. Only Jesus If anyone's going to be presented as a king, he has to have the right credentials. He has to have the right genealogy. So this is what I call, first of all, the importance of this genealogy Now we b we value that today, don't we? How many of you ha are are are subscribed to ancestry. com? Anybody here do that? Or anybody look at your family roots? Has anybody done any digging into that? Anybody got depressed after you did that and stopped doing it? No, I'm just kidding. Um Yeah, we we were kinda interested in that, right? We want to know our genealogy. We want to have a sense of identity. That's all important. But to the Jews it was far more important than just satisfying curiosity. Uh first of all, it was important because of tribal location. You remember that when Joshua conquered the land of Canaan. God divided the land, and he divided the land up according to what? According to tribes, right? So to determine a family's place of residence, it had to be by tribe In Numbers 26 and 35, it explains how one had to know his tribe, he had to know his family line and his father's house, so he could be identified in the right location in the land. God says, I'm giving this land to the tribe of Dan. Well well worked from the tribe of Dan. Well, where are your credentials? You know, you have to be able to prove that according to your genealogy. And that was important for the transaction of land If you wanted to sell your land, you had to make sure you sold it to someone that was in the same tribe. You can't sell it to anyone else because God divided the land according to tribes. We see this in the Book of Ruth, chapters 3 and 4. Transfer of property required accurate knowledge of the family tree. And then it was also important for the testing of lineage. Another interesting thing is in Ezra 2. 62, where it says, He sought their registration among those who were reckoned by genealogy. Now let me tell you what's going on there. After the seventy-year Babylonian captivity Jews started coming back to the land of Israel. Many of them claimed to be priests from the tribe of Levi. Well, they weren't going to let you just start serving as a priest based on your word. You had to prove it. And so many people that were from the tribe of Levi, if they couldn't prove that with a genealogical record, they were uh um put out from the priesthood. They they wouldn't let them practice. If you couldn't prove where you were from, if you couldn't prove your genealogy, you couldn't be a priest. And so the Jews, to them it was just incredibly important. that they understood their tribal identity and their genealogy. But also it was important for taxation laws and and uh especially for what we're remembering during this time of year. You remember Mary and Joseph they were living in uh Nazareth, but they made the trip down south to Judea. Um why? Because they had to be registered in their own hometown according to that registry. And listen to what Luke says in chapter two. It came to pass in those days there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered or taxed. And this registration was first made. When Cyreneus was governor of Syria and all went to be registered, everyone to his own city, Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth to Judea. So we see then genealogical identifications were still being made at the time of the birth of Christ. In order for the purpose of taxation, everyone had to prove their genealogical record And so the Jews highly valued their pedigree. Remember Paul, when Paul identified himself with Israel, Paul said this: Has God cast away his people? This is Romans 11:1. Has God thrown away Israel? And then he says this, God forbid, for I am an Israelite, seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. Again, it was important that they understood their genealogical roots And so this accounts for why we see in the Old Testament, did you know there's at least fifty genealogical records in the Old Testament? Fifty. Think about that. And so it's very, very important. Now let me talk to you about the implications of the genealogy of Christ. Now, in Matthew, again, we have a genealogical record. But how many of you notice that when you read the book of Luke, you also have another genealogical record? Matthew's record is descending. That is, it starts from Abraham, as we saw in verse number two. Look at that. Abraham begot Isaac, and Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judas, and so on. So he starts with from Abraham. He descends down through David, and then he goes to Joseph and then to Jesus. So look at verse six. And Jesse begat David, the king. And David the king begets Solomon, but then drop down to verse 16, and Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary. So he starts with Abraham, goes down to um David and then down to Joseph. Now Luke's genealogy, we're not going to take time to turn over there, but Luke starts with Jesus and then he goes back through Mary all the way to Adam. So he starts with Jesus and he goes back all the way to Adam. So we could say that one begins with Jesus and one ends with Jesus. It's almost like the Holy Spirit saying, no matter which way you look at it, any way you look at it, Jesus is the only one who has the credentials to be the king. Matthew goes through David's son Solomon to Joseph. And shows that Jesus had the legal right to be the king. Luke goes through David's son Nathan and shows Jesus had the lineal right to be king In other words, Matthew shows us the royal line, Luke shows us the bloodline. And that's the difference between the two. And notice in verse 16 that Matthew calls Joseph the husband of Mary. And Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. Notice it doesn't call Joseph the father of Jesus. Again, Matthew is very precise here. And by the way, where it says, of whom in the Greek that is in the feminine gender. So that clearly is showing that he was not born of Joseph, but of Mary. In fact, the Bible never calls Joseph the father of Jesus because he was not the real father. We could say that he was um Joseph, Joseph was Jesus uh child legally, he was the legal father in that he adopted him into his into that family relationship. And when you were adopted back in that day, you had all the legal rights and privileges that a natural child had. So in every possible way, Christ had the right to rule. He was the legal son of Joseph, but he wasn't the natural-born son of Joseph. See, it was the father who granted the royal line. The mother was the one who granted uh the royal blood And let me just say this other thing. If Jesus were the physical descendant of Joseph, then he would not be qualified to be the Messiah. He would not be qualified to be the side. You say, why do you say that? Look down in verse 11. I want to show you a little problem here that Matthew kind of throws in. In verse 11, and Joseph begat Jekonias and his brethren about the time that they were carried away into Babylon. You say, what's the problem? Well, the problem is in the name there that you see in verse 11, Jekonias. You know what the problem was? This man was a a king in the Old Testament, but he was a very wicked king. He was a son of David. But he was so wicked that God put a curse upon Jechaniah. Let me show this to you. Look in Jeremiah chapter 22. Look in Jeremiah chapter 22. And notice what's going on in verse 24. This is God through the prophet Jeremiah. Talking about Jeconiah, look what it says in verse 24. As I live, saith the Lord, though Coniah, this is another way to say Jeconiah. Though Canaih, the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, were the signet upon my right hand, yet would I pluck thee hence. Um what is what does that mean? You know, every king had on their hand a ring, and that ring was a seal, and whenever there was a document that needed the king's seal, he would just simply take his ring and and push it into the wax and it would be a seal from the king. And so the the signet ring was a symbol of authority, it was a symbol of power, it was a symbol of um basically uh an official document. And every king had a a signet ring on. And God's kind of using an analogy. God said if if if if if Jeconiah were my signet ring, I would take it off and I would cast it aside. And that's what God is showing here his disdain for Jekoniah, or Koniah, I should say. He's also called in the Bible Jehoiachin. That's another name for him. Jekoniah, Kaniah, Jehoiachin, they're all the same guy. But So God is angry with him. And look at verse 25. And I will give thee into the hand of them that seek thy life, and into the hand of them whose face thou fearest, even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and into the hand of the Chaldeans. And I will cast thee out and thy mother that bear thee into another country where you were not born, and there shall ye die So God is so angry with this king that God says, you're going to be carried away into captivity, not just you, but your mother, which implies that his mother was also, the queen mother was wicked as well. And so, notice the rest of it in verse 27. But to the land wherein thou desirest to return, thither thou shalt not return. You're going to be carried away into Babylon, you're going to stay there. The rest of your days you will not come back to the land that you desire, which is Judah and Jerusalem. Look at verse 28. Is this man Kaniah a despised, broken idol? Is he a vessel wherein there is no pleasure? Wherefore are they cast out, he and his seed, and are cast into a land which they know not? In other words, that question there in verse twenty-eight is constructed in such a way that no is the uh the answer expected. You know, the people of Judah didn't consider uh Jehoiachin or Jechaniah same guy a broken pot to be tossed away. They liked him In fact, one of the false prophets predicted that he would return to Judah, that he would deliver the nation, and that he would reign in power once again. That's not the way God felt though. God said that's not going to happen. Even though the people may like him, um God says, uh I don't like him. And I've put a curse on him. You know, it really doesn't matter what the people think about a leader, it only matters what God thinks about him. And so, look in verse number 29. O earth, earth, earth, hear the word of the Lord. And here it is, verse 30. Thus saith the Lord, Write ye this man childless. A man shall not prosper in his days, for no man of his seed shall prosper, sitting upon the throne of who? Throne of David, and ruling anymore in Judah. So even though Jehoiachin or Jechaniah had seven children, God says, you know, just just consider him childless. And then God says, Um, no descendant of his will sit on the throne of David. No descendant. And so this is a curse that God puts on the line of Jechaniah. Now you can see how that would present a problem. You say, now wait a minute, this name is in the genealogy in the book of Matthew. That's right. And on the surface, it looks like that this would be undermining the claim of Jesus to be the King. But if you take a closer look, it really shows the exact opposite. What it really demonstrates is that only Jesus could be the rightful son of David and heir to the throne of David. Remember, no descendant of Jekoniah would have the right to the throne of David. Now, until Jeremiah's time, the requirement to be the Messiah was you had to be of the house of David. Now, here it's limited even more. You had to be of the house of David, but you couldn't be a descendant of Jechoniah. So you say, well, wait a minute, it's right here. Matthew includes them in. But here's the thing. What Matthew is showing here is why the virgin birth of Christ was an absolute necessity. Because By Christ being the virgin-born son of God of Mary, it bypasses this curse that God put upon the line of Jeconiah. So Jesus is not a descendant of him. He's not of that blood. And so what what Matthew is actually doing is showing why if Jesus were the natural son of Joseph He wouldn't be the king because this curse was placed on that line. But he wasn't a natural son. He was a virgin-born son of God. He was the legal son of Joseph in that he was adopted, but he wasn't the natural son of Joseph. And so this dilemma, this apparent dilemma that we see in the genealogical record is solved by the virgin birth. And from verses 18 down to verse 25, then Matthew focuses on proving that Jesus was the virgin born Son of God. Everybody with me? And so to me this is just amazing how God does this. It's amazing that, you know, God shows this in his wisdom, which means none of the other sons of Mary and Joseph could qualify to be the son of uh to to reign on the throne of David Only Jesus could. And again, the Jekoniah curse in the Old Testament makes the virgin birth an absolute necessity. It's a fantastic thing how God guarded every single detail. And the birth of his son without contradict without contradictions. And he did it through the miracle of the virgin birth. Let me give you the third thought that I have when I look at this genealogy. Number three, we talk about the promise coming and the proven credentials, but here's number three, the prospective character of the king. Another interesting thing about this genealogical record is you can see evidence of God's grace all through it. You see the grace of God in it. We see evidences of God's saving character. When I read this, I read of a God who forgives sinners. A God who has grace towards sinners. You know. Um you know, I I was telling you about, you know, I I've been doing some research in my genealogy, kind of tracing back my roots on my mom's side and on my dad's side. And and and that's pretty cool to do that sort of thing. But also you know what I see? I I see evidence of God's grace in my family in the past, and whenever you see that, that always is a cause of rejoicing. You know, and for instance, I have a grandfather, great grandfather on my mother's side, who started a church out in Virginia, and you know what he named the church? He was Lutheran, by the way. I I'll talk to him about that when I get to heaven. Um but he he called it the Martin Luther Lutheran Church. No wonder I like Martin Luther so much. It just runs in the family, I guess, you know. Martin Luther Lutheran Church. I see evidences of God's grace. But you know, um when I think about, you know, family backgrounds and how you know different things that have happened and I look at our family and where we are and how the grace of God has saved my mom and dad and and and all that and and you know what you think about? Boy, that's an incredible blessing. What a blessing to have the grace of God. And our you know, don't overlook that. What a privilege when God's grace comes along a family. And what I see here is I look at this family tree, I see evidences of God's grace all over it. For example, we see two men, we already looked at them, Abraham and David. But these two men were basically failures. We'd like to sometimes exalt biblical characters. They are great in some respects, but you know what? Ultimately they were sinners and they failed. Abraham lied about Sarah, his wife, on two different times to save himself. He committed adultery with another woman and had a child through her. Yet God made Abraham the man through whom his chosen people would come and through them the Messiah. We see David, David committed adultery with Bathsheba. He tried to cover it up in order to do that. He had Uriah murdered And yet God made David the greatest king in Israel's history, except for of course the Messiah himself. That's just the grace of God. It was all God's grace about that. And their children were also sinners. You know, Abraham and Isaac. Isaac also lied about a lot of things. Jacob was a deceiver. Solomon, the son of David, he was uh through his own sinful lust uh planted the seeds in Israel that basically brought the whole nation down. All these men had times of weakness and failure. And yet even despite their failures and their weaknesses, God's grace was still on them. And God was faithful to them. We see two men, we see three errors in this. For example, what Matthew does is he summarizes the genealogy by dividing it into three eras of 14 names. The first period is from Abraham to David. You see, 14 Ames, that's a patriarchal period. This was a time of Moses and Joshua and Judges. And if you want to study that period of Israel's history, you know what you're going to find out. They turned their back on God. They were not faithful. And then you have the second period of David, from David to the uh exile to Babylon. And you had all these kings reigning on the throne, and we're studying kings, and you know what we find out? These guys failed. They did not leave the way they should have. Uh they stay they allowed idolatry in the land of Israel. They were just failures in the way that they led. And then the third period was from the exile uh to of Babylon, uh the the time of the captivity on up in through to the time of Christ. And then again what you see here is a is a period that some some call Israel's dark ages. And yet through all of this, God was faithful to his people. He was faithful to the nation of Israel. Thank God that God is faithful, even when we're not, even when we fail and we fall. Israel failed so many ways as a nation, and yet God was patient and God was uh forbearing. I I think about that, I think about our own country. You know, we do I I say America deserves the judgment of God. And yet God has been so patient. God has been so forbearing. Thank God for his patience and his grace. We see two men We see three eras of failure of a nation and its leaders, and then we see four women in this genealogy. Again. Um this shows the grace of God because did you know that it's not common for women to be mentioned in genealogies in the Bible? Uh the reason for that, um It was it was this was contrary to Jewish practice to name a woman in a genealogy. And since biblically it was the father who determined the national and tribal identity, Jews didn't think it was necessary to name women. In fact, the Talmud says this, a mother's family is not to be called a family. Well that's pretty harsh, isn't it? And that's way that's the way they thought. However, Matthew breaks all of this protocol. And in this genealogy, he mentions four women. Three are Gentiles. One is the wife of a Gentile. Look in verse 3, you have Tamar that is mentioned. And Judas begat Pharaz and Zerah of Tamar. Who was she? She was the incestuous daughter-in-law of Judah. She disguised herself as a prostitute, committed incest with Judah. And yet here she is mentioned in the genealogy of Christ. And then in verse 5, you have Ruth, it's or excuse me, Rahab that's mentioned in verse 5. And Solomon begat Boaz of Rahab. And here you have the grandparents, great-grandparents of David. And Rahab again, she was who was she she she was a prostitute from from the city of Jericho who put her faith in the God of Israel and she was converted. And then in verse five you have Ruth. We know who Ruth was. She was a Moabitus, and she married one of the uh sons of Naomi and Elimelech. And she followed um Naomi to back to Israel, and she uh had a wonderful testimony where she forsook her god, the gods of her land, and she began to worship the God of Israel. And so, but there's Ruth. And then finally in verse six, you see um the wife, or excuse me, the um well eventual wife of King David, but but Bathsheba. She was the one who Data committed adultery with, of course we know that, and she was the wife of a Gentile man named Uriah And so, why does Matthew mention these? He mentions these, well, first of all, because they're Gentiles. And there's a little hint in here at what Matthew is doing. Is he is letting everyone know that when Jesus comes, the Messiah comes, he's going to be the Savior not just of Israel, but of everyone, of Gentiles as well. He'll be the Savior of all men. But also there's a sense here in which it's a uh it's a shot at the pride and the arrogance that the Jews had in their ancestry. You know, there's such a thing as being too proud and your your ancestry, being lifted up thinking you're better, and Jews had that mindset back in Jesus' day that if you were Jew you're better than everyone else. And what God was showing here is that you know what All of us are sinners. And all of us need the grace of God. Amen? Doesn't matter. And you shouldn't, your pride should not be in your ancestry. And and you know who whose child you are and all of that, you're you should boast about the fact that you're saved by the grace of God. That's what you should boast in. Not you know, your family credentials, but your spiritual credentials, you know. And and we all had a tendency to do that. You know, I don't mind studying my ancestry line, not to boast and brag, you know, because I have nothing to brag about anyway. You know what I found out studying my family line? We're all dysfunctional. Don't laugh at me because you are too. Your families are too. You know why? People say, well, you know, I I trace my family roots back to the Mayflower. Or I trace my family roots back to the Nina, Pinta, and Santa Maria. Or I trace my family roots back to, you know, a boat from Ellis Island or a slave ship. You know what the problem is? You're not going f far enough All of our family got off the ark. We were all on board the ark together. We all had a grandfather named Noah, and you know what? He was a drunk. And you know what? He had a great great grandfather. You know what his name was? Adam. And he messed us all up. We're all from the same family. We're all from one race called the human race. We're all from one family. We're all the children of Adam, and we're all dysfunctional. And you know what we all need? We all need the grace of God. So I don't boast in family heritage. I don't boast about my forefathers. I boast in the cross of Jesus Christ. I boast in the fact that I was a sinner, and while I was a sinner, Christ died for me. And by the grace of God, I didn't even have enough sense to even look for God. God came looking for me. And God had to awaken me, and God had to show me. And so, you know what, when we get to heaven, we're not going to be bragging about anything that we've done. We're going to be bragging about Christ and the cross. Like Paul said, God forbid that I should glory. God forbid that I should boast. Save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. And that's all I want to boast about is Christ and his grace. And even in this family tree here, we see remnants of the grace of God, of the mercy of God in the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what's really sad is that the Jewish people, they rejected their king. And we see this in the book of Matthew. You can divide the book of Matthew up in the Revelation of the King in chapters 1 to 10, where Matthew reveals all this evidence about who Jesus is. Then there's the rebellion against the king in chapters eleven to thirteen, where the people just rebel against him. And then there's the re retirement of the king, where Jesus pulls back. He starts speaking in parables He leads the multitude and then be he begins spending time just with his disciples, preparing them for what's about to come. He's going to be crucified. I mean they chopped off the head of the forerunner. What are they going to do to the king? And then there was the rejection of the king, where they did crucify him. And then, of course, the last part of Matthew is the resurrection of the King, where Jesus rose again. And that's not the end of the story. We know that there's going to be the return of the king. One day Jesus is coming back. And again When we celebrate the coming of Christ, the first Advent, let us not forget that He's coming again. Just as surely as He came the first time, He's coming again. He is coming back. And we rejoice in that. So when we when we think about Christ, the the baby that came in a manger And all of that, we think about him as the returning king. He came the first time to die for our sins as our Savior The virgin-born, sinless Son of God, who fulfilled all the law of God, took our sins upon himself, gave us salvation, resurrected, ascended to heaven, and you know what? He's in heaven, and God right now is putting all the all of his enemies under his feet. Until one day Jesus is going to come back. And he will occupy the throne of David. And he will reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. So that's what cr that's what Christmas is all about. It's remembering that. It's remembering the grace of God in our life. Where would we be without Jesus? Where would we be without our Savior? We're nothing. We're nothing. So I'll tell you my family heritage, we're nothing. without Christ. Nothing. I don't care if you were born in a royal family. You're nothing without Jesus. God doesn't really care about your first birth. That's not what's going to get you into heaven. It's your second birth that's going to do it. It's being born from above. It's being born again. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you again for these beautiful little reminders that we see in the Word of God that just show us your incredible wisdom. I'm I'm just astounded. I shouldn't be, Lord, but I'm just a humble man, and when I see the incredible wisdom of God unfolded in the pages of Scripture, things sometimes I haven't seen before. I'm just Again, amazed to see that, Lord, this is your plan that you put into effect from the foundations of the world. And your wisdom is Indescribable, it's unsearchable. And your love as well is unsearchable. Thank you, Lord, for that. Thank you for Christ. May we rejoice not in our first birth, but in our second birth. And may we be reminded that we are in so need of your grace each day. We thank you for the grace that you've given us. And Lord, we look to you continually for that mercy and grace in our life. It's by grace that we're saved, and it's by grace that we live and are sanctified into the image of our Lord. Lord, thank you again for all that you're doing in hearts, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.