Tonight I want to just uh take a moment um in the time that we have just to speak about this very subject of baptism. I I I Uh whenever we do this, whenever I have the opportunity, I want to talk about baptism because it is such an important uh subject. And I think sometimes that uh because of the way it's been treated um among other religions, there needs to be clarity on the subject of baptism. And so I want to talk about it just from the Bible. What does the Bible say about uh believers baptism. And um if you have a Bible, turn to the book of Acts, chapter 2, verse number 41, and uh we will we will go there. uh to start off tonight, uh there'll be several passages of scripture I go to and I'll try not to go long. Um but Acts chapter two verse forty one The Bible says this, then they that gladly received his word were baptized the same day. There were added unto them about three thousand souls. And they continue steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in breaking of bread and in prayers. This, of course, is the uh explosive growth of the early church that took place right after the Lord ascended to heaven. How that those that believed on Jesus Christ were immediately baptized. Virtually every religious denomination in existence in existence teaches some form of baptism. And that's all part of their doctrine. And there's a lot of diversity on this one subject. And so I want us to just go to the Bible and just hopefully you'll have a a clear understanding of what scripture says with reference to baptism. And just a few things about it. First of all, the mandate. The Bible is very clear that when you put your faith in Jesus Christ, you are to follow him in baptism. Just write down Matthew 28, 19, and 20. You know this verse very well. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Followed by this phrase, baptizing them in the name of the Father. The Son and the Holy Spirit. And Jesus gave to the church two ordinances. One is the Lord's Supper, and the other is baptism. We call these ordinances because they were ordained by our Lord Jesus given to us the church. Baptists don't use the word sacraments. I know there are some denominations out there that talk about the sacrament of baptism and the sacrament of the Lord Supper. And I think in saying that they b there are some, not everyone, but some that believe that in some way those those uh actions of the Lord's Supper and baptism in some way convey saving grace. So we don't want any confusion in that matter. You're not saved by being baptized, you're not saved by taking the Lord's Supper. So that's why we kind of refrain from using the word sacrament, because uh we don't want you to get the idea that that's salvation. And so we use the word ordinance because Jesus ordained these things for us to do. And Jesus is giving the church here A clear ordinance that to those who believe on Jesus Christ, they are to follow him in baptism. It's the ordinance of the Lord, but also it's the obligation of the Christian. to be baptized, but also Jesus himself set an example at the beginning of his public ministry. Jesus submitted himself for baptism. Now, uh the by the way, the this is mentioned in all four of the gospels, the baptism of Christ, and it's raised some questions. Why did Jesus get baptized? Why would he need to be baptized? Baptism is a sign of repentance. Jesus is perfect. Why would he need to be baptized as the sinless Son of God? He had no sins to repent of And uh in fact when Jesus went to John the Baptist to be baptized, uh, John was very reluctant. He said, Look, you're coming to me, but I had need to be baptized of you. And so Jesus gave the answer to that dilemma when he said that suffer it, that is allow me, because I have to fulfill all righteousness. And that was in Matthew chapter 3 verse 15. Let it be now so, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Jesus felt it necessary again to fulfill all righteousness. By doing that, he was submitting to the Father. He is being an example to all those that would follow him. And uh and in a sense what he was doing was uh identifying with sinners. You see, that's what baptism really is. It's an identification with Christ. Though he was the sinless Son of God, by being baptized, he was identifying with sinners, even though he was sinless. And there's a sense in which the baptism that Christ had was a foreshadowing of what he would do Because of baptism, what happens? The person goes underwater, excuse me, that's a symbol of death. They are underwater for a little while, burial, and then they come back up. That's a symbol of resurrection. So there's a sense in which when Jesus submitted himself for baptism, that was a foreshadowing. That was pointing forward to what he was going to do for sinners. And so it was Jesus identifying with us as sinners. So it's a mark of identification. And also, we could say a mark of anticipation. He is identifying with us, and he's anticipating what he is going to do on behalf of all those that put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the New Testament pattern then after that is once a person professes faith in Jesus Christ, they submit themselves to the Lord to follow him in baptism. It's not baptism that saves you. You're already saved because you put your faith in Christ. But baptism is a public declaration to everyone around that says, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. I am one with Christ. I identify with him. He wasn't ashamed to identify with me, and I'm not ashamed to identify with Jesus Christ. And that's what baptism essentially says. I'm a follower of Christ. I have no shame in that. The Bible says, Whosoever shall confess me before men, him will I confess before my Father which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny me before men, him also will I deny before my Father, which was in heaven. And so when we are baptized, we are confessing Christ. Uh the illustration I love to give about this is, you know, when I remember as a kid growing up, um we would my mother would sign us up for baseball every s summer when it was time for Little League. And she'd take us down to the place and she signed the documents and we were officially signed up and we were placed on a team. But you know what? Uh we didn't get our uniform that day We had to practice all summer long and uh a few weeks before the league actually began in the summer, but right before the season started, there came that day when the coach this is what we always anticipated Bring those big boxes out of his trunk. And in those boxes was our uniform. We finally got to put on the uniform and we all would put on our uniforms and that identified us all as being on the same team Now, we got signed up the moment that that document was signed. I was already put on a team, but I didn't look like I was on a team until I got the uniform See, that's what baptism is. Baptism is your spiritual uniform that you put on that you're letting everyone know that I am on Jesus' team. He is the team captain. I'm on his team. I'm not ashamed of that. And that's why believers gladly get baptized. In the New Testament, that's what we see. The Bible says, and they were gladly they received his word and were baptized. That's the mandate. Let me talk to you a little bit about the mode. Why do churches have baptismal tanks? Uh it'd be a lot easier if uh we didn't do that. If we just had, you know, uh a little bottle of water up here. We this will get it done right here. And there are some churches that that do that. I think I told you this story before. I appreciate a courtesy left if you already heard it. I went to a Methodist church and preached one time and they had a little a really ornate cup there on the pulpit. I thought it was for me to drink water. That was their baptistry. And so I drank their baptistry dry. They had to get more holy water for the baptism that night. A lot of churches believe in sprinkling. They they sprinkle instead of full immersion. But again, that is the question. And um why don't Baptists believe in full immersion? That's an issue that a lot of people will have difficulty with. Well the word baptize, for one thing, is a transliteration of the Greek word baptizo, which actually means Full immersion or to t or to dip under, completely under, for example, this word was used in classical Greek literature To talk about a ship when it had uh sunk to the bottom of the ocean, the Greeks would use the word batizo because it was fully immersed underwater. Whenever a woman was taking a piece of cloth and she was dyeing it and she would put it into the into the wash tub to dye when it was fully underneath the dye, the word that she would use is baptizo because it always conveys the idea of full immersion. And the Septuagint, this word is used of Naaman. Remember, he dipped himself in the Jordan River. He went completely under So whenever you see the word baptize in the New Testament, it has the idea of full immersion. It doesn't always speak about water baptism, but it always conveys the idea of something that is fully immersed in something else. That's the whole concept of this Greek word. For example, Jesus used this word when he talked about um the baptism he would receive. Jesus baptized himself in our sin, and he baptized himself in suffering on the cross. Jesus was fully immersed in suffering for our sins on the cross. And so he uses that word there to describe full immersion. When you're saved, the Bible says you are baptized into the body of Christ. That is, God takes you out of Adam. And when God looks down upon humanity, he only sees two people. He sees the first Adam and the last Adam. He sees Adam and Christ. And what he does is when you get saved, he takes you out of Adam and He places you, he immerses you in Christ. That's the idea of salvation. The Bible says all those in Adam die, but all those who are in Christ are what? Fully alive. And their sins are forgiven. So when you get saved, God will take you out of Adam. He will immerse you into the body of Christ. You are fully in Christ. That expression in Christ is a term that Paul uses all throughout the New Testament. It is the sum and substance of all of Paul's theology Paul saw all believers as being so united and in Christ. That's why you can do what you can do. Paul said, I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. Everything Paul did, he did it in Christ. He uses that phrase over and over again because he knew his strength came from his union of being placed in Jesus Christ. That's what happens at salvation. And so really water baptism is a is a outward symbol of something that took place uh spiritually in you. When you got saved, you were taken out of Adam. Spiritually you were immersed into Christ. That is a spiritual reality. Now you are one with Christ. That means that when Christ was there on the cross and he died in the mind of God, you were with Christ there. When he died, you died with him. When he was buried, you were buried with him. When he rose, you rose with him. That's called the mystical union of the believer. You are so one with Christ. And baptism is an outward symbol that illustrates that spiritual reality of your union to Jesus Christ. And it's so important that we understand that. That's why baptism is uh that that's why the mode of baptism. Beloved, you can't get death, burial, and resurrection out of sprinkling. You can't be get f being fully immersed and placed in Christ with sprinkling. That that betrays the whole spiritual reality of what took place to with you when you were regenerated and placed into the body of Christ. You were fully immersed in Jesus. And so baptism is a symbol of that very thing. Baptism by immersion was part of the early church. Someone says, where did uh where did sprinkling, where did all that come from? Well let me just give you a real quick history lesson here. The earliest Christian understanding of baptism was immersion. It was immersion. That's first through third century. Again, even Jesus. The Bible says when Jesus was baptized in Matthew 3. 16, it says he came straight up out of the water. Which means he was what? He was totally in the water. He was in the River Jordan. Philip and the Ethiopian eunuch, remember that story? The eunuch is traveling through a desert. Philip meets him, talks to him about Jesus and salvation. They come to some water, and then the eunuch says, What doth hinder me to be baptized? In other words, there was a body of water there. We can do the baptism right here, which implies what? There was enough water there to get it done. Are you trying to tell me that the eunuch went through the desert without a bottle of water? I mean he probably had a bottle of water with him. I mean if sprinkling was the mode, why would you need that pool of water there? You could just use your bottle of water, man. Just a few sprinkles and you're done. But that's not what happened there. And the Bible is very clear to talk about the fact that there was much water there, and they both went into the water. The Bible says in Acts chapter 8, verse 38. And so it that's the way it was done in the early church. Early Christian writings confirm this. The Didic, which is an early Christian document from the late first And uh early second century uh confirms that immersion was the operation of the church. That's the way they did it It wasn't until later that there was a shift to infant baptism, and that was all part of the state religion. Christianity was legalized under Constantine. You might remember that Constantine, when he was getting ready to fight a battle, the battle at Milan, said he saw a sign in the heaven, the Greek letters Cairo, which stood for Christ. and by this sign go and conquer. He supposedly had this vision and he determined to make Christianity his state religion and to unite all of his empire together under Christianity. And it was based upon that that the church began to gradually merge into the state or with the state. Citizenship was equaled by church membership. And in fact, the way the state kept records of whether or not you were a citizen was through baptism. Infant baptism was also a way that the state recorded how many members were in your family and how much to tax you. It was totally related to taxing. That was the way it was done there. Maybe we should do that with tithing. But and so, you know, this would also be the way where people would be conscripted into service for the government. Whether you were eligible to serve in the military, all the records were tied to the baptism of an infant And the church began to believe when they got away from the preaching of the word, they believed that baptism brought regeneration, and you don't fully baptize infants, therefore you just sprinkle them. And so all of the doctrine and the theology of salvation was changed and aligned with the state. And if the baptism became the common and dominant way of people being baptized, that was something that the the the state ordered basically. In fact, for a person not to baptize their infant was in a sense rebelling against the state. It was it was it was a s act of civil disobedience. And that's one that's one reason why when there were some Who decided that this was not the biblical way of being baptized, and they decided to be re-baptized, that the state came against them. And they were persecuted for that. In fact, there are many people that died. They were executed by the state because they refused their infant baptism, and they were re baptized because they believe that the biblical way To follow Christ was first put your faith, repent, and put your faith in Jesus Christ. Then you're saved. And once you're saved, once you're a believer, then you are baptized to show that you are united to Jesus Christ. That's called believers' baptism. And when some people came to that position by conviction, by reading the scripture, by reading the word of God, then the state considered that an act of civil disobedience. But nevertheless, there were some in the church that defended infant baptism. For example, Augustine of Hippo. He said he he defended it theologically. He said baptism was tied to the original sin being removed. And rebaptism by many in the church was condemned as a heresy. And thus the Catholic Church began to baptize infants. And again they would sprinkle them, and this is also convenient during the Black Plague when if if you believe that a person is saved by being baptized and there are people dying all over and you can't get them to a A pool of water, what do you do? Well you take the water to them, you take little bottles and you sprinkle them, because sprinkling them in the Catholic Church's mind was them being saved. And so they believed a form of baptismal regeneration. And so sprinkling and infant baptism, that became something that was just uh orthodox according to the church there. By 1311, the Roman Catholic Church made it the official and allowable mode of baptism. And then in in church history there arose what is called the re baptizers. Or some call it the Anabaptist, which means to re-baptize. And again, these were believers who by conviction believe that baptism happens after salvation, after you put your faith in Christ. They said that infant baptism is not biblical. Only believers should be baptized. And baptism must follow repentance and faith in Jesus Christ. And so the Roman Catholic Church said that those who believe in re-baptism deserve death. Deserve death. I don't know if you understand that you being a b following the Lord in baptism, there was a time in church history where to do that meant risking your life. Today it's it's it's easy for people to be baptized today. We don't have to state threatening our life. That's at least not here in America. For some believers that came out of different religions, perhaps uh you risk something. You risk uh uh being alienated from people because you follow Christ and you declare your baptism. Um But you stand in a long line of people who very courageously stood on the doctrine of believers' baptism and followed Christ the right way. And so believers died for this doctrine. In fact, there were some of the even some of the reformers believed in infant baptism, and they supported the church in even Enforcing the law and even persecuting Baptists or those who were re-baptized because they took this stand. Let me just give you a few illustrations and we'll be done. I know we're kind of out of time here. Let me try to tell you the story of a man by the name of Felix Manns. He was um he was from Zurich in 1527. And he uh became a believer by conviction, and he rejected his infant baptism, and he was re-baptized, and he would also baptize believers by immersion after their confession of faith in Jesus Christ. He was executed by the Catholic Church. He was drowned in the river, and they called it his third baptism. You want to you believe in baptism, we'll baptize you again. And they drowned them in the river. According to some of the uh Anabaptist sources that were later preserved in the book called The Martyr's Mirror, His mother stood on the bank of the river, and she cried out words of comfort to her son, urging him to remain faithful to Jesus Christ. And to endure to the end. But for this man to stand by his conviction of what believers' baptism was, it meant his life. It meant his very life. Then there was also the story of Michael Sattler of Germany, 1527. He was a former Benedictine monk who got saved out of all of that. And uh he rejected infant baptism and he rejected state-controlled Christianity. He was executed. You know what they did to him? They tore out his tongue. They put in his flesh hot irons. They burned him at the stake. And his wife was drowned days later. There's also the story of a man by the name of Dirk Williams. One of the most moving stories in church history is this story. He escaped prison by fleeing across a frozen pond. He was thrown into prison because of his conviction of believers' baptism, but he was able to escape By running across the frozen pond, the man that was pursuing after him fell through the ice. And Williams turned back and rescued him. What did they do as a result of that? Well, the man arrested him anyway. Arrested him anyway. And he was later executed. He was burned alive for the crime of rebaptism. And that's just a few stories, thousands more throughout church history, because they stood firmly on this doctrine, entire families. have been executed, believers drowned in rivers and lakes, mothers executed with their infants in their arms. Men burned publicly. to deter others from being re-baptized. You can read more about this in the book The Martyr's Mirror. These are documents where thousands were killed Solely for rejecting infant baptism and insisting on believers' baptism by immersion. And why was this worth dying for for some Christians? Why was it worth it? Well, for these believers, baptism by immersion after salvation, after you put you repent and put your faith in Christ, this was not a minor issue. I mean, obviously, if you're willing to give your life for it Wasn't a minor issue. The whole nature of the gospel was at stake according to them. The purity of the gospel, salvation by faith. Not by your birth or not by some ritual from a church, but salvation by faith in Jesus Christ The nature of the church, a regenerate membership in the church. People that are part of the church should be those who are truly followers of Christ, who obeyed the gospel. And of course the authority of the scripture over tradition. Into baptism, you can't find that anywhere in the Bible, sorry. I I know we have Presbyterian friends. I I got some of them who are friends, but they're just wrong. on this. You can't it's not in the Bible. It's the finest exegesis I've ever seen in my life. I've read all the arguments. It's just not in there, beloved. It's just not in there. Alright Reformers practiced it and they protected it. And it seems like the only thing that the Reformers agreed with the Catholic Church on was to persecute Baptists because they believed in believers' baptism. And later the Church in England adopted a sprinkling by vote of parliament. The Church of England, which came out of the Catholic Church, it still had the remnants of Catholicism in it. They adopted sprinkling And they kept some of those things from the Reformation. And uh that's why I say, you know, people ask me sometimes, are are you are you Reformed? I'm not Reformed, beloved, I'm a Baptist. I am a Baptist, and I am not ashamed to associate with being Baptist. And the reason I say that I'm not reformed is because there there has been, since the time of the apostles, a remnant of the true believers who have held firm to the gospel and believers' baptism all the way up until the present moment There has been, you know, church I know church history focuses on a time when the gospel was lost and then it was rediscovered by the reformers, but I got news for you. There has always been a faithful remnant of true believers. Of true believers that have held firmly to the gospel and held firmly to what the Bible says with regard to this doctrine of baptism. And so I don't uh you know, I I'm not a Protestant in the sense that I I never protested against the church because the Catholic Church because we were never a part of it to begin with. Why would I need to protest against it if I wasn't a part of it I protested before they protested. We we hold to the gospel, we hold to the word of God and the purity of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So, alright, let me get off my soapbox. And really we're out of time, so uh there's so much more I would like to say. But I just want you to know that baptism is so meaningful. It's so meaningful because again, it shows that you are one with Jesus Christ. That you identify with Christ Without apology, without shame, you are confessing Christ before the world. I know that there were some, and I admire some of our candidates tonight because these are people that have been in the church. And and they went through a period of past where they were wrestled about their salvation. They weren't absolutely certain about their salvation. And once they became assured of it And they were walking in obedience to Christ and they got that assurance of salvation, they began to think maybe I need to be baptized just to make sure that my baptism is on the right side of my salvation. And sometimes people come to me and they ask me that question, you know, I was baptized maybe earlier when I was a child, but I really fully didn't grasp and understand everything and then I went through a period where I wasn't walking with the Lord and I rebelled and went into the world. And it seems like the Lord drew me back. And now I have the full assurance of my salvation that I'm walking and And they say, Should I be baptized again? I say, look, if it does if all it does is lay to rest your conscience, go ahead and do it There's nothing wrong with submitting yourself just to make sure that you are, and again, there's nothing wrong with declaring to all the world, I am a follower of Christ. And you're making sure that your baptism is on the right side of your salvation. And you want to walk in obedience to Jesus Christ. So thank God for those that are willing to follow and obey the Lord and to make sure that their conscience is clean by doing the right thing before God. Amen. All right. Let me close here or I'll be here all night with you guys. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, thank you again for just the beauty of seeing believers follow you In this wonderful ordinance given to us by our Lord. And a declaration to the world that we're not ashamed of Jesus Christ, he who identified with us as sinners. The sinless Son of God who came and baptized his own life and suffering for our sins. Lord, we're not ashamed to be baptized for Him. To identify with Christ our Savior, to confess Him before men. Thank you, Father, for these who have followed Christ tonight. Bless them as they continue to To grow spiritually. May they, Lord, continue to obey and be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. And we pray all this in his precious name. Amen. All right, Reverend Gordon.