All right, thank you so much. Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Judges, chapter eleven And you know by now that we are going through the book of Judges here on Wednesday night. And tonight in Judges chapter eleven, we're introduced to another judge. And a deliverer from in Israel, but some things that we can learn from his life. And tonight I want to talk about the danger of careless vows. You know, words are very powerful things. The Bible says in Proverbs 18. 21, death and life are in the power of the tongue. So words can encourage and words can destroy, words can heal. wound or bless or curse. But once you speak them, they're kind of hard to take back. And here in Judges chapter 11, we're going to see the story of a judge who speaks some words. He speaks a vow. And that vow ends up being a careless vow, and it ends up being a uh not a blessing but a curse. And this is the Judge Jephthes we'll look at. Now remember the book of Judges is not necessarily a celebration of heroes We know that some of these judges were men who did good things, but also we see their flaws. Each judge was raised up by God, and it reveals that, in some way, kind of a deeper spiritual failure in the life of Israel. Uh the first judge Athniel, we studied him, really there's no flaw in him. He kind of sets the standards for all of the judges, but then there was Ehud after that, and you remember he delivered Israel through deception and assassination And then there was Barak after him. He had weak faith. He refused to go out into battle unless uh Deborah, a woman, would accompany him in battle And his hes hesitation showed a lack of leadership and faith. And then there was Gideon, we looked at his life, and he went from being a man who was uh uh fearful and yet the Lord used him, but then uh and he did well for a while trusting the Lord against uh the Midianites, but he ends up uh really in the end uh leading Israel into idolatry, having them worship an ephod. So his end was not good. And then we looked at Abimelech, who was really wasn't raised up by God. He was kind of selfish, ambition, ambitious type leader, a cruel tyrant. And then later on we're going to see Samson, and I think everybody knows about the story of Samson, his moral collapse. But we're going to look tonight at Jephthah, Jephthah's vow. This is one of the clearest and most tragic examples of the same pattern that we see in the other judges. And what makes his failure especially bad is that it really wasn't a a personal weakness like we see in Samson. It wasn't really a compromise uh like we see in the life of Gideon, but it was a profound misunderstanding of the nature of God. The vow that Jephthah takes shows that he misunderstood the character and the nature of God. He's really treating God more like a pagan deity than the true God of Israel. And so in this way Jeff embodies what what is the central theme of the book of Judges, which is what, every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And so we see that even Israel's leaders are spiritually unstable. The judges are not the solution, they're part of the problem. And again, remember all of this points forward to the need of a of a deliverer who is a perfect deliverer And that of course is the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Jeph's vow, he makes this great vow under pressure, and he turns a great victory into really a tragedy. So what I want us to see from this story tonight are three causes of careless vows, we could say. Three causes of careless vows. Here's the first one, number one, and that is that a desire to prove ourselves We may make a vow because we desire to prove ourselves. And we see this in the first eleven verses of chapter 11. We're introduced again to Jephthah several things about him. First of all, he's a rejected brother. And verses one to three, Jephthah was the son of a harlot. Look at verse one. Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead begat Jephthah. Uh uh Jessa came by his father having this uh moral immoral relationship. And again, this also reveals kind of the moral conditions of Israel at that time. And uh, however, at least Gilead acknowledged him and took him into his own home, but the his sons did not accept him. They called him the son of a strange woman. And so when Gilead died, notice verse number two, and when Gilead's wife bare him sons, and his wife's sons grew up. And they thrust out Jepha and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house. Thou art the son of a strange woman Now this was in violation of the Mosaic law because that commanded Israelites love neighbors and outcasts, and little did they realize they were rejecting a future judge when they did this So we see the rejected brother, but also a restless adventurer. So what does he do in verse three? Then Jephthah fled from his brethren and dwelt in the land of Tob And there were gathered vain men under Jephthah and went out with him. So he he he basically goes to Israel's frontier edge of civilization, we could say. This was land between Ammon and Syria. And he gathered around gathers around him vain men, and other translations call it worthless fellows. Or we could say adventurers, the word vain here is means to make empty. In other words, it's kind of idle people looking for something to do, kind of a wild gang of of men that was around him. Um these weren't necessarily evil men, but they were wild. And so evidently there was a period of Jephthah's life where he lived kind of a Robin Hood style of existence. And he had all of his merry men around him at that time. He was already known as a mighty man of valor, as we see in verse number one. And so he forms this band of men. But then we see next, Jephthah the requested warrior He lived as an outcast, and evidently the elders of Israel were also part of the ones that cast him out, but they come to him Look at verse four, and it came to pass in the process of time that the children of Ammon made war against Israel, and it was so that when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out of the land of Tob. And they said unto Jephthah, Come and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon. And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Do ye not hate me and expel me out of my father's house? And why are ye come to me now? when you're in distress. Oh yeah, you didn't like me before. Now all of a sudden you like me. All the elders come to him because he was a warrior and he knew how to fight. And so they came to him. And his response sounded like the same response God gave in chapter ten when Israel went to God for help. Go try your out your other idols, the other gods that you have been trying. And that's kind of how uh Jephthah sounds here But he was willing to lead them against the enemies if they would name him as the ruler of Israel. So look at verse 8. And the elders of Gilead said unto Jeff, that therefore we turn again to thee now, that thou mightest go with us and fight against the children of Ammon, and be at the head over the inha all the inhabitants of Gilead And in verse 9, and Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to fight against the children of Ammon, and the Lord deliver them before me, shall I be your heads. And of course in verse 10 they affirm, yes, you will be the head. Notice where we we have to give Jeff the credit here that if the Lord delivers you, he points to the Lord. You'll see a lot in this chapter when he points to the Lord in a lot of ways, and that he does exercise certain amount of faith. In fact, the writer of Hebrews is clear that Jephthah was a man of faith He wasn't simply an opportunist, but he really did exercise a certain amount of faith in the Lord, although it was not perfect faith But don't hold them too severe in your judgment, because all of us have flawed faith, even though our faith may have some purity about it. But here is an example again of an underdog in Scripture that had um you know that had this experience of being an underdog and yet God raised them up. We see this in other places in scripture like Joseph being rejected by his brothers. David failing to gain the support of Israel for a while until finally he was exalted. But then we see the next thing, the respectful negotiator. Now that he is the leader, now that he has to face Ammon and the King of Ammon, he first before he goes to war, he wants to negotiate. So notice in verse number twelve and verse thirteen. And Jephthah sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me that thou art come against me to fight in my land? And so, why are you coming to fight us? He he he asks through these messengers. And the king of Annan basically responds and says, Well, because you stole our land. And uh the king of Ammon is determined to have war. So the negotiations will fail. Uh he tries, but the negotiations fail. But we do learn some things about Jephthah by this passage from verses 12 down to verse 28. It teaches us two things about it about him. First of all, he knew the scripture. He knew the Old Testament. He was not an ignorant man. He knew the history of his people, and he was not a hothead. He was not looking for a fight. Being a military man, he understood when you go to war thousands of people are killed. And he didn't want to just go right out to war. He wanted to try to head it off, and so he does his best to negotiate uh to get out of the war. But the king of Ammon would not have it. He he says Israel stole our land and we want our land back Sounds familiar? So first what Jephthah does is he presents four arguments to try to to negotiate with this king. Argument number one is First, he presents the facts. In verses 14 to 22, he basically says, hey, look, remember that when Moses and the children of Israel came to the land of Ammon, they asked for permission to just pass through. And the king of Ammon would not grant it. And so that's what he says in verses 19 and verse number 20. Look, we they wanted to go through. The king of Edom wouldn't let them through. Uh they were asking for permission, and so this led to war, and as a result, God gave the victory. Again, he's pointing to the Lord. God gave them this victory. Israel didn't steal any land, they captured it from the Ammonites and the Amorites And so it wasn't really stolen. And that's the second argument. It was given by the Lord. Look at verse 23. And so now the Lord God of Israel has dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel. And shouldest thou possess it? And so this was the Lord's doing. This wasn't our doing. And the third argument that Jeff gives is that Israel had lived on this land for centuries. This has been 300 years since this has happened. Why all of a sudden do you rising up now? I mean they've lived on this land for 300 years. And verses 25 and verse number 26. And so, you know, why are you all of a sudden wanting this land? And then the final argument that Jeptah uses is that You know, you're not actually fighting against Israel, you're fighting against the Lord. And I recommend that you not fight against God. That was his argument. And verse twenty seven and verse twenty eight. Look at verse twenty seven. Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me wrong to war against me, the Lord the judge, be judged this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon. But in verse 28, they would not listen, and so they're determined to have war. The king of Ammon draws a line in the sand and says, you know, no, we're going to war, and Jephthah would not uh Jephthah would have to prove himself now. And here kind of is a uh the where the moment when the story turns, not on the battlefield, but really in the heart of Jephthah, here's a man who had been rejected all of his life. Here's a man who was called the son of a strange woman and driven from home. And now suddenly he's exalted, he's elevated, he's entrusted to this leadership position, this incredible role now. I mean he just rises to the top all of a sudden. And all Israel is looking to him. And when a man has been living in rejection and is suddenly placed in recognition, there's a danger of the temptation to really try to prove yourself. before others. And that, you know, he wants to show that he deserves to be where he is. He's worthy of it. And that can drive a person to say things they probably shouldn't say. Or make promises that they really should not make, to seek validation. Many vows that people make are not born of devotion, but they're born out of insecurity. We say, Lord, if you'll do this for me, then I'll do this. Or I promise I'll never fail again. Or I'll prove that I'm serious this time. We're seeking validation. Or maybe we're trying again to prove ourselves before men. The Bible says the fear of man bringeth what? A snare. It brings a snare. When you try to prove yourself, you're going to eventually trap yourself in your own snare. And so true leadership doesn't need self-promotion. It rests in the calling of God. And we see this same thing play out through Scripture. Saul trying to prove himself, leading to a rash vow. And Peter trying to prove himself, saying, you know, Lord, I will never ever deny you. When you desire to prove yourself, when the desire to prove yourself is the thing that is in control, your words sometimes can outrun your wisdom. But here's the second reason for this careless vow. Number two, a failure to trust in God's promises. Because look down at verse number 29. Then the spirit of the Lord came upon Jeptah and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh and passed over Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he passed over unto the children of Ammon. So I love that verse. The Spirit of God comes upon Jephthah. Now let me tell you something. When God's Spirit is upon you, you don't need to use any kind of manipulation. You don't need to depend on anything else. When you have the Holy Spirit upon you, you don't need anything else. You don't need to even try to prove yourself. You don't need to make rash promises or vows or anything like that. But here's where Jephthah makes a mistake. Instead of resting in God's power, he makes a vow, and it's a rash vow. He vows to sacrifice. He says, God, if you give me success over the children of Ammon, then the first thing that comes out of my house, out of the doors, I'm going to give it in sacrifice to you. So notice verse number 30 and verse 31, key verses. And Jephthah vowed a vow unto the Lord and said, If thou shalt with without fail deliver the children of Ammon into my hands. Then it shall be that whatsoever cometh forth of the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the children of Ammon shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer it upon or offered up, excuse me, for a burnt offering. Wow. Notice the order of this text. Verse 39 or verse 29 comes before verse 30 and 31. Just I think you can say thank you, Captain Obvious, there. But notice, first of all, the Spirit of the Lord comes upon him first. That happens first. It's not after the vow, it's before the vow. That means, look, victory's not hanging in the balance. Victory has already been guaranteed. This means the outcome is certain already. This means God has already committed Himself to give victory. So what does that mean? Any kind of a vow is completely unnecessary. It's just absolutely unnecessary. And yet Jephthah still feels the need to add something to this. This vow revealed not faith. But presumption, as though the power of God needed human bargaining to go along with it And the Syria again shows up in Scripture. You know what this reminds me of? God promised Abraham and Sarah that they were going to have a son, but and and they believed it, but they wanted to help God out. Same kind of thing happening right here. God promised Jacob that he would get the promise, but Jacob thought he needed to deceive his brother and try to get it himself. He tried to try to scheme himself. And so when you scheme for what God has promised, you suffer for what you did not need. Uh and you'll begin to suffer for that, for things that you did not need. So careless vows are often the language of anxious unbelief We say sometimes, Lord, if you get me out of this, I will never do this again. Anybody ever say that? Don't raise your hand. God, if you fix this, I'll give you everything But you know, that is not surrender. What that is, is that's negotiation. And you do not negotiate with Almighty God. You surrender to Him, you trust Him, you obey His word. Negotiation assumes that God's willingness to act depends upon your promise, not on his character. And that in a way in a way is kind of an insult. Matthew Henry wrote this many ruined themselves by a vow when they thought to bind themselves to their duty. In other words, they thought they were strengthening their obedience, but actually they were exposing their unbelief. And again, you don't get things from God by negotiating or bargaining. Reminds me the story of Martin Luther when uh before he was uh converted uh and he was a young bo uh uh a student of law. He was in a thunderstorm and it got really bad and a lightning bolt hit next to him and he cried out to St. Anne, uh, you know, save me and I'll become a monk. And of course he survived and he kept his vow and he went into the monastery. But later on he learned that you know salvation doesn't come through negotiating with God. Salvation comes by faith in the promises of God. But here's the third and final reason that Jeff made this rash vow. Number one, the desire to prove ourselves. Sometimes we make a careless vow. A failure to trust God's promises. But here would be number three, a reaction in the heat of pressure. A reaction in the heat of pressure. The pressure was on him now. He had to really shine. And uh This vow was something that he decided to do in this moment of pressure. And a lot of times in cases like that, we speak words that we often re regret And so he makes this vow. Now here's the question that I want to pose to you tonight. Put your thinking caps on. All right. What kind of vow was this? What kind of vow was it? So let's talk about the mystery of the vow. Because this is a question that is asked a lot. Notice the form of the vow. If you look in verse 30 and 31, and verse 30 starts out by saying, if thou And then in verse 31, then it shall be, if then kind of form. God, if you do this, then I will do this. Now, in many ancient Near Eastern religions, people made vows to their gods in moments of danger. If you deliver me, then I will give you this offering. That was kind of a formula that was used in the ancient Near Eastern world. And this is exactly the structure of Jephthah's vow. These are called votive offerings in that world, conditional promises to secure divine favor. And so we see that here. God, if when I come back from the battle, if you've given me victory, the first thing that comes out of my doors, I'm going to offer it to you in a burnt offering. And this is how the vow turns into tragedy. Because God did give him victory. And what happens when he comes back from the battle? What happens? Look at verse number 34. And Jephthah came to Mizpah unto his house, and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances, and she was his only child. Besides her he had neither son nor daughter. And it came to pass that when he saw her, he ran his clothes and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me, for I have opened my mouth unto the Lord, and I cannot go back. As he's returning from the victory, out of the door comes his only daughter. His only daughter. What a tragedy that is that this happened. But again, the central question is, did Jephthah literally sacrifice his daughter as a burnt offering, a human sacrifice, or is this speaking about something different? Now, in answer to this, there are two major views here. Two major views. Here's the first view. One view says that this is really speaking about lifelong dedication, perpetual virginity. And so this view argues that Jephthah did not kill his daughter, but he dedicated her to the service of the Lord lifelong in the tabernacle where she would She would remain unmarried and she would serve there as a virgin. Now the arguments for this view are like go like this. First of all, God forbids human sacrifice in Deuteronomy 12. And so would a man who's being empowered by the Holy Spirit do something like this? Here's another argument, the wording of the vow. Some say the phrase translated shall be the Lord's Or I will offer it up, meaning if it is an animal that comes out, I'll offer it up. But if it's a person that comes out, then that person will be dedicated. So they kind of take that view. And then there's another argument. They say the emphasis is on her virginity. If you look in verse number 37 and verse 38, It says that she bewailed her virginity two times, verse 37, verse 38. That seems to highlight the fact that she knew no man. So she would be in the service of God, a virgin, suggesting the tragedy would be childlessness, not necessarily death. And then another argument under this view is that the daughters of Israel lament her yearly, according to verse number 40, if you look at that, every year they would lament. And some argue that this could mean celebrate or commemorate, not mourn her death. So, that's one view. View number two. No, this is talking about a literal human sacrifice. It's a literal human sacrifice. Now, this is a view that's historically held by most scholars, and it's thought to be the most strongest. This view holds that Jephthah actually did sacrifice his daughter in a burnt offering unto the Lord. Now, what are the arguments for this view? Well, first of all, the plain reading of the text. In verse 31, I will offer it up for a burnt offering. And when it ha the idea of you know coming forth from my house to meet me, when he's talking about someone coming to meet me, uh could he be talking about a uh an animal there? They say, you know, really, that's more of a person that will meet him. And so he had human sacrifice in mind when he made this vow, not an animal. Uh okay. I don't think he was talking about the family dog. You know, if Lassie comes first, Lassie's gonna get it. Uh that's not the idea here. The me here has the sense of a person Daniel Bloch, one of the most respected commentators on Judges, said this. The narrator leaves little doubt that Jephthah actually sacrificed his daughter. The language of burnt offering elsewhere in Scripture always refers to a literal sacrifice. And then another Old Testament scholar, Barry Webb, said the text gives no hint that the vow was fulfilled in any other way than the one that seems that its terms naturally suggest the sacrifice of Jephthah's daughter. So that's one argument, the wording. But number two is the narrative tone. The passage is somber. It is tragic. It is not celebratory. It reads like a catastrophe, not a consecration. I mean, you would think that if your child were going to serve the Lord in a special way the rest of their life, there would be some celebration in that. Some reason to rejoice. But there's none of that here. It's all tragedy. And the emphasis is on grief, not service. Again, the words of Jephthah in verse 35: Alas, my daughter, thou hast brought me very low. This sounds like an irreversible loss, not merely a change of life direction. But another argument used is the broader context of judges. What does the whole book of judges show? It shows the moral and spiritual decline of the people. It shows how that the people in that land of Canaan were becoming Canaanites. This was the very thing that God warned them against, why they were to keep the law. So they would not be influenced by the culture around them. And so by this point, however, in the history of Israel, Israel was acting more like a pagan nation than the chosen people of God. And human sacrifice, though forbidden, was practiced by surrounding cultures. Did the law forbid human sacrifice? Of course it did in Deuteronomy twelve. But that doesn't mean that they were living by the law of God. In fact, the whole point of the book of Judges is how they were rejecting the law of God. And they weren't walking in the law of God. And again, a quote from an Old Testament scholar: in this instance, Jeptah was neither rash nor pious. He was outrightly pagan. And we already saw in chapter ten that Israelites worshipped Milcom, the Ammonite god, and Kamesh, the god of the Moabites, whose leaders had been known to offer children in sacrifice. This is part of what they did. And so Jephthah, we could say here, approaches God like a pagan worshiper. If you will deliver me, then this is what I'll do. This is this is not a covenant, it's a contract. This is him trying to manipulate God. And it reflects the Canaanite mindset where gods were unpredictable. And you had to bring these votive offerings in order to get that God on your side. And here he's treating God as if he's one of the other pagan gods. That's a problem. The Canaanite religion priz extreme acts of devotion. And so Jeptah, who is thinking more like uh a pagan Canaanite, makes this vow. Now you say, and again, this this fits the theme of judges. God's people are not Distinguished, living a separated life, living according to the law of God, they had forsaken God. They are adopting foreign practices and all these things. It reflects the corruption in the society. Now someone might say, well now wait a minute, in Hebrews chapter twenty-two, Jephthah is mentioned as a man of faith. Well that is very true. But just remember this, that He's listed among the faithful, but that list also has Samson. And it doesn't talk about people who are without flaws. But that at some point they exercised faith, but even though they exercised faith, they still had flaws as well. And so I think you say, well, Pastor, what is your view on this? Well, let me give you my view. I believe what my professor taught me. Say, what did your professor taught me? Well, he taught the same thing that I believe You say, what did you and your professor believe? We we believe the same thing. No, I'm just kidding. I I think that this is really, sadly, this is referring to human sacrifice. I think the wording of it, the context of judges, and all of that, I think this is referring to uh the terrible tragedy of human sacrifice, which shows again how the culture had corrupted Israel at that time. And how that even the leadership was at times acting like pagans rather than acting like the people of God. So we talked about the mystery of the vow. Let me just talk to you a little bit quickly about the mistakes of the vow Let's talk about some lessons you can learn from this mistake and I'll go over them pretty quick here. Number one, you can know the truth and still think like the world Jepthon knew Israel's history. If you look in verse 14 down to verse 27, he's theologically sharp in the sense that he knew the history of Israel. I mean you read that you get that sense. And yet when it came to relating to God, he thought more like a pagan. This is kind of a mystery here. And that's the danger. You can be big biblically informed, you can be doctrinally aware, and you could be ministry involved. And you can still have all your instincts still shaped by the culture rather than scripture. And that's something really to be aware of. But here's number two. Culture does not usually replace your faith, it redefines it. Jephthah didn't abandon the Lord. He reinterpreted the Lord according to the culture. And people had a tendency to do that. We color our theology through the lens of the culture. And we redefine God according to the culture. Jephthah still prays, he still vows, he still speaks religious language, but uh he reshapes God. In the way that he thinks, like the culture. But here's number three. Passion without biblical clarity is dangerous. He had a lot of passion, but he didn't really think biblically. He wasn't an indifferent man. In fact, you could say he was intense. But the surrounding Canaanite culture valued extreme devotion, and Jephthah adopts that mindset here. Not everything that feels spiritual is spiritual. But then here's number four. When scripture is not your authority, culture will be. When Scripture is not your authority, culture will be. So the question is, what are you allowing to be your authority? God had already spoken clearly about human sacrifice in Deuteronomy chapter 12. That should have been nothing that even went through his mind. If he understood the word of God, and if he was living according to it, but that truth did not govern Jeptah's thinking. Why? Because Because the culture had filled in the gap in his mind. If you're not actively shaped by Scripture, you will be passively shaped by the culture. But then also, number five, careless theology leads to costly consequences. Jeff's the theory was not just practical, it was theological. He misunderstood, excuse me, who God is. He misunderstood who God is and what God desires and how God works. And that misunderstanding about God cost him everything. The most important thing that you think about are your thoughts about God. What comes into your mind when you think about God? Is your theology right? But then here's number six. Leaders who are shaped by culture will lead others into tragedy. Gepsah's failure didn't stop with him. His failure led to others paying the price. His daughter paid the price here. And this is one of the most sobering realities in this passage. If your leader is not grounded in truth, others will suffer. Families will be affected. Churches will be affected. Future generations will be affected. And then here's number seven. Spiritual drift is gradual, it's not sudden. Jephthah didn't wake up one day and decide to think like a pagan. This was formed over time, growing up rejected, living among outsiders, being shaped by surrounding influences. That's how he came to think this way. You don't drift overnight. You it's a it's a ge uh it's a ge uh excuse me, gradual, daily, slow Drift according to what you listen to, according to what you admire, according to what you tolerate Jephthah did not reject God. He reimagined God. And when you re reshape God in your own mind, you'll eventually dishonor God with your life. And that's exactly what happens here. He used careless words and it costs him. You know, there's nothing wrong with making a vow to God, but you better think it through. And the Bible says in Ecclesiastes 5, Be not rash with thy mouth. Let not thine heart be hasty to utter anything before God. And so Jephthah's vow teaches us the danger of careless vows and how they often flow from a desire to prove ourselves and from a failure to trust in the promises of God and a reaction under the heat of pressure And his words brought grief and sorrow to Israel's history. Let me just close with this. In the early 1900s, the British explorer Robert Falcon Scott set out to reach the South Pole. History tells us this was a bold mission, a costly mission, a mission that demanded everything. And before Scott and his team went out on this mission, they made an unspoken vow together. They would push forward no matter what the cost would be That was the vow that they made among one another. They would press on. No matter what the conditions were, they would press on. They would not turn back. And at first that looked like courage. It looked like determination. It looked like leadership And you could have the tendency to say, well, we admire that. But as the journey wore on, the conditions worsened, temperatures plummeted, supplies dwindled. Physical strength began to fail the men, and yet they kept pressing forward. Why? Well, because they made a vow. They already committed themselves Until they would not turn back. Even when wisdom said, stop, that's enough. This is not good. When survival said retreat, they kept pressing on according to their word. And tragically, Scott and his whole team perished in that expedition. When the rescuers later found this journal, it told the story of the vow that they made. A dangerous vow that cost them their life. They should have never made that vow. And Jephthah's spoken words should have never been spoken. You know, sometimes the things that you say can trap you, can trap you when you say it. And if you bind yourself to those decisions When wisdom says don't, then you're in trouble. It's far better to break a foolish vow than to keep it and break the law or the heart of God So be careful what you say before the Lord. Don't promise what he has not required. Don't bargain for what he's already promised. Don't speak out of pressure, fear, or pride. Trust in the Lord. But let me just close on this. Where Jephthah failed, Christ succeeded. Our Lord Jesus never spoke careless words. He always spoke words of truth, well-thought-out truth. And when Jesus made a vow, he kept that vow. And Jesus was the one who said, not my will but thine be done. And on the cross, he said, it is finished. It is finished They were words of triumph for us, not tragedy. Let's bow prepare tonight. Father, thank you for this narrative and what it reminds us. How that words are very powerful things. Lord, help us to trust you. And moments when the pressure is on, when the crisis comes, when there can be the temptation to try to succumb to the fear of man and speak words that really don't need to be spoken. But rather than try to scheme and try to prove ourselves, Lord, may we just rest in your power and in your promises. Lord, teach us not to make the same mistakes that Jephthah made, to live by faith and to serve you faithfully and trust you, Lord, for what you will do. And be yielded to your Holy Spirit, knowing that, Lord, it's not by money, it's not by power, but it's by your spirit. That's the way you accomplish your work, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.