Thank you. Will you take God's word, please, this morning? Open to the Gospel of Luke, chapter number one. And we've been doing a series during the Christmas season on Christmas In the Gospels, we've looked at Matthew's account of the Christmas story. We looked at Mark's account. And this morning we're going to look at Luke's account of the Christmas story. And I titled this message The Songs of Christmas. When Robert Ingersoll, the militant atheist, died, the printed notice at his funeral said, there will be no songs. How sad is that. How different is it for the child of God? Christianity is all about singing. Salvation is all about songs and singing. Martin Luther says the devil takes flight at the sound of music. Especially when that music, of course, has good theology and it sings about our Lord Jesus Christ. One of the things I love about this time of year are the Christmas songs that we sing. I love the theology that are in these Christmas hymns and that they convey deep truth. That is, if we understand them correctly, I heard about a little five-year-old girl who announced to her mother one day at lunch that Jesus was a Swede And uh the mother said, No, no, honey, Jesus was Jewish and I can show you that from the Bible. She said, No, Mom, listen. Away in a manger and no crib for a bed, the little the Lord Jesus laid down his sweethead. Well, you need to understand that correctly, right? A little boy and a little girl were singing their favorite Christmas Carol in church, Silent Night, and they ended it by sleep in heavenly the little boy said, Sleep in heavenly beans And the sister said, that's not beans, it's peas. Sleeping heavenly peas. In Luke's gospel, we see the singing of the Christmas story. Luke writes this gospel under inspiration of the Holy Spirit. He's very careful to research, and he was guided by the Holy Spirit as he did his research on the life of Christ. Look at verse number three of chapter one in Luke, where it says this. It says that it seemed good to me also, having been having perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus. where he says here that from the very first can be translated from above. And that indicated that God guided Luke as he gathered together all of his information and talked about the w the the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ and he gives an authoritative account of the birth and the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now he's writing to a guy by the name of Theophilus in verse number three. That name actually means one who loves God. He may have been a Roman official that was recently converted and and Luke was trying to guide him in his Christian life about who Jesus is So when Luke organizes his Christmas story, he does it basically around songs. That's very interesting. Really, five songs. We won't have time to go over all of these. We're going to take a bird's eye view of them and just touch on them. But if you want to understand the Christmas message, you have to understand the songs. that Luke gives here about the Christmas story. So I want us to look at these. First of all, there's the song of Zechariah. And the theme of that psalm is That song is God Remembers. Did you know as human beings we're always forgetting things? One elderly means that I know I'm old because there are three things I can't remember. He said, I can't remember names, I can't remember faces, and I can't remember the third thing that I can't remember. It's like a wife said to her husband the other day, there's a vitamin supplement that helps you with memory, but I can't remember what it is. But God never forgets, he's a God who remembers. Look at verse seventy two of chapter one of Luke. This kind of helps us in this idea here, this song of Zechariah, to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. And that's a major theme. God remembers. Over and over. Again, we see that in the Bible. God remembers. And when it talks about God remembering, it just means that God is acting according to his promises. God does not forget his promises. God always remembers his promises and God will act according to those promises. Very interesting that the name Zacharias means God remembers. And we're introduced to him in verse number 5 of Luke chapter 1. A priest, there was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias. of the course of Abiah, and his wife was the daughter of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. So here is this priest, he's married to Elizabeth, who is a descendant of the priestly line. uh a great great granddaughter of Aaron, the brother of Moses. And the Bible says in verse six that they were blameless, that is, they were a godly couple. Elizabeth was Baron according to verse seven And it got to the point that she was too old to have a child, even though she prayed for a child. But everything changed one day. In verse number eight and nine, it tells us that um it was time for Zacharias to do his priestly duty. And he was selected to go into the to into the temple and to burn incense on the altar of incense. This was a very great privilege. Because there were so many priests in Jerusalem, there were more priests than they needed. And uh you were it would normally they would cast lots for a priest to go and do this duty. and uh to burn incense on the altar of incense. And if you did this once, you never were allowed to do it again. So this was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. And the lots were cast, and it was Zachariah's turn, according to verse number nine, the lot fell upon Zachariah and he went into the temple of the Lord to burn incense on the altar of incense. This happened twice a day, once at nine a. m. once at three o'clock. Again, a very great honor. And while he's there in the temple, he has an incredible confrontation. Look in verse 11. And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And when Zachariah saw him he was troubled, and fear fell upon him. And the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias, for thy prayer is heard, and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John, and thou shalt have great have joy and gladness, and many shall rejoice at his birth, and for he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink, and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb. And so here is this angel that appears to, the angel Gabriel, who appears to Zacharias while he's burning incense there, and announces that he will have a son This son will be the forerunner of the birth of the Messiah. And so that is a reminder that the Messiah is coming. If the forerunner is coming, the Messiah is coming right after him. And so here's a great promise that This angel gives to Zacharias. Now what is Zachariah's response? Well look at verse number 18. And Zachariah said unto the angel, whereby shall I know this? He says, I am an old man and my wife well stricken in years. And so there's some skepticism and disbelief in his response. We could paraphrase it like this. Do you expect me to believe this? I mean, I'm an old man, and my wife is beyond childbearing. And how do I know, verse 19, he says, how do I know that I'm going to do this? Um And verse 19, and the angel answered unto him, I am a Gabriel, and stand in the presence of God, and am sent to speak unto thee and to show thee these glad tidings. So even though he's skeptical and unbelieving, even though he wants to have some kind of an assurance, here's Gabriel and says, look, Do you know who I am? I'm an angel of God. Do you need any more assurance of that? I've come from the presence of God to give you this news. And because Zechariah was d skeptical. He was punished for his unbelief. In verse number twenty, the Bible says that he was struck dumb. Verse twenty, and behold thou shalt be dumb. Doesn't mean dumb like, you know, you know, he's Stupid. It just means he couldn't speak, and not able to speak until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season. And so he's struck with muteness, silence. Even though he has this good news, he's unable to say anything about it He's unable to speak about it. And that was a punishment for his unbelief. And sure enough, he does go home and and and uh he does uh go back to his d duty as a priest, and his wife does bear a son in verse number twenty. 4 and verse number 25. She conceives just like the angels said. She has a baby. She names him John. And drop down to verse number 64. Because what happens is that after the birth of this boy, John, Zechariah, his m his mouth is now open in verse sixty-four, and his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loose, and he spake and praised God. And fear came on all that dwelt around them. And all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judea So Zacharias, his mouth was finally open, and for all that time he was silent. Think about it, ladies, to have a husband at home for nine months and not say anything Some of you are saying, oh, that's wonderful to think about. For nine months he didn't say anything in the house. And then finally when she has this child his his mouth is opened, and I want to tell you he makes up for lost time. Because when his mouth is open, what does he do? This is the song here. He sings a song about the birth of his son, which is a forerunner of the birth of the Messiah. And he talks about what the birth of his son really means. Look down at verse number 76. Notice what it says. And thou child shall be called the prophet of the highest. You're going to be a prophet of the highest. For thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways. That is, you're going to be the forerunner of this Messiah that was promised. God has remembered his promises. God promised Abraham that a Messiah was going to come. God promised David that a Messiah was going to come. And here God is now remembering his promises, and you will go before this Messiah, and you will announce his coming. And notice what this means for all of us. Look in verse 78, through the tender mercies of our God, whereby the dayspring from on high has visited us. This Messiah that is coming, he will be like like the light in the midst of darkness. He'll be the day spring from on high and he'll bring light and life into the world. He will be the one who will give us Redemption and the remission of sins. And that was the song that Zacharias sang. It was one of remembrance. God remembered his promise. God remembered David. God remembered Abraham. And more specifically, God remembered you. Because without the coming of the Messiah, we would be in darkness. We would not have our sins forgiven. So he came to give us the deliverance that we needed to deliver us from the darkness that we were in. But then there's Mary's song Write down number two the song of Mary. And the theme of this song is God is my Savior. God my savior. Now Gabriel, who visited Zachariah, has another visit. And Luke records this. He visits Mary. And look in verse number 26 of chapter number one. And at the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God. unto the city of Galilee, named Nazareth, to a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary And the angel came in unto her and said, Hail thou that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women. And when she saw him she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favour with God, and behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus. And he shall be great and shall be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. What our God is such an awesome God. He's able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or And this story of Mary, the mother of Jesus, reminds us of this reality. She was the chosen one who would bear the Messiah. And Gabriel comes and announces this to her. She would be the fulfillment of the prophecy of Isaiah 7. 14. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bring forth a son. And uh the virgin birth would be a miraculous birth. It would be something done by the Holy Spirit. This is why people don't believe in the virgin birth because they don't believe in miracles. And that's why there are many that you know foster all these different ideas about what they say quote unquote really happened. There was a German scholar, a man by the name of Rudolf Butmann. who basically thought he would do everyone a favor and go through the Bible and take out all of the myths of the Bible. And he, of course, took out the myths Or called the virgin birth a myth. And I like what Adrian Rogers said. He was myth taken. There is really a virgin birth. You just have to simply believe in the miraculous power of God. And by the way, if you don't believe in the virgin birth, friend, I I wouldn't, uh, as one preacher said, give a half a hallelujah for your salvation. You have to believe in the virgin birth in order to be saved because Jesus had to become had to be sinless to be the Savior. And the virgin birth uh meant that he was born without the sin nature. And he fulfilled all of the g the law of God. But there were still people in that day That did not believe it, the Pharisee said of Jesus, he said, We're not born of fornication, implying you were. You were born of fornication That was a blasphemous attack at the birth of Christ. And by the way, there are still people that say those kind of things because they say the virgin birth is impossible. But Look at verse number 37 of Luke chapter 1, where it says, For with God nothing shall be impossible. Unlike many people today, Mary believed God's word. And she's an example of how we are to respond to the word of God. In fact, I think Luke in this gospel puts the narrative of Zechariah right next to the narrative of Mary to show the contrast between Zechariah's response to Gabriel and Mary's response to Gabriel. And again, this is very purposeful. Gabriel visits Zechariah. Gabriel visits Mary. Notice where that they give the the the angel talks about the specifics about the birth. Um there's an obstacle with Zechariah, his wife is too old, there's an obstacle with Mary, she's gonna she's a virgin. And and The Bible tells us that when Gabriel came to Zechariah, he was troubled. When Gabriel came to Mary, she was troubled. To Zacharias, the angel said, Don't be afraid. To Mary, the angel said, Don't be afraid. To Zacharias, he said, You'll bear a son. To Mary, he said, You' He said, you'll name him Jesus. To Zacharias, he said, he will be great. And to Mary, he said, he will be great. And Zechariah responded to the angel with skepticism. He said, you know, how you know how can this happen? The difference, however, in Mary's response is that she responded with belief. And that's the contrast there. Mary responded and believed. Look at verse number 38. This is a key verse. And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel Zacharias didn't believe, and he was punished for his skepticism. Mary, however, says, be it according to your word, I believe it. She believed. What did she believe in? She believed in the power of God. The power that God can do the impossible In fact, I don't know what's going on in your life, but I tell you this. God can turn things around for you. Our God is a miraculous God. He can do the impossible And so Mary shows her absolute faith in God. But if you drop down to verse 46, this is Mary's song. And verse 46, and Mary said, My soul does magnify the Lord. And my spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior. This portion of Scripture is called Mary's Magnificent or Mary's Song. This is the next song of Christmas. And notice what she says in verse 46. My soul magnifies the Lord. Verse 47, my spirit rejoices in God, my what? My Savior. Now what you'll find out in Mary's song is that it's a beautiful song of theology. There's a lot of Old Testament illusions in it. She obviously knew the scripture very, very well. And the song is divided up into really two sections, what God will do for her, and then what God will do for the world because of what Jesus Christ will do when he comes into the world. First of all, what God will do for her. The coming of the Messiah meant, first of all, for her, her own salvation. In verse 47, she says, it says, she rejoiced in God, my Savior. I want you to notice, beloved, that Mary was a sinner like everyone else. That's important to note because the Catholic Church teaches that Mary was the co-redemptress. That is, that she was part of the redemption. She helped Jesus to redeem fallen humanity. She is the co-savior. as the Roman Catholic Church teaches. In fact, Pope John Paul II commissioned a group of theologians to get together and and um And to just to outline their theology of Mary. And this is what the Roman Catholic Church teaches about Mary. Some of it's pretty bizarre. But it teaches, first of all, of the immaculate conception of Mary, which means that Mary herself was virgin-born. Not that Jesus was virgin-born, but Mary was virgin-born, which meant that she was sinless. She was immaculately conceived by her mother. And therefore, she lived a sinless life. She also was sinless. And also the church, Catholic Church teaches that she is a perpetual virgin. And then another thing that it determined is that Mary never died, but that she ascended up into heaven, and then in heaven she was enthroned as the queen of heaven. And that even Jesus has to go to Mary at times to get things done. But she's the queen of heaven. Well, I want you to know that that is nothing but false teaching. And and Catholicism, beloved, is simply a Mary cult. They all believe in Mary in that way, that she was sinless and so on. But Mary, how does she describe herself? She rejoices in the fact that God was going to be her savior. She needed a savior like everyone else. And so the coming of the Messiah meant that she would have a Savior. And it would exalt her as well. Look at verse 48, for he hath regarded the lowest estate of his handmaid. For behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. Not only would Christ be her Savior, but because she was chosen to be the mother through whom the Messiah would come, that would exalt her Because in that day a woman significant was associated with her children. And because she would be the mother of the Messiah, the Savior of the world. That would exalt her from her low degree. She was just simply a peasant girl from a poor family. But now that she's chosen to be the mother of Messiah, that will exalt her. But let me just tell you, Mary was a godly woman. We thank God for her, but she was a sinner who needed a savior. And Jesus was her savior as well here. But also what God will do for others through the birth of the Lord Jesus. Look down at verse number fifty-one. He has showed strength with his arm, he has scattered the proud and imaginations of their heart. He has put down the mighty from their seats and exalted them of low degree. He has filled the hungry with good things and the rich. He has sent uh empty away. What is she saying here and this these beautiful parallel statements in this song of hers? What she's basically saying to really boil it down is that when Christ comes, there's going to be a reversal. Those who are lowly and poor, he's going to exalt. Those who are mighty and proud, he's going to humble. He's going to reverse things. He's going to turn things around. For those who are sinners like us, he's going to exalt us through salvation. I want to tell you something, dear friend. I I'm not worthy to stand up here and preach about Jesus Christ. I'm just a sinner. Every Sunday when I You know, I wake up, I say, God, I'm not worthy to do what I'm going to do. It's only by your grace. It's only because you've forgiven a sinner like me. But I can even stand. And there's a sense in which I'm exalted because I get to stand up here and talk about Jesus. You see, when you know Jesus, what it does is it takes the humble and the lowly and it exalts them. We are exalted in the grace of God. The grace of God exalts us without making us proud. It humbles us. without debasing us because it makes us realize what we really are and what God has done in us through salvation. How God has done a divine reversal in my life. I was a hopeless slave to sin before salvation, and now, because of the grace of God, I am a servant of righteousness for his name's sake. And friend, that's for everyone who trusts in Jesus Christ as Savior. So we see the song of Zacharias. God remembers his promises. We see the song of Mary. God is my savior and because of that he'll do great things. But then number three, there's the song of Elizabeth And we just need to look at this. If you go to verse number 39, after Mary uh is given the news that she's going to be the mother of the Messiah, she takes a long journey. into the hill country. She leaves Nazareth and she goes down to Judea, the hill country. That's about eighty mile journey. And notice in verse thirty nine. And Mary arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste into a city of Judah, and entered into the house of Zacharias, and saluted Elizabeth. And it came to pass that when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her womb And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost. And she spake out with a loud voice and said, Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. And whence it is to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me. For lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. And blessed is she that believed For there was such a performance of those things which were told her from the Lord. And so you can see her song here. Mary visits Elizabeth, and uh as she visits and announces to Elizabeth what God told her, Elizabeth is just filled with joy. So this song here is really about joy in the Lord. Joy. We sing the song Joy to the world. The Lord has come. Elizabeth sang that song first. Because when Mary came to her and announced That the Messiah was coming. Two things happened that were evidences of joy. In verse 41, Elizabeth, who was carrying John the Baptist in her womb at that time, she was six months pregnant. And the Bible said tells us right here that the baby leaped in her womb at that moment. Now expectant mothers can understand this because moms feel that life inside of them. They feel a kick every now and then when they're carrying a child, but this was more than just a kick. The word for leap here means to leap for joy. And this is John. And this is the first prophecy of John the Baptist. He's still in his mother's womb. By the way, that's exactly what the angel said In chapter 1, verse 15, when the angel announced the birth, the coming of John the Baptist, it said, For he, in verse number 15, for he shall be filled with the Holy Spirit from his mother's womb. Exactly what the angel said. Here John, being filled with the Spirit, leaps for joy in his mother's womb. By the way, this is irrefutable evidence of the personhood of John the Baptist as a six-month-old fetus in his mother's womb. He's a human being. Uh at the at six months he would be about nine inches long, weigh about one and a half pounds, uh a perfect miniature of a of a of a newborn. And uh Capable of emotion, capable of joy. He had the capacity to be filled with the Holy Spirit and to be filled with joy. That's a sober realization. for those who try to say that what a mother carries is not really a human being. Or these abortionists. And by the way, also along this line, Elizabeth says that he calls Mary the mother of my Lord. That's present tense. Not will be the mother of my Lord, but is the mother of my Lord. And at that time Mary was about three or four days pregnant at that time. And and right there already she has a child in her womb, three or four days old, that is already a person, according to what Elizabeth said. I know that years ago the Supreme Court, one Supreme Court justice, Justice Mayor, compared a fetus in a womb to a A person who was brain dead, basically. And said, you know, a person who's brain dead can still, you know, make movements, spasmodic type movements, but it's just dead. And that's what she said that a fetus was But friend, if you read God's word, you know that that's a lie. That's a lie. No, this is a real child right here. And so the the babe leaps for joy. But then there's prophetic evidence because in verse forty-one, when Elizabeth uh hears What Mary says, she was filled with the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 42. And she spake out with a loud voice and said, Blessed art thou among women. This is her song at Christmas time. Three blessings in the song. Blessed are you among women that is married because you've been chosen to do this, you're blessed above all. that God would choose you in this way. Blessed is the fruit of thy womb. She pronounces a blessing upon Jesus. And then she said, Blessed is he She that believed. This is again blessing Mary because she had the faith to believe God immediately what God was going to do. By the way, blessed is everyone who believes. If you believe in the virgin birth of Jesus Christ, that He's the only Savior of the world and put your faith in Him, you are blessed. That's the whole point of this song here: How Blessed We Are. So there's the song of Zacharias, God remembers, the song of Mary, God is my savior, the song of Elizabeth, joy of the Lord. But then here's the fourth song, and we only have just a minute to touch on this. There's the song of the angels. If you go to Luke chapter 2, and you look in verses 1 down to verse 20, Luke describes that first Christmas, that holy night. Everything kind of centers around Bethlehem. Mary and Joseph had to take that long journey to Bethlehem. Why? Well, because there was a decree that went out from Caesar Augustus. He was He was taking a census and taxing people, and they had to go back to their ancestral homeland in order for this to happen, which meant they had to travel from Nazareth down to Bethlehem, an 80-mile journey. And evidently there had to be a due date because that all that that would be the only reason why Joseph would take his wife, who was nine months pregnant, and take that long journey. On a mule, she was riding a mule. And uh I I just remember that when my wife was pregnant with our children and we were riding in a car, and every time I go over a bump, she'd give me a dirty look You know, ca is you know, is there any bump that you've missed so far? 'Cause moms who carry children know that sometimes it could be uncomfortable. Can you imagine Mary? taking that trip eighty miles on on the back of a mule all the way to Bethlehem. What would cause Joseph to do that in the dead of winter? Well there was a there was a due date, there was a taxation due date where they had to be there at a certain time for this taxation. But what Luke shows us is that this was God sovereignly arranging things To fulfill prophecy, because the prophet said that Jesus would be born in Bethlehem. In order for that to happen, they had to get from Nazareth to Bethlehem. And God providentially arranges all of that. And while in Bethlehem, she gives birth to the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Bible tells us that when that happened, the angels came to the shepherds in the field, excuse me, in the field, and announced The birth of the Lord Jesus. Look at verse 8. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold Oh, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God, saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, good will towards man. This is the song of the angels. And the Bible says in verse 13 and 14, it was a multitude of angels that appeared. The word multitude plathos, not just a handful. This is not 50 or even 150 or even 1500. This is a referring to a number that you can't count. The sky was filled with angels. And I think it was every angel in heaven. You say, how do you know that? Well, Hebrews 1. 6. And when he bringeth his first begotten into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God worship him. All the angels. And so they were singing about the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And what was the theme of their song? Glory to God in the highest. And on earth peace and goodwill towards men. You know that means where it says peace, goodwill towards men. Literally in the Greek it reads like this: peace to man upon whom he has good will. It doesn't mean that because Jesus was born, all the world will now be at peace. Because we know that there hasn't been peace in the world. We know that there are still wars. But what does he mean here? Peace. To those for whom he has goodwill. In other words, you'll experience God's peace in your life when God has goodwill towards you. And how do you get God's goodwill towards you? When you turn to Jesus Christ as your Savior, when you repent of your sin. There's two classifications of people in here, those to whom God has goodwill and those to whom God does not have goodwill. Did you know the Bible says those who are lost are under the wrath of God? They're condemned already. But when you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, God gives you goodwill. And now you have peace with God. Again, that's what he's talking about here. Savior, who are justified by faith, and you have peace with God. Romans 5. 1. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And so the song of the angels is glory to God for what he has done. A survey was taken one year asking people to name the best and worst Christmas songs. And in the survey it just it mentions some of those shallow Christmas songs you hear sometimes, you know, Mama got run over by a reindeer or something like that. For me the worst Christmas song would be any song sung by a chipmunk But then they listed the best songs. And uh they listed Handel's Messiah and Joy to the World and Silent Night. And beloved, those are indeed great songs. But let me tell you, the greatest songs about Christmas were the ones sung here in the Gospel of Luke that give us the message of Christmas. They remind us of the true meaning of Christmas, that God remembers. God remembered his promise about the Messiah. God remembered you and sent you a Savior. And there's joy in knowing Jesus Christ. And peace through knowing Jesus Christ and glory to God and salvation. And friend, I hope that that's what Christmas means to you, and that you're trusting in Christ and Christ the Lord. Alone. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, friend, can I just ask you, do you know Jesus as your Savior? Are you resting upon Him and Him alone? Can you rejoice and say, God is my Savior? I know that I know, that I know Christ. It's the most important thing in the world. You can have all kind of festivities and fun and gift exchange, but if you don't know Jesus, friend, you've missed Christmas completely. You've missed it. He came to die for you, to die for your sins, to give you eternal life. If you're not sure, would you right now take this minute and reach out in prayer to God and say, God, I want to know that I'm saved. I want to know Jesus as my Savior. Forgive me for my sin. Please come into my heart and save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, pray that and mean it. The Bible says, him that comes to me I will nowhere cast out. God will not turn away a repentant sinner. He will not. You have the promise of God's word. And the greatest gift you could ever receive is Jesus and eternal life and forgiveness of sins, a home in heaven. When you trust Him. Father, thank you again for the wonderful gift of salvation in Christ. Lord, may every person here celebrate Christmas the way it should be, by enthroning Jesus Christ in their heart as Lord and Savior. Obeying Him, serving Him, loving Him. Thank you, Father, for the promises of your word. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.