Psalm 128, as on Wednesday night we're studying through these pilgrim psalms, and we come down to Psalm 128, and I want to talk tonight about the man that God blesses. The man God blesses. Psalm 128. Verse 1. Blessed is everyone that feareth the Lord, that walketh in his ways. For thou shalt eat the labor of thine hands. Happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee. Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house, thy children like olive plants round about thy table. Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed. That feareth the Lord. The Lord shall bless thee out of Zion. Thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life. Yea, thou shalt see thy children's children in peace upon Israel. A man and his young son were climbing a mountain, and they came to a place where the climbing was difficult and even dangerous. And the father stopped and he considered which path he should take, which way he should go. And he heard a voice behind him saying, Dad, choose a good path because I'm coming right behind you. And that is so very true in our own family life. A father has the monumental responsibility in choosing the right path for himself and for his family. Now our passage here, Psalm 128, tells us what that path is and the blessings that come from following that path. And so let's look at this chapter here tonight. But before we get into it, let me just get a few preliminary thoughts about Psalm 128. Number one, and this is something that we already know, but in case you're visiting with us This Psalm 128 is a Psalm of Degrees, a Psalm of Ascent. You see that right before verse 1. And it simply means of degrees means going up, or ascending means going up. And this was sung by Jewish pilgrims because they went up literally, they were climbing towards Jerusalem as they would come to the various feast days, and they were literally traveling. upward there. And so these were pilgrim psalms sung as they were making that journey. And remember this is a beautiful picture of the Christian life because we're pilgrims in this world. traveling through this wilderness. We're on our way to our heavenly Zion, and we need strength for the journey. Hopefully that's what we're drawing from these chapters. But also another preliminary thought, and that is that really Psalm 127 and Psalm 128 are meant to really be taken together. They're really twin Psalms. And the reason for that is because both of them focus on the blessings of God on the home. That is the common theme that unites them. In fact, if you held these two together You can really see the development of the home in four stages. In Psalm 127, verses 1 and 2, we see the inception of the home. In Psalm 127, verses 3 through 5, we see the expansion of the home. In Psalm 128, verses 1 through 4, we see the child rearing years. And then in Psalm 128, verses 5 and 6, you could call this the empty nest years that are there. Now in Psalm 127, a satisfying home is based on God's blessings. That's what we learned, that's what we studied. We are dependent fully on God blessing our home and God building our home. But in Psalm 128, it takes it a step further. God's blessing on the home is based on the fear of the Lord. And that is a key concept as we come to chapter 128. The Father must lead his family in the path of blessing, and in order to do that, he himself must fear the Lord. That is key. Because as the father goes, so goes the family. And so really what we see here in chapter 128 is a progression that starts with the father. It starts with a godly man. Somebody was visiting a little village one time and asked one of the old men who lived there, have any great men been born here? And the man replied, no, just babies. That's a wise answer because you could be born a male, but you have to grow into manhood. And you have to grow into being a godly man that fears the Lord. And that's where it all starts And so Psalm 128 is kind of like throwing a rock into a plastic lake. When that rock lands there, it has a ripple effect. It starts with a godly man in the home. It moves to the wife And then it ripples out to the children and family, and then it ripples out unto the nation. Because you'll find as we come to the end of Psalm 128, it's the prosperity of The nation, a godly man has a godly home, which in turn affects the whole nation And it's a blessing to all of the land. So we could say it like this, as the family goes, so goes the nation, but as the father goes, so goes the family. We talk so much about the shape of our nation. We talk so much about the problems in America and the downward trend, the downward direction of our country. And for some reason some of us were were glued to the TV with respect to elections. coming up and there's nothing wrong with that. But my thought is that too many people are pinning their hopes on the White House to change things. And I want to tell you something folks, if you're pinning your hopes on the next election, you're pinning it on the wrong thing Because it really doesn't matter what goes on in the White House. What matters more is what goes on in your house. That's the solution. And that's what really Psalm 128 talks to us about. Excuse me, there has to be that spiritual leadership. Fathers must lead their children. Now the good news is that God has placed in the heart of children and natural admiration from for their fathers. And so that's a good thing. Carl Wilson said this, every father is the world's best father to his children unless he works hard not to be. And so God has given you a little bit of a help there by placing that admiration in the heart of children for their fathers And so a good example can be such a blessing to children that follow that example. But on the other hand, a bad example can be devastating. A little girl was follow following her father through newly planted Augustine clumps of grass and she Put her her feet down in his path and she said, Dad, if you don't get your feet muddy, I won't get my feet muddy And so the question we must ask ourselves, men, is how clean are our feet before the Lord? Now, let me give you another thought. Another key concept in this psalm is blessings. We see this word used over and over again. Look in verse 1. Blessed is everyone that fears the Lord. In verse 2, happy shalt thou be. In verse 4, again, behold, thus shall be the man be blessed. that fears the Lord, and again the word is used in verse 5. And the word here is the absolute idea of happiness, of contentment that comes only from God. So, with all that in mind, let me just give you two points tonight. Good news. There's only two points in this sermon tonight. So here's the first point. Number one, I want to talk about the conditions for God's blessings. And then number two Actually, I can make that singular because we're going to talk about just one condition, the condition for God's blessing, and then number two, the circumference of God's blessings. So let's talk about number one the condition. And what is the condition? I already alluded to you, but let's look a little deeper. Look in verse 1. Bless is everyone that fears the Lord. And again, this is repeated in verse 4 of this idea of fearing the Lord. Behold, that thus shall be the man that fears the Lord. Now again, we said this before that when something is repeated in Scripture, it's for emphasis. And so God is emphasizing that the way to true blessedness in any home is for the man to fear the Lord, to lead the family and to lead others in fearing the Lord. Now here's the question, however. What is the fear of God? You know, I I I've read a lot on this, and I it's hard sometimes when you see a concept like this given in the Old Testament to narrow it down and to summarize it and to something that you can lay your hands on and walk away with it. But let me give you a definition of what I think summarizes this whole idea of fearing God in the Old Testament. This is it, and I want you to write this down This is what the fear of the Lord is. It is a reverential attitude for God that leads to right actions. Alright, let me say that again. It is a reverential attitude for God that leads to right actions. And what I want you to see in that definition is that it includes both attitudes and actions. A reverential attitude for God that leads to right actions. And so let me talk to you about these two things. First of all, let's talk about the reverential attitude. It is an awareness of the holiness. and the awesomeness of God. Do you have that? That awareness of the awesomeness and holiness of God. This is what A. W. Tozer called a God consciousness. Conscious of God always, a consciousness of the Lord in your life. Now there's a negative side to this And that is this, it's it really it's this understanding, and that is God is holy and God is not to be trifled with. And so it includes recognizing this holiness of God. And recognizing the fact that since he is holy, therefore he hates sin. And beloved, he will deal with sin. He will judge it. I fear God's judgments I fear God's punishments on the sins that I might commit. And this is the attitude. This fear of God is this attitude that says, I don't want to make God mad at me because of the things that I do. I do not want to provoke his displeasure on me. And that's exactly what Israel manifested at Mount Sinai. They trembled at the holiness of God, at the thought of making God angry. Galatians 6. 7, be not deceived. You know the rest of it. God is not mocked. For whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. I don't want to play with sin, I don't want to trifle with any of that Listen, there are some temptations out there that I am able to resist, and I'm and I'm able to resist them not because I'm so holy inwardly, but because I simply am afraid of God. And I do not want to. provoke his anger on me in any way. Write down Proverbs 1, or 16, 6. By mercy and truth iniquity is purged. And by the fear of the Lord, listen to this, by the fear of the Lord, men depart from evil. When you fear the Lord, You're going to say no to sin. You're going to say no to evil. That's the negative side, but there's also a positive side to fearing God, and that is that we become the protectors of His honor and His glory. We react when His name is dishonored. Because we have such a fear of God. When we see people casting his word aside, when we hear people taking his name in vain, blaspheming his name, dishonoring his name, we are filled with righteous indignation. And we don't tolerate that. And again, the Bible says in Proverbs 8:13, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. So it is this attitude. Of reverence towards God. But now here, let me talk to the second part of this definition. It is a reverential attitude towards God that leads to what? To right actions. So let me talk about this. Look again in verse 1. Blessed is everyone that fears the Lord. Notice the second part of this verse, that walketh in his ways. Now what we're reading here, of course, in a lot of the Psalms and a lot of the wisdom literature of the Old Testament is Hebrew parallelism And this is part of the features of Hebrew poetry. Now, in English, again, we rhyme words, but in Hebrew, they rhyme thoughts. And that's called parallelism. And sometimes when you come to a a parallel statement, what you'll find in these parallel statements in not only the book of Psalms, but also the book of Proverbs. is the first line will give a thought, and the second line will either add to that thought, it will complete it, or it will contrast that thought. Or it will further embellish that or it will compare that thought with something else. Now here we see where it's completing a thought, and when that happens, you know what's going on? The second line often is interpreting the first line. That's exactly what's happening here. Blessed is everyone that fears the Lord. And how do we define the fear of the Lord? Notice the next phrase, that what? That walks in his ways. That is, they do what is right. In God's sight. That is the action of fearing the Lord. Right actions. Now listen to me. The Bible says in Proverbs 1:7, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of what? is the beginning of wisdom. Did you know that and by the way, what is biblical wisdom? Here's another thing we need to define. Biblical wisdom, very simply, is the ability to make right choices. And we could say it is making godly choices. That is the idea of wisdom in the Old Testament. It is making right choices. In the Old Testament, wisdom is not something that is theoretical. It is not something that is abstract. Wisdom only exists as long as the person is thinking or acting in the right way. That's when wisdom exists. And so in a very real sense, the entire process of our lives is making right choices. And wisdom is making sure that we make those right choices. And according to the scripture, it's only a right choice, it's only a good choice if it's a godly choice. Alright? For instance, you know the sum total of our life, think of it like this. The sum total of our lives is the choices that we make. Did you ever think of it like that? You are what you are tonight because of the choices. that you make in your life. And every day, our life is filled with all kind of choices. You chose this morning. uh what time to get up. You chose whether to hit the snooze alarm or get up or pop out of bed or throw it against the wall, whatever. You chose what to wear You chose what to eat. You chose what uh how you were going to get to work, the the the the path that you were gonna get. Uh you chose uh Who you were going to talk to or not talk to, who you were going to associate with. And so all of your life is made up of these choices every day. Some of these are short Short-term, quick choices. Some of these are long-term choices, like who you choose to marry, uh where you're going to live your life, what you're going to do for a living, and all these things And you made the choice tonight whether or not you should come to church. I'm glad you chose to come tonight. But that's a choice that you make. And again, our life, by the end of our life, the sum of our life Will be all of the choices that we have made. Now, in the Bible, wisdom is making godly choices That's all it is. It is simply making the right choice. And the Bible teaches this crucial idea that only good choices are godly choices, and so thus the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Because you can only make a godly choice as you understand that God is watching everything that you do. And He will bless you for your right choices. And he will punish you for your wrong choices. And so really that's what wisdom is. It's not IQ, it's not cleverness. It's not any of those things. It's not intellectual ability. It is simply making godly choices. And the person who fears the Lord is going to make the right choices day by day, each day of their life. Now, by the way, Joseph is a great illustration of this. Remember Joseph in the Old Testament? Remember, he was betrayed by his brothers, put into a pit, and then sold into slavery and lived in Egypt. And again, he went through a lot of difficulty there. But you remember the temptation that came when Potiphar's wife was tempting him in an immoral way? You know what? Joseph, here he was, away from home. He had no parental boundaries. No one really knew who he was. He was there in a pagan land. He was totally alone. He was there in the home with a wealthy woman who tried to seduce him. He could have easily rationalized and said, There's no one will ever find out about this, and my folks will never find out, and it'll be it's no big deal But no, he resisted that temptation. You know what he said in Genesis 39, 9? He talked about, I fear God. He said, how could I do this great evil and sin against God? There is an illustration of someone who made a choice, and that choice was based on fearing God. Now, friend, if you want the blessing of God on you and on your home, then it starts with fearing God, and when you truly fear God, you'll make the right choices. It is a reverential fear that leads to right actions. And this is in all aspects of life. And so therefore a father who fears the Lord is going to live a godly life He's not going to take the Lord's name in vain. He will study. He will meditate in the Word of God. He will be faithful to worship. He will pray. He will rid his house of evil influences. Why? Because all of those things are based upon his fear of God. the Lord, his fear of God. He will seek to perfect holiness in the fear of God, as the scripture teaches. So that is the condition. Of God's blessings. Now let me talk to you about the second thing. Not only the condition for God's blessings, but I want you to see number two the circumference What do these blessings include, therefore? Well look again in verse 2. For thou shalt eat the labor of thine hands, happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee. And so now from verses 2 on down to verse 6, what this psalm does is it just touches upon the wide range of blessings. that God gives to the man who fears the Lord. Here's the first one, his contentment. We see a picture of contentment in verse number two. Thou shalt eat the labor of thine hands. Happy shalt thou be, it shall be well with thee. And again, this is a beautiful picture of happiness. Here's a man that has labored He has learned to enjoy his labor and his family. He provides for them and is content with what he has. He's blessed, he's happy, he is satisfied. And this is a blessedness that comes only from God. This is a contentment, a happiness that comes only from the Lord. Well, Kaiser wrote this about these verses for those who experience this God sent happiness, life takes on a whole new tone and a whole new zest. Because again, this is something that is heaven sent. There are people out there today all over trying to find this kind of contentment, this kind of blessedness. And they're trying all the things of the world, and you know what, they all come up empty. And we already saw that in our study in Ecclesiastes, right? I mean Solomon did all that. He tried all that with the world offered. And he realized that there is a contentment and a satisfaction and a happiness that comes only from God when you put God first in your life and you fear the Lord. And so that's what he's talking about right here. This true gift from God that is God given. Godliness with contentment is great gain. And so there's his contentment, but notice the next blessing, his companion. Look at verse 3. Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine. By the size of thine house, and thy children like olive plants round about thy table. So again, here is his companion in the first part of verse 3, talking about his wife. And again, this is Hebrew Hebrew poetry, and the writer is using again a beautiful image, a beautiful picture to explain an idea and a concept And the wife here in this this uh portrait, she's the vine that is growing up Where? Just outside the house, because in the land of Palestine, when you planted a vine, you would plant it right next to the house. Why is that? Because the vine of all the trees is the weakest, is the most fragile And a vine can't stand on its own. A vine has to have something upon which to lean. There has to be some stabilizing force there for that vine to grow up and to be what it could be. And so in this picture here, in this analogy, the wife is like the vine, and the husband is like that rugged wall. That that's the stability for that vine to to uh to grow on. Actually what we see here is a healthy vine, first of all, clings. Well cling to the wall. And again, this is a beautiful picture of marriage That's the first thing that the vine must do. In order for the home to be what it needs to be, man, we have to be that stabilizing strong wall That stabilizing force for our wife to find stability and grow and flourish and blossom. That's the whole concept that we see here. And you know what happened? As that vine grows and flourishes, that vine sure does make that wall look good. I mean, you guys, you're an ugly wall, but she she's the vine that makes that beautifies you You understand that? You ever see a someone see a vine growing on a wall? You ever say, boy, that's a beautiful wall. Well actually the wall's not all that beautiful. It's the vine that's beautiful. And she sure does make us look good, men. Our wives make us look good when we're that stabilizing force and she's able to grow. And uh and by the way, God's made men different than women. We already know that, despite what society might be trying to teach you. And the man has that toughness, that tough exterior like a wall. Why? He's the provider. She's the nurturer. And he is the provider of the home. But again, our generation has obliterated all those distinctions. But nevertheless, they're true. So a healthy vine will cling, a healthy vine will climb. As the husband nurtures the wife. By the way, did you know that in the Palestine it it wasn't just as simple as planting a vine and letting it grow? the husbandman would have to take and examine that vine from time to time because dust would add up on the leaves and that dust would prohibit the process of germination. And so there were times when the husband would have to take water from a bucket and just literally with a sponge go over each leaf of that vine and cleanse it with water to to get the dust off so germination could take place so that vine could stay healthy You know what I think about when I think about that process? The Bible says in Ephesians that, husbands, we are to cleanse our wives with the washing of the water of the Word of God Because of our godly life, that should have a sanctifying influence on our wife. And as a result of being married to us, our wives should be more godly people. Because they've been with us. Because they've been sanctified by the Word of God that they see not only in our life, but also taught by us. And so there is that toughness, but also there's that tenderness. That a husband has to have to nourish that vine. I was reading this this week and I thought this was interesting. Years ago When General Norman Schwarzkopf was the commander of the U. S. forces during the War of Iraq, and by the way, he was considered a hero by many, and I think rightly so. He was called Storm Norman. You remember him? Big as a bear. Uh he was tough. He was unafraid. He was ready to take the uh enemy in battle. And one time there was an interview with ABC News and Barbara Walters was interviewing him. And in the midst of the interview they were talking about the battle and the cost of human lives And when the general began to talk about the toll of the war in human lives, he began to cry. And Barbara Walters, with journalistic bluntness, basically looked at him and said, General, aren't you afraid to cry? And you know what this hulk of a man, this tough man, you know what he said to her? He said, Barbara, I'm afraid of a man who can't cry. And that's so very true. And that's the toughness and the tenderness that I think the Bible is talking about. And we see this also in the life of our Lord Jesus Christ. He could drive out money changers, friend, and then he could weep at a funeral. But both things are true. And so there has to be that stability. So the vine could grow up and climb one. Let me just read you an excerpt from Stu Weber in his excellent book, Tender Warrior. Let me read to you what he says. I think it's so good. He said this. He said, fathers and husbands need to learn faithfulness. Stand by your promises. Never, never let go no matter what. When your marriage isn't fun, stay in it. When your parenting is over your head, stay at it When work is crushing your spirit, don't let it beat you. When the local church is overwhelmed with pettiness, stay by it. When your children let you down, pick them up. When your wife goes through a six-month mood swing, live with it. When it's fourth and fourteen and no time on the clock, throw another pass. Stay with it. Be the man And understand that the heart of staying power is sacrifice, giving up oneself for the good of another. And that is good. And that reminds me of what Scripture says, husbands love your wives, and love is just sacrificial service. And so we see here that a healthy vine We'll cling to the wall, we'll climb on that wall, we'll we'll flourish. And then but notice the next thing. Not only his contentment and his companion, but also notice another blessing, his children. Look what it says again in verse 3. Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the size of thine house, thy children like olive plants round about thy table. Now again, he's using picturesque language to compare children to olive plants. Now these are not mature trees, but just little shoots growing up out of the mature olive tree. And really what we see here are just a few implications. And I and I just kind of read up on olive plants. There are some interesting things about it. Did you know that an olive plant is very slow to grow? And it really doesn't begin to bear fruit until it's 15 years old. 15 years before it'll bear fruit. But when it's properly cultivated and pruned early, It will bear fruit for many years. Some bear fruit as many as twenty generations. Once the olive tree has been established and pruned, it needs no supervision. Vineyards that are not supervised will die, but not an olive grove. Once it's planted and pruned in the early time, it needs no more supervision. It just continues to bear fruit. And you know, that's such a beautiful analogy because I think it's also true of our children. When they're young in those early years, we train them, we discipline them. The Bible says in Proverbs 1324, He that spareth his rod hateth his son, but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes, and that word betimes there in the King James is simply an Old English word that means in the dawn, in the early part of life. In the early part of life, you discipline and train so that in the later part, all of that is done, and those children will begin to bear fruit. Another thing about Olive trees, did you know that they're an evergreen tree? And an evergreen tree, uh, no matter what the season will still maintain its color. And I believe God's plan is for our children. to have everlasting life. To know the Lord Jesus as their Savior and have everlasting life. Now with and so really the whole thing here is just patience. Discipline, training, patience, and allowing for that tree to grow. And you know what I've noticed about at least my children, my family, they don't all mature the same. They don't all grow the same And they each have their own little bend, they each have their own little personality. We have to study our children, we have to know them, and we have to train them according to who they are and then give them room and also even room to m to fail and make mistakes Because that's the way they learn, because guess what? Their parents aren't perfect. I can guarantee you my children's parents aren't perfect. We make our share of mistakes We have to allow our children to do that too, and to pick them up and love them unconditionally and teach them based on uh those mistakes that they make. But it's just patience. It's pruning. It is progress. It is patience. And the psalmist says, your children will be like olive. Plant around about your table. And then notice the last thing. We see his contentment, his companion, his children, but also his contribution. Look at what it says, Behold, that thus shall be the man, the man be blessed that fears the Lord. The Lord shall bless thee out of Zion, and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life. Yea, thou shalt see thy children's children, and peace upon Israel. And what he's describing here again is the latter stages of the family. When the man who has feared the Lord and he's had a uh he's been a stabilizing force and a strength for his wife to to cling to and to climb on and to and to grow and to flourish And he has been the one that has pruned and disciplined those olive plants so that they're fruitful. In the later years, you know what's going to happen. He's going to sit back and he's going to see the blessing of God. Because he's going to leave a contribution And what is it? He says in verse 5, The Lord shall bless thee out of Zion, thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem. In other words, what you have done in your home by fearing the Lord and being a godly father, that will make a contribution to the whole city. And then to the whole nation. To the whole country will be blessed. This is God's way to change things. Again, friend, I tell you, it's not through political agenda. It is through men learning to fear God. That's what changes a nation. And that's what he's telling us right here. God-fearing fathers. And so here's the contribution that he leaves. In the waning years, he makes a contribution because of his fear of the Lord all the days of his life. Uh dad was sitting watching television. His little boy came running over and he said, Dad, can you play with me? And the father said, In a minute, son. Two minutes later the little boy came over. Dad, will you play with me? Is it time yet? Not yet, son. A minute later, the little boy comes back. Dad, is it time yet? And the father knew he wasn't going to get any peace. So he was reading the paper and he happened to see on the front page a picture of the world. So he got an idea. He got some scissors, he cut out the world. Then he cut it up into little pieces and he gave his boy a little uh thing of scotch tape and he said son I tell you what you see this puzzle here he said you tape this world back together and when you get this world taped back together I'll play with you And the little boy said, great. And he took it away. And the father thought, man, I just bought myself two hours here. But in five minutes, the little boy came back. He had it all taped together. The father couldn't believe it. He was stunned. He looked at the picture, sure enough, there was the world all taped back together. It would have taken an adult at least an hour to do that. And the man thought, maybe I got a project here on my hands. And he said, son, how in the world? Did you tape that so quickly? And he said, Dad on the other side of the world is a picture of a man. And I just put the man together, and when I put the man together, then the world came together. And that's exactly what Psalm 128 is telling us. If the man gets together, then you know what? The world's going to get together. That's the key. And so the condition of God's blessings is to fear the Lord, which is a reverential attitude. towards God that leads to right actions. And the circumference of God's blessings is God will bless his him with contentment, his companion, his children, his contribution. to this world. All of these were areas of the blessings of Almighty God. May we learn to fear the Lord. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, we thank you for these words. Again, a reminder to us. And I pray, Lord, that your word will find lodging and conviction in the heart of everyone, Lord, but specifically as this chapter is directed to, specifically to men. That we would be the men that you call us to be. May we be men who fear you, fear the Lord. And Lord, may our right actions, our godly wisdom have an impact on our children and our children's children And Lord, may the this fear of the Lord, which is so scarce on our world today, Lord, may this begin to Catch fire. May others see this. Not only in our home, but all around us. Lord, may grace be a place where men are men who fear the Lord and their children follow in that example and others after them. Father, speak to our hearts. Help me to be this man that you describe here in Psalm 128. And Lord, I pray this for every man that's here tonight And I pray for your blessings on every family and every child that's here, that's a part of this ministry. Lord, that we would have your blessings. That's what we long for. That's what we crave with all of our heart to have your blessings. And heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And I just want to say just one thing before I turn this over to Pastor Earl. The fear of the Lord really, it is a reverential attitude That leads to right actions. But friend, I'll tell you where it starts. It starts with coming to Jesus, bowing to Jesus, and knowing Him through salvation, knowing Jesus as your Savior. You can't fear the Lord unless you know God. But really, friend, it's a fear that God's going to punish your sin. Now listen, he's either punished your sin on his son Jesus Christ, or you'll have to bear your own punishment in a place called hell. And God doesn't want you to go there. That's why he sent his son Jesus to bear the punishment. Punishment for your sins on the cross. And so, friend, you can go your own way and take your own punishment. Or you can Accept what Jesus did for you on the cross. And if you happen to be here tonight, you've never come to the cross for salvation, you've never asked Jesus to be your Savior, that's where it all starts, right there. And would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, I need you. I need you. Forgive me and cleanse me. Save me, Lord Jesus Your friend, if you'll pray that in your heart and mean it, he will save you. And this could be the beginning of something great in your life. It will be the beginning of something great. If you sincerely come to God in faith and trust him to know you Father, use these words, speak to hearts. We pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.