Praise team. Would you take your Bibles tonight, please? Open to the book of Psalms, chapter number eight, Psalms eight. And we're going to look at this beautiful Psalm this morning, or this morning, this evening. This morning somewhere in the world. And um Psalm 8. And I'm going to call this tonight the Three Kings of Christmas. Now, around this time of year we sing a Christmas hymn called We Three Kings of Orientar, Bearing Gifts We Traverse So far. Field and Fountain, Moor and Mountain, Following Yonder Star. Have we sang that song yet? Carolyn, please make sure we get that on the list, all right? We need to sing that song before the Christmas season's over. But anyway, um and of course this song is based on the account in the book of Matthew about the Magi who bring their gifts to the Lord Jesus, this group that came from the east. Now there's some mystery about these men because a lot of unanswered questions. Um for example, some say they were astrologers, some say they were just mystics Um stargazers. There's a lot of traditions that have uh been taught about these men. In fact, we're not even sure it was three. The number three is based on the gifts that were given, gold, frankincense, and myrrh And uh we're not even sure that they were kings. Um there's some debate about that. Uh some people believe that they were three men who represented the three families of Shem, Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah And also the names of these men are given through tradition, Kaspar, Abalthazar, and Melkor. And it it is said that their three skulls have been found, and they are now in a cathedral in France, in case you ever wanted to go and see them for yourself. They were venerated as saints, and a tradition arose called the Adoration of the Magi. Now again, we're not even sure if they're kings, and we're not even sure about all the facts about that. However, the Bible does speak about three kings. I call these the real three kings of Christmas. And we see them, they're mentioned here in Psalm 8. And really understanding the three kings that are here in Psalm 8 helps us to understand what Christmas is all about. Now David, when he wrote this song, you kind of get the idea that when he wrote this song, perhaps he was outside one night and he just looked up into the heaven and he saw the the millions of stars and he gave a gasp and he was just in awe at the power of God. And he can he compares the vastness of the sky and the stars to the to the puniness of man And uh he just wonders how God, who created all of that, could ever, why he would ever be concerned about us And that's really the thought here. Derek Kidner writes in his commentary: this psalm is an unsurpassed example of what a hymn should be. Celebrating as it does the glory and grace of God, rehearsing who he is and what he has done, and relating us and our world to him. All with a economy of words and a spirit of mingled joy and awe. And that is so true. This psalm is really a masterpiece in that in just nine verses It takes us from creation to the Garden of Eden, to the manger in Bethlehem, to Jerusalem, and finally to the enthronement of the Lord Jesus at the Father's right hand. And so really you could say this homemade is almost a h the whole biblical story in miniature form. It's kind of like a movie trailer of the whole story. It's just all put here and summarized. And it's all really about Christ. So I want you to look at the three kings that I see here in this psalm. And uh let's meditate on them. tonight. Let's think about them and hopefully that'll help us as we think about the beauty and the wonder of Christmas and the whole story. First of all, the Creator King. The Creator King, and that's God the Father. Look at verse number one. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth, who has set thy glory above the heavens. Now the first part of this psalm focuses on God, the Creator. And the emphasis here is on God's greatness and how God's greatness is on display for all to see. Again, notice in verse 1 where it says, How excellent is thy name in all the earth. Now in Scripture God has several names. What what name is he referring to? Well, really in verse one, where it says, O Lord, and if you have a King James Version, that's all capital letters, O Lord, and that is what? That's the divine name. the uh Yahweh. And this comes from the name that God revealed to Moses when God said to Moses that he is the I am That's where this name comes from. Yahweh stems from that, the Hebrew word to be, and it points to God being eternal and God being self-existence. God alone is the one who is the only uncreated being in the universe. And so we could say this verse like this, O eternal one, our Lord. When he says, how excellent is your name in all the earth, we could say it like this. People everywhere see how great you are. Oh Lord, our Lord, how great you are. Everyone can see your greatness. God's glory, God's greatness is on display all throughout the earth. You say how? Well, first of all, his creation bears witness to him. Again, in verse 1, where it says, Who has set thy glory above the what? Above the heavens. Now again, David's probably looking up at the stars on a beautiful night, and he thinks that as beautiful and as glorious as those heavens are, God's glory is far above that. It's like the little girl who was walking with her father one night and they were looking up and the stars looked like diamonds and the little girl said, Daddy, if the wrong side of heaven is this beautiful, just think about the right side of what it's going to be like. And God's glory is on the other side. It's above the heavens. And that's what David is saying right here Write down a parallel verse, Psalm nineteen, verse number one. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. All one would have to do if you want to see God's creation, if you wanted to see how great God is, just look at his creation. Just look up into the sky. And look at the glory of the stars. Now, David, that's all he could do. He didn't have telescopes like we have today. Can you imagine if David had a telescope and could look up into the heavens? I mean, the sheer vastness of outer space is astounding. For example, if you could travel at the speed of light, that's 186,000 miles per second. It would take you eight minutes to get to the sun. This again shows you how vast this universe is. To go from the sun to the center of the Milky Way, traveling at the speed of light, it would take you 33,000 years. To get to the center of the Milky Way. The Milky Way belongs to a group of some 20 galaxies known as the local group. To cross that group, you would have to travel at the speed of light for two million years. The local group belongs to the Virgo cluster, part of an even larger local supercluster, which is a half a billion light years across. To cross the entire universe as we would know it, it would take you 20 billion light years. Twenty billion light years traveling at the speed of light to cross the universe as we know it. That gives you some idea of how vast The heavens are. The universe is. And yet David says, his glory is above the heavens. He's greater than the heavens. And that's so true. But I'll tell you what's even more astounding is that scientists and astronomers can see all this and then say, oh, it happened by chance. It happened just at random chance. That is astounding to me. How that someone could look into the heavens and say that. Sir Isaac Newton had a exact replica of our solar system. He had kind of put it together. It was a large you know, ball in the center which was the sun, and then he had the planets kind of revolving around it and then moons revolving around the planets and he had it all uh in order, organized and you know with w with rods and you know, wheels and all that and he put all this together and it was just really an incredible thing for his time. And one day as Newton was studying the model that he had prepared A friend stopped by and looked in. This was a friend who did not believe in the biblical account of creation. And as he looked at what uh that model that Isaac Newton had put together, he said, Man, that is incredible. He said, Who built that for you? And Newton said, no one. He said, what? He said, nobody. I just found it here one day. He said, you know, it was just all came together and miracle of miracles, it all just began to work and, you know, revolve and and system and order and all that. It just happened. And of course his friend got the point. There had to be a creator to all of this, right? And so but Newton's model again is nothing compared to the vastness and the complexity of the universe, truly God has displayed his glory above the heavens. So his creation bears witness to him, but also his children bear witness to him. Look at verse 2. Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength. Now, babies and children express the glory of God. And I think what David, first of all, I think he's wondering at not only creation, but he also wonders at a newborn baby. How can you look at a baby, a newborn baby, and say that, you know, everything came by chance How can you do that? That it happened apart from a a creator. Just write down Ecclesiastes 11, 5 As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. In other words, Solomon is expressing there just the wonder And the the the uh the you know the incredible miracle of a child growing in his mother's womb That creative act. We can't even comprehend it. We can't even put our wrap our mind around it the way God creates life in that way. The biological process of birth is amazing. At nine months after conception, the baby's brain sends a hormone through the placenta and into the mother's pituitary gland. Although it's a complicated chemical, the message is simple. It's ready. I'm ready. It's time. All the baby's complex systems, lungs, heart, gastrointestinal system, nervous system, brain, are all ready to make it on their own. The baby's skull is not yet fused, so it can be pliable enough to fit through the birth canal. As the process starts, the baby's adrenal glands add a shot of stress hormone to help the baby cope with what's about to happen. And the child will not breathe until it has cleared the birth canal. If it breathes too soon, it would suffocate. But if it waited too long, it would suffer brain damage. Just before the mother and child separate, the newborn gets a last-minute blood transfusion through the umbilical cord. The placenta has stored the nutrients the baby needs for this exact moment. There is far more going on, and we don't really understand all of it. But God does, because God did all that. But the cry of the newborn displays God's strength. Displays God's glory, that He's the wise and incredible Creator God. But also, when David says this, out of the mouths of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thy enemies. What he's also referring to here is the praise of a child. When a child praises God, genuinely praises God, it it bears witness to the greatness of God. In fact, God has ordained that the praises of children have a power to it. There's something special about the praises of God that come from the mouth of children. They're so powerful, you know what they can do? They can shut the mouths of the enemies. That's David's point here. Do you ever notice that when children come together and sing there's something special about that? Last week we had our holy night of carols. We had a full house. They weren't here to listen to me. They were here because they wanted to hear those children sing. That's why I came too. You know, I wanted to hear those children praise God. And you know what? There's something special. There's something powerful. When children open up their mouth and praise their creator. And that's David's whole point here. God loves when his name is praised by children. And by the way, do you remember when Jesus on Palm Sunday entered into Jerusalem? And right after that, what does the Bible say he did? He went into the temple, he began to cleanse the temple. Remember that story in the Gospels? He drove out the money changers, he overturned the tables He quoted from the prophet Jeremiah, it is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it again a feast. He healed the blind and the lame there in the temple. And as the children in the temple began to sing praises, this is what Matthew's gospel says. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the marvelous things he had done, and the children who were shouting in the temple, saying Hosanna to the son of David, they became indignant, and said to him, that it is Jesus. Do you hear what these children are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes, have you never read, out of the mouths of babes and sucklings, has he prepared praise? What did Jesus do? He quoted from this psalm right here. Here are these children giving praise to Jesus in the temple. And Jesus says, Yeah, God has ordained that praise come from the mouth of children And there's a power to that. And that praise was so powerful that it shut up the mouths of the Pharisees. What else could they say after that? These young children sang vigorous praise to the Lord Jesus Christ and silenced the enemies of Christ because God the Father designed it that way In the songs, in the songs that we hear from the mouths of children, what they really express is the simple childlike faith that is required for you to come to Jesus Christ. That's what you hear out of the mouths of children. Jesus said in Matthew 18, 3, Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. And so we see here in the first part of this psalm, the Creator King, God the Father, and all of the creation, all of the earth bears witness to his greatness. Creation does and children do. But here's the second king. Write down number two, the crowned king, and this of course is speaking about Adam. Look down in verse number five. For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor. Thou madeest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet. So again in verse number 5, thou hast made him a little lower than the angels. And the him that the psalmist is referring to here is Adam, and then mankind in general. And what is David saying? First of all, he was created in God's image. Adam was created in the image of God. And so the thought really, if you follow what the logic of this is this. What is puny man in comparison to the vast universe. Compared to the vastness of the universe, what is man that God would even think about him? Much less that God would care for us. Do you ever think about that? You think about the vastness of the universe? And who am I in comparison to that? Why does God even think about me? But here's the amazing thing: He does think about you. The very hairs of your head are numbered. And he cares for you very deeply. Years ago there was a famous explorer named William Beebe. He was a good friend of the president at that time, Theodore Roosevelt. And uh every once in a while he would go visit the r the President Roosevelt in his home in in Sagamore Hill. And the two would go outdoors outdoors at night and they would look up into the sky and they would see the stars and they would talk about the galaxies And Theodore Roosevelt would say something like this, I think we're small enough now, let's go to bed. Again, they would see their the vastness of the universe and their smallness. And it keeps everything in perspective, how great God is. Yet in spite of man's insignificance, when God created Adam, you know what God did? God assigned Adam to be His ruler over his creation. Now think about that. And notice it says he made Adam a little lower than the angels in verse 5. For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels. Now we have people today who teach the in the education systems that man is a mammal, one of the animal kingdom, and so they would say that man was made just a little bit higher than the animals. And so they're shocked when children believe that and they start acting like animals. But David didn't say that we're just a little higher than the animals. He said we're just a little lower than the angels. And there's a difference And David is using that expression there to emphasize that man was created in the image of God. That's the whole point there. We reflect the image of God. The great commentator H. C. Loopholt says this: nowhere is man's dignity asserted more clearly and boldly than in this passage. We again remind the reader that the reference is to man before the fall. So before the fall, God created man in his own image, and Adam reflected God's image. So he was created in God's image. But here's the second thing we see: he was crowned as God's region. Look again in verse 5, the second part, which says, and has crowned him with glory and honor. God created Adam as a king to have authority over his creation. Adam was man's representative on earth. So notice some of the key expressions to describe this in verse 5. He was crowned. with glory and honor. Because Adam was given this co-regency where he would reign over God's creation. That gave him a place of authority. That gave him a place of great honor. And verse 6, thou hast made him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. The word dominion here, the Hebrew word Masal, to rule or to reign. God had put it in Adam's authority or in his ability or responsibility to rule and to reign over God's creation. This earth was truly Adam's dominion. He it was all under his dominion. Whenever I think about that word, I think about the amusement park down in Virginia. Is it still around? I think it's is it still around? We used to take kids down there all the time called King's Dominion. Kids loved it. I mean they were all over the place, you know, on roller coasters and all that sort of thing, you know Well let me tell you something. The earth was really the king's dominion for Adam. It was his dominion. God created it all, and then God said, here Adam, you are in charge of all of it. And everything is under your control. It is your dominion. Adam ruled. Look in verse 6 where it says, thou hast put all things under his feet. All living creatures were placed under the rule of Adam. And then it goes on to elaborate, all sheep and oxen, yea, the beasts of the field and the fowl of the air and the fish of the sea. And whatsoever passes through the paths of the sea, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all of the earth. And so Adam's authority over all living things is demonstrated in the book of Genesis when God had Adam name all the living creatures. Just write down Genesis 2, verse 19. And out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them And whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof. And so this demonstrated Adam's authority over all of it. Because when you give something a name, you are showing your authority over it. Over that thing. Adam had total authority over God's creation. And so David praises God's name because all things were put in subjection to Adam. He reigned like a king. That means he had absolute control. Can you imagine telling animals what to do and they actually listening? The earth was a perfect place, and man was the king. There's a problem, however, as you look out on the world today, guess what? Man is not reigning as a king. We're not kings in this world. In fact, what what are we? We're just trying to survive, right? We're trying to make it through this cursed earth You know, the earth now has the curse of God upon it. Why is that? Why are we simply trying to survive? Why are we now living like slaves rather than kings? Well, that's because Adam forfeited that glorious dominion that God had given. How? Adam sinned. And his sin brought a curse to the earth Adam's disobedience brought sin and sorrow and death. All of creation came in rebellion against man after Adam's sin. Man lost his crown. And whereas before the earth gave freely of all of its resources, all man had to do is just accept what the earth would offer and enjoy it. Now, after that, man has to, with great effort and great ingenuity work hard to pull resources out of the earth by the sweat of his brow. He has to work to subdue the curse of the earth that came upon all of creation after Adam sinned. That's why we have, you know, we have diseases. We have Uh we have d destructive powers in the world. You know, we have extremes of heat and cold. We have hurricanes and tornadoes and floods and volcanic eruptions and earthquakes and so on. We have poisonous plants and reptiles. All of this was released after the fall. After Adam's sin, everything that God gave for man's good and blessing became man's enemy. All the earth is in rebellion against Man and man is now ravaged by disease. He's dying and the earth with him. And in the end. He's conquered by death. It's a horrible tragedy. Man went from dominion to depravity to death. He's a fallen creature now. And even the earth knows its own condition. Write down Romans 8, verse 22. For we know that the whole creation groans and in tr is in travail. and pain together until now. And so the earth is groaning because of this this this uh condition that we're in caused by man's sin. Now you say, man, that's pretty hopeless. Well, thank God there's hope. There's hope. There's a third king that's kind of mentioned in passing here in in Psalm 8 Not only is there the Creator King, God the Father, and the Crown King, but here's what I want to call the Christmas King, and that's Jesus. Go back to verse number four. What is man that thou art mindful of him? And the Son of Man that thou visitest him. Now when it says in the Son of Man that thou visitest him, this is referring to man and his fallen condition. The expression son of man might be referring, it might be hinting at our fallen condition. We're all sons of Adam. We bear the fallen image of Adam. But it was in this condition that God visited us. That's the point. God visited us. God came to earth while we were in this terrible plight, while we were in this terrible condition. When it says that thou visitest him, this is messianic. This is pointing to Jesus Christ. You say, how do we know that? Well, because the writer of the book of Hebrews gives a divine interpretation. And the writer of the book of Hebrews Quotes this passage and applies it to Jesus Christ. He says that Jesus was made a little lower than the angels. He's referring to the incarnation when Christ came to this world when he was born. So Hold your place here. Go to Hebrews chapter 2 and verse number 9. And notice how the writer of Hebrews points back to Psalm 8, to this very passage here. Hebrews chapter 2, verse number 9. But he says this, but actually we'll back up to verse 8. Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet, talking about Adam, mankind. Not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him. There it is. Yeah, God put everything under the dominion of Adam, but how is it that we don't see it under him right now? That's the problem. Well, here's the solution, verse 9. But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he by the grace of God Should taste death for every man. That's why he came. That's why Christmas. That's why we have hope. Even in this sin-cursed world world. Why was Jesus born? For the suffering of death, that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man. That is why, again, as I said before, don't get so focused on his birth that you forget the purpose of it, which was his death to taste death for every man. He came as our substitute. Sin brings death. The Bible says the soul that sinneth, it shall die. And the only cure for that is substitution. Someone has to die for sin. Someone has to satisfy God's holy d demands for sin being punished. Someone has to satisfy God's holy wrath for sin, and that someone was Jesus Christ. He came as a substitute, whereas God's wrath should have fallen upon me, it should have fallen upon you, it fell on Jesus Christ on the cross instead. He tasted death for every man And notice what it says in verse number ten, for it became him, for whom are all things, by whom are all things, and bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. Look at the word captain there. That has the idea of pioneer or leader. It refers to someone who does something for someone else. Someone else gets to enter into the benefits that this one does for them. That's the idea there Christ has gone before us. Christ has paid the penalty. He is the one who basically He went before us in several ways as kind of the captain of our salvation. He went before us in obedience. He completely obeyed the law, fulfilling all the law on our behalf. He went before us in suffering. And then he went before us in to glory. Through his resurrection, he's shown us that death is defeated. And so Jesus came to die for our sins and to give us life. When we put our faith in him. But here's another thing, to restore man's glory. Look at verse 10. For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, and bringing many sons unto glory. Christ by his suffering and death came to restore the glory and dominion that man had lost. He came to restore us back to that rightful position of honor One of the Christmas songs we sing around this time of year is Second Adam from above, reinstate us with thy love. That's one of the lines that a hark the herald angels sing. We will reign as kings when we come to know Jesus Christ. Then we are the curse is removed. And God one day says that we're going to reign with him. Just write in your margin, Revelation 5, 9. And they sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof. For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us by g uh to God by thy blood, out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. Revelation five ten and has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. But then there's another thing that the writer of Hebrew says, he came not only to to die for us and to restore us our glory. But to be our elder brother, look at verse eleven. For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all are all one, of one, for which cause God is not ashamed to call them brethren What he's saying is those who the one who's saved and those who are saved are one. This talks about our oneness in Jesus Christ. The word sanctified here has the idea of those who are saved. He that's sanctified, that's Christ. They who are sanctified, that's you and I. We are one. There's an incredible oneness that takes place in salvation. And he is our elder brother. Again, this is an incredible thing here. He's not ashamed to call them brethren. I've met many people who claim to be Christians that are ashamed to associate with Christ. But Jesus is not ashamed to associate with us and call us brethren. And as our brother, he proclaims God's name to us. Look in verse 12, saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. This is a quote from Psalm 2222. It's a picture of Jesus Christ calling believers his brothers in the Old Testament, and he was declaring God's name to them, and by the way, he still does that to us today. Tells us of God the Father. He declares God's name to us. And it's a picture of Jesus singing in the church with his brethren. You know why when you come to church you should sing? Because Jesus is here singing with you. Alright? That's an incredible verse when you think about it. He's singing with us. And then also, as our brother, he shows us how to trust God in times of trial. In verse 13. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I am the children which God has given me. You want to know how to obey the Father, you want to know how to trust the Father, even in difficulty and trials and heartaches, then look at the life of Jesus and follow that example. He's our elder brother. He's the one that can show us how it's done. And that's part of his ministry. But then another reason why. Jesus came to this earth not only to die for every man and to restore man's glory and to be our elder brother, but to defeat the devil, verse 14. For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood He also himself likewise took part of the same that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death. That is the devil The moment Adam sinned in the Garden of Eden, he became Satan's prisoner. And Satan chained man. He put him in shackles. And what is the chain that he used? Well, verse 13 tells us what it was. It was It was the fear of death, actually verse 15, and deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage Man becomes slaves in bondage, and the chain that Satan uses to chain man is the fear of death. But you know what Jesus did with with salvation on the cross when he died for our sins and he resurrected He took away the fear of death. He conquered death. As believers, we don't have to be afraid of death anymore. Because we know what takes place. We know what's going to happen to us when we die. Right? So we might fear the chilly waters of Jordan, but we certainly don't fear what's on the other shore. We don't fear what's on the other side, because Jesus destroyed death. And also it says that he rendered Satan ineffective and destroyed him that had the power of death. The word destroyed there means rendered ineffective, not annihilated. Satan is still around. But he has no claim over us. He is ineffective when it comes to the children of God. The only power that Satan has in our life is whatever you allow him to have. Whatever you allow him to have. But as children of God, he has no claim, he has no authority. Therefore, we don't have to fear because Jesus destroyed the devil. He destroyed the works of the devil. In 1833, a familiar Christmas carol was written, God rest you, merry gentlemen. It became popular in America and we still sing that. Did have we sung that song yet? No, I was just kidding. Okay, let me finish the sermon first here. Um this uh this word Mary here, this is what's interesting about this song. Before we sing it, we need to understand it. The word Mary here, we when you think of Mary, we think of someone who's happy, you know. But in the Old English, when it was written, the word Mary originally meant strong or valiant. And uh the word rest, God rest ye Mary gentlemen. The word rest again means to make strong. So the first line really means God make you strong and valiant. That's the idea there. The comma is not in the hymn, but and explains the second line of the hymn. Let nothing you dismay. What makes us strong and valiant? What is it that keeps us from being dismayed? Remember that Christ our Savior was born on Christmas Day. That's what makes us strong and valiant. And that's the whole essence of the gospel in that verse. To save us all from Satan's power when we have gone astray. O tidings of comfort and joy. And that's why we can have hope, that's why we can have joy, even in the most difficult circumstances, because of Christ, who was born on Christmas Day, who rescued us. From sin who rescues us from Satan's power. And so when you think about Christmas and the three the three kings of Christmas, remember these are the real kings. The Creator King, God the Father, whose glory is above the heavens. The crown king Adam, who, because of his fallenness, brought a curse upon the world. The Christmas King Jesus who visited man, who came into this world, that he might die for us and restore to us our glory. and conquer Satan on our behalf to be our elder brother and show us how to live in this world. That's what Christmas is about. That's the hope that we have in Christ Grace, let's power for prayer tonight. Father, thank you for this beautiful psalm and the message of it. Lord, help us To meditate on it, to focus on the truth of this, that all of our hope that we have it's in Christ and what he has done for us, our King Jesus. Who came to die for us, and who will eventually, ultimately restore all the glory to us, and we will reign with him, and we will enjoy eternal life in heaven. Father, thank you for all the blessings that we have in Christ, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen