Take God's word this morning, please, and I invite you to open to the book of Luke, chapter 22, the Gospel of Luke, chapter 22, and I want you to find verse number 54 On Sunday morning we're doing a series called From Garden to Garden. We're going from the Garden of Gethsemane to the Garden Tomb is where we'll end up. And we're looking at the passion of our Lord Jesus Christ through the narrative of Luke's gospel. And this morning we're going to talk about Luke chapter 22, this specific narrative that records to the denial of Peter. the denial of Peter, and it starts in verse number fifty-four of Luke chapter twenty-two. So look in uh verse number fifty-four. Then took they him and led him and brought him into the high priest's house, and Peter followed afar off. And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and were sat down together, Peter sat among them. But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and said, This man was also with him. And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not. Imagine living in a time when uh Your faith could cost you everything. Your position, your reputation, even your life. That was the world of Thomas Cranmer. He was a godly man and he was part of the English Reformation. In fact he was a key figure in the English Reformation, a a leader. that helped establish doctrine. He believed in the authority of Scripture. He was a leader in the church. But things changed politically, monarchs changed, a new king on the throne, and now the man who was once honored was thrown in prison. And he was asked to recant all that he had written down for faith in Christ and his belief in Christ. And at first he resisted. But there was a continual threat, even a threat of his life, and finally, Thomas Cranmer, he capitulated and he ended up Recanting, he signed the document that they gave him, recanting everything that he had said he believed. Essentially he had denied Christ when he signed the document. He signed it not just once, he did it twice, he did it three times. And just imagine this: here was this man of God, a leader in the church that was now denying the faith that he once proclaimed But months later, something different happened. They were going to bring him out to execute him. They expected him to deny publicly again the faith, hoping to save his life. There was maybe a little bit of hope left if he would deny publicly before the people. But Thomas Kramer, instead of denying, did something surprising. When the fire was lit, he said to the he said to the people, he said, My denials of the faith were not true. He said, I recant of recanting. I believe. I only signed it out of fear and I sinned. I did the wrong thing. But I want you to know I no longer deny Jesus Christ. I affirm everything. that I said I believed. And he said, this right hand that signed the document, I'm going to put it into the fire first. This right hand offended, and so it will burn first. And Thomas Kramer stood for the faith and he died for the faith. He died a champion of the Lord Jesus Christ. When I think about that story, I think about this it this narrative here in the life of Peter. We come here to Luke chapter 22. We read about Peter, the leader of the disciples, a man who loved the Lord Jesus Christ, and he denies Christ, not just one time, but three times he denies the Lord Jesus Christ. Now when Jesus called Peter to be one of the disciples, Jesus actually changed his name His name was Simon. He said your name's now going to be Peter, which means Cethas or Rock. Peter was anything but a rock. I think the Lord was kind of by changing his name saying, This is what you're going to be. Simon actually is a word that means sand. And Peter and his character was changing like the sand, but Jesus was saying, I'm going to make you a rock. And indeed the Lord would do that. But before he could, Peter had to realize his own weakness. Peter would have to be broken before he would become a rock. And that's one of the things that the Lord does in our life He will allow us to fail. He will show us our weakness in order that he might use that in our life to strengthen us for further service. And this is one of the things we learn here about Peter. And as we look at this passage, we can learn some things about failure. We learn how Peter failed, why he failed, and maybe there are some lessons we can learn for our own life, because the question is going to be this, what will our response be when we fail the Lord Jesus? Not if we fail, but when we fail. Because all of us, from time to time, we are going to fail our Lord Jesus Christ. But the question is, how do we respond to that failure? What can we learn from that failure? And we're going to see this as we study the life of Peter here. Let me just show you from this passage several reasons why Christians fail. Here's number one. Reason number one. The reason we fail is because we forget about our spiritual enemy. Now if we really want to understand the story of Peter's failure, We have to go all the way back to chapter or uh in chapter twenty-two to verse number thirty-one. So look at verse number thirty-one, where we see the story really beginning. In verse thirty-one, the Lord said, Simon, Simon. Behold, Satan has desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. This is at the Last Supper Let me give you the setting here. The disciples are arguing over seating arrangements around the table. They were always arguing at scene about one thing or another. And here they're arguing about where they would sit because you know your placement around the table determined your honor. So they were arguing over honor, and that led to arguing over who was going to be the greatest in the kingdom. And so right in the midst of that, Jesus gives a lesson about being a servant. In verse number 29, Jesus says to them And I I will appoint you a kingdom as my father has appointed unto me, that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel In other words, Jesus, after talking about being a servant, says, Look, I don't know why you guys are arguing over seats around the table. Don't you realize that one day in my kingdom you're going to sit on thrones? And here you are arguing about the chief places of where you're going to sit here at this table. So, in the context of this, Jesus gives Peter a warning, which implies to me that Peter was the part of that arguing about who would be the greatest And this is where the warning comes, look at verse thirty one again, and the Lord said Simon, Simon, Behold, Satan has desired to have you that he might sift you as It was in that context of pride and arguing about who was the greatest that Jesus issues this warning to Peter. Wherever there's pride, you can rest assured state Satan is somewhere around. He's somewhere around. Before Peter ever denied Christ in public, there was an unseen battle that was already going on with Satan there. And so Jesus tells Peter that Satan has desired you. That is, he's asked permission to get it to you, Peter. He wants to sift you. What is sifting? Well sifting to understand that you have to picture an ancient threshing floor and what they would do is that they would when they would harvest the wheat, they would take the wheat and it was beaten and then it was tossed up in the air And the chaff would the wind would blow it away and the real wheat would fall down to the to the uh threshing floor. And it has the idea of a violent shaking or a separating process. This is the image that Jesus is using here Sifting is a process of shaking. It is a process of testing. And this is what Satan wants to do. Satan's intention is to sift Peter for his destruction. He wants to prove that Peter's faith is not real. It's nothing but chaff. Satan tries to sift us to destroy us, but here's the distinction. God will allow us to be sifted in order to strengthen us. in order to blow away all the impurities, the weakness. And this is spiritual warfare. And Satan asked it asked a request that to get a Peter And this is what Satan still does today. I want you to know that your greatest enemy, even though the world is a great enemy to us, and even though our own flesh is a great enemy, Satan is your greatest opponent. Don't forget about your enemy, Satan, who wants to get at you. And one of the reasons believers fail is because they seem to forget that they have an enemy. This passage reminds me of the Old Testament story of Job. Remember that story when all the angels presented themselves to the Lord and divine counsel there in Job chapter 1, and Satan came among them? And God asked Satan, puts him on record, Satan, why are you here? And Satan says, Oh, you know, I've been walking up and down in the earth, going to and fro. In other words, the idea was, you know, I'm I have free reign over all the world. God, I mean, where are your godly people? I can do whatever I want. I'm building my stronghold in whatever place I want to. My kingdom is advancing. There's no one who is a threat to me. And then God said, Have you considered my servant Job? The Hebrew word there consider targeted. Have you targeted? Have you thought about Job? Is that why you're here? God already knew what he wanted. And Joe uh Satan was coming to ask permission of God to get at Job. He targeted him. And let me just say this, believer, if you have a desire in your heart to live for the glory of God, you just rest assured Satan at some point is going to target you. He's going to come at you. So don't be surprised. The more you want to live godly The more you're targeted by the devil. And Peter learned this lesson well. Later he would write in his epistle, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion walks about seeking whom he may devour. Peter understood this. So we need to be careful. Many Christians fail to understand that the Christian life is not a playground, it's a battleground. It's a battleground, and we need to remember that. But here's a second reason why Christians fail. We fail to take the warning of Scripture seriously. Notice Peter's response to the warning that Jesus gives. Look in verse number 33 of chapter 22. And it says, And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee both to fr into prison and to death. You don't have to worry about me, Jesus. And Mark's gospel is a little bit more, gives a little more detail. Mark's gospel says this in chapter 14, verse 26. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. Verse twenty seven says, And Jesus says unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night, for it is written, I will smite the shepherd and the sheep shall be scattered. So according to this narrative here in Mark, they leave the upper room. They're headed towards the Mount of Olives. They leave leave Jerusalem through the eastern gate. Remember I told you they would have to cross down through the valley of Kidron, cross over the brook Kidron, which at that time would have blood in the water, blood from the sacrifices being washed downstream. And they would cross over that Creek, and then they would they begin to ascend the Mount of Olives. And while Jesus is taking this journey with the disciples, he actually gives Peter this warning. He actually gives all the disciples this warning. All of you will be offended That is, all of you will stumble. And what Jesus is doing is he's quoting from the Old Testament prophet Zechariah, chapter 13, verse number 7, and he applies it to all the disciples. All of you are going to be offended in me tonight. And Peter's response is, uh, Lord, you mean them, not me. That's not me. I mean, don't please don't put me in the same category as them. I'm ready, Lord. I'm ready to go to prison and to death. You're not talking about me here. And this is Peter's response. This is pretty bold of Peter to try to correct Jesus. I mean I think up until this point Jesus has been 100% accurate on all his predictions, on all of his warnings and everything he says, and here is Peter saying to Jesus, you know, Lord, I know me. And I'm telling you, I'm ready. And what Peter did is what we do many times is when we are warned through Scripture, we don't really take it seriously. Are we serious about what God says when he says something to us specifically in his word? And so there's always danger when we don't take the warnings of Scripture seriously. But then here's the third reason why he failed, and why we fail. We are overconfident about our spiritual condition. This leads to the next problem here: Peter's confidence, overconfidence. I'm ready to go to prison and to death. In essence, Peter is saying, bring it, bring it. Satan wants me no worries. Let him have at me. Self-confidence is one of the greatest doorways to spiritual failure. I think Peter, he's being sincere here, he really means it. I mean he loves Christ, and I believe he truly loves Christ, but he overestimates himself. He doesn't understand how weak he is. He believes that his devotion is stronger than it actually is. He promises more than he's able to deliver. Peter is so confident that he's willing to even contradict Jesus' words. I will never deny you, Lord. Someone said a proud man tempts the devil to tempt him. And that's what Peter is doing here. No wonder Satan asks permission, Lord, let me get at this guy. Let me have at him. I want to sift him like Listen, the moment you say it can't happen to you, guess what? It will happen to you. That's why Paul tells us And first Corinthians ten, wherefore let him that thinks he stands take heed lest he what? Lest he fall That was a warning about overconfidence. And by the way, he was writing to the Corinthians there, who were very overconfident. And several times in 1 Corinthians he said, you know, you're puffed up. You're proud, you're overconfident. And he warns them. There were some that were so puffed up at the church at Corinth that they felt like they could go into a pagan temple, eat a meal with pagan people, and it not affect them spiritually And Paul said, you're overconfident. To do that is to commit idolatry, is to put yourself in a dangerous They had taken Christian liberty far to the extreme. And Paul uses the illustration of idolatry in the Old Testament, and then he gives them this warning. Wherefore let him that thinks he stands, take heed lest he fall. And then he says to them in the next verse, There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man, and God is faithful who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able. But will with the temptation make a way of escape that you might be able to bear it. And then Paul calls upon them to take the way of escape. He says, Flee from idolatry, run, run for your life. They were totally overconfident. And this is the way Peter is right here. Even after being warned from Jesus, he's so overconfident. And notice what Jesus predicts in verse number 34. Notice what Jesus says to him. And he said. I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day before that thou shalt deny me, that deny that thou knowest me. Jesus gives a prediction before the rooster crows You're going to deny me. Now, what did Jesus mean before the the cockro? Well, Jesus would be arrested that night. He would be taken to trial and condemned. That would happen in the morning, really in the early morning hours. Most people think that a a rooster crows right at dawn. I can tell you by experience that is not the case I tell you why one time I was over in Uganda, I was preaching at a uh a pastor's conference, and uh I was pretty tired every evening when I can't got in and would fall asleep and a nice sound sleep. And right about 3 a. m. in the morning, right outside my window was a rooster that began to crow and he did it fr uh from 3 a. m. all the way to 6 a. m he continued to crow I remember I thought if I had a gun I would be willing to make a donation to Chick-fil-A. But he just kept crying way before the dawn And what the Lord Jesus is saying here is that before the morning hours, before dawn, did you know that the Jews divided the night into four parts? Evening was from six to nine. Then there was the midnight time from 9 till 12 a. m. And then there was the time that they called the cockroach. That was from 12 till 3 a. m. And then there was the morning which was from 3 a. m. to 6 a. m. And so by the time the disciples reached Mount the Mount of Olives, it was right around midnight. And when Jesus said this to Peter He was actually just saying, in just a few hours, just a few hours away, before the cock crow, before really 3 a. m. , Peter, you're going to deny me. Peter didn't realize he was that weak. He couldn't comprehend that he was that weak. But he was going to learn a good lesson for him and really for all of us to learn. God is really doing us a a mercy when he shows us how weak we really are Because we all have the tendency to be blind about ourselves. We need to learn that we don't have the strength that we need to remain faithful to Jesus. We can do nothing without Him. Nothing without him. And we need to be constantly dependent upon him, or we will surely fail. So we fail when we are overconfident about our spiritual condition. And here's the fourth thing. We we fail when we neglect the necessity of prayer. And we've already talked about this last time, but in Luke chapter 22, verse number forty, when they go into the Garden of Gethsemane to pray, Jesus says to them, Pray that you enter not into temptation. And then Jesus goes a little further and he prays in verse 45 of chapter 22. When he arose up from prayer and it was come to the disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow. Verse 46, why sleep ye? Rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. Remember, I told you Luke emphasizes prayer more than any other of the gospel writers. And the reason is very simple here. They needed the protection. Prayer is not just to get things, it is to get protection from God for the trials that we may enter in or the temptation that may come. If we don't pray, we're not going to be ready for it. We're going to be vulnerable. And Jesus is praying. Jesus is getting ready for that hour of darkness, but Peter is sleeping. What a contrast. And this contrast is put here to teach us a lesson. Prayer is God's means of strength and support, but Peter neglected it. He was so confident that he felt like he didn't need to pray. So he just slept. Instead of depending on God, he rested in himself. He failed when he neglected to pray and friend. That is always a major mistake in the Christian life. How is your prayer life? Because the greatest expression of your dependence upon God is how you pray. Do you pray? Do you express that utter dependence upon the Lord? So we fail when we forget about our spiritual enemy. when we fail to take the warning of Scripture seriously, when we're overconfident about our spiritual condition, when we neglect the necessity of prayer. But here's number five. We fail when we follow Christ at a distance. Now go to verse number 54. Really, this is where the denial begins to take place. Look at verse number 54. They come and they arrest Jesus in the garden in verse 54. Then took they him and led him and brought him into the high priest's house, and Peter followed afar off. These four words are a sermon in themselves. Peter followed afar off. He didn't fully abandon Christ. But neither neither did he stay near him. He followed, but he followed at a safe distance, a comfortable distance. This is how believers live. Many times, many believers, they don't outrightly deny Christ, but they don't want to be too close either. They don't want to be too closely identified either. Peter wants just enough distance to avoid any danger, enough distance to protect himself, enough distance just to blend in, enough distance just to stay comfortable. And at that distance, what he does is he places himself in the wrong company. And that'll also be true of you. If you follow Christ afar off, you'll find yourself in the wrong company. And that's what happened here with Peter. Notice verse number 55, what it tells us in verse 55. And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, And were set down together. Peter sat down among them. Now he is warming himself at the enemy's fire. I mean, that whole image there is so striking. When a man drifts from closeness to Christ, he'll often seek warmth somewhere else. And normally it's with worldly people He finds comfort among those that do not love Christ. And he begins to adapt to the atmosphere that is around him. And then the peer pressure begins. Look at verse number 56. And a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire and earnestly looked upon him. And said, This man was also with him. The word for maid here is a Greek word that means little girl, a little servant girl. She just walks up. You ever had a child just walk up and just stare at you? You know, children do that sometimes. They'll walk up and stare at you and you want to stop and say, what are you looking at? And here this little girl, she just walks up to Peter and she stares at him and she goes, you know what? I think you were one of his disciples. You were with him. You're with him. And then another confronts him in verse 58. And after a little while another saw him and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am nine. And then the third insists, look at verse sixty and uh verse thirty fifty-nine rather, and about the space of one hour after Another confidently affirmed saying of the truth, this fellow was also with him, for he is a Galilean. Verse sixty, Peter said, Man, I know not what thou speakest sayest Three times. Now remember, Peter was so bold. Oh Lord, I'm ready to go to prison. And a little girl comes up to him. Not a Roman centurion, not a not religious leaders, not a tribunal None of that. A little girl causes Peter to fold like a house of cards. You were one of them. Three times he's approached. Three times he denies. Woman, I know him not. Man, I am not. I know not what thou sayest. Three times And Luke's gospel doesn't mention it, but other gospels say Peter cursed. In Matthew 26, verse 74, then began he to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man. He was so intense in his denial that he offered a curse and a oath Now, when we think of curse, it's not the way we curse today, using profanity. The word has the idea of calling down a curse upon himself if he's not truthful. You know, I'm making a swearing by an oath, may God judge me. May I be cursed if I'm lying. So he's so emphatic in his denials. And so this is what he's doing. He's invoking a oath. He's calling down curses. Fear has completely, totally mastered Peter at this time. Peer pressure is real power. And Peter is no match for his flesh. After all the boasting, he just crumbles. You know, again, it's not before a tribunal, it's just before normal, common people. Not before an army, not before some judges, just ordinary people. And you know, that's really how denial of Christ takes place in ordinary settings. Silence when we should be speaking. Compromise when we should be standing. Embarrassment when the name of Christ comes up. We don't want to talk about it. We kind of walk away from it. We don't take the opportunities to speak a word for our Lord. Peter's fall reminds us of how weak we are. We don't even stand in this world in our uh for Christ when the the opportunity comes because we're so overpowered with fear at times. So Peter's Paul reminds us of how weak we really are without Him. We follow Christ at a distance. Here's the last thing I want you to see. We fail Christ when we fail to truly acknowledge and repent of our sin. Because look at verse number 60. Notice what it says. And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately while he had spake, the cock crew, the rooster crows. Look at verse 61. And the Lord turned. At that very moment they were bringing Jesus out of the hall, and the Lord turned and looked upon Peter, and Peter remembered the word of the Lord. How he had said unto him before the cockrow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And Peter went out and wept bitterly There's no way to fully convey in words what that look communicated at that moment. There's just no way to really communicate it. It wasn't a look of surprise because Jesus had already predicted this is what's going to happen. It was not a look of hatred because Jesus loved Peter. It was not a look of final rejection because Jesus said to Peter, Peter, I'm praying for you. When you go through this sifting, I pray that your faith not fail. It was a look of truth. I think it was a look of wounded love, a look of searching grace from our Lord. A look that said, Peter, I told you. Peter, I still know you, and I still love you. But it was a look that absolutely shattered Peter's heart. And the Bible says he wept bitterly. This is the beginning of his recovery. Peter doesn't shrug this off. And this is the right response. He doesn't harden himself. He doesn't justify what he did. He goes out and he weeps bitterly. And these are tears of repentance. The question is: when you fail Christ, what will your response be? Because there are some people that run away from Christ when they fail him, but the proper response is to run to Christ. Run to him in true repentance. Jesus will always receive and restore a truly broken person and a person with a repentant heart. This is the difference between Peter and Judas. We already saw how Judas betrayed the Lord. Peter and Judas both failed Christ. One denied, one betrayed him. But the difference was not in the size of their sin, it was in how they responded to their sin. The Bible says Judas in despair went out and he ended up hanging himself. He he wallowed in his guilt and in his shame, and rather than running to Christ, he ran away. Peter here, he he we he weeps bitterly and he repents. It wasn't just regret. Judas isolated himself. Peter stayed within the circle. And Peter trusted in the word that he heard from Jesus. That I pray for you that your faith failed not. Judas trusted in his own feelings. Judas listened to his guilt instead of seeking mercy. Peter held on to the promise of Jesus Christ and he repented. And Peter was restored and Judas was ruined. True repentance is always the doorway to complete, full restoration by Jesus. It always is. Again, one of the greatest mercies Christ can give a failing disciple is to let him feel the bitterness of his sin. When God helps you to see your sin. When he helps you allow you to feel the bitterness of that sin. That's when repentance comes. And that is a mercy of God. Because when that true repentance is there, that's when we can run to Jesus Christ and we will receive mercy from him. And not only that, he will use that to strengthen us. Remember what Jesus said? When you are converted, go out and strengthen the brethren. Peter used this. Use this to strengthen others. So what do we learn from Peter's failure? Well, we can forget the reality of the enemy. Sometimes we don't take those warnings of the Lord seriously. Sometimes we can be overconfident. We neglect the necessity of prayer. We may follow Christ at a distance. We need to remember to run to Christ in true repentance when we do fail. But that's the hope of this passage here. That's the hope. That's what we take from this whole thing. Not that we that not that we we won't deny Christ at times or that we won't fail Christ because we will So the message is do not fail, because in reality we will, but the message is this, don't trust yourself. Stay near to Christ. Take the warnings of God's word seriously. Watch and pray. And when you do fail, run to the Savior with true repentance. And he will indeed restore you. And he'll use you in a greater way if you come in true brokenness and repentance. Let's bow for prayer together. Maybe there are some folks here today and this resonates with you because maybe you feel like in some way you have failed your Lord. And again the question is not if we fail, but when. What is our response? You know what? We have a Savior who's praying for us. And he's praying for you. And he wants you to run to him in mercy, for mercy, with true repentance, so that he may restore you and use you. All this is things that God will use to strengthen you if you respond in the right way. So would you take a moment right now? Would you just run to the Lord? Just run to him in prayer. There's only two responses. You can run from him or run to him. You can believe that his grace is greater than your sin. Or you can believe that the lie that you've gone too far, and that's not true. His grace is always greater than your sin. And Peter shows us the path that we have to take. The question is not have you failed Christ, the question is what will you do now? What will you do now? If you're here today and you've never put your faith in Jesus Christ as your Savior, I want to reach out to you and invite you to come to Christ this very moment. He'll hear your prayers right where you are. Just say, Lord, be merciful. To me a sinner and save me. Save me, Lord. In a moment, we're going to sing a hymn of invitation. We'll have some ministers up here in the front. If you have a spiritual need, please come. We'll take you aside and pray with you and help you Let's all stand together if God's speaking to your heart and you need to come, friend, you come. You do what the Holy Spirit says. We're going to sing, Lord, I believe, or