Bibles tonight open to the book of First Kings, chapter seven. We are studying the kings of Israel. in 1st and 2 Kings. We're looking at their life, we're looking at their successes and their failures and learning lessons for us. Why would we do this? Well The New Testament tells us that these stories in the Old Testament were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. Paul said to the Corinthians, these stories are examples unto us so that we can learn from them these lies in the Old Testament. And so we're learning from the life of Solomon right now. We're looking at his life uh as the king of Israel that followed in the footsteps of David. And tonight I want to talk about the danger of distraction. There's a story about uh a baseball story about Yogi Berra, who was the catcher for the Yankees, and Hank Aaron, who was the great home run hitter. for the Braves and ha Hank Aaron was at the plate and Yogi Bear was trying to distract him while he was at the plate and he said to him, he said, Hank, you're holding the bat wrong. He said, you're supposed to hold the bat where where you can read the trademark. If you don't hold the bat right, you're going to crack the bat. And he kept yapping at uh Hank Aaron. And Hank Aaron ignored him and he took the next pitch and hit it out of the park for a home run As Hank Aaron rounded the bases and stepped on home, he looked at Yogi Beira and he said, I didn't come up here to read. And uh So it's very easy to be distracted. And I think the devil works a lot of times through distraction. You can't do the great things if you're distracted by good things. You uh can't do the big things if you're constantly distracted by small things. And we're going to learn a lesson about this here in chapter 7. Really, we're going to look at just these first 12 verses here. And the lesson we can learn from this is that God's people have to always guard against the danger of drifting off course and substituting good things for the main thing. And we're going to learn that as we look at this passage here. Now 1 Kings chapter 7 verses 1 to 12. It might not jump off the page at you, but there are several things I want to point out about this. First of all, what is this about? This is all about the Solomon's royal palace complex. This is about his his house that's being built. We have really two houses that are talked about in chapter 6, 7, and 8 There's God's house, of course, the temple, and the but this here is Solomon's house. This is his palace complex. This was really a a complex of buildings that were kind of interconnected buildings. And some of these buildings had formal titles. For example, look in verse number, look, we'll start at verse 1. The Solomon was building his own house 13 years. And he finished all his house. Verse 2, and he built also the house of the forest of Lebanon. There's one house there. This building kind of receives its name because it was a virtual forest of huge cedar pillars. This was a huge building. It was about 150 feet by 75 feet. And this seemed to have served as a treasury and an armory for Solomon, possibly also the residence of the royal bodyguard. And then in verse uh on down you have the Hall of Pillars, uh and down in verse number uh verse six, the Hall of Pillars. And he made a porch of pillars, the length thereof was fifty cubits, and the breadth thereof 30 cubits. And so this is a porch of pillars. This is no doubt kind of a covered colonnade, if you can imagine that in your mind. It had a roof, but it had no sides to it. It connected the house of the forest of Lebanon to the next building, which would be the Hall of Justice or the Hall of Thrones, look at verse number seven. Then he made a porch for the throne where he might judge even the porch of judgment And it was covered with cedar from one side of the floor to the other. So this Hall of Throne, or also called the Hall of Judgment. was a building that was kind of open in the front and it would have three sides to it so people can go down the hall um of pillars. They come to the hall of thrones or the hall of judgment And this is where Solomon's throne was located. This was also the place where he would administer justice. He would dispense justice to the visitors that were perhaps waiting. there in that hallway to present their case before the king. And then there was the palace. So go down in verse number eight and his house wherein he dwelt had another court within the porch, which was like the work. And so he had his own residence there. Um We don't really know a lot about this structure except that it had within it a courtyard and it was built on the same order as the Hall of Justice. And then also connected was a house for Pharaoh's daughter. If you look at the end of verse number eight, Solomon made also a house for Pharaoh's daughter, whom he had taken to wife, like unto this porch. And so this would be the Queen's private residence. And this would be directly behind the palace And the Bible says that all the stones that were used were the finest quality of stones. The wood that was used was cedar wood. And so this was all beautiful. This was the nicest palace of its day in the ancient Near East at that time. He spared no expense Now, what can we learn about this? What are we to make of these buildings? What are the spiritual significance for us as the people of God? Well, there are several positive things we can see in these buildings. First of all, you know, Solomon needed a a place to live. He was the king after all. He needed a palace, and by definition, a palace was a place where the king lived. And uh this is part of the royal dignity that belonged to him by divine right. He's not a private person, he has a public office, and so he needs to have a nice Palace, a nice home to live in. And there's a sense in which really wasn't just his home, it was the home of the entire nation. And so it represented all of Israel. The second thing about this house that's good, and that is that it was built next to the house of God, right? Next to the temple. Uh this is where he chose to put his house. This brings his kingship close to the presence of God. I mean God would be a good neighbor to have, wouldn't you think? Right next to the Lord in his house You know, and there are even ways in which Solomon's house resembled the house of God. You know, people, what do they say? Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. Well, that's certainly true with Solomon's palace It used the same materials that the house of the Lord used, the same design basically was used there. Um in fact the Puritan Matthew Henry wrote this. He said Solomon's own house was like that of the temple, so well did he like the model of God's courts that he made it his own. And really the close association between the two houses showed that Solomon the king was under God's divine rule that he was the royal son of God, provided that the king was careful not to get his priorities reversed and to think of the temple as his own personal chapel. Uh as long as he had that right attitude there. And another thing about these buildings is you have to remember that these were used for official use Kind of the same way we use uh the official buildings in D. C. Um they are used to to for matters of state, important matters. This would certainly be true of the House of the Hall of Judgment. that we saw and and in fact this would be Israel's Supreme Court building. This would be the place where Solomon would give justice to people that came to him. And by the way, that's one of the primary responsibilities of the king is to administer justice. And Solomon certainly took this seriously. He prayed this in Psalm 72, verse 1. Give the king your justice, O God. May he judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with Justice. And so that would be the place where those prayers were answered. And also there's a sense in which this hall of justice in a way reminds us of the day that we're all going to stand before the son of David, a greater son of David that is King Jesus. And in that time he will be the judge. Today Jesus is a merciful Savior, but tomorrow he will be a righteous judge. I suggest that you settle your case before you get to court I suggest that you settle your case before you get to Jesus because if we believe in the crucifixion of Jesus for our sins We will not be condemned. We will not be judged based on our sins. We will have mercy. We will have eternal life. But also another thing about these these buildings is that it's really part of Solomon's glory. Part of it was the splendor of the royal palace Since Solomon was the king, it was virtually his duty to live in a beautiful house. It also represented the blessings from God, who had promised Solomon riches However, having said all of that, all of those good things, the writer seems to be indicating in this passage here there are several things that are of concern. There are several possible dangers that are lurking here for Solomon. Now let me just remind you again of the reason for 1 and 2 Kings. I think it's a good time just to remind you about this. What is the purpose of these books? What is the whole overall message of it? Well, let me just remind you that in 1 and 2 Kings, it takes the reader from the glory days of Solomon to the exile of Babylon. It takes it from the zenith of Israel's days to the very bottom, from the from the top to the bottom. When in the end of the of these two books, what's happened to Israel? They have been carried off into captivity, the temple has been destroyed, there's no longer a king of the Davidic dynasty on the throne All is lost, it seems like. And the writer of these books is writing to a people that are in exile, and they are wondering what happened. Has God failed? When Nebuchadnezzar invaded the city, the temple was destroyed, the king was pulled off the throne, and was Marduk greater than Yahweh? How could God allow this to happen? Remember I told you the aim of this book is to restore the faith of some people that were questioning God by answering this one question, whose fault was it? Well it certainly wasn't God's fault. It wasn't God's fault that Israel was in exile. If you want to know whose fault it was, you look at the kings. You look at their lives. Did they obey God's covenant You see, the fact that Israel was in exile doesn't mean that God failed. In fact, what it means is God has been faithful to his word. Because God said all the way back in the beginning that if you obey me, I'll bless you But if you disobey me, what? Curses will come down on you, and you'll be carried away into captivity. And so it wasn't God's failure. It was a failure of kings. Because they didn't follow God with all their heart. And this begins, sadly, in the life of Solomon. One could say it like this: the seeds of Israel's destruction were planted by Solomon. During his reign, when he was not following God with all of his heart. And here the writer of Kings shows us that Solomon's heart was already being distracted from following the Lord. And we want to see this in three areas. There are three areas where Solomon was distracted, and we need to be careful not to be distracted in these same areas in our own life. What's the first area? I would say priorities. Priorities Beware of putting your house ahead of God's house. Now, you say, where do you see this? Well, the fact that the writer inserts this narrative, verses one to twelve, in the middle of a construction report about the temple, God's house. The first part of chapter 6, actually all of chapter 6, talks about the temple being built And then you have the first 12 verses in chapter 7. It has nothing to do with the temple. It's all about Solomon's house. But then in verses 13, on to the end of the chapter, and then in chapter 8, it's all about God's house again. So you could say that this this narrative, these twelve verses are kind of awkwardly inserted into the middle of a building report about the temple And why would the writer do that? Why would he awkwardly insert this narrative that is out of sequence? About Solomon's house. Well, I think there's a purposeful contrast. Go back to chapter 6 and look at verse 38. Look at the end of verse 38. Where it says, so was he seven years in building it. That is, he's giving a wrap-up about how long it took for Solomon to build the temple of the Lord, the house of the Lord. How long did it take them to build God's house? It took them seven years. But look at chapter 7, verse 1. But Solomon was building his own house, what? 13 years. And so there's a purposeful contrast here. And the writer is emphasizing this. He's making a contrast between God's house. And between Solomon's house. Solomon spent seven years on the house of the Lord. But he spent almost double that on his own house. And so there's a concern here that Solomon's priorities are not right, that he's putting, in a sense, his house above God's house. And we have to be careful not to make that same mistake. The worship of God and the building of the spiritual temple through the church, this ought to be our primary goal in life God's house needs to have a great priority, the highest of priority in our life as we worship the Lord. It's not something that, you know, take it or leave it type thing And sadly there's a lot of Christians that treat it like that nowadays, especially when all this stuff going on, that God's house is kind of a take it or leave it proposition. My fear is that people are beginning to think more and more that way in these days in which we're living We are made to worship God. We are made to come together and publicly worship God. We are made to glorify God. And we glorify him most directly when we gather together with his people and sing his praise and publicly worship him. And we're also called to invite other people to join us in giving glory to God. This is why we show the love of Christ to our neighbors. This is why we share the gospel around the world. It is so that other people can become a part of God's spiritual temple in Jesus Christ. And yet it just seems like all the cares of this life easily distract us from the highest priorities of the kingdom of God. I think one of the biggest distractions for Americans, especially wealthy Americans, is our living situation. All the time that we focus on our own house. Think of all the trouble we take to find the right place to live. And then to pay for it. And then to figure out how to furnish it. Think about all the effort it takes to move from one place to another. Maybe I'm saying this because I just moved. I hate moving. Most Americans, someone said most Americans take more stuff on the average family vacation than many people in the world own. I think that's true. Think too of all the time it takes to fix things around the house, let alone it uh to attempt any kind of major home improvement And all the things that it takes to run a household. Now there's nothing wrong with having a nice house. There's nothing wrong with having these things. In fact, it is God who freely gives us most graciously all of these things to enjoy. But we want to be very careful not to put our house ahead of God's house. and thereby make our house an idol. And rather than drawing closer to the Lord by thanking God for the good things that He gives us, We our homes threaten to absorb all of our attention, attention that should be spent in worshiping God and serving God. We're using that time. on our own house rather than on the things of the kingdom of God. You know what I think we need in in America today? We need a a simplification. We need to get rid of all the junk. We need to get uh stop being distracted so much by our things. In his book, Gods That Fail, the writer talks about this. He says this, the people of the modern West and the middle class of non-Western cultures are better fed, better housed, better equipped with health care than those in any previous age in human history. But paradoxically, they also seem to be the most fearful, the most divided, the most superstitious, the most bored generation in human history. All the labor-saving devices of modern technology have only enhanced human stress. And modern life is characterized by restless movement from place to place, from one experience to another In a frenetic world of purposelessness and uh and purposelessness activity, I should say, excuse me. Stumbled over that one. I think it would be better for us to put a lower priority on our living situation and a higher priority on the kingdom of God and on the house of God. Now think of it like this. There are two houses here in these narratives. One house, God's house, is the focus. All of chapter six, and really you can include chapter five, the preparation for it. Chapter six, the building of it. All the rest of chapter 7 and chapter 8, all of that focuses on the house of God, which the Bible says it took Solomon seven years to build. The writer only gives 12 verses to Solomon's palace. He's de-emphasizing Solomon's palace. And the Bible is keeping things in their proper priority. The Holy Spirit's not concerned at all about some of the things about Solomon's house as much as he is about the house of the Lord. And so we need to keep this as our own priority. We need to be careful that we don't envy others' things, their homes. In fact, I hear a popular TV show is called Extreme Makeover Home Edition. I've never seen the that show personally, to be honest with you. But I hear it's a great show. I hear it's a popular show because each week a family, a kind of family kind of hard hard you know, who is down on their luck, a hard luck story. Family is chosen and uh these experts, these uh designers and builders build in one week a house And the great part of the show is at the end of the week they unveil the house to the family for the first time and that all sounds really great. And the success of the show is really fueled by this this these beautiful homes and everyone wanting a a home like that. And it's all good and fine, but let me just remind you what the Bible tells us that we're not to covet our neighbor's house Exodus 20, 17. Why would God tell us this? Well, he knows how prone we are to envy the places where other people live. And so really we have to examine our own heart in this. Am I living where I live for the glory of God? Am I content with the living space that God has provided me? Have I brought my longing for a better home under the kingship of Jesus Christ. Is God's kingdom more important than my own house? Second area. Priorities, beware of putting your house ahead of God's house. But secondly, people. Beware of putting people ahead of God. Now there's another indicator here in this chapter, if you look down at verse number eight, we already saw this, but we'll look at it again at the end of verse eight, where it says Solomon made also a house for Pharaoh's daughter, whom he had taken to wife. Like under this porch. Now apparently the queen wanted a place of her own. And the question you would ask yourself is what gives her the great priority over all the other wives that Solomon had? We know According to the writer that Solomon had many wives. At the end of the story, he would have three hundred wives and seven hundred concubines. And so why does she get the priority? Maybe he's just, maybe she's the primary queen. Maybe it worked that way. Or could it be that Solomon is trying to impress her father? The Pharaoh, for political reasons. After all, her father gave to Solomon as a wedding gift the city of Geezer And there's no doubt that when Solomon married her, he married her for political reasons. That's what they did back in those days to form these alliances, to strengthen their own ability to trade and military help. And so the Bible tells us that Solomon imported a lot of goods and stuff from Egypt. He got horses from there. He got chariots from there. And some scholars believe that this house for Pharaoh's daughter may have been also the place where all the royal harem stayed It could be, but it's not an accident that the writer points out this detail in the building of Solomon's palace. And what is he showing us? This. Why is he showing us this? Again, he's telling us here that Solomon's heart is not completely committed to following the word of God like God said She would eventually become a stumbling block to Solomon. In fact, did you know in Deuteronomy chapter 17 there are certain warnings that God gave to kings? They're not to multiply horses unto themselves. They're not to cause the people to return to Egypt, or that is, to lean upon or depend upon Egypt. They're not to multiply wives, the Bible says in Deuteronomy 17, 17. And they also, they're not to multiply to themselves silver and gold. All of these things that are being violated by Solomon. And why did God command these things? Because God didn't want the king or the people to be more dependent upon Egypt than on him. And so, and by the way, Egypt was the place That it seemed like all throughout the history of Israel, Israel turned to when they needed help instead of turning to the Lord. So the therefore in Scripture you see a lot of these warnings that God gives to the people about depending on Egypt. God hates it when we choose to place our trust in other things rather than trusting in Him. And by the way, this all began in the life of Abraham. Do you remember when Abraham first went into the land of Canaan and there was a drought? And what did Abraham do? What was the natural thing to do? The reasonable thing to do was to go down to Egypt, go down to that place where there was the Nile River that that basically provided the fertile land and reliable food in times of famine and Abraham went down to Egypt and you remember that when he did he got into a lot of trouble. And he had to end up retreating and going back in shame. And then he kind of set a pattern there in the life of Abraham as throughout the history of Israel. People were constantly running back to Egypt. In Isaiah 30, verse 1, God said this, Woe to that rebellious children, to the rebellious children, saith the Lord, that taketh counsel but not of me. And they cover with the covering, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin, that walk down into Egypt and have not asked it my mouth. To strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt. Here's God pronouncing a woe to those who go down to Egypt for their help. And again in Isaiah 36, verse 6, behold, you are trusting in Egypt, that broken reed of a staff, which will pierce the hand of any man who leans on it. God's give kind of giving a picture here. You ever have a staff and you lean on it? But what if that staff is kind of split at the top? What happens if you lean on it? It'll pierce your hand. Um it would leave a little mark and it'll kind of look like a snake bite. And you remember that the Pharaoh had on his headdress a a serpent, right? There's a sense in which he's kind of giving that imagery. If you depend upon Pharaoh, you're gonna get snake bit. Don't depend upon Egypt. Woe to those that put their trust in Egypt. And also multiply to themselves horses and chariots. The psalmist would later write, some trust in chariots, some trust in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. And it wasn't long it wasn't long or long until Solomon began to turn his heart away from the Lord. Look in chapter 11. Fast forward to chapter 11 real quick and look down to verse number 1. But King Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians, and Hittites. And it says in verse 2 at the end that um well actually we'll read the whole thing of the nations concerning which the Lord said unto the children of Israel, ye shall not go into them. Neither shall they come unto you, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods, and Solomon clave unto these in love And so in verse 6, and Solomon did evil in the sight of the Lord and went not fully after the Lord, as did David his father. So Pharaoh's daughter ended up being a stumbling block, tripping him into idolatry, opening the door for him to do this more often with other foreign women. And so basically Solomon honored her, put her above God, put her in a place where uh she would could could could basically take away his His passion, his love for God. We should never allow people to come between us and God Never. God judged the household of Eli because he put his children ahead of God. Jesus said later in the New Testament if any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren And what Jesus meant was that the love we have for Christ ought to be so great that the love that we have for other loved ones, in comparison, looks like hatred That Christ must have priority in our life. We must love him supremely. So Solomon got distracted in the area of priorities. He got distracted in the area of people. Let me give you a third area that he was distracted, a third and final, with plenty. Plenty. Again, I'll just call your attention to verse 9 of chapter 7. where it talks about the expense that Solomon put into building his palace. All these were of costly stones, it says there. Look down in verse ten. And the fountain, or excuse me, the foundation was of costly stones, even great stones. Look in verse eleven. And above were costly stones. Notice how the writer just repeats the word costly. These were expensive. Again, Solomon ex uh uh faced this distraction of living in luxury and extravagance. He spared no expense. in making his palace. Not only were the buildings large, they were covered in cedar, and the stones were costly. There as well. According to one commentator, he writes this, the whole project smacks of affluence and indulgence. And by the way, Jeremiah, now we don't get any warning here in this passage. It's kind of implied here that Solomon is distracted. A little bit by extravagance. He's distracted by uh building a bigger house, an expensive house. He's distracted by other people that are turning his heart away from the Lord. He's extra he's uh uh distracted by the extravagance. that he's putting into this house. Jeremiah would later warn kings. Listen to Jeremiah 22 talking about kings. He said that saith, I will build me a wide house and large chambers. Jeremiah pronounced God's will against any king who says, I'm going to build myself a great house with spacious rooms, who will cut out windows for his palace, and panels the interior with cedar And then later on, Jeremiah asked a question, and he could have asked Solomon this question if he were living in the same time. Do you think that you're a king because you compete in cedar? It's not living in a great palace that makes you a king. It is love for God with all your heart. It is concern for justice and righteousness and the things that are nearest to the heart of God. But Solomon spent a fortune on his palace with just the stones. They're described costly. And so again, the warning here is beware of self-indulgence. Beware of the danger of pursuing nicer things above your pursuit of God and his kingdom. Now again, it's not wrong to have nicer things, but the nicest things are not physical things. It's your relationship with God. It's the things of the kingdom of God. And we must make sure that we don't allow the love of nicer things to distract us from the greatest things, the greater things. Again, God wants to give us nice things, but he wants to be able to trust us with them. And so the question again we have to ask ourselves is How much am I really investing in God's house, in God's kingdom, in the things that matter most to God, as opposed to investing in my own life? my own house. Now let me close. I'm going to give you one passage as we close tonight. There's a great illustration of this in the book of Haggai. So go to the book of Haggai. Let me tell you how to get there. Go to the last book in the Old Testament. Make a lesson, come back two books, and you're at the book of Haggai. It's a be careful, you might pass by it because it's only two chapters, probably just one page in your Bible. It's a very small epistle or minor prophet letter, we could say. And uh what's going on here? Well, the children of Israel, this is many, many years later. This is in 535 BC. This is a few hundred years later down the road. Israel has been in exile. The temple in Jerusalem has been destroyed. In fact, the whole city of Jerusalem has been in waste. And now it's time for the children of Israel to be go back to Jerusalem to repatriate the land. The exile is over. And now they're they have to go back to Jerusalem and they have to rebuild. And where do they start? They start with rebuilding the the what? The temple. That has to come first because the worship of God is the most important thing. And so they, in 535 B. C. , they lay the foundation for the temple, but right after they lay the foundation, the work stops. For some reason, they just stop building. And 16 years go by. And nothing happens. You know what happened? They got distracted. They got caught up in the routine of life. They got caught up in farming and building their own house and raising families. They got used to life without the temple, without going to the house of the Lord, without seeking God And the people are lethargic, they're indulgent, they're indifferent, they had a carefree attitude. The house of the Lord no longer has a priority. So what does God do? God raises up a prophet, Haggai, and it's his job to stir them up. It's his job to show them that they got distracted, that they had the wrong priorities. And so it's his job to point out their sins and to get them to put God first again in their life In short, Haggai is saying, give God the supreme place in your life. You haven't been doing it. You need to do it again. So look down at verse number two. Thus speaks the Lord of hosts, saying This people say the time is not come. The time that the Lord's house should be built. Then came the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet, saying, Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your sealed houses, and this house lie waste. And so he says in verse number five, now therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Basically, Heggai calls upon the people to examine their hearts because they were using all these excuses. It's not time to build God's house. Well it's been They're you know, without being built, just the foundation for sixteen years, and they're still saying, Oh, it's not the time, it's not the right time It's not the right time to put the priority on God's house again. It's just not right. We don't feel like it's the right time. And then what what Haggai does is he points out the real problem. It was selfishness. He says to them, Is it time for you to dwell in your sealed houses? The Hebrew word here translates a word that actually means extravagant houses. These were houses that had the idea of being finished on the inside with cedar. Now here they are. They're living in their own house. They had a lot of time to build their own house. In fact, they built nice houses for themselves. Sealed houses. They had time to beautify their own house, but they had no time at all for God's house. They were putting their own desires ahead of God. And because of that, God was beginning to judge them. Look at verse 6. Ye have sown much and bring in little. Ye eat, but ye have not enough. Ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink. Ye clothe you, but there is none warm And he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes. In other words, financially they were being judged. They're not getting enough to eat. The harvest was poor. They had every reason to believe that they should get a good harvest in the land because the land had rested for over seventy years, and yet they would look for much. They looked with great expectation, but they weren't getting enough wine Because God says in verse 9, ye look for much, and lo, it came to little, and when you brought it home, I did blow upon it. Why saith the Lord of hosts? Because of my house that is waste, and ye run every man unto his own house. God says, you're not going to be blessed. You can work all you want to. You can save all you want to, but the stock market is not going to be good. And you might lose that bank that that money that's in your bank. You know, and a lot a lot of people talk about financial security because you got your money in a bank. That's an illusion, my friend. There's no such thing as financial security. The only real security you have is in God alone. God alone. But God says, look, it came to little. Why? Because I didn't blow up on it. I blasted it. I put a hole in your purse. You have a bag with a hole in it. God put a curse on their purse. Your stocks are going down, your checks are bouncing, the value of the dollar is declining, your purse has got a hole in it. And you can't make ends meet. Why? Because you have put your house and your things ahead of my house and the things that are important to me. And I will not bless that. And so what does Haggai tell them to do? Stop making excuses And go do what you're supposed to do. Look down in and um verse eight. Go up to the mountain And bring wood and build the house. And I will take pleasure in it. And I will be glorified, says the Lord. Stop making excuses. Set proper priorities. And do this for my glory. Serve for my glory. Put me first for my glory. If that's the thing that matters to you, then I will bless you. And you know what happens? They did do that. They obeyed. They built the house of the Lord. This would be the temple that was built after Solomon's temple. It wouldn't be as beautiful as Solomon's temple, but you know what? God wasn't really concerned about that. He wasn't concerned about the extravagance. You know what he was concerned about? Having people whose hearts were obedient to him, whose hearts were completely devoted to him. And so again, we learned some lessons from the life of Solomon. We've learned that he's a great example and someone seeking wisdom from God, but we also learn from him his mistake. Of allowing his heart to get distracted away from the main thing. And the main thing is God wants an obedient heart. God wants a heart that loves him supremely, that worships him, that puts their full trust in him. God wants a heart that's not easily distracted by the things of this world By the expensive, extravagant things of this world, by the people that would turn our hearts away from God. So in light of this, where is your heart? Do you have a distracted heart? Ask God to replace it with a devoted heart, a heart that's completely given to Him. Let's bow for prayer tonight So Lord help us to uh take heed to this warning, this narrative. Where the writer points out some seeds of destruction that will later bring the flower of Heartache and misery into the life of Israel. Father, may we learn from these failures not to do the same thing. Lord, give us a heart that will not be distracted away from you. Help us to realize, Lord, that your house is the most important house. It's all about your kingdom. We're to seek first the kingdom of God and your righteousness. And all these other things, Lord, you you will add to us. In fact, you have. You've blessed us abundantly. Forgive us for being distracted by the blessings and forgetting the blesser. So Lord, help us tonight. And I pray, Lord, for the person who may be listening, who has never trusted Jesus as Lord and Savior, that that would be the first step for them. That they would come to Christ, that they would call upon him. Father, bless these words to our hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.