And you know we're we're studying the life of David, and uh we come here to this next story in 2 Samuel chapter 10. And this is really a story about it's really a continuation of chapter 9. If you were here last week we talked about uh the story of Mephibosh Chef and God's grace to him. But this really is a connecting story, and I'll show you how this connects. But our God is a gracious God. He's constantly pouring out grace to us each day of our life every day. There are so many expressions of this kindness each day that we could never number them all. We could never do that. And and I think that the the the Concept of grace is one of the most important concepts, if not the most important concept in the Bible. important to grasp this. God is the God of all grace. The Holy Spirit is called the Spirit of grace. Jesus is the one who is The gospel is called the gospel of grace. Paul opens up thirteen of his letters with this prayer Grace be to you. Peter tells us, Grow in The writer of Hebrews warns us don't miss the grace of God. And then the last prayer of the Bible, actually the last verse of the Bible, says the grace Grace of our Lord be with you all. It's all about grace. Grace is really the whole theology of the Bible. G. I. Packer wrote this. He said the New Testament message is just the announcement that grace has come to men in and through Jesus Christ, plus a summons from God to receive this grace and to know it. And And not to frustrate it, but to continue in it. And that's so true. We need grace every day of our life. Never runs out of it. In fact, the Bible talks about the manifold grace of God. Peter said, You are recipients of the manifold grace of God. That word manifold there is a word that just means that which exists in a variety. You know there are varieties of God's grace. God has grace for every situation He's got grace for every circumstance. Let me just give you a few in a way by way of introduction. First of all, there's common grace. You say, what's common grace? Common grace is just basic God's undeserved blessing that He gives to all people, believers and unbelievers. He just gives blessings, innumerable blessings, and He gives them indiscriminately to everyone. They're not really a part of salvation It's simply God's love and goodness that He just shares with man all the time. Today we were all recipients of that grace. Everyone was, every every person living. And it's this common grace is displayed in the moral realm. You know, ask yourself, why isn't the world worse than it is is. I mean mankind or man is a sinner, mankind is depraved. Why aren't things worse? I'll tell you why, because of God's common grace. It's his common grace that with that withholds and restrains the depravity that is innate in man, and he keeps man from living out the full measure of that depravity. Otherwise we would really be in trouble. So we see his common grace in the moral realm in which we live. We see it in the physical realm. That we could be so blessed and live so well on a sin-cursed earth. You ever think about that? When man sinned, God cursed the earth. You know, we have all these uh people that are worried about the environment. I like to remind people, you know, God is the one who cursed the earth. He's the one that brought the weeds. And so how is it that man can live on this cursed earth without dying just you know more? The fact that we live, you know, when God cursed the earth, he still allowed for the earth to to give to us of its resources, of its plants, the Even though we live in this cursed earth, God has given man the ability to withhold that curse, to live in this world in a way to where uh God has helped man to be able to invent things to hold off the curse of the earth. And and so we can live in this world because of that ability that God has given man. You know, we th again I hear people talk about living in the natural. They want to be natural. about green. Listen, if you want to live natural, go ahead. But the earth will kill you. It'll kill you if you let it. The fact that we're sitting in an air conditioning Building is uh uh a evidence of God's common grace. The fact that we're not exposed to extremes of Heat. And then we have heat in the winter that keeps us from the extremes of cold. And we have all these other things that man has had the ability to invent to help us uh overcome the curse of the earth. That's all expressions of God's love and grace. So all around us is the grace of God. It's revealed. There's common grace, but there's also saving grace. We know what that is. Listen, we wouldn't even be saved if it wasn't for God. It's all Boast. God, because of his rich mercy and because of his great love, he loved us. And that's why we're even saved. And by the way, there's also sanctifying grace. God not only saves us, but he has a purpose for us. And what is he doing right now Now he's conforming all of us into the image of his son, right? That's his work in our life. He's conforming us. He's making us like Jesus. And the only reason that can happen is because of his sanctifying grace. You see, the same grace that saves you is the grace that sanctifies you and is transforming you and working on you, and sometimes you might give Up, but God doesn't. He that begun a good work in you will what? Perform it until the day of Christ. So we have sanctifying grace, we have preserving grace. You know, we can't we didn't get ourselves saved. It was all the grace of God, and we can't keep ourselves saved. God is the one who does that. We don't hold on to him. He holds Onto us, you can't lose your salvation because God's grace, the grace that saves you, is the grace that keeps you and preserves you. And then there's also serving grace Do you know that we now have the ability to serve God in an acceptable way? Because God is able, the Paul said, to make all grace abound towards you that ye always God the grace is saves you, that God gave you, to sanctify you, can also work in you mightily so that you can serve Him. You can do good works in His name. We get serving grace. And then And then of course there's special grace. You say, what's that? That's the grace that God gives you when you go through difficulty, when you go through hard times. We're not able to do that on our own. God carries us, He helps us. He said to Paul, my grace is sufficient what for thee? When you go through difficulty, it's his grace. Now we could go on. But that's just a little bit of the manifold grace of God that He gives us. But here's the problem. Many times we're slow to recognize the magnitude of God's goodness towards us. Mankind really doesn't acknowledge it so much. Sometimes. And sometimes they think lightly of it. Paul rebukes people who think lightly of the goodness and grace of God. Just write down Romans 2 for He says, Despise thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to what? Repent. And so there are many people that presume upon God's grace. They're not thankful for it. They think lightly of it. And Paul says, look, God's goodness has a clear purpose. If you don't know the Lord, it's to cause you to repent. And even if you do know the Lord, if you're not living in the way that you should live, it should cause you to repent. The fact that God is so gracious Paul went on to say, and by the way, if you think lightly about God's grace, that's a dangerous thing. That's a dangerous thing. Paul went on to say, but after thy hardness and impotent heart, treasures up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath. If you take God's grace light Lately, the Bible says God's treasuring up wrath. You know, you're laying up treasure in heaven, but it's not the good kind. It's the wrath of God. That is being treasured up to anyone who does not appreciate and is thankful and acknowledges the the wonderful manifold abundant grace of God in our life. And it's By that grace that we live. You say, now why do you say all that? Well, because this story here in 2 Samuel chapter 10 is the story of a man who does that very thing. He thinks lightly. And I remember I told you chapter 9 and chapter 10 really are connected together. They're really a kind of a contrast. I think the writer lays these two narratives side by side to show us kind of a contrast. Contrast. Because in chapter 9, what do we see? We see David's kindness that he wants to show to the family of Jonathan. Look in chapter 9, verse 1. We'll just kind of touch on this and review. And David said, Is there yet any that is left The key word there is kindness. It's the Hebrew word kessid, again, one of the most beautiful words in the Old Testament, and it points to God's unfailing love. for his people. God's loyal love. And we sometimes see the word in our King James Version, loving kindness. It's normally that's the translation of the Hebrew word Kessid. This is a word that was coined by the King James translators because they really couldn't figure out a word that really describes the Hebrew word Kesed. There was so much in it, it was so rich. With the word loving kindness. And really, this is the Old Testament equivalent for the New Testament word grace. So when you see this word kindness, think of grace. David wanted to show grace to someone Now you remember that David and Jonathan made a covenant. Together and they both made an incision in their wrist and there was the sharing of person when they mingled their blood and there was the sharing of possessions and protection. They became friends and their actions towards one another that's became defined by this word kessed. Later on in 1 Samuel 20, Jonathan asked David to show kindness to my house. David, if I anything ever happens to me, remember our covenant. And please show me kessid. Show me kindness. And David, of course, agreed to do that. Now David is saying Sitting on his throne. Perhaps he looks down and sees that nasty scar, and he's reminded of the covenant that he made with Jonathan. Now we know the story. We kind of went over it last week. There was a son of Jonathan named Mephibosheth, and he was the one that Saul's servant Ziva pointed out And David hears about him and learns about him. And remember, this is all a picture of salvation, isn't it? Because David is the picture of Jesus Christ willing to extend his love and his grace. Mephiboshev is a picture of who? He's a picture of us the sinner, right? We are all Mephiboshev. You say, how? He was re born in a rejected family. So Paul's family was rejected because of disobedience. Guess what? My family was rejected because of disobedience because of my father. His name was Adam. I was rejected as well. You were rejected. All of us were born in a rejected family. Mephibosheth was crippled by a fall. All of us were. We were all crippled by the fall of Adam in the garden. We're all sinners. He was far from God's presence. David asked, Where is They said he's in Lodivar. That was someplace way up north on the other side of the Jordan River. He was far away from the presence of the Lord again. That describes the lost man. He's far away from God. He's not close The place of no pasture, where there's no satisfaction, there's no joy, there's no sustenance, there's no help. And also he was fearful of the king. He was hiding because he lived in perpetual fear that David wanted to kill him. And again, it's a picture of the sinner today. You know, man mankind does not really understand that God really loves and wants to share his grace to them. They live in perpetual fear. So David is a picture of grace. And David says, Look, how can I show kindness? Is there any? And when he hears about Mephiboshev, he says, Bring him here. Now Zida says, Well now he's a cripple on both legs, but that doesn't matter. Grace And David says, Bring them. Notice in the story, David makes the first move. He says, Go and get them and he brings Mephibosh. to him. And uh again, that's a picture of God. You know, we're saved today because God took the initiative. He's the one who who made the first move. If God doesn't make the first move, we're not saved. Because the Bible says there's none that what seek God. God is the one who takes the initiative. And then the Phibosheth becomes like one of the king's sons. And David says, You And I want you to focus in on chapter 9, verse 8. Notice Mephibosheth's response. And he bowed himself. And he said, What is thy servant that thou shouldest look upon such a dead dog? As I am, who am I? He's humbled, he's amazed, he's thankful, he bows himself. That's the proper response to God But now David's not finished. He still wants to show more kindness. So we come to chapter ten. And And we see that again in verse one it came to pass after this that the king of the children of Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned in his stead. Verse two, then said David, I will show kindness Look at the word kindness there. Same exact word. We see that same word again, tess it. And this is the word that links both of these chapters together. David is not done showing kindness. He's not done showing Kessed, he wants to show it again. And there's some parallels here. He showed it to Mephibosheth, who was a prince of a royal family Now he's going to show it to another prince or a king and a royal family, Hainun. But there's a difference. And that is whereas Mephiboshev was humble and he was willing to receive it. We're going to see that Hanun was not. Even though David wanted to show him this Kesed, this grace He's not really ready to receive it from him. Another contrast we can see here is that Mephiboshev is an Israelite. Hanun is a foreigner. So David's grace wants to extend not just to the people of Israel, but to those who are outside of Israel. It wants to go beyond to all nations. That's the idea there. You know, that's the grace of God God doesn't want to show his grace just to a few. He wants to extend it to all, beyond. But so let's see this story here. I want you to look at it. And they're going to give it in three parts. If you're taking notes, just write down number one, Grace displayed. Grace displayed. Because look again in verse two. Then said David, I will show kindness unto Hanun, the son of Nahash, as his father showed kindness unto me. Again, same word there, Kesed. And this leads me to believe that somewhere along the line, David and Nahash is how you pronounce that. Nahosh, they formed some kind of a friendship. Some kind of a relationship there. Now the Ammonites really don't play a good role in the history of Israel. In fact, Saul and Nahash were enemies And and Saul drove the Ammonites out of the borders of Israel, but somewhere along the line, perhaps in David's fugitive years, when he was r running from Saul and he was making friends with Saul, Some of the people out there and some of the kings out there, he met up with Nahash and they somehow formed a friendship. It was probably the old thing where the enemy of my enemy is my what is my friend And since Nahash was an enemy of Saul and David was an enemy of Saul, they became friends. And so somewhere along the line, there was this relationship and Nahash showed kindness unto David. Now we don't know what that was. We don't know if it was just him taking him in or giving him something or protecting him for a time or whatever. But somewhere along the line, there was this kindness. And David just wants to return that kindness. He wants to give it to him. So he hears about the death. Of Nah Nahash, and he sent some men to comfort him. Look again in verse two. And David sent to comfort him by the hand of his servants For his father. And so he he reaches out. He sends messengers of grace outside the boundaries of Israel, on out into the nations. And again, there's a picture here We kind of see this in a small form here. And again, God wants to show his love and his grace to all. Time Spurgeon was walking through the countryside with a friend, they looked up at a barn that had a weather vane, it said God is love, and the friend said, That doesn't look right. But you know, the wind is constantly changing, but God's love never changes. Spurgeon said, that's not what it means. It means whatever way the wind blows, God is love. And that's true. God's love is extended whichever way the wind blows. So we see grace displayed. But then write down number two, grace despised. Because look in verse three. And the princes of the children of Ammon. And said unto Hanun their Lord, Thinkest thou that David doth honor thy father, that he has sent comforters unto thee? Hath not David rather sent his servants unto thee To search the city and to spy it out and to overthrow it. So here David sends his servants. They cross the Jordan River. They're on their way to see the king But the Bible says the princes of the Ammonites were suspicious. And so here's the first way that grace is received. First of all, with suspicion. Why? Because of their suspicion. They were suspicious of David. They feared David. They hated David. They doubted his goodness. They say, all these messengers, they're not comforters. David's just looking for an opportunity to conquer us. He wants to hurt us. And he knows the instability of the time. This transition of leadership, he knows this is a time to attack, and he's sending these guys as spies. And basically what happens here is that immaturity and ignorance triumph Over just common sense. And Haino listens to these young men and he's suspicious of them. And again, how is this applied? Again, I think that God wants to send his grace. Many times it's not received because of suspicion, because of doubting. People doubt the word of God. They doubt They will not receive God's grace because they don't trust the messenger or they don't think God wants to help them. And so there's suspicion There's a second way they reject it or despise grace, and that is by shaming them. Look in verse number four. And wherefore Hanun took David's servants and shaved off the one half of their beards. And cut off their garments in the middle. This was incredibly shameful the way they treated these messengers. First of all, they shaved off half of their beard. This was a great insult. Jewish men were supposed to keep their beard To have your beard shaved like that was just a disgrace. It was treating them like they were a slave, with contempt and ridicule. And then of course there was the modesty issue. All Jews were dressed modestly, and so exposing their bodies was even more embarrassing. And so by doing this, Hanun just Despises the kindness of David. He despises what David really wanted to do. He insults him. And so look at verse 5. And when they told it unto David, he sent to meet them because the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown. So here's again David acting graciously. He says to his messengers, Look, just stay there at Jericho. Wait until your beards grow back, and then you can come back again. And so David is gracious in the way that he deals with these men who have been shamed. And so here's another way that sometimes people despise the grace of God by shaming the messenger. You know, sometimes God's servants are so shamefully treated They're so abused, they're so scorned, in a way they're shaven and tr treated with contempt. You know, I was I actually this morning I I got a phone call early this morning from a pastor, uh a friend down south, and he just said, Hey, I just need your counsel, I need your advice, and he was telling me how uh the church had just Treated him so shamefully, he and his wife, and they were so down, so discouraged, and they saw no way that they could continue on there in that church ministry because of the way they have been treated. And that's the second pastor that week that called me over something like that. All out there in the ministry, there are servants that are being shamefully treated. But you know Our God is so gracious. You know, sometimes God does have to call his servants away and say, just carry here for a little while until your beards be fully grown, until you're ready to go back into service, until you're ready to be used again. But one of the ways that people despise the grace of God is how they handle the messenger of grace. But then there's another thing, not only shit suspicion and sh Shaming, but stubborn resistance. Look at verse 6. And when the children of Ammon saw that they stank before David, the children of Ammon sent and hired the Syrians. And so now he's hiring an army. If it wasn't enough to be suspicious and to shame the servants, what's he going to do now? He's going to stubbornly continue to resist. In that sense, he's declaring war on David, according to 1 Chronicles 19 He pays a thousand talents of silver to hire these troops from the north and basically to fight against David. So these thirty-three soldiers join with The Ammonite army and attacking the Jewish army. And David has no choice. What's he got to do now? He's got to fight these guys. That was never what he wanted to do. Verse seven and when David heard it he sent Joab and all the host of the mighty men and the children of Ammon came out and put the battle in array at the evening at the gate and drop down to verse nine and when Joab saw that the front of the battle was against him before and behind, he chose all the chosen men of Israel and put them in array against the Syrians. And verse ten, and the rest of the people he delivered into So what's happening here? Well, this is a big army. And David sends Joab, and Joab knows he's got the Ammonites on the northern side, or on the southern side, I should say, and the Syrians on the north. And he's pretty much on the on being attacked on two ends, so he divides his army, he encourages his men. Look at verse number eleven. And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for for me, then thou shalt help me. But if the children of Ammon be too strong for So he divides his men and says, Look, you just fight, and if they get too strong, we'll come and help you, and vice versa. And then he says, You know, and then the Lord be with us. Look at verse 12. Be of good courage and let us play the men for our our people For the cities of our God, and the Lord do that which seemeth good unto him. And Joab wins a victory. He ends up defeating these guys. And you think, well, that's a lesson for them Surely they're done. No, there's a second battle. That's not enough. And so let me give you the third part. Grace defended. This time David comes down in verse 17. And when it was told, David, he gathered all Israel together and and passed over Jordan. And so David now comes. And David comes to defend his own honor. And let me just give you the sum of the story. What happens? Well, David, he defeats all of them. And he brings the Syrians into servitude. They become a vassal state for David. And he ends up putting them into slavery. You say, what's the moral? What's the lesson on this story? It's a dangerous thing to reject grace. It's a dangerous thing to turn away from the goodness of the king. It's a dangerous thing. Thing to despise grace. You see, they could have had the kindness of David. They could have had blessing. But what did they get? They got wrath. Why? Because they pushed away from the grace And again, there's a lesson here for for mankind today. When God is constantly showering grace upon grace, don't you despise that. Don't you think love Don't you be suspicious of the good nature of God. Don't you dare shame the messengers of grace. Don't you fight in war against God because there are many people Stubbornly doing that, and that by doing so they are despising the grace of God in their life. The grace that God wants to use to do great things for us. So in closing, what I want to do here is just I want to give you just a few ways. You say, okay, well, how do we despise grace? How do we do that? Well, let me give you a few things of what the Bible says. Write these down. This is And we m we m we want to make sure that we are not doing this. Here's the first way: hard-heartedness. Hard heartedness. There are times when God lifts his grace, his restraining hand from a person or from a society. And you know what you you get? You get a Sodom and Gomorrah. You get a society where God says, look, I'm just going to turn you over to yourself. That's Romans 1, right? But when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were they thankful. God is revealing his wrath from heaven. Why? Because they would not acknowledge God. They would not acknowledge his goodness and his grace. They resisted They pushed it away. The Bible says man is suppressing or pushing back from the truth of God and his grace. And God says, okay, you don't want me, I'll turn you over to yourself. You want to continually, hardheartedly resist my grace and what I'm doing and my truth? God says I'll I'll remove myself. I'll turn you over. Many times in Romans we see that and God gave them up. God gave them over. Judgment is the absence of God. That's the worst form of judgment. When God says, okay, I'm done. I'm leaving. Leave him alone. And that comes through hard-heartedness. Here's a second way we despise grace. Number two, just bitterness. Write down Hebrews 12, 15: Looking diligently, lest any man fail. Of the grace of God. The word fail here means fall short of or to fail to attain. Again, we need God's grace every day in our life, but there's a sense in which if we're not careful, we're We can fall short of that. We can fail to attain that. Why? Lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you And thereby many be defiled. It's possible that because of bitterness in our own heart, because of unforgiveness, that we fail to receive the grace that God wants us to have. And that bitterness troubles us, the Bible says. It blocks the grace, and we fall short of it. We sin against God's grace. Let me give you number three. Not only hard heartedness, The writer kind of goes on in the same idea in Hebrews 12 and he says about Esau, lest there be any fornicator or profane person. as Esau who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. What was the birthright? That was a spiritual position. That was a spiritual privilege that God gave. That was part of who he was. By the way, did you know that you have a spirit Spiritual birthright is God's children, and God has given you spiritual privileges as children of God. Do you understand your position in Christ? Don't think lightly on that. Why? Well Esau did. He thought lightly of his birthright. He thought lightly of spiritual things, of spiritual responsibilities, of spiritual history His his spiritual position he thought so lightly of it. Did you know what he did? He sold it for a bowl of chili. I think it's chili. That's my Interpretation of it. I may be wrong. It's happened before. But for one morsel of meat, the Bible says, he sold his birthright. And therefore, the Bible says that he found no place of repentance, even though he sought it carefully with Tears. And so you can come short of God's grace by despising spiritual privilege, spiritual things. Let me give you another way, depending on the flesh. Depending on the flesh. You can frustrate the grace of God. God by depending on yourself, depending on the flesh. That's Galatians 2 21. And the word frustrate there has the idea of again making something invalid. And Paul was writing to the to the Galatians Who had started out in grace, but then they began to believe the works of the law and the message of the Judaizers, and they turned away from grace, and they began to think that they need to do what they do in the power of the flesh. On your own in the power of the flesh, or do anything in the power of the flesh, you frustrate the grace of God and you come short of it. Let me give you number five. Use God's grace as a license. Remember that in Romans 6. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid, when you say, Well, you know, I I know that I'm saved and I have God's forgiveness and I can do whatever I want, I know I'm going to heaven, that is an abuse of grace. You can abuse grace that way. Let me give you one more real quick and then we'll be done. Failing to serve Christ. Just by failing just to serve him. You understand that when we serve We're not doing it because we're trying to win his favor. We are already loved by God. He's not going to love us any more or any less. We serve God because of what he has done for us. He has invested in us his wonderful grace. And so in return, we just want to serve him out of love, out of gratitude, out of thankfulness. But there are some who do not serve the Lord at all. And there's a sense in which God has bestowed His grace on those kind of people in vain, because there's no return on it There's no real sense of serving the Lord. There's some Christians there they're saved and after that they really don't do anything. They just kind of sit around, like one preacher said, they sit soak and sour and they won't do anything and they live And then when they do, they think that they're acting as if they do you a great service, they do God a great service. Paul said this, listen. He said, By the grace of God, I am what I am. And his grace, which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain. When God gave me his grace, it wasn't a vain investment. He said, But I labored more abundantly than they all. Paul said, When God saved me and he gave me his grace, that wasn't in vain because Because I went out and I labored, I served, I worked. Second Corinthians six one it says this. Then we as workers together with him beseech him You also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain. Don't receive it in vain. When God invested his wonderful grace in you And continues to invest that grace. Let it not be an investment in vain. But God blesses us. Why? So that we in turn can be a blessing. And so, friend, the whole lesson that we want to learn here tonight is there's a danger in despising or thinking like We never want to get to that point in our life, and we always want to remember that God is so kind and so good, and every day He showers us with grace. And let me just close this By saying there may be some people here tonight, and you're just someone in need of God's wonderful grace. He never runs out. He's always ready to pour out to you. Grace to sustain you. Charles Spurgeon one night was very depressed and uh it seemed like nothing could lift him out of his spirits. And then suddenly the verse came to his mind. My grace is Is sufficient. And that verse that he had read so many times that particular night just seemed to captivate him more than usual. Have that ever happened to you? Suddenly it just jumped off the page, jumped into his heart. He thought about it, and then he began to imagine the way some Christians act As if God's grace will run out. And he began to think of a little fish in the Thames River there in London. And the little fish thinking, I better not breathe in too much water or take in too much water, or I'll drain this river dry. And then he thought that's impossible. I might drain the atmosphere of all its air. Impossible. That's the way it is with the grace of God, he thought. My grace is sufficient. Thank God for Let us never think lightly of it, let us never despise it, let us depend upon it each day we live and move and move and breathe by the grace of God. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Lord, help us to learn from this story here. May we be the Mephiboshef. Not the contrast, not the the nay the heinous of the story, who think lightly of the kindness of the king And despise the grace offered. And Lord, I pray that there's no one here tonight that's in that dangerous position. Lord, you've been good You've been patient, you've been kind, you've reached out in love, and yet some maybe have turned from that They have despised that. They haven't treated it as a wonderful, valuable thing. And I pray, Lord, that they would see the dangerous position that they may Be in spiritually by thinking lightly of your grace. May we be so thankful for it. And may we each day of our life run to you and depend upon you for grace that we need. And Lord, even tonight I Pray for I I know there's many probably in here tonight, Lord, that just need your grace tonight. Lord, how how desperate we are, Lord, to have your favor and blessing. Maybe that's your position. Position tonight, would you just raise your hand and say, Man, pray. I want to pray right now and ask God for His grace to help me through special grace in a time of trial. Is there anyone here like that? Say, man, that's me But I need his grace. God bless you. There's some that who may need just the grace to serve the Lord. God's God's Called you out, and maybe you haven't taken advantage of that, and you need encouragement to just serve him. To not be someone where they're Grace has been bestowed in vain. So, Father, use these words. Speak to hearts. And Lord, if there's someone here tonight that doesn't know you, Lord, may they not leave Leave this place until they reach out to you and repent of their sin and turn to you with all their heart. May they be like the Mephiboshev who comes to the king and receives receives his blessing and becomes a son of the King. Bless these words to our hearts, Lord. Use them, we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.