Go to Matthew chapter 2. We've been doing a short series here in the first two chapters, talking about our King, the Lord Jesus Christ. And I wanted to call this sermon today the Glory of the King because I think really what chapter 2, this first part of it, is about is the glory of Christ. There's many things that I see here in this narrative that we're going to look at, but there's one thing I want to pick out, and that is I want to talk about the glory that I think is really um focused upon here in these verses. I love everything about the Christmas story. I love the angels, the shepherds, the manger. What an incredible plan of God when he brought forth his son into this world. But for me, a fast a fascinating part of the Christmas story is the star. We sing songs about the star, star of wonder, star of night. Star with royal beauty, bright. We love songs about that. We call it the Star of Bethlehem or the Christmas Star. This is the star that we read about here in chapter 2 that was revealed to the wise men or the magi that led them to Bethlehem. We read it here in the Gospel of Matthew. But the question that comes a lot is, what is this star? And what why does Matthew include this in the narrative here? Why is this such an important thing for him to put down? You'll notice in the other Gospels, the star is really not mentioned. It's only mentioned here in Matthew. So why did you put it here? What is the meaning of it? You know, just this week I read an article, um, it seems like every year around Christmas time, there are these articles that come forth trying to explain this phenomena of the star at Christmas. Everybody has a different idea about it. But what does the scripture say? And in answering this question, I want us to look at three factors this morning. First of all, if you're taking notes, write down the mysterious nature of the star Think about that with me, the mysterious nature, because again, there are many people trying to offer explanations about what this might be. First of all, think about what I call the skeptical explanation. And these are those who want to doubt the historicity of the Bible. You know, there are always people out there that want to doubt the Word of God. Always people that are not wanting to believe it And in the book, The Nativity, History, and Legend, the writers say that the story of the star was simply a legend. And some scholars call it pious fiction They say this was something that was really made up. They say it was common to link a star to the birth of someone significant in the ancient world. And so they argue that this was something that was fashioned by the early church that it really didn't happen. But you know, um people who don't want to believe the Bible will come up with reasons why they shouldn't believe the Bible They'll always have a handy excuse for that. They just the problem is really not intellectual, the problem is the heart. They just don't want to believe. They're not looking for God for the same reason a criminal is not looking for a policeman. They don't want to be under that accountability. And so there's skeptical explanations, but then there's a second line. Think about the scientific explanations There have been a lot of different attempts to explain this star by astronomers, by scientists. Let me give you just quickly the common ones that are out there. They're really just four. First of all, there are some who say, well, this was just a comment. That's all it was. The early church father Origen was the first to suggest that the star may have really just been a comet, and some of associated it with Halley's comet, which appeared in 12 B. C. , which of course is much too early for the birth of Christ. Another comet appeared in 5 B. C. , closer to the time of the birth of Christ But still, it's nowhere near the birth of Christ. And also, in the ancient world, comets were considered bad omens and not good ones. That's not really a good explanation saying it's a comet. Here's a second line of reasoning. They some say it's a conjunction of planets. They call it a royal conjunction. What is that? Well, you know this is not a science class, but I'll give you a little bit of science here. You okay with that? We know that the the the planets orbit around the sun. The ones that are closer to the sun are faster than ones farther away. And sometimes when the planets are orbiting around the sun, they will overtake one another. And from our earthly perspective, when we see that in the sky, when the planet lines up with another planet, that's called a conjunction. And when that happens, it looks like a star from our perspective. It's an incredibly bright shining light. Now they say planetary conjunctions were fairly common. There were nine major conjunctions from in the period from 3 to 2 BC. They also talk about the conjunction in 3 B. C. between Venus and Jupiter, and a lot of people refer to that. In fact, I I again read an article this week about a professor from Notre Dame that is arguing for this because of you know the the the c proximity to the birth of price And he gives a lot of reasoning. The only thing is none of those things really line up with the Bible. And we don't really use science to interpret the Bible. The Bible interprets science. Science is constantly changing, but the Bible never changes. And so, you know, that's a noble attempt to explain this, but it just doesn't line up with Scripture Well, then there's another explanation. Some say what's a supernova? One astronomer, Kepler, was the first one to offer this. A supernova is basically an exploding star. And when a star like this explodes, it's a very spectacular event. There's an incredible brilliance that takes place when that happens, and then it's followed by a period of internal explosions. And so it'll stay around for a considerable amount of time, maybe a day or two days, sometimes longer, but that's all And in the ancients, they called supernova's tailless comets. They didn't really know the difference. There was a tailless comet recorded in 4 BC. Which may have actually been a nova, but uh again, that is not close to the timing of the birth of Christ. And so these are basically the explanations that science would offer about what that star might be. We see the skeptical explanation, the scientific explanation. Let me give you thirdly the supernatural explanation. And that's simply this. All scientific explanations. are indeed interesting, but they come short of what Matthew 2 is describing here, which leads us to the supernatural. This wasn't something that was natural. This was something that was supernatural. Now let me just tell you, beloved, God can certainly use natural laws to do whatever he wants. In fact, they're not really natural laws, they're God's laws. Because God is the one who made them up. And God can step in and he can violate one of his natural laws anytime he wants to and do something different because he's God and he can do anything. And we look at Matthew, we have to say, this was supernatural. This was not just a natural event. It was a supernatural event. We might even call it a miraculous event. And why not? When we look at the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, we see it was marked by the supernatural. There was a supernatural event that took place at his baptism. There was a voice from heaven. There was the Holy Spirit that descended like a dove There were supernatural events that took place at his crucifixion. There was an earthquake. There was the rentning of the veil. There was the darkness that appeared from twelve noon until three to five. All those supernatural events. Why not a supernatural event accompanying the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ? Which would lead us to the second thing I want you to consider. Not only the mysterious nature of the star, but think secondly about the miraculous nature of the star. Because again, I think this was miraculous. There are several things to look at. Look in Matthew 2, verse 2. Notice what it says Here's the wise men that come to Jerusalem. They come to Herod and to the people and they say in verse 2, saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east. Notice where it says his star. They call it his star. This is referring to the one-born king of the Jews. How did the Magi know that this particular star was his? Star that leads us to believe that this was not just any normal star. There was something about this star that let them know that it was unique And again, these were men who were from the east. The word is Magi. It's a Persian word. They were generally thought to be from Persia. They came from Babylon. By the way, one of the titles given to Daniel was Chief of the Magi. And these were men who studied the stars. They knew the heavens. They knew astrology better than anyone in that time. And they knew that this particular star or this brightness in the heavens was nothing that was natural. It was something that was different. They called it his star. This is unique. This is what caused them to follow this star. No doubt they probably knew from Daniel's influence there in Babylon about the coming of the Messiah. And they also probably knew from studying Old Testament scripture, Numbers 24, 17, which describes a star coming from Jacob and a king from Israel. And so they see this star. And also in verse 2, to me, I think it appears only to the Magi. Again, it says, for we have seen his star. It doesn't say anything about any of the others seeing the star In fact, if you read the account, Herod and the people of Jerusalem are kind of surprised by this visit. In fact, the word that is used there is they were troubled. Look at verse 3. When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all of Jerusalem with them. This stirred up things. The word trouble here is a word for fear. It scared them. Now we have an uh an image in our mind of the three wise men coming in and you know bearing gifts. We actually we're not sure it's three. That's based on a tradition of three gifts. Uh I heard J. Bernard McGee one time say it could have been a hundred guys In fact, if you ch study the history, the Persians when they come in would normally come in with an army like this on this kind of a caravan. And the fact that the Jewish army was away may be the reason why they were so afraid Because here are these Persians coming in, probably a lot of them, with the army away, and Herod was troubled. And all Jerusalem was troubled. But again, the point is that it seems to be the fact that this star only really was seen by these men, these magi And then also it kind of reappears to them. I think they come into Jerusalem, they had been following it, but for some reason they lost it They couldn't find it. They come into Jerusalem saying, Where is the one born king of the Jews? We've been following his star. And everyone there is surprised But then they seem it seems to reappear to the Magi in verse number nine. Look in chapter 2, verse 9. And when they had heard the king They departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them. Notice now it's leading them again, till it came and stood over where the young child was Look in verse ten. And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. They rejoiced when they saw it again. Again, this implies to me, suggests to me, that the star disappeared for a time, and then when they left Jerusalem, they were able to see it again. And when they saw it again, they rejoiced. And this star, it says in verse 9, went before them. How does a star go before someone? I mean that's very unique. How does it lead a caravan of people? This doesn't sound like a normal star the way we understand stars. Have you ever seen such a thing in your life? And keep in mind that Bethlehem was just five miles away from Jerusalem. So we're not talking about a long distance here. How do they follow a star like that in that short distance? And notice again The star stood over the baby Jesus. Look in verse 9. And when they heard the king, they departed. And lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them till it came and stood over the young where the young child was. Not only did it lead them to Jerusalem and then on to Bethlehem, but it led them to a particular house And then it led them to a particular person because if we read this correctly, it hovered above the child. Now again, that's unlike any star that we have ever heard of. How does a star do that? The ancient preacher, John Chrysostom, he was called John the Goldmouth because he was such a great preacher. This is what he said about it. How then, tell me, did the star point out a spot so confined, just the space of a manger, and shed Unless it left that height and came down and stood over the very head of the young child. And at this the evangelist was hinting when he said, Lo, the star went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was and he's exactly right. How can that be? This is not just a natural phenomenon. This is supernatural. This is divine. This is unlike any star that we know of. In fact, I don't think it's a star the way we know stars today. You say, well then what was it? This is the third point Write down not only the mysterious nature of the star, and number two, the miraculous nature of the star, but then write down number three the majestic nature of the star Because let me tell you what I think this star was. I think it was simply the Shekinah glory of God. I think it was the glory of God. You say, now what is the Shekinah glory of God? Well, if you read in the Old Testament, whenever God would reveal His presence, God the Father would reveal His presence in a way where it was a beautiful, effulgent light And I'll be honest with you, I have studied this and tried to wrap my mind around it, and it's one of those things that's beyond my reason. But in some way, when God would appear He would appear in a glorious light. All of his perfections and beauties were just somehow in this light. And by the way, let me just say that no one has ever fully seen the full glory of God. He's give us glimpses. We could not see the full glory of God and live. It's too much for us even to be able to comprehend And so God would give a measure of his glory for people to see. And we would, that would be in the Old Testament. In fact. Uh it's called the Shekinah glory, that appearance of God. And and it tradition says that that's how God appeared to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. His Shekinah glory would come and walk and talk with Adam in the Garden of Eden. We see it in scripture where this glory appeared on the face of Moses when Moses went up to Mount Sinai. And there the glory of God met Moses. And Moses got all lit up And it would come down to the people, and first when the people saw him, they were afraid. They thought, man, what is this? And Moses wore a veil. And and because the glory would begin to fade and then it would go back up to Mount Sinai and get lit up again and come back down And so God revealed his glory on the face of a man. He revealed it in the Garden of Eden. He revealed it on the face of a man. The next time we see the glory of God is when the tabernacle in the wilderness It appears over that tabernacle, but even before that we could say that it's the pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night. It was the Shekinah glory of God that led the children of Israel through the wilderness. And you see, they you see, God didn't, when they left Egypt, God didn't give them a map and say, follow this map God gave him Himself and said, I will lead you. And so He led them from Egypt into the Promised Land. And through the wilderness for those 40 years, the glory of God was that pillar of fire. by night, a pillar of cloud by day. And whatever that glory cloud would pick up, then the children of Israel would they would fold off their tents and they would follow that glory cloud. And whenever it would settle, they would pitch their tents And they would take the tabernacle and put it in the middle of the camp, and they would pitch around that tabernacle, and the glory of God would Hover over the tabernacle. Now, when the glory of God descended and hovered over the tabernacle, Moses said, God's in his tent. And all of Israel knew that God was there inside that tent. And his presence was announced by that glory that hovered just above the tabernacle. Now later on it'll appear in the temple when Moses when uh Solomon rather builds the temple uh and he dedicates that temple, the glory of God descends into that temple, and it's so It's so full that the priests have to get out of there for their own life. And so God would use his glory to announce his presence. And that's how he was seen in the Old Testament. So the glory of God would appear, disappear, and reappear. The glory of God would lead a caravan of people to a certain location. The glory of God would hover above a tent. The glory of God could even hover above a person. Does that sound familiar to you? Sounds like what we read in Matthew chapter 2. The very same thing is happening here. It appears directly over the place where the child was. How can a star do that? Again, friend, I think this is the glory of God. The same glory that led the children of Israel through the wilderness is the glory that led these wise men to the child, Jesus. And so and but you say, well now wait a minute, why then did these wise men call it a star? Well the word for star here is the word aster. Now this word can be used to speak about literal stars, but this word can also be used to speak about things other than stars. It's kind of a general word. You can really talk about something that is shining very brightly, something that is blazing. And so when they looked at it from their perspective, as men who had studied the heavens, it looked to them as a star or an aster, something shining brightly. And so it would be it makes sense why they would call it a star. But also in Matthew chapter 2, verse 7, Herod wanted to know what time the star appeared. The word appeared is from the Greek word fano to light up. Herod was saying basically this, when did this particular shining forth light up? When did you first see this lighting, this shining forth that you described? But also think about this. In Luke, when Luke's account of the birth of Christ is given, what does Luke say? When Luke announces the birth of Christ, he says that the glory of the Lord shall round about. I think Luke calls it the glory of God. Matthew here is giving the account of these wise men from their perspective. And remember, the wise men, who were they? They were Gentiles. They were not Jews. They were Gentiles following a star, following a shining forth. The shepherds in Luke's account, they were Jews, and what they saw as the glory of God, the wise men saw as a shining star to them And so, and by the way, did you know what the sign will be when Jesus Christ, the Son of Man, comes again? You know what sign will accompany his coming? Write down Matthew twenty four, verse twenty nine. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken Listen to this. Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man. Then all the tribes of the earth will mourn and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory When he comes, he's going to come again with great glory. That will be the sign of his coming, the Shekinah glory, the great glory of God. So I believe that when the Shaitanic glory would appear, it was an announcing that God was present. God was present. Think about Acts chapter 2 when the Holy Spirit descended and there were clothing tongues of fire that appeared over the apostles there. What was that? That was the glory? And what was it announcing? God's presence. So when the Shekinah would come, it would announce the presence of God. This was the glory of God. It was of God. It was a miracle. It pointed people to Jesus Christ. It was the glory of God, I believe. Now, whether you believe it was the glory of God or not, you would have to agree with me on this. It was something miraculous. It was miraculous. And it pointed people to Christ. It was the glory of God. But let me tell you another thing. It was a sign in the heavens. Now someone asks, well, why does Matthew include this in his gospel, these Gentiles looking for a Messiah? I think this is meant to be, in a way, a mild rebuke to the Jews. who were also knowing knew that a Messiah would come. But you know what they were constantly asking for? A sign. Give us a sign. They were constantly saying to Jesus during his earthly ministry. Give us a sign. And the word for sign meant a sign in the heavens. Remember what Jesus said to them in his earthly ministry when they kept asking that? He said, look, no sign will be given to you except the sign of the prophet Jonah. Who when he uh was in the whale's belly for three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. And essentially what Jesus was saying is, no more signs are going to be given to you. Except this one sign. And of course he was referring about his resurrection. And you know why? Because God had already given him signs. And this was a sign at the birth of Christ. And the Gentiles, they understood it. They called it his star. They knew it pointed to the Messiah, Jesus. But the Jews, many of them in that day, did not receive it. They did not accept it. And so, in a way, it's kind of a a rebuke to the Jews that these Gentile kings were able to see this. And God's people, who should know this already, they could not seem to see this very thing. It was a sign, but also it was a fulfillment of prophecy. Let me show you one verse. We're almost done, but look in Isaiah chapter 60. Would you go back in your Bible? Look in Isaiah chapter 60. I think this is an interesting passage here. Isaiah chapter 60 and verse number 1. You might want to mark this in your Bible. And it's an incredible passage to me. Isaiah 60, verse 1. I think it's messianic. It's a prophecy that when the Messiah comes, with him will come the light and the glory of God. Look at verse 1. Arise and shine. For thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. For behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people, but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee. Look at verse 3. And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising. Lift up thine eyes round about and see. All they gather themselves together, they come to thee. The sun shall come from far, and thy daughter shall be nursed at thy side. Then thou shalt see and flow together. And thine heart shall fear, and be enlarged because of the abundance of the sea, and shall be converted unto thee, the forces of the Gentiles shall come unto thee. Look in verse six, the multitude of camels shall cover thee from dromedaries of the Midian and Epha, all they from Sheba shall come, and they shall bring gold and incense And they shall show forth the praises of the Lord. Incredible prophecy about Gentile kings that will follow the light and come bringing gifts. To the Messiah. They will follow the light of the glory of God. And notice they will come from Midian and Epha and Sheba. Where is that? That's from the east. It's from the East. This was fulfilled somewhat in this narrative of the birth of Christ. It will be fulfilled ultimately again at the second coming. of Jesus Christ. The bottom line is Gentiles will be drawn in by the light of the glory of God. That's what it's talking about. And so I think this is a fulfillment of that prophecy right there. Perhaps that's another reason why Matthew includes this into his gospel. about this very thing right here. Finally, this is a picture of the Messiah. Not only the glory of God, a sign in the heavens, the fulfillment of prophecy, but really a a picture of the ministry of Jesus, because he would be the light. to this world. The light in a time of darkness. He is our light. Luke 178, through the tender mercy of our God, whereby the day spring from on high has visited He is the light for this dark world. And when I say light, I'm talking about the light of salvation, the light of eternal life the light of knowing that when you die you're going to go to heaven. And if you were here last night, I said it, and I'll say it again, and you'll hear me say it a thousand more times. that this is why Jesus came to die for your sins so that you can have eternal life in heaven. And if you're here today and you're not absolutely certain about your eternal soul, then friend, don't waste another minute. Trust Jesus now. He is the light that will bring light to our darkness, the darkness of our heart, the darkness of this world. He gives the light of salvation. And so again, this was to announce this glory that the king had come. You know, when we were over in London You go to a Buckingham Palace there, there's a flag. When the flag's all the way up, you know what that says? Queen's there. It announces that the Queen is present. This glory announced that the king is here The King, our King, the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, let me just say this in closing. You know, the light of the glory of God draws people in. You say, how do people see that glory today? We see it in the Old Testament. One day we're going to see it in heaven. Did you know there's not going to be any sun and moon in heaven? You say, well where's the light going to come from? From God? The glory of God is going to light up the heaven. No electric companies up there. No electric bill, amen. It'll be the glory of God that will light the heaven. We'll see that glory. We will bask in that glory throughout all eternity. How do people see the glory of now? You know how they see it? Several ways. They see it in the church. In the church. Write down Colossians 1:27 to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. The only hope that this world has of seeing the glory of God is in you. When they see Christ in us. That's why some people are, I can't figure out why those Christians are in church on Christians. Christmas morning. You know why? Because we're here to worship our King. And the world sees the glory of Christ in us. And they are drawn to that glory. But also, we see it in the Scripture. When the Word of God is opened up, this reflects His glory. This is why when I try to preach, I try to make His Word clear. You know why? Because it makes His glory clear. It's all about him. It's all about his majesty and his glory. And his glory is reflected in the pages of scripture. And so when we make the scripture clear We are showing the world his glory. We're showing people the light of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I don't know about you, but I want people to see Christ I want people to see Christ in my life. I want people to see Christ in the scripture. I want people to see Christ in the church so that many will come to know him and they will be saved. Let's bow together for prayer today. It may be that you're here and you have never trusted Christ as your I want to give you this opportunity right now because I'm going to ask you right now, if you're not sure that you're a Christian, that you're a child of God, I'm going to ask you right now to make a decision. This will be the this is the most important decision of your life This earthly life is temporary. We're all going to die. Eternity has no end, my friend. The question is, where will you spend eternity? And God wants you to have eternal life. He doesn't want you to go to hell. He wants you to go to heaven. And that way is Jesus Christ. If you're here today and you've never prayed and asked Jesus to be your Savior, to forgive you for your sins, I'm asking you to do this right now. Would you repeat this prayer? In your heart, this will be your prayer, asking God to save you Would you say this, Lord Jesus? Just say it right there in your heart to the Lord. Lord Jesus, I thank you for coming into this world, this dark world, and being the light of salvation Come into my heart. Light my dark heart. Come into my heart and be my Savior. Forgive me of my sin. Make me your child. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. Friend, pray that. Reach out in faith and tell God you want to be his child. And he will save you. He will forgive your sin. He'll give you eternal life. Friend, you can have that assurance right now. Is that your prayer? Would you lift your hand? Can I pray for you and say, yes, preacher, that's my prayer. And I prayed with you just a minute ago. Would you lift your hand? Anyone here? Anyone here Father, thank you for the greatest gift, your son. And today, with all our heart We worship him, we adore him, and we thank you for the gift of life through Christ. Bless these words to the hearts of your people. Give them a blessed, wonderful time of Christmas together with family and friends. And may we keep our focus on Christ. We pray in Jesus' matchless name. Amen.