Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of Ephesians, chapter 4, Ephesians chapter 4, and I want us to look at verse 30. down to verse 32 this morning. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please? Ephesians 4, verse number 30. Verse 30 says this, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. And let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. Be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. This is God's word to us today. May we have the grace to apply it. You may be seated. And would you pray with me today? Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. And I pray that today, Lord, you'll give us not only the enlightenment of the Holy Spirit to understand the word, but also grace, Lord, to apply it to our life. And we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Uh three mean-looking guys on motorcycles pulled into a truck stop and uh there was a truck driver there eating, uh just a little guy. And he was just quietly minding his own business when these three thugs saw him and they roughed him up a bit and they took his food and laughed in his face. And uh the truck driver didn't say a word, he just simply uh left, he got up, he paid for his food, he walked out. And one of the bikers was kinda unhappy that they weren't they were unable to provoke a fight, said, Well he wasn't much of a man, was he? And the waitress said, well, probably not. He's not much of a truck driver either because he just ran over three motorcycles out there. There's a familiar saying that we all know it's don't get mad, just get even. And that sums up the philosophy of the world on how to deal with someone that wrongs you. But in contrast to the world's way, God prescribes a different approach for his children when we're wronged. We're to be kind just as we read here in verse 32. We're to be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, just as God for Christ's sake has forgiven us. Now that's easy to say, but it's tough to apply. And the difficulty increases in proportion to how badly you've been hurt. We learn to retaliate over the smallest offense given to us. And uh there's something in the human heart that has this retaliatory spirit. We don't want to just get even. We want to get more than just even. We want whoever hurts us, we want them to hurt. We want them to go through something even worse. That's why it's important that we learn the spiritual discipline of forgiveness. Some might question is, does this really qualify as a spiritual discipline? You remember we've been doing a series on spiritual disciplines and you remember how we defined them. A spiritual discipline is a habit or a practice that we must incorporate into our life so that we can grow in our sanctification, so that we can be more like Christ. So these are practices that we do regularly. We are replacing bad habits with good spiritual habits so that God can use these things in our life so that we can grow as a Christian. And forgiveness is I would call a spiritual discipline. You say, why would you call it that? Well, because Jesus, if you remember, when we talked about the spiritual discipline of prayer. Jesus gave us a model to follow. And you remember in that Lord's Prayer, Jesus taught us to pray, forgive us our debts as what? We forgive our debtors. This is something that we are to incorporate into our prayers. Forgiveness is not something that comes natural to the human heart, it is something that we need God's help with. And Jesus taught us every day when you pray, when you seek me, you need to remember that you need to forgive all of those who have any debts against you. That's not talking about financial debts That's talking about hurts or sins against you. Then he explains why in Matthew 6, verse 14, for if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. That's a pretty pretty serious reason to forgive others, isn't it? Since I want forgiveness from God, then I must learn to forgive others. And so we must get into the habit of forgiving debts against us. Even though it's not natural for the sinful human heart to do that, we have to learn this spiritual discipline of In fact, the Bible makes it very clear that as believers, we are to be obsessed with forgiveness. and not vengeance. There's a clear illustration of this in the book of Hebrews. You remember the writer was making a reference to Abel, the secondborn of Adam, who was killed unjustly by his elder brother Cain. And Abel is listed in Hebrews eleven as the first member of the f of the Hall of Fame of faith, we could say. And the Bible says this about Abel. He offered a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and by it, he being dead yet speaks. Now the phrase he being dead yet speaks is a familiar one. But do you understand what it refers to? And what that's referring to is in Genesis 4. 10, where God said to Cain, What have you done And then God also said, the voice of your brother's blood is crying out to me from the ground. You remember that after Cain slew his brother, the Bible says the blood of Abel was crying out to God and what was the blood of Abel saying? Justice. I want justice. And and of course Justice needed to be done in that situation. A crime had been com had been committed, and so Abel's blood was spilled on the ground. It was a testimony against Cain and in metaphorical terms it was crying out for retribution. It was crying out for justice. And there's nothing wrong with justice, beloved We need to practice the justice of the Lord. But the writer of Hebrews then goes on to make a contrast, a very interesting contrast, because then he mentions the blood of Jesus, and the writer says the blood of Jesus Speaks of better things than the blood of Abel. Because what does the blood of Jesus cry out for? The blood of Jesus cries out for forgiveness. Whereas the blood of Abel cries out for justice, the blood of Jesus cries out for better things. And what is better uh forgiveness is better. Again, there is nothing wrong with desiring justice. Justice honors God. It is certainly legitimate to want to see wrongs made right It's right to want to see evildoers recompense for the deeds that they have done, but the scripture tells us that there's something better still, and that is forgiveness. And Christians are to be characterized with a desire to forgive, just like Jesus did. And so um when we've been hurt badly. And we don't feel like forgiving, we must learn to practice this discipline of forgiveness. I want us to look at this here today, and I want us to talk about it under three headings. First of all, number one, write down the pattern for biblical forgiveness, the pattern. What is the pattern? And again, we see it in Ephesians 4, verse 32. Be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. Now the question that has been debated among some scholars and theologians and preachers is what is the pattern here? What is it referring to? Is this conditional forgiveness or is this unconditional forgiveness? Now there are two views on this. There's one view out there that says that all of our forgiveness has to be conditional And the rationale goes like this. God forgives only those who repent. Therefore, if we are going to forgive in the same manner as God does Then we should withhold forgiveness until that person repents. And so all the unrepentant, we have no obligation to forgive those who have not acknowledged their wrong, who have not repented of their wrong, and so therefore all forgiveness must be conditional. Now there's some teachers out there that teach this. For example, Jay Adams, who wrote a lot of book on a lot of books on counseling. uh who I I respect in a lot of ways, he takes this view. He writes this, it should go without saying that since our forgiveness is modeled after God's, it must be conditional. Forgiveness by God rests on clear, unmistakable conditions. And so he's Making the argument that all forgiveness that we render to someone else is a conditional forgiveness. Now there's some merit in Adam's position. And I agree that there are times when our forgiveness to to someone else has to be conditional. And I think the Bible makes those occasions very clear. But I would have to respectfully disagree with Adams on this issue. I think to make conditionality the gist of Christ like forgiveness misses the whole point of Scripture. I think that when Scripture tells us to forgive It's in the manner in which we have been forgiven. The view here is of uh a kind of a natural, uh automatic, unconditional forgiveness. Listen to these verses. We just read Matthew 6 verses 14 and 15. And remember, Jesus tells us each day when we pray, you pray, Father, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. That's an unconditional forgiveness. In James 2. 13, for judgment will be merciless to one who shows no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment, the Bible says. And again in Matthew 18, verse 35. So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not everyone of his brother their trespasses. And so the emphasis of scripture is on unconditional forgiveness. Generously, willingly, freely. Forgiving a person when they wrong us. I call that the default mode of the believer. When someone wrongs me, I freely forgive them, I automatically forgive them, I write it off I don't require them to make a formal transaction to me before I give them my forgiveness. Most of those who hold that all forgiveness is conditional. say that there has to be some kind of formal transaction in which the forgiven one has to repent to the offended person and promises never to do it again. And I'd say if this transaction hasn't taken place, then real forgiveness doesn't have to take place. And I gotta be honest with you, people who hold that position, they're kind of hard to live with. I mean can you think think about that? I mean if in a marriage and I counsel married couples all the time when they have, you know, fights I tell them all the time, look, if every little thing that you do wrong requires a formal acknowledgement and transaction, that relationship's going to be pretty hard. Don't you agree? Every time look, I thank God that my wife doesn't hold me in that accountability. Every time I do something wrong, I would be asking for forgiveness all the time. There has to be this where the Bible says love covers a multitude of sins. Where there is just when there's an offense, when there's a hurt, when there's a wrong, you just naturally forgive it. You let it go. You cover it with love. You forgive it automatically. Sadly, people who hold the opinion that there has to be A formal transaction, there has to be conditional forgiveness. They become these obsessive confronters where they're confronting people all the time about all the things that they do wrong. And again, any relationship like that will become very difficult and very odious. Others who hold this position, they nurse grudges. They refuse to give forgiveness because they say, I don't have to give forgiveness because this person hasn't asked for forgiveness. And so they hold bitterness in their heart. It causes them to sever relationships It kind of helps justify their attitude that they have, these hard feelings against another who has sinned against them. And so I think the the scripture is clear that again the default mode for a believer is that we just freely, unconditionally forgive. people who sin against us. Now again, let me qualify that by saying there are times in the scripture when we must Have conditional forgiveness, where we withhold for our forgiveness until that person uh acknowledges something that they've done wrong. And the Bible makes this clear. In fact, look in Matthew chapter 18. Let me just show you one example of this. Look in Matthew chapter 18. Look down at verse number 15. Because the Bible tells us this in Matthew 18, verse 15. Moreover, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone And if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And here in Matthew 18, Jesus taught there are certain situations where a brother or sister must be confronted about what they have done. And this is what we call the process of church discipline. I prefer church restoration. These are cases where the offense is damaging to the offender. It's damaging to that person. Or it's damaging to the church. And so therefore in that case, we have to confront that person. We can't just simply overlook that at that point, because the pattern that this person is on is going to be group bring great damage to them personally, or it may bring damage to the name of Christ or to the church. On that case, I have to go to them, I have to uh confront them, I have to point out their wrong in a gracious, humble, meek spirit, and call for them to come back and do the right thing. I'll give you an example in another church I pastored earlier on in my ministry. Uh there was a man in our church who was a young man and he married to a beautiful young wife and they were they had a beautiful young baby and this young man for some reason inexplic inexplicably decided to leave his wife and he moved in with a bunch of guys. And then uh he began to just not be there for his wife and for his child and and began to uh to have a relationship with another woman. This is a person who went to our church faithfully. And I went to that person one-on-one. Because the Bible tells us here in Matthew, if a person shall trespass against him, what does it say in verse 15? Go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone. And if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. So I went to this individual. I said, Look, you know, uh you know I love you, and uh what I'm seeing happen in your life is is is is a sin against the Lord. You sinned against me You sinned against the Savior. You need to stop doing what you're doing. You need to get back to your wife and back to your family and do the right thing. And again, when we go to a person like this, we don't go with a judgmental, haughty spirit, because how many of you know that any one of us at any time we can sin against God? We can fall away if it were not for the grace of Almighty God. So I went then and just said, look, please, please, stop doing this. Please. Just do the right thing. And gave them a space of time to think about that and repent. And then what does the Bible say? You take two or three witnesses and you go back And you plead for this person to repent. And if he still doesn't repent, you tell it to the church. Why? In the sense that the whole church will go after this person and seek to restore them and bring them back into the fellowship of the church. That is conditional forgiveness. And in that sense, I'm not going to render forgiveness to this person until they acknowledge what they have done. And they turn back to the Lord with true repentance. And when that happened, what does the Bible say? You've gained your brother. You've gotten them back. You've rescued them from a dangerous path. But why am I withholding forgiveness in that condition? In that case, because what this person is doing is damaging to them. It's hurting them. It's hurting others It's hurting the testimony of the Lord and the church. And so in that situation, I do what the scripture says. I I make it conditional. The forgiveness must be conditional. And so that is, and again, the scripture is clear on those times when our forgiveness must be conditional. But other than that All of our forgiveness is unconditional. I just, if a person sins against me, I just overlook the offense. I Unconditionally, unilaterally, forgive. I don't do it. I don't make it public. I just want you to know I've forgiven this person for all their sins against me. It's unceremonial. I don't let it be known to others. I just quietly in my heart just say, I forgive this person. Why? Because love covers a multitude of sins. The Bible also says in 1 Corinthians 13, 5 that love does not keep a record of wrongdoings. I don't s I don't just write keep a list of all the wrongs that others have committed against me now. We say, well, no one keeps a written list, yeah, but we keep a list in our hearts. We have we have a list in our hearts and what we do is we put that person into debtor's prison in our heart. We imprison them inside of us and say they're not forgiven. And there's little subtle ways that we try to get back at them. Passive, aggressive ways that we let them know that they are no longer uh on our good side, that they are in the prison of unforgiveness in our heart. There's passive ways we do that. There may even be aggressive ways where we show a person that they've sinned against us and we don't forgive them. And friend, when you get to that position as a Christian, that's a bad place to be. Because what does the Bible say? That a root of bitterness will defile you. It'll hurt you. Bitterness is an acid that destroys its own container. It'll hurt you if you hold that into your heart. That's why for Christians, we just have to just forgive We release a person from the prison of our heart. We say, you are forgiven. It's over. We don't have to tell that person We don't go up to him and say, hey, I just want you to know you sinned against me, but I forgave you because I'm such a spiritual person and you're such a wretch. But I want you to know that I forgive you. No, we don't do any of that. No, we just say, you know what? I forgive you. Listen to Colossians 3:13. Forbearing one another. and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, also do ye. This is unconditional forgiveness. It's it's in and listen to Mark chapter 11 verse 25. Whenever you stand praying, forgive. If you have anything against anyone, so that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you of your trespasses. Whenever you stand praying, if there's anything in your heart against anyone else, you just forgive them That is unconditional forgiveness. And that's what the Bible teaches. And so that's the Christ-like forgiveness. that that the scripture speaks about. Remember Peter, look at we're in Matthew 18. Remember, Peter um kind of comes and he asks Jesus a question. Look down in verse number 21. Then came Peter to him and said un said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Till seven times? And after Jesus gives this you know thing about you know f forgiveness, Peter says, Lord, how many times have we got to do this? If someone sins against me, how many times am I obligated to forgive? Because the rabbis back then taught that you're only obligated to forgive a person three times. On the fourth offense, you didn't have to forgive him. And so Peter probably thinks he's spiritual by saying seven times, he doubles the number and then adds one more in. Seven times? And this answer that Jesus gave blows Peter away. In verse 22, Jesus said unto him, I say, not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven. Which in my math, keep me accountable here, is four hundred and ninety times. Am I right on that mark? Our accountant over here. 490 times. Now, I don't think Jesus was being literal there. I think he was using hyperbole. And the message that he was trying to communicate is what? We just keep on forgiving. When a person sins, we forgive, they sin against us again, we forgive 'em again. They sin again, we forgive 'em again. We just keep on Continuing to forgive because this is the default mode of the Christian. Again, there are times when We confront, and that's the other issue, confrontational, non-confrontational. Um so let me just give you a few things. Number one, whenever possible, especially if the offense is petty or unintentional, it's best just to forgive unconditionally. And that's what we see here in in Ephesians 4. And by doing this, we're following in the footsteps Let me give you another passage. Look in 1 Peter chapter 2. I want you to see this passage because it's such a beautiful passage. Look at 1 Peter chapter 2. And I want you to look down at verse number 21. Peter here is pointing to the cross of Christ, and Peter does something unique that most New Testament writers, we don't see it in fact in any other place in the New Testament, when Peter points to the cross of Christ, it's not with respect to evangelism. Most of the time in the New Testament, when a writer refers to the cross of Christ, they're talking about being saved, coming to the cross and being saved. But here, when Peter points to the cross of Christ, He's pointing to it as an example of how to forgive, even though others have sinned unjustly against you. When they sinned grievously against you. And Jesus is an example to us in this. Look at verse 21 of 1 Peter chapter 2. For even hereunto were ye called Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in his steps. Here's the call. Every one of us need to follow in the steps of Christ. Specifically how? Look at verse 22. Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. And here Peter is giving the context of when Jesus was being crucified. Or the trial and the crucifixion of Christ. You know, the trial of Jesus happened early in the morning, 2 a. m. in the morning. What what court trial takes place at 2 a. m. in the morning? Unless it's an unjust trial? Here they were doing that to Jesus, an unjust trial. And what did Jesus say in response? Nothing. Who did no sin, neither was God found in his mouth. Verse 23, who when he was reviled. Reviled not again. And when he suffered he threatened not, but what did he do? He committed himself to him that judges righteously. And all the injustice that was rendered against Jesus. And by the way, no one ever suffered injustice the way Jesus did. Because no one was as holy like as Jesus was and is. And so he suffered injustice more than anyone. But what did he do in return? He committed himself to the one who judges righteously. He says, God, the Father, you see all things, you judge righteously. I commit my whole case to you. That's exactly what Jesus did. Verse 24, who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye are healed. Now, this is the very attitude that Scripture calls upon us. In fact, during Jesus' earthly ministry, he said to his disciple, Whoever slaps you on the right cheek, turn to the other also. You need to uh if anyone wants to sue you, uh take your shirt, let them have your coat also. This is the this is the attitude of a believer. We forgive offenses rendered against us. Number two, if We have to go through this quickly, but if you're the only injured party, even if the offense was public and flagrant, you might choose to forgive unconditionally. Someone sins against you flagrantly, even if it's public, just forgive. Again, Jesus is the example in this, in the passage that we just read. Also, Joseph, remember Joseph in the Old Testament? Joseph, his brothers sinned grievously against him. They plotted to kill him. They threw him down in a pit, and then they sold him off into slavery. But you know what? Joseph held no grudge. You know the story. Years later, when famine drove these wicked brothers into Egypt and searched for food. Joseph recognized them. They didn't recognize him He was now prime minister of Egypt. And you remember that when Joseph revealed his identity to his brothers, he wasn't angry with them. In fact, Joseph would later say, you meant it as evil, but God meant it for good. He forgave them. He took care of them. He just wrote it all off. That's an example of forgiveness. Number three, if you observe a serious offense that is a sin against someone other than you, Then in that case you might have to confront the offender because here now we are really dealing with this issue on the behalf of someone else. And the Bible again makes that clear. If we see someone else suffering because of an offense from someone, then we at that point must be conditional and we go to that person. Number four When ignoring the offense might hurt the offender, confrontation is necessary. And we just saw that in Matthew eighteen. If what this person is doing is going to hurt them, then I must be I must be confrontational. I have to go to them. And again, I go with the spirit of meekness. Write down Galatians 6. 1. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one And a spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. And so, and then number five, when a sin is scandalous and otherwise damaging to the church, confrontation there is then necessary. And the Apostle Paul gives an illustration of this in 1 Corinthians 5. Where a man had sinned against the whole church. And Paul, even though he wasn't there, wrote the letter and said, Look, even though I'm not there, I'm going to render a judgment that if this person doesn't repent, that you cast him out Because a little bit of leaven leavens the whole lump. And again, that point, it has to be confrontational. Number six, any time an offense results in a broken relationship Then I have to go and confront because again what I'm seeking there is reconciliation. The aim is not to punish the offender But to seek a reconciliation peace is what I'm after there. That's why the Bible says in Matthew 5. 23, therefore if I Bring thy gift to the altar, and there remembers that thy brother hath aught against thee. Leave there the gift before the altar, and go thy way, and first be reconciled to thy brother, then come and offer the gift. Now, let me give you number two. We talk this is the pattern of biblical forgiveness, but number two, the practice. And let me again I'm going to go over this somewhat quickly for time, but Let me give you what the Bible says is forgiveness, biblical forgiveness. Number one, biblical forgiveness is a deliberate decision. It's a decision that we make. And this is an important point. Again, in Ephesians 4. 32, it says, be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. Even as God for Christ's sake's sake has forgiven you. This is a command in Scripture. This is in the imperative mood. God is not making a suggestion here. God is commanding us. Which tells me this: this is not emotion. It's an act of the will. You might say, well, feel like forgiving. Well, that has nothing to do with it. You forgive anyway. You make a choice to forgive. And God's not commanding you to have a feeling. God's commanding you to take to do an action, to forgive. Okay? Now some people say, well, if I if I don't feel like forgiving, how do I do that? You simply make a choice that I declare this person not guilty. I'm not going to remember this. I'm going to I'm going to overlook it. It's over with. You say, Well, my heart's not there, your heart can catch up later. You just make a choice to do it. People say, I only forgive when I feel like forgiving. Well then you'll never forgive. Because the heart of man is such that you won't ever really feel like forgiving. Those who insist on being driven by emotion or a passion will find this very, very hard to forgive others. And they'll dwell on their bitterness. You just choose to overlook it. Forgiveness is to release the offender from the guilt of their sin. You just, again, you say not guilty To refuse to bring up the offense or to use it against them. This is how God forgives us. And in Hebrews 8, verse 2, it says, For I will be merciful towards their iniquities. And I will remember their sins no more. In Hebrews 10, 17, in their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. God listen, when God says I will remember them no more, that's not talking about divine amnesia This is God saying, I am not going to bring this up against this individual. God who knows all things, he knows all of our sins, but he chooses not to ever bring this back up. It's gone. That's what it means when it says there's no condemnation for those that are in Christ Jesus. When you get saved, guess what? God wipes out all of your sins, and He chooses not to bring them up. He chooses not to hold them against you. That's forgiveness. To refuse to think about the offense. Thankfully, God is not in heaven rehearsing our forgiven sins every day. He doesn't say, Jerry, you know, you know, let me tell you what I've forgiven you for. God doesn't do that. They're all gone. It's refusing to talk about the offense If you say that you forgive someone and then you constantly tell others about that offense, you're not really forgiving them. You don't talk about it. It's over. It's gone. And then to be reconciled with the offender as far as biblically possible, you are reconciled to that person. Biblical forgiveness is undeserved. Someone says, well, they don't deserve forgiveness. I know. That's why it's called forgiveness. They may not deserve it. Few ever deserve forgiveness. I didn't deserve the forgiveness of God, did you? None of us deserved it. Biblical forgiveness is total. God doesn't just forgive some of our sins. He forgives all of our sins. Every one of them. Biblical forgiveness is final. You don't say to a person, well, I forgave you yesterday, but not today. I'm going to hold this against you today. No, it's final. And then let me give you number three, real quickly, the perspective for biblical forgiveness. To forgive others, we have to understand uh the perspective in this and and that is first of all the motive in for in forgiving should be to glorify God who has forgiven you You say, why do I forgive others? Because God has forgiven us. And that's what we see again in verse 32. Look at the end. Ephesians 4. 32. Even as God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven others. And why does God forgive us? Well, in Ephesians 1:7, it says the forgiveness of our sins is according to the riches of his grace, so that we will be to the praise of his glory, for the glory of God. If someone sees how much you have forgiven someone else, then they will understand that that is of the Lord. And you divert to praise the Lord. How can you forgive someone? Well, because God has forgiven me. For so much. Therefore, I'm able to forgive others because of what Christ has done for me. Remember how much God has forgiven you in Christ. Jay Adams, I referenced him earlier in the sermon. He has a wonderful illustration in his book. uh how God has forgiven us. He said this, just imagine sitting in a movie theater in his illustration, he says, and the theater is packed. And the show is about to begin, then you discover that this movie is an unedited, undeleted story of your entire life. The soundtrack will contain everything that you've ever said. In fact, the movie will project everything you've ever thought, including all the things that you would have liked to have done if you thought you could have gotten away with it. And then he goes on to say this every one of us is relieved that such a movie does not exist. Amen. But he says this, but God has that movie. And his forgiveness means that he tosses it into the depths of the sea. Having been forgiven that much He then commands us to forgive others for the lesser sins that have been committed against us. And then here's one final thing. In the perspective of forgiveness, we remember how much God has forgiven us. That makes it easy for us to forgive others. But here's the other thing. Remember that God is sovereign over all that happens, and that He's the righteous judge of all. Even the offense that was rendered against you, God was sovereign over that. Maybe God allowed it. God says, I'll let this happen. Why did God allow this to happen in your life? Maybe God is using that for you. Maybe He's trying to bring you around to be more like the Lord Jesus. Or maybe God has an overall purpose that's hidden from you at the time. I know that there are people in here, many folks have suffered tremendous hurts and uh that others have committed against you. But you have to remember that God allowed that in your life. And God has a purpose for that. Again, we look back to the life of Joseph. Remember, Joseph's brothers, they hated him, they sold him into slavery. Joseph could have become very bitter. And he had power as the prime minister of Egypt. He could have had all of them put to death. He had that kind of power. But the Bible says he forgave him. In fact, after their father died, the father Jacob died, the other brothers came to Joseph there in Egypt. And they wanted to make sure that Joseph wasn't going to take vengeance against them. Now that Dad was gone, they were worried that Joseph was finally going to drop the hammer of vengeance against them. And so they come to Joseph. And they say, you know, this is my paraphrasing it. Joseph, remember that thing that happened years ago? We're okay, right? I mean, you're not mad at us, are you? And you remember what Joseph said? He said, don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. Am I in God's place? What you did, you meant it as evil against me, but God, who allowed it, he meant it for good. God meant this for good. Why? In order to bring to this this present result that many people will be helped. Many people will be saved. If Joseph had not suffered the grievances And the sins against him the way he had, he would not be in that position of Prime Minister of Egypt. And were he not in that position, many people would have died of starvation. God had to use those hurts to bring Joseph to the place of where he was so that God could use Joseph in a greater way in his life. So maybe, just maybe, if someone sins against you, it's all part of God's sovereign plan because God is using that in your life to bring about good things in the end. Who our God who works all things together for good. And that's a reason then to forgive others. That's why Joseph Could forgive his brothers. Think about what they did. Joseph spent years and years away from his family. Years and years away from his father. He only got to enjoy just a few years when his father was very old, and then his father died. Joseph could have gotten angry at his brother saying, You took me away from that relationship. You hurt me deeply No, he didn't. That's not the way he thought. You meant it as evil. God meant it for good. And he freely forgave. And again, that's the way our Lord forgives us. Let's bow for prayer together. Forgiveness is my responsibility by a choice of my will To release a debt by faith for the glory of God. I choose to release any debts against me. It's a choice of my will. Doesn't matter how I feel, I choose to release a debt by faith to the glory of God. And so I want to ask you with the heads bowed and eyes closed, is there anyone with items in the debit column of your heart's ledger book. Is there anyone that's in the prison of unforgiveness in your heart? Then what you need to do today is you need to open the prison door and let them go. You need to bang the gavel and say, not guilty. I release them, I let them go. I forgive them. You say I don't feel like it, that has nothing to do with it. Release them and say in your heart, I forgive. You don't need to make a show of it. You don't need to tell others about it. God who sees the heart will know. You say, I forgive. It may be a something that happened years ago that you haven't been able to get rid of. And it's it's burning anger in you. It's causing you to be angry at others that really you have no offense against. Something about anger and unforgiveness, it doesn't stay in its own container, it spills out. Open the prison door, let them let them let them go. Bang the gavel and say not guilty Just say I forgive. And I do this, Lord Jesus, because you have forgiven me for so much And if you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior, you need to start there at the cross and you need to be forgiven yourself. Come to the cross, kneel, realize that you have sinned against your God. But because of what Jesus has done on the cross, you have the opportunity to be forgiven. If you put your faith in the finished work of Christ, would you do that this very moment? If you haven't done that, just say, Lord Jesus, forgive me, cleanse me, make me your child. And friend, you will be forgiven. Of all of your sins. Think of that. Every sin will be cleansed and forgiven because of Christ. What He's done for you. Would you pray, Lord Jesus, cleanse me, forgive me? I'm a sinner. Pray that in meaning. If you've done that, let us know. We want to help you grow in your Christian life. Father, again, thank you for your word. May you give us the grace to apply these things. This spiritual discipline. Every day may we in our prayers say, I forgive all debts against me. So, Father, please forgive me of my debts as I forgive my debtors. And I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.