Would you uh take God's word please and open to the book of first John, chapter number two, first John chapter two, and uh Verse 15 down to verse 17 is what we're going to look at today. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? I want to read just these few verses with you. 1 John 2, verse 15. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world And the world passes away in the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Father, thank you for the privilege we have of uh being here in worship. And part of that is just hearing your word and submitting to it So, Lord, help us to listen today. Help me, Lord, to speak the truth. I know I can't do that enough of myself. I need the help of the Holy Spirit. Help me to make the Word of God clear. May we apply it to our life. May it have a sanctifying purpose in us. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to talk this morning about the love that God hates. In the early days of the church, Paul's trusted co-laborers, among those trusted co-laborers, was a man by the name of Demas. He was once counted among the faithful and listed alongside of Luke, Paul's traveling companion. But near the end of Paul's life, Paul wrote some heartbreaking words with regard to Demas. He wrote in 2 Timothy 4 10, for Demoth Has forsaken me having loved this present world. Those are some of the saddest lines in all of the Bible Here's a man that was once among the apostles, who once labored for the gospel, and his heart drifted away and drifted into the things of the world. The glitter and temporal pleasures pulled him away from the eternal treasures of spiritual truth. And the story of Demas is a reminder to all of us that worldliness is a real danger It can pull us away from the things of God. The love of the world has the power to cool our affections for Christ. It has the power to erode our convictions and to change our beliefs regarding God's Word. And John is going to address this very issue issue here in this letter, these verses that we just read deal with the issue of worldliness. Now remember John is writing this letter to these believers because some false teachers that come into the church And had told them that they were not sincere, they were not genuine, they were not authentic Christians. And some of them were very, very shattered and torn by what they had heard. So John writes to assure them He writes to also distinguish between true salvation and false salvation. And you see, and you remember if you've been with us in our study, you see the test that John has been giving us to use to measure whether or not our salvation is real. Whether our faith is real. We looked at the test of doctrine, that is the doctrine of Christ. Do you believe the real doctrine of Christ, what the Bible says about Christ? Then the test of righteousness and obedience, do you have a desire to obey Jesus? If you're truly saved and you know him, you're going to want to obey him. You're going to want to walk in righteousness. And then we saw the test of love. If you are truly a child of God, you will love the church. You will love other believers This is what I call the threefold cord of Christian assurance, these three tests, and we see them woven again and again. We go around again and again in first John, where he brings up one of these three things Then we saw last week where John kind of pauses uh and talks really about spiritual growth. He wants to encourage these believers. John says, I write because I I write unto you because you do believe, because you do have the sense of forgiveness of sin in your life. And you are strong, and the Word of God abides in you and you've known Him That is from the beginning. John gives a short word of encouragement. And now John goes right back into another test here in these verses that we see, verses 15 down to verse 17. This goes along with a test of righteousness The test of obedience. If you're a child of God, you will have a desire to walk in righteousness. But we can call this the test of worldliness. The test of loving the world. And you remember that John is very either-or in his approach. He's very antithetical. He draws a sharp line, there's no middle ground. You either walk in light or you walk in darkness. And here John says you either love the Father or you love the world. And if you love the world, the love of the Father is not in you. So you have to choose. And if you're truly a child of God, your allegiance, your ongoing loyalty will not be to the world. It'll be to the Father. You'll love the Father. So notice this command. It's a straightforward command in verse number 15. Look at it again. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Martin Lloyd Jones said of this verse, there are no more solemn words addressed to Christian people anywhere in Scripture than these. And I think he's right. Very solemn word here Love not. This is present imperative. That is this is not a suggestion from John. He's not saying, you know, it's a good idea, believers, that you love not the world. It'd be a good thing if you were like that No, this is a command. You do not love the world. Present tense command. Continual action. It should not be the pattern of your life. It should not be the habit of your life that you love and are drawn into the things of the world. Because if that's true of you, then the love of the Father is not in you. And on the other hand, the only thing that can really overcome the love of the world is to have a genuine love for the Father Because if you truly love the Father, you love God, that will overcome, that will cause you from drifting out into the things of the world. Some people think you can have one foot in the world and one foot in the church. And it just doesn't work that way, beloved. James 4. 4 says, friendship with the world is enmity with God. And so a love for the world is incompatible with a love for the Father. And so John establishes this then as a test of True salvation. A true believer will not have an ongoing love for the world. Now, let me just clarify: is it possible for a true believer to lapse into worldliness? Yes, it is. But if you're a child of God, that's not going to be the ongoing pattern of your life. That's not going to be, as I like to phrase it, your default mode. Your normal pattern is a love for the Father. Every once in a while, the world may try to pull you in. You may be lured in at times by that, but overall you have a love for the Father that overcomes the love of the world. Again, a true believer can lapse into worldliness, but they will not stay there. Your settled affection and allegiance is to the Father. You love the Father over the world. Now, why is that true? Why is this the default mode of the believer? I want to give you three reasons from our passage here why a true believer does not love the world. Here's number one, the definition of the world, because of what the world is, because of what it is. And look again in verse fifteen. I think this is a misunderstood Verse when it says love not the world, what does that mean? People misunderstand and misinterpret this concept. So first let me tell you what it's not He's not talking about the earth. When he says love not the world, it doesn't mean you don't love the physical planet, all right? Take care of the earth, all right By the way, I'm not a tree hugger, but I think you should take care of the planet. All right. This is the physical planet is a gift from God to us, isn't it? The Bible says the earth in all its fullness was given to mankind as a gift from the Father. It's a token of his love and goodness. Write down Psalm thirty five thirty thirty-three verse five. Is uh is full is full of the goodness of the Lord. And when he says the world here, he's not talking about the people. We are to love the people in the world. The Bible says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. So when he says, love not the world, he's not talking about the planet, he's not talking about the people. He's not talking about asceticism, that is, denying yourself of earthly pleasures. God has given us things in this world so that we can have legitimate pleasures There are some people that have taken this verse and they've misunderstood it and they they it causes them to lead kind of a monastic type life where they cut themselves off from the world, they have these rigid standards, they're totally divorced from the world and the things around it And they deny themselves legitimate pleasures from the world, thinking that they're being spiritual by doing this. You know, uh the the most extreme form of this I read was a man by the name of S Simon the style, he lived on a, for 36 years, think about this, he lived on top of a platform which was 60 feet high on a pillar. Why did he do that? He did that to separate himself from the world. Uh I I think that's a bit odd. You'll never see me living on top of a pillar, and I don't think you should either uh to get away from the world. And and uh people would come just to look at this man, it was kind of a an oddity. Uh and then you have people that just live in monasteries and get away from the world thinking that these rigid standards and all of that is going to make them more godly. That's not what John's talking about here Because worldliness is really a matter of the heart. It's a matter of your heart. So what is the world The word world here comes from the Greek word cosmos. It's used 185 times in the New Testament. 105 of those times it's used by John. So this is a favorite word of John. And the word means an arrangement or order. It came to refer to the universe, the cosmos, because why? The universe is well ordered. It's well arranged. It's actually we get the word cosmetics because when a person uses cosmetics, they're attempting to bring order. I tread lightly here, I guess. Before we get the word cosmopolitan, uh let me move on. Cosmopolitan means something well arranged. Now John is using it in a sense of an an evil arrangement, a bad sense and a negative sense. In other words, it is an arrangement, it is an organized system that is opposed to God. Or it presents itself in opposition to God or as a substitute for God. This is an organized system that is in opposition to God, invisible things, invisible spiritual things. Designed to replace God. And so it's this kind of system that makes up the world. Who's in charge of this system? Well, it's Satan Look at first John chapter 5, look at verse 19 real quick, just flip over there. Notice what John says. And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness. Actually we could say that in the Greek, it literally reads, in the lap of the wicked one. Who's the wicked one? That's Satan. Satan's in charge of the whole world system. Satan wants to replace God with things. He wants us to replace God with things. He's the one who suggests that you can find happiness without God. That the things of this world and his system can fill your heart. And so worldliness is that very thing. And I think that we live in a a day when uh this worldliness is pervasive because of the influence of modern media. Daily we're bombarded with attractive people telling us that we can't be happy unless we have what they have, or we buy their product, or we live like they live Or we adopt that lifestyle, we have to have that in order to be happy. And so again, worldliness is a matter of the heart, being drawn in by this system that presents itself Instead of God or as a substitute for God. If your heart is captured by the world, you will love the things of the world. Because you think that all those things will actually fill your heart and make you happy So therefore you don't really need God. But let me just tell you this. You were created to enjoy God. You were created to know God. The Westminster Catechism says, what is the chief end of man? To glorify God and to enjoy him forever. God is our source of happiness. He's our source of contentment, of joy. Satan is the one that comes along and suggests another way. You don't need God, you can have these things. And where did this start? Well, it started in the Garden of Eden when Satan said to Adam and Eve, you know, you don't need God to be happy Uh you can have these other things. In fact, God is holding out on you. It continued when Cain went out from the presence of the Lord. You remember that in Genesis, and he built a city, and there the world really began to start. to multiply. Um it was a world that he built, a world again where he says, We don't need God, we have these things. He exercised all kind of pleasures and businesses and all these things. You can read all that in the book of Genesis. But all that was swept away when the flood came and God destroyed that world that was opposed to him. But worldliness didn't stop because when Noah's children got on the ark They in their heart brought that worldliness with them. And when they got off the ark, guess what? Mankind started a whole nother system called the Tower of Babel. Again, a system designed to exist without God and to replace God And worldliness has continued on from there. And so, ever since then, man has been developing this cosmos, this system, where he doesn't need the Lord. Some people think that the you know the when they think of the world they think only the corrupting of immoral vices and abominable practices, but the truth is that the world can be a hobby It can be a relationship. It can be an entertainment. Any happiness that you pursue apart from God or without God, that is a part of the world. That's a part of it. John Wesley said, anything that cools my love for Christ is the world. That's the definition of the world. We reject the world because of what it is. It presents itself as a system that is a substitute for God. But then another reason we reject the world is because of the devices of the world, because of what it does. Look at verse sixteen. For all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. And here John shows us how the world seduces people. It uses these three things: lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life. That's how it draws us in. What is the lust of the flesh? Strong word here, desire the flesh. And it just simply means that your flesh would want whatever. It desires whatever it wants. Let's just say this. Let's just say that you had the ability to get whatever your your flesh wanted, whatever your heart desired. Let's just say that you were rich enough, you were powerful enough to get whatever your heart wanted. If you could have that ability, if you have that power, you have a third of the world. Because all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh But also the lust of the eyes. What is the lust of the eyes? You see, the lust of the flesh is more an inward desire. The lust of the eyes is more of an outward allurement Let's just say that you had the power and the ability to get whatever your eyes saw. You saw something, you want it, you can get it Oh I like that car, I think I'll buy it, you get it. I like that yacht, I think I'll get it. I like that building, that skyscraper, I think I'll buy it. I like whatever you have the power, the ability to get whatever your eyes saw. You've gained another part of the world Another third of the world. For all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes. But then there's a third part, the pride of life. It is the laudable ambition that turns into pride, that glory is not so much in that in the doing as well as being better than others. You're able to excel over others. Whatever goal you set out to accomplish, you're able to do it. Whatever position of power you want, you're able to achieve it. Whatever you want as far as ambition, you're able to get it. That's another third of the world Because of all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh, whatever my heart wants, lust of the eyes, whatever my eyes see, pride of life, whatever my my ambition sets out to attain, I'm able to attain it. If you're able to have all of that You guess what? You have the world. You say, Well, if I could do all that, I'd be happy. Really? You think so? Think you'd be happy with all of that? Well the really the only way we would know that for sure is to ask someone who had all that, who was able to get all that, and to see if he was really happy So I'm glad you want to know that. So go to Ecclesiastes. Hold your place here in 1 John. Is there a person that we know that had all that and could testify to us that what it did for him? Yeah, Solomon. And Ecclesiastes in the Old Testament, chapter 2, is really the journal of a man who was looking for happiness apart from God. He was living a secular life that excluded God. That's why you see the phrase in Ecclesiastes all the time, under the sun, under the sun, that is this horizontal living, without looking above the sun into eternity, he lived for the things of the world. And he had the ability to get what he wanted. Someone estimated that the income of Solomon back then was about $75 million a week. I think I could live on that. Seventy-five million a week, which meant that he could get pretty much whatever he wanted And Solomon is giving us his observations of living that kind of life. Someone said Solomon wrote Prover wrote Song of Solomon as a young man, he wrote Proverbs as a middle-aged man, he wrote Ecclesiastes as an old man, looking back And he's giving his observations of what it was like when he was able to have all the power and the popularity and the prestige and the and the pleasure He's going to tell us what it was like. Look in chapter 2, verse number 1. Solomon said, I said in my heart, Go to now, I will prove thee with mirth. Therefore enjoy pleasure, and behold, this is all vanity In other words, where he says, I will prove you, in other words, I'm going to test you out, heart. I'm going to find out, old heart, what makes you happy, what makes you fulfilled. I've got the ability to test all these things, and Solomon was a bit of a scientist at heart to where he can do these tests, a very rich and powerful man. And notice what he was able to do. Look in verse number verse 3. Let's start with there. I saw it in my heart to give myself unto wine. Yet acqu a acquainting my heart with wisdom and to lay hold of folly, so I might see what was that good from the sons of men which they should do unto the heaven all the days of their life. Look at verse four. I made me great works, I build me houses, I planted me vineyards, I made me good Gardens and orchards. I planted trees in them with all kinds of fruits. I made me pools of water to water wherewith the wood that bringeth forth trees. I got me servants and maidens, and had servants born in my house. Also I had great possessions Great of the great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me. I gathered me silver and gold and the peculiar treasure of kings and providences I get me men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men is musical instruments and that of all sorts, and so you kind of get the idea here. He's adding all this to himself. He's getting all these things around him. He had the best of whatever the world could offer at that time. He had it all In fact, look at verse number 10, where he says, And whatsoever mine eyes desired, I kept not from them, and I withheld not my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced in all the labor, and this was my portion in all my labor. So we see there the lust of the flesh in verse 10. He said, I withheld not my heart from any joy. Anything that my heart desired, I got it. I went after it, I wanted it, I got it. I got everything my heart wanted. He had the lust of the eyes because he said again in verse 10, whatsoever my eyes desired, I kept not from them. Look, whatever I saw, if I wanted it, I got it. No problem Lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life. Look at verse 9 again. So I was great and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem. I was the best. There was nobody better than me. I increased more than all. I was above all my peers. In fact, I was above all than those who went before me and even those after me. I was the best. You say, wow, he must have been the happiest man that ever lived. Well look at verse 11. Then I looked on all the works that my hands had brought, and all on the labor that I had labored to do, and behold, it was all vanity always vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no prophet under the sun. Vanity. You know what the word vanity is in Hebrew? It's the word hebel, which means it's whatever is left when a bubble bursts. That's what the word literally means. Nothingness. I had it all. Lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life. Wow, yeah, it was nothing. Nothing. It did nothing for me. It was literally a vexation of spirit. We could say striving after the wind, chasing the wind. It was useless. It did nothing for my heart in my life. It was empty, useless. Look at verse 17. Did he love life? Look at verse 17. Therefore I what? Hated life. Therefore I hated life. He hated life? Yeah. He had it all, yet he hated life. Hated it. Why? Why did Solomon hate life? Because he believed the lie that the world could take the place of God and satisfy his heart and make And he tried to test, he tested out that idea, and guess what he found out? He hated life. It was emptiness. The world cannot fill your heart, no matter how hard you try. That's why it doesn't surprise me to hear people that have all this material goods and and popularity and power and pleasure and all that and they end up taking their own life because It's all, as Solomon said, vanity and vexation of the Spirit. You were not created to enjoy temporal pleasures. You were created to enjoy God. That's the only thing that can fill your heart to give it long-lasting satisfaction. You are created to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. Look in chapter 3 of Ecclesiastes, look at verse 11. He hath made everything beautiful in his time. Also, he has set the world in their heart. What does he mean when he says he set the world in their heart? The word here Olam, literally eternity. God has put eternity in your heart. You know what that means? That means you know instinctively, innately, that The temporal things of this world are really not going to fulfill you. That you are you're created to understand that there's an eternal one in eternity, and that's where you will spend your enjoyment with God You're created to enjoy eternal things. You're created to enjoy God. So the world will not fill your heart. It's not enough. It never will. That's why we hate the world, because the world presents itself as something instead of God that will never be able to fulfill their heart. But then let me give you the third reason. Go back to first John real quick. First John. We hate the world. We don't love the world because of what the world is. We don't love the world because of what the world does. But here's the third thing. Another reason we don't know the world is because of the destruction of the world, because of where the world is going. Look at 1 John chapter 2, look at verse 17. And the world passes away. And the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God, what? Abideth forever. It abides forever. So John shows us here first the passing nature of the world. The world passes away. Again, present tense. The world is in the process of passing away. The world is in this process of continual disintegration or dissolution. The things of this world that glitter, it's not forever. It's falling apart. It's passing away. The world is a dying system. All of its institutions are crumbling little by little. All of it. Everything is breaking down because you know why? Because this world is plagued by sin, which operates on the principle of death. And so it's all passing away, it's all going away. But John contrasts this next to the permanent nature of the will of God. Notice the stark contrast that you see. The world is in the process of passing away and the lust thereof But notice the contrast, but he that doeth the will of God, what? Abideth forever. Abideth forever. And so we see the permanent nature of doing God's will. Now, what is the will of God? Of course It's God's will that all men be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth, first Timothy two, three and four. God's will is that we be saved and that we know him in salvation through Jesus Christ That we walk in obedience to his word, knowing that that is really the only joy and satisfaction that is real lasting that we'll ever get, is just to be committed to doing the will of God That is permanent. That'll be around when everything else in this world is gone. The church is a people, an eternally living people that is committed to doing the will of God. The world is a dead system. And so we have to understand that contrast. We belong to a different dimension. We don't love the world because the world's passing away. We live in heavenly places in Christ. I never forget when I was uh doing one of my archaeology trips in Israel, one of the visits we made was to the uh winter palace of King Herod in Jericho. Now there are three Jerichos. There's a Jericho of the Old Testament where the walls fell down, and then another New Testament Jericho was rebuilt, not far away from that And then there's the modern Jericho. The New Testament Jericho, uh, again, that's where Herod built his winter palace. And uh Herod, who was a notorious builder, really spared no expense to build lavish buildings. And uh We went to that that place where he where was his winter palace. Um in Jesus' day this winter retreat would have been a marvel of agric architecture, excuse me. It would be surrounded by lush gardens, shimmering pools, magnificent imported marble columns. This whole thing was designed to impress and dazzle and proclaim the glory of this man, Herod, who was an earthly king. So I went by that magnificent palace, and guess what? It's not so magnificent anymore. Because all it is right now is just a heap of stones. It's there and it's in ruins. And as I was there in that site I kind of turned to my left and I took in the wider landscape and I looked up and and and jetting there above the horizon is this mount called the Mount of Temptation, this towering ridge there off in the distance You could just see it. It was right there. That was the place where the Bible says in Matthew chapter 4, Satan took Jesus to tempt him. The mount of temptation. And remember what the devil said, Matthew 4:8, and the devil taketh him to a exceeding high mountain and showeth him the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them. And again, you could see that very spot Where Satan took Jesus. And if back in Jesus' day, standing on that mount and looking out over the landscape, it would have been a breathtaking uh view. From that vantage point, valleys stretching along up to the Jordan and the glittering sun and the fertile land pulsating with life and there were all kinds of beautiful uh pools and buildings and and structures and it would have been just beautiful to look at. All that again uh a testimony to man's glory And so Jesus could look down and he could see this beautiful palace, he could see Herod's kingdom, and it was right there that Satan said to Jesus, All these things I will give thee if thou wilt bow down and worship me, right there. He said that to Jesus. What was Satan saying? I'll give you the world. You can have all the world. You don't have to do the will of the Father. You can have the world. So here Jesus was faced with a choice. He had the will of God on one side, he had the world on the other. And Satan is saying, look, choose this. You don't have to do the will of God. You don't have to go to the cross. You can bypass all that. But you know what? Jesus was not fooled by appearances. Jesus saw beyond the glitter and the gl and the glamour. He saw the hallowedness behind that promise. And you know what Jesus' response was? Matthew 4 10. Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence. Or be gone, Satan. Or my translation, hit the road. Get the road, get out of here. It is written, You shall worship God only. Worship God only. You actually think, Satan, you can get me to choose the world over doing the will of my father, over loving my father? Get out of here. No way. Jesus illustrates this very truth here, 1 John 2. 17. The world is in the process of passing away, but he who does the will of God abides forever. I couldn't help but when I was standing there in those ruins looking up at that Mount of Temptation, thinking of this very verse here. Because you know why? There I was standing right in the middle of that winter palace, and it's all it's all a trash heap It's all stones. In fact, not far away is a dump and the stench that was in the air was overpowering. It literally stunk. I I couldn't stay there very long. Because people in that area would just dump their trash. Right there that used to be that glorious winter palace. It's a trash heap. And that's kind of an appropriate thing. What Satan offers you as a replacement for God will eventually it's garbage. It'll eventually come to nothing. It's passing away. But he who does the will of God abides forever. A true believer is someone who says, You can have the world. Give me Jesus. Give me Jesus. And I will do his will. So a true Christian is not going to love the world. Why? Because of what the world is. Because of what the world does and because of where the world is going. So ask yourself, where do you stand? Where do you stand? Does the love of the Father overpower any allurement of the world for you? A few questions to ask yourself. What do you seek with more fervor? The wealth and honors of the world or the riches of grace in the approval of God? Where does your confidence lie? In the things of the world or in the promises, the truth taught to us in the Word of God? What has more pull with you? Do you love the Father rather than loving the world? That is the test for any true believer. Let's bow for prayer together. Just ask yourself this morning: where do you stand? What dominates your mind, your thoughts? Is it schemes after worldly advancements Or is what dominates your mind more a desire to grow in grace and in the knowledge of Jesus Christ? Some of you need to make the basic choice: will you love the Father or will you love the world? You say I've already made that choice to love the Father, well then you need to maintain it. You need to maintain it. And don't let the world continue to pull you in. Don't yield to the temptations of the world. But commit yourself to doing the will of God, and you know what? You'll abide forever. You'll abide forever. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I want to ask you, do you know Jesus as your Savior? Have you ever been to Him for salvation? Have you truly turned from the world and sin and repented and put your faith in Christ? If not, I'm letting you to do that this very moment. Would you just reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, save me? The world, I've tried it, it offers nothing. I mean, my heart is empty I've tried to fill it with the cheap substitutes of this world and it's it's vanity. It's like Solomon says, it's a chasing after the wind. But now I'm turning to you, Lord Jesus. Fill my heart. Forgive me for my sin. Save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, if you pray that and mean it, he will save you And if you're a believer and you've been dangling or dabbling into the world, confess that Ask God to give you more of a greater love for the Father and for doing His will Let's all stand together with heads bowed and eyes closed for just a minute. I want to just have a moment of reflection and invitation. We're going to have some ministers down here in the front And if you have a need, if you you need to you want to know more about the gospel and how you can be saved, then they'll help you, take you aside, show you from God's word how you can get that settled. If you're just a believer and you want to come and pray, you're free to do that. We're gonna have an imit invitation hymn. John's gonna lead us in that. Hymn number 337, pass me not, oh gentle song. So look up and sing that with us. As we are just saying that you still Hell my hand me. Thank you so much. I'm gonna have a word of prayer. I'm gonna close this in prayer, everybody after I. I pray John is going to come and lead us in our closing hymn, and then our closing hymn, I love you, Lord, that we sing every Sunday, and then you'll be dismissed after that. Let me pray and then John will lead us. Father, thank you for the privilege of worshiping here again. Lord, continue to do your work in every heart. May you be honored and glorified, Lord, through your people who hear the word and apply it and live it. Give us a love for the Father that so surpasses any allurement that the world could overoffer, Father. Help us to do your will, we pray in Jesus' name.