I want you to uh have scripture reading with me. So would you open the m uh Luke chapter eighteen, stand together, and I want to read this passage of scripture. Let's stand and honor the scripture as we read it. And if you could just follow along with me in Luke 18, verses 1 down to verse 8. That'll be our passage for this morning. Luke 18 verses 1 to 8. And let me read God's word with you. Verse 1. And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint, saying, There was in a city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary And he would not for a while. But afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith, and shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? Let's bow for prayer. So, Father, thank you for your word. Help me, Lord, to make this your word clear to these your people, your precious sheep, and may it be an encouragement unto their heart. And I pray in Jesus' name, amen. You may be seated. So I'm preaching today on the parable of the persistent widow. Shortly after the uh Duke of Wellington led his troops to victory in the decisive battle against Napoleon. He was asked to compare his troops with the enemy troops. And he said this, my soldiers were not braver than the enemy. They were just brave five minutes longer. There's something to be said about persistence. about perseverance, about staying power. It is indispensable for success. The most gifted person in the world will accomplish very little if they quit. at the first sign of difficulty or if they quit when they come under pressure. One of my favorite characters in church history is a man by the name of William Carey. Maybe you know that name. William Carey has been called the father of modern missions. William Carey was a shoe cobbler who lived in England. Uh he had a desire to at that time uh to go to India, which was seemingly an impossible task. He wanted to go there to India. He wanted to translate the scriptures. He wanted to start churches. Now back in that day, getting there was hard enough, but then staying there was even harder. He experienced problem after problem after problem. I remember reading his biography. It's one of the few books I read, biographies, where I stayed up all night until I finished the whole book. It was so engaging. He had so many difficulties, so many problems, and yet he overcame each problem, and at the end of his life He had translated the scripture into several languages. He had started many churches. He put in motion the modern missionary movement that we know it today. The impact of his life is still being felt today And he was asked in the midst of all the adversity how he could accomplish so much. And this is what he said. He said, because I can plod. He said, I can pursue in any definite pursuit. He said, to this I owe everything. Perseverance. And that's what we need. Now, it's essential If we really are going to ever accomplish anything in life for God, we have to have perseverance. To quote the noted football philosopher Vince Lombardi, when the going gets tough, finish it. All right, thank you those football fans out there. When the going gets tough, the tough gets going. But this begs the question, how do you get tough? Where does this kind of perseverance come from? Where does this kind of staying power come from? We need to be tough. We need to persevere, and that's especially true in the spiritual realm. Because you know as well as I do, we live in a very difficult world today. It's not very friendly to Christians. Now the Lord was well aware of this. This was one of his great concerns, and he wanted to prepare his disciples, his followers to learn to persevere in this hostile world. He wanted his people to be resilient. He wanted them to be spiritually tough. And so really that's the point of this parable. And I want you to see with me today just three lessons we need to learn so that we don't lose heart. And if you're taking those just write down number one the problem of losing heart, look in verse number one. And he spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought always to pray and not to Saints. Look at the word faint there. It's a very interesting Greek word, ek uh, keiko, ek out of, keiko means bad. So literally you put it together, it's out of bed. And it came to mean the idea of losing heart because when you try to do good, bad happens. And you become tired. Some translate this literally, to lose heart, to quit. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever lost heart? You ever feel like quitting? You ever say, you know, what's the use of trying? Seems like everything I try to do never turns out right. You ever look out into this world and you see the injustice, you see the mistreatment that goes on, and lose heart and just want to quit? Things just are not going your way. This might be on your job. People know you're a Christian. They know your integrity and you won't compromise. And this causes them to despise you, perhaps And you're not being treated fairly. Or maybe you have a troubled marriage and you're doing everything you know to do to to to persevere to help this thing get better. And it just seems like nothing works. Or maybe you have a prodigal son or daughter and you try to teach him the right way. But they have been seduced by the world and the philosophies of the world. And no matter how much you plead and how much you argue your case, they don't listen. They're not getting better. Or maybe you're just working, you're trying to make ends meet, it never seems to be enough. There's always something else. You're faithful to Christ, or at least you try to be And it's just not going your way. It's not going your way at home. It's not going your way on the job or in relationships or in physical health or financial dealing or whatever situation that is trying you right now And maybe you're just ready to quit. You're ready to lose heart. Something about your situation has caused you to lose heart. Well, the parable that Jesus gives is for you. You see, Jesus knew the weakness of our flesh He knows at times we're going to want to quit. We're prone to lose heart. And that's why he gives his people this parable here. And really, to understand fully the impact of what he's saying, we have to understand the context. Why does Jesus give this parable? Really, the conversation starts back in Luke 17, verse 20. So just go back a few verses and look at that verse with me. Look at Luke 17, 20. And when he was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God should come, he answered in them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation. The Pharisees came and said, You talk about the kingdom, when is it going to come? And Jesus basically said to the Pharisees, you're not going to be able to discern it. The kingdom of God is here. I mean, the king was standing right in front of them, and they couldn't really discern it. And then look what Jesus says to his disciples. Look at verse 22. And he said unto his disciples, The days will come when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man. And ye shall not see it. That is to say, you're going to desire the second coming, and it's going to delay. Yeah, I ha I have Christians tell me all the time. Do you think the Lord's gonna come this year? Do you think the Lord's coming? Well yeah, I think He's coming. I don't know if it's this year. I can guarantee you this, if anyone gives you a date, he's not going to come on that day. Because the Bible says the Son of Man is going to come at a time when you think not. But people ask that question because they're just ready for the Lord to come. It's okay if the Lord comes right now, they say, Pastor, I'm ready. Because they're ready to quit, they're discouraged, and they want the Lord to come. And Jesus said to his disciples, You're going to desire for the Son of Man to come, and he's not going to come, he's going to delay his coming. In fact, the days before he comes are not going to be good, it's going to get worse. Look in chapter 17, look down at verse number 26. As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the Son of Man. They did eat and drink and were married wives and were given in marriage until that day that Noah entered into the ark and the flood came and destroyed them all. And then in verse twenty nine he says, But the same day that the Lord went out Or excuse me, verse 28. Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot, they did eat and drink, and they bought and sold and they planted and they built it. Jesus said, Look, you know, the time of my coming is going to be just like it was in the days of Noah. What was it like in the days of Noah? Apathy. They were just getting on with their life. Wickedness abounded. The Bible says in Genesis 6. That God saw the wickedness of man, that the imagination of his heart was only evil continually. God saw the hearts of people back then. There was just sin and evil was a cesspool of iniquity. And Jesus said it's going to be like it was in the days of Lot. And Lot lived in Sodom and Gomorrah. That wasn't the best environment. So between Christ's ascension and the second coming, this world is going to be filled with all manner of evil. It's not going to be easy for the child of God. And if you're going to bear up, you better be strong. You better have some persistence about you. Amen. And not give up. Notice what Jesus says at the end of the parable. Look in chapter 18 and look in verse number 8. I tell you that, or look at the last phrase where it says, Nevertheless, the Son of Man cometh. When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? And that's a question Jesus is asking. Is everyone going to give up? Before I return? Will he find faith? Is everyone gonna lose heart and quit? Is everyone gonna bail out? It's just so much easier to go with the flow than to swim against the current of this world. So much easier. So much easier to float than to fight. How tempting it is just to drift with the current m m morals, the the spirituality of this world, which is very little. And so this parable is given so that we won't lose heart. It's given for those who are here already, and perhaps you've lost heart. You're going through the motions of this life, but something has caused you just to lose heart. And so Jesus gives this parable. So notice here's the second point: the parable about losing heart. And notice what he says in verse 2: There was in a city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. So here is a destitute situation. Talk about a situation that might cause a person to lose heart. Here's a widow and she needs justice. But notice the characters here in the story. Notice the character of the judge. And the Lord is giving us a parable here in the legal system of that day. And here are two people on the opposite ends of the legal spectrum. Here is a judge, and back then the judge was the epitome of power His position has invested him with total authority. With his own sphere, he can do whatever he wants. He has his own sense of power What's the old expression? Power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. Well, this guy's kind of an illustration of that. Because look at verse number two, it says that he feared not God, neither regarded men. He didn't love God, he didn't love people. Other than that, he was alright. Who does that leave out? He doesn't fear God, doesn't care about God, he has no regard for people. He's not in this to help anyone. He's in it for his own self, for his own prestige. And this was a judge who probably wasn't a Jewish judge. The Jews had the Sanhedrin, a quarter seventy-one They also had the Lesser Sanhedrin, where they would issue twenty-three judge to judges to every city. This was wasn't a Jewish judge, this was a Roman judge. Rome appointed its own magistrates, and these guys were notorious for their corruption. They were paid large salaries, and the money would come out of the temple treasury, even though he was a Gentile. They had to pay his salary. He was a Roman appointee. Officially they were called the Diana Girzarot or Girzeroth But the people back then changed that. They put a pun on it. They said they called him the Diana Gizer Loth. They changed the R to the L. Gizer Roth simply means judges of punishment. Gizer Loth means uh robbery judges. These guys are robbers. They were notorious for their corruption. This guy was one of those. He was defiant about the great uh commandment. You know what the great commandment is: love God with all your heart, love your neighbor as yourself. He didn't love God nor regard man. He was defiant of all that. He loved his power. He loved his position. But notice next, the other person in the story, notice the cries of the widow. Look in verse 3. And there was a widow in that city. And she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And this widow represents the opposite end of the spectrum. Back in that day, there was no one more helpless or more vulnerable than a widow. She lived in a chauvinistic society. She had zero political clout. Most widows in this day were impoverished. There were no government programs to fall back on to help her, to take care of her, and the death of her husband left her with nothing. And to add to that that in the Palestinian system, women weren't even allowed to go to court. It was boldness of this woman to even approach a judge. She doesn't have a lawyer. If she could find one, she couldn't afford to pay for him. She obviously has no man in her life, no one to turn to, because he could go and plead her case. She has no father, no brother, no brother in law, no cousin or nephew, or any male neighbor that would take her case All she has is this unjust judge. Something has happened where she has been exploited. She becomes a victim of society, a victim of the system. And there's no one to plead her case, so she has to go to this unjudged judge. And in verse 3 says, And she came, and the actual verb of that in the Greek is, she just kept coming. She came again and again, and she would say, Avenge me Literally vindicate me, help me. She was seeking justice in a world of injustice. And the judge's response was unbelievably cold. He just dismissed her case. Wouldn't hear her. Didn't want to hear it. I read about a journalist that was assigned to Jerusalem to uh to literally she had an office overlooking the the Western Wall, the Whaling Wall. And one day she looked out and she saw a man, uh older man come to the wall and pray in the morning and then he would come back in the afternoon. And he just kept coming day after day. And she went down to him and she said, How long have you been doing this? He said, For twenty-five years He said, I come in the morning, I pray for uh world peace, and then I have a cup of tea and I come back and I pray that God would uh eradicate all the illness in the world. And she said that was she was amazed. She said, How does it come how does it feel to come every day for twenty-five years? What does it feel like? He says, It feels like I'm talking to a wall. This is what this woman felt like. She felt like she was talking to a wall. She just comes and comes and the judge will d doesn't listen. And this just keeps going on. Look at verse 4. And he would not for a while. The word while there is a very interesting chronos. It's where we get our word chronology or chronic. And it has the idea of something happening over a long period of time. That word chronic is kind of a medical term, right? An illness that lasts over a long period of time. And that's what this woman was, and it said she was chronic in that she just kept coming back. Again and again, she just kept coming. Day after day, she was chronic. She just kept coming. I read about a man this week who was uh wanted to get his driver's license. He was a Korean man, and uh he eventually passed The examination was able to get his driver's license on the 272nd attempt. 272. I I wonder if the people down there just say, look, just give him the license Just give it to him. He's gonna come back every day. I think it was kind of like this was what happens here with this woman. She just keeps coming and she comes. And so notice the conclusion of the case. Look down in verse number four. And he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard men, you have to admire the fact that he knew that he was a scoundrel. Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her. Lest by her continual coming she weary me. The judge finally comes to the realization that he's not going to get rid of this woman unless he gives her what she wants. He's talking to himself here. And he's saying, you know, this she is, here's the Harmon translation, she is a pain in the neck. She just keeps coming. The word continual here is a two-word phrase in the Greek. Literally means to the end. It's commonly a common expression forever. She's going to keep coming forever She's not going to stop. She's wearing me out. Where it says, Well weary me, lest she weary me. That's another interesting phrase. Hoopiaz. It's a boxing term. Literally to strike somebody with a blow. She was beating him down. She was wearing him out. Her continual pleas were like a verbal club. She was bludgeting this guy with her verbal pleas. She was painful. So here's this powerful judge being defeated by this helpless widow. I called this point here the terrible about losing heart. She doesn't lose heart. Here's the irony, he's the one who loses heart. She defeats him. He finally gives in because she wore him down. So what's the point that Jesus is making here? The Lord is teaching us a lesson here. It's about not losing heart. It's about praying. How does the Lord use this story to teach us to pray? Is He saying that God is, you know, we have to nag God in prayer to get what we want? That's not what he's saying. Or when you think of God like this selfish judge who has to be manipulated and pestered into doing the right thing No, none of us would dare make that kind of comparison to God. But here's what the Lord's doing, and here's the third and final point: the prevention against losing heart And here's what the Lord is doing here. Jesus in this story is using a rabbinical device, well known in that day, used often by rabbis. called call vahumer. And that's just the Hebrew and it simply means from light to heavy. From light to heavy, from lesser to greater. He's making an argument from lesser to greater. And we see this a lot in the Bible. For example, Jesus said this in Luke twelve. He said, Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, which neither have storehouse nor barn, and God feedeth them. How much more are you better than they? And it's not see the phrase, how much more? From lesser to greater. If God feeds the ravens, how much more is he going to feed you? The ravens are lesser than you. If he feeds the ravens, he's certainly going to feed you. If he clothes the grass, he certainly will clothe you. How much more? Are you more valuable to God? Paul uses this argument when he talked about the Jews, if the fall of the Jewish people brought Riches to the Gentiles, how much more were though were is their fullness going to bring riches to the earth? And so we see this argument all through the New Testament. And here's the point that Jesus is making. If this destitute widow can go to a corrupt judge And finally get what she wants, how much more can you go to your heavenly father and get what you need? That's the whole point of the parable. Our circumstances are not near as bad as hers And so there's a purposeful contrast here. And there are really three lessons that we need to learn. First of all, a lesson about God. There's an intended contrast between the unjust judge and God. Look at verse 6. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith, and shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? You see, there's a contrast between the unjust judge and God. Listen, we don't go to an unjust judge when we ask for something. We go to God the Father, who's a gracious God. And who loves us, who cares deeply about us. God doesn't need to be nagged or manipulated. None of that. Listen to Psalm 103. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger. He has not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniqu our iniquities. For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy towards them that fear him. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear. fear him. Look real quick. Look in Luke chapter 11, verse 10. Go back there. Look at this real quick. Same idea here. Luke 11. Look down at verse number 10. For everyone that asks receives, and him that seeks finds, and him that knocketh, it shall be open. Verse 11. If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? Or if he ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more Shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them and ask him? You get the idea? If this woman can go to an unjust judge and get what she needs, How much more are you able to get what you need? Because we come to a gracious God. So there's a lesson about God here. There's a lesson about ourself. Look what Jesus calls us in verse 7 of chapter 18. Shall not God avenge his own elect? You know what? You're not a destitute widow. You're one of God's people. God calls you one of his elect, which simply means that God knew you in eternity past. And he chose you in him. That doesn't negate human responsibility. We're responsible to believe, but once we believe, we are the beloved of God. We are his elect. God has a special love for his people. Now I love all of God's people, but Carolyn is my beloved. And God loves all people, but you are his beloved. I love all children, but those four redheads of mine, those are they have a special love for me because they're mine. And God has a special love for you. You're not by yourself in this. You're not a destitute widow. You are the object of God's love. You want to know how much God loves you? John 17, 23 says this, that the world may know that thou hast sent me and has loved them. That's you, has loved them as thou hast loved me. This is Jesus talking. How much does he love you? He loves you like he loves his own son, Jesus. Let that sink in. Isaiah 49. But Zion said, The Lord hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath forgotten me. And here's God's response. Can a woman forget her suckling child? That she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Yea, they may forget, but I will not forget thee. God says I'm not going to forget you Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands, the walls are thine continually before me. So this widow can cry out to a cold, heartless judge. With whom she had no relationship whatsoever. In fact, he didn't love her. He despised her. He hated her. She kept coming. And if this widow who is hated by this judge could get what she needed and be avenged, how much more will you be able to get what you need and be avenged? Because you're coming to a gracious Father who loves you and you are his beloved. And then finally, there's a lesson about prayer. There's a contrast in the delay. Now, this unjust judge, he delayed because He just out of his own selfish purpose. But God never delays for that reason. God is not uncaring. God is not heartless. And somebody asked, well, then why does God delay in answering prayers? Well, there's two things that I can give you here. First of all, God delays in answering prayer because of timing. Very simply, the time isn't right. And sometimes our troubles don't line up with God's sovereign purposes. And when we ask something of God, we just have to wait until it's God's time. Because again, his sovereign purposes aren't always synchronized with our problems. We have to learn to wait. And part of the problem is we're not always fit to receive what we ask for. Every parent knows when a child comes and asks for something, if that child's request should be granted based on that child's capacity to handle what they're asking for. Right? I mean a child may ask for the keys to the car at ten years old, but he's not gonna get 'em. Not till he's seventeen or eighteen, depending on you and how much you love your car, right? When he hit 35 somebody said. And so God and and by the way, when we when God delays in answering, it's because sometimes it helps us to clarify our need. And also in that delay, you know what happens? If we keep coming and we keep praying and we keep asking, what happens? There's a fellowship that takes place there, there's a closeness that takes place there, there's an intimacy that takes place there in prayer. But God's delays, another thing we can learn, God's delays in answering prayer is to teach us persistence, to teach us to be strong, to teach perseverance. God's not just a father, he's a coach. And he wants us to finish strong in this thing. And one thing that helps us to learn to persevere is to be persistent in prayer. To just keep praying. Remember the writer of Hebrews who said this? He said, Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down and the feeble knees and make straight paths for your feet. Lest that which is laid be turned out of the way, but rather let it be healed. And what he's talking about there is the runner in a race. Remember, he referred to that at the beginning of the chapter. We're runners in a race, and this isn't a hundred yard dash, this is a marathon And at the end of the marathon, God doesn't want us barely crossing the line with feeble knees and hands hanging down and you know running out of the path and in the path, wavering back and forth. That's not the way we're to finish the race. God wants you and I to finish the race strong. In order to do that, he's got to discipline us like a coach does an athlete. And that's what prayer does. Prayer doesn't wear God down, it builds you up. That's the whole purpose of it. And so, again, what's the point of the parable? If this widow doesn't lose heart, How much more should you not lose heart? You're not going to an unjust judge, you're going to a gracious father. And when he delays, it's not because of his own selfishness, it's because for your sake. He knows what he's doing. So don't lose heart. Just keep praying. Paul used this word, same Greek word. He said this. He said, For which cause we faint not. That is, we don't lose heart. For though the outward man perishes, the inward man is renewed day by day. That's what prayer does. Even on the outside, we are perishing. On the inside, we're renewed and we don't lose heart. Because we pray, we seek the face of God. And so that's why Jesus says men ought always to pray and not to faint, not lose heart. So let me give you this one illustration, I'm done. While crossing the Atlantic on an ocean liner, the great Bible teacher F. B. Meyer was asked to address the subject of answered prayer to the passengers on the boat. And the agnostic was present there in the meeting. And after Meyer was done, the agnostic was asked, What do you think of Dr. Meyer's sermon? And the agnostic said, I don't believe a word of it. Later that afternoon, the agnostic was on his way to hear another service just because he was curious and he wanted to hear what the babbler had to say, according to him. But before he left his room, he put two oranges in his pocket. And he was walking to the place of the meeting. He happened to see a lady, an elderly woman, who was sitting in a chair and she was fast asleep. So in a spirit of fun, he slipped those two oranges into her open hands. And after the meeting, he walked back and he saw this Old woman happily eating the oranges. And he said, You seem to be really enjoying those oranges. And she said, Yes, my father is very good to me. And he said, Well surely your father can't still be alive. She said, I'm talking about my heavenly father. My heavenly father is good to me. He said, You see, I was laying here and I've been seasick for a few days, and so I just prayed, Lord, would you please give me an orange? And she said I fell asleep when I was praying, and I woke up and found the Lord didn't give me just one orange, he gave me two oranges. And the agnostic was just shocked by that that God would actually use him To answer prayer, he was speechless. And later on on that same cruise, he was converted to Christ. And he was made a believer that God does answer prayer. So, what's the lesson? Keep on praying. Don't lose heart. Whatever your situation is, just keep on praying. Don't lose heart. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, I pray that you would encourage your saints, especially some who are here today and may have lost heart. Lord, renew them with fresh strength and courage. Whatever their situation may be, whatever dip difficulty they're in that's wearing them down. I pray, Lord, that you would avenge them. And we have the promise here in your word that when the time is right, you would avenge your people, your elect speedily. And you haven't given up on them, Lord, may they never give up on you. May they continue to pray and seek your face. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to maybe ask this question: are you here today? And you say, Man, that's me. I just seem to have lost heart. I'm kind of going through the motions But my heart isn't in it. And I've been discouraged. I've been down. And I need God's grace to renew me, to renew my strength So that I won't lose heart. If that's your prayer, would you raise your hand and say that's me? Would you pray for me? I don't want to lose heart. But God to restore my passion So Father, you see these hands. You know the needs of your people. I pray, Lord, that you would indeed minister and bless. May we not lose heart. As we continue to wait upon you, we pray in Jesus' name. Let's all stand together. We're going to sing, just as I am, if you need to use this altar here this morning, it's open and available to you. If you want to know how to come to know Jesus, we'll take you aside and show you from the scripture how you can be. a child of God. But let's just sing just as I am on the first stanza. Just we're here to pray with you, friend, if you need it. Maybe you just need to come and ask God to help you. And your situation. All right, let's let's let's bow for prayer. Father, Take your word sealed into the heart of all these who are your people. And use it, Lord, to encourage and to bless. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.