I invite you tonight to take your Bible. Open please to the book of 1 Kings, chapter number 3. 1 Kings chapter 3 tonight. As you know, we've been in a study in 1 and 2 Kings that we began a few weeks ago. And tonight we come to chapter 3, verse 16, to the end of the chapter. The title of the sermon tonight is The Sad Case of the Switched Baby. On her deathbed, a nurse in Zambia revealed that she switched more than 5,000 babies at birth during her 12 years working in a maternity ward. And while shocking, her confession really raised a lot of eyebrows as to how true that could be. She wrote this is what she said. She reported to the newspaper, I wish to confess my sin before God And before all the affected people, especially those who were giving birth at UTH, that's a hospital in Zambia, during my service. She said, if you were born in UTH between the years 1983 and 1995, chances are your parents might not be your biological parents. She said, I developed the habit of swapping new newlyborn babies just for fun. Now this lady is dying of terminal cancer, and she went on to caution, uh, take a good look at your siblings, she said. She said, I've caused many mothers to breastseed children who are not theirs biologically. And she said, I don't want to go to hell for that, which is why she was making this confession. Now according to some, however, in order for this claim to be true, she would have to swap one baby every single day for thirteen straight years. And many people are skeptical that she actually did that, but let's just say that she did half Or maybe even a third or a tenth or just one. That's a horrible thing. Years ago the Baltimore Sun reported a story of babies being switched at birth and this is what the story said. Two Virginia babies were switched at birth three years ago. The world learned recently. Since then talk has abounded. How often does this happen? And Why? They went on to do a study and they concluded about 28,000 babies get switched to hospitals every year, temporarily or permanently out of four million births according to uh some firm that did a study on this. This translates to one mistake per 1,000 transfers. A web says the transfer is every time the baby is brought from the nursery to the mom and vice versa. During a mother's average two hospit two-day hospital stay, a baby is transferred about six times Other report says, the good news is most m most mistakes are fixed before the baby leaves the hospital. That's good. And it uh goes on to say, now hospitals take extra measures and precautions to make sure a mother's worst nightmare doesn't happen. And it the story goes on to talk about these little bracelets now that they use in hospitals just to make sure that these things don't happen because again this is the worst nightmare of a mother Now, in our story tonight here in 1 Kings chapter 15, this nightmare was very real for one woman. In this case, it was not uh intentional, or excuse me, it wasn't a mistake, it was intentional Uh and the reason this story is even included here in 1 Kings chapter 3 is to answer the question that when Solomon prayed for wisdom, you remember if you were with us last week, he went to Gibeon and prayed for God to give him wisdom Uh he brought a thousand burnt offerings before the Lord and a dramatic worship to God, and then he laid asleep there at the altar hoping that God would speak, and God came to him in a dream And gave him that blank check offer. What do you want, Solomon? What would you have that I give you? And in response, Solomon said, God, I'm just a child. I don't know how to go out and come in. Please give me wisdom. And then Solomon and then God said, I'm going to give you wisdom. I'm going to give you wisdom like no other. Because God was pleased with that request. And then Solomon woke up. And so the question that lingers in the text is, was that just a dream or was Solomon really given wisdom by God. This story here is designed to answer that one question. Did Solomon get the wisdom of God? And what I want you to see in this whole study tonight is God is glorified when his wisdom is applied to a difficult situation. Because let's face it, all of us in life We'll face difficult dilemmas where we will need the wisdom of God. Now, there are three lessons I want you to see tonight. The first one, I call this a maternal dilemma And here's the lesson from this. God will allow us to be tested so that we may demonstrate His wisdom. Very often, God will put us in a circumstance where we are forced to rely on His wisdom. And Solomon is tested in this story. In fact, right after this dream and the promise from God, uh a a legal custody battle is brought into his throne room. Uh it's in ancient in the ancient Near East, whenever disputes could not be settled at the gate, if they were especially difficult They would work up to the king himself. The case would find its resolution before the king who was supposed to be able to solve all of these ancient Kings kept records of these legal decisions. And what we have really here in chapter three is the record of a court trial where Solomon was the supreme judge. And two prostitutes come before Solomon with a very difficult dilemma. A baby had been switched by one of these mothers. Solomon, he didn't have an ID bracelet to use. He didn't have uh a computer chip that would help him identify the right mom. So let's look at this Court trial. Let's look first of all at the plaintiff. Look in verse number sixteen. Then came there two women that were harlots unto the king, and they stood before him. Here's the testimony of this one woman in verse 17. And the one woman said, Oh my Lord, I and this woman dwell in one house, and I was delivered of a child with her in the house And it came to pass the third day after that I was delivered, that this woman was delivered also, and we were together. There was no stranger with us in the house, save we two in the house And this woman's child died in the night because she overlaid it, and she arose at midnight and took my son from beside me while thy handmaid slept, and laid it in her bosom and laid her dead child in my bosom. And when I arose in the morning to give my child sup, behold it was dead. But when I had considered it in the morning, behold, it was not my son, which I did bear. Now this woman's testimony is a very sad and sordid scene, you might say. Uh in detail, her testimony takes us inside a brothel uh somewhere in the Red Lake District around Jerusalem. There were no clients there that night, she said, but just two lonely harlots and their newborn baby sons. The next morning when this woman awoke, she received a horrible shock. The baby that was at her side that she was going to breastfeed was dead. On closer examination in the morning light, however, she quickly realized that it was not her baby. Every mother knows their own child, right? This child was the child of the other woman. And she realized quickly the awful truth. Truth. It was obvious what had happened. Sometime during the night, the other woman carelessly rolled on the top of her baby and smothered him in a awful case of accidental death. Then overwhelmed with bitter grief, And yet desperate and uh with uh with a desperate presence of mind, I should say, the greedy mother switched the baby in the dark. Taking the living child to her own breast, and handing the other woman a dead corpse Now at this point in the trial, the defendant speaks up. The second woman interrupts. She wants to tell her side of it. After all, there are two sides to a story, right? That's how a trial works. The accused gets a chance to mount a defense But really, she doesn't really dispute any of the facts. Her defense is kind of weak. Look in verse number twenty-two. And the other woman said, Nay, but the living is my son And the dead is thy son. And this said, No, but the dead is thy son, and the living is my son. And thus they spake before the king. And so again, she doesn't dispute the accounts. She simply defiantly insists, no, this is my child, the dead child is yours. And then the first woman again counters by saying, No, the living child is mine and the dead is yours. And at this point the whole scene kind of degenerates into a shouting match right there before Solomon, each claiming that the living child was there. So the argument went back and forth. And you and you can imagine how emotional this must have been. I mean the most emotional uh court trials are those that deal with child custody. There was anger there, no doubt. There was Tears, there was sorrow, there was desperation. And the Bible says in verse 22, and thus they spake before the king. Philip Reichen writes this in his commentary. The whole situation is pitiful, in the sense that everyone in this story deserves our pity. Surely we pity the woman whose son was stolen in the night, and who is now desperate to get him back. In her desperation we see every mother's longing for a lost child Yet we also commiserate with the woman accused of the heinous crime of child snatching. What a horror it must have been to wake up in the middle of the night only to discover that she had smothered her son Then there is King Solomon, and he too deserves our sympathy. How could he possibly resolve this case? And so here they are before Solomon. How does he determine who is the right mother? Now normally in a case like this other witnesses would be needed to reach In fact it says in Deuteronomy nineteen fifteen, a single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime or any wrong. There had to be in order to really adjudicate adjudicate a case, there had to be at least two witnesses or three would be better to establish any charge. In this case there were no eyewitnesses in this trial. The two women were alone in the night. So it was one person's word against another. It was she said versus she said. If you've ever had to settle a dispute where there's one person's word against another, these are the most difficult to uh settle. Now parents face this all the time, do we not? When one child accuses another child when you're trying to adjudicate an argument between siblings, teachers have this trouble at school Two students fighting. Employers struggle with disputes at the workplace with workers. Pastors sometimes find it hard to discern true. Sometimes when I'm doing marriage counseling, it's Her word against his word, and there were no other witnesses, and so who do you believe in a case like that? There are times when it seems like the only person who knows the truth is God himself. How is Solomon going to resolve this? There was no DNA testing, no hidden video cameras. Which woman was telling the truth. This again is a serious test of the wisdom of God. Did Solomon have enough wisdom to discern Between right and wrong, between truth and falsehood, between good and evil, can he render a verdict in this case Now, the way we can apply this to our own life tonight is sooner or later you're going to find yourself in a dilemma that's beyond the reach of your own personal wisdom and discernment. You'll have a time when uh what you have is not enough and you will be tested. What will you do in those circumstances? Well the Bible tells us very clearly in James 1, if any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God. And that verse is in the context of testing. We already saw how the Solomon had already asked God for wisdom He had already pleaded with the Lord to make him wise. And for us, whenever we are in a dilemma that is so difficult, and we know that our discernment or our ability to really know is limited or at an end we need to go to God and ask God for His wisdom. When you're tested, ask God. God, give me your wisdom. Now let me give you the second part of this. So number one, we see a maternal dilemma, but number two, a masterful decision When we depend on God, he will give us the wisdom we need when we need it. Now, Solomon, he carefully listened to their testimony. Remember, part of wisdom, the Hebrew, was a lev shema, a hearing heart, a discerning heart. And after listening carefully to their words, not only did he listen to their words, but he listened to their heart He listened to their attitude. He looked into their eyes. And he could see the uh what was going on in their hearts. And Solomon gives an accurate summary of the facts of the case. Look at verse 23. Then said the king, the one saith, This is my son that liveth. And thy son is dead, and the other saith, nay, but thy son is the dead, and my son is the living. Which one is telling the truth? Now, after summarizing the facts of the case, Solomon came up with a very simple solution. Look at verse number 24. And the king said, Bring me a sword. And they brought a sword before the king. Now we can only imagine how this must have shocked the people that were there in the throne room. I mean, imagine yourself being there at this time. What did the king just ask for? A sword? A deadly weapon? What's he gonna do with this? And I think the people were probably ahead of thinking he can't possibly be doing what I think he's going to do. But look at verse 25. And the king said, Divide the living child into, and give half to the one and half to the other. Again, one commentator writes, there was a cruel kind of equity in this legal compromise, but it was a horrible cruelty. It was a brutal decree, the bisection of a baby. People must have looked at Solomon with absolute astonishment. I think the people there might at first be thinking, this is the wisdom of God. On Solomon, is this what it's come down to? This is not wisdom. This is madness. Yet there was a method. to Solomon's madness. The king never intended for this command to be executed. Basically what he was doing is he was staging a test to fish out the real mother. He was baiting a trap to see which mother had genuine maternal love for her baby. And perhaps Solomon at this point already knew who the real mother was. Perhaps he was able to discern in their attitude, in their eyes, in their words, who the true mother was. But this test was designed not only to confirm it in his own heart, but to make it public for everyone there to see what he had suspected. And this dreadful decree had its desired effect. The real mother, the first woman When she heard this decree, she responded as you would expect a mother to respond with all the passion and emotion of a mother's heart. Look in verse 26. Then spake the woman whose the living child was unto the king, for her boughs yearned upon her son. And she said, O my lord. Give her the living child, and in no wise slay it. Her maternal instincts took over. She would do anything to save her son. Anything. She would even give him up to her enemy, this woman, if it meant saving his life. She would allow her own heart to be torn out if it meant saving his life. And so she cried out to King Solomon, spare This child, the real mother, was willing to make any sacrifice necessary for the good of her son. She was willing to make the kind of loving sacrifice that some women make when we hear of women who are willing to give up their child for adoption, not because they don't love the child, but because they do and they know that in their circumstance they're totally unable to really take care of that child. In order for that child to have a better life, a mother is willing to make that incredible sacrifice of giving that child up so that that child can have a better life. This is the kind of sacrifice that we see here in this woman. Now the other woman, she had a very different response to the threat of Solomon's sword, which also revealed to everyone her true heart. Look at the end of verse number twenty-six. Where the other woman says, but the other said, let it be neither mine nor thine, but divide it. There's a real mother for you. Yeah, go ahead and cut them in half. Let's take a half each. That sounds very fair, Solomon. What we see here is in the in here with her is in the bitterness of her grief She could only look at the real mother with hateful envy. If I can't have a son, then I don't want you to have a son either. And with a cruelty born of hatred, she told Solomon, yeah, go ahead, use that sword, go ahead and divide this child. She's willing to take her half. And so thus in this situation the hearts of both women were clearly and publicly revealed. What Solomon had suspected was made very clear. Solomon now knew with assurance who the real mother was. He didn't need any other witnesses He could tell by real maternal compassion who the real mother was. So look at verse 27. Then the king answered and said, Give her the living child, and in no wise slay it. She is the mother thereof. It was a simple solution to a difficult dilemma. With brilliant insight and wise discernment, Solomon devised this test. Which would reveal to everyone the hearts of these two women. God had indeed given Solomon the wisdom that he needed. This wasn't just a dream that Solomon had and when he was a Gibeon. This was true. This was real. This story confirms. That God had answered Solomon's prayer, that God had given him wisdom. God gives to his children wisdom when we go and we humbly ask of God. God, please, I can't do this on my own. I can't handle this. I need your wisdom. You know what? When we come humbly and ask God for wisdom, God smiles upon us. And God gives, according to the book of James, liberally to us. He won't rebuke us for that request. We see here that he was pleased, and God gave Solomon a great deal of wisdom. And so the question I want to ask you tonight is what difficult dilemma are you facing? God can and will give heavenly wisdom to those who will ask him. Sometimes that wisdom is stunning. It is jaw-dropping wisdom, such as we read here in this case with Solomon. I read once when Charles Fergie was preaching in Exeter Hall. He suddenly departed from the subject. He pointed at a certain person in the congregation and he said, This young man, those gloves you are wearing have not been paid for. You have stolen them from your employer. Wow After the service, a young man came to the vestry, begged for an interview with Spurgeon, and he admitted that he had placed a pair of gloves on the table. And he said through tears as he threw those gloves down, This is the first time I've ever robbed anyone of anything. I will never do it again. Please don't expose me to my mother, sir, he said. If she heard I had become a thief, it would kill her. Sometimes the wisdom that God gives to his servant is stunning. And he can do that for you. Let me give you the third thing. We saw a maternal dilemma. We saw a masterful decision. But here's number three, a marvelous declaration. And I want you to learn from this that God is glorified when his wisdom is applied to a difficult dilemma. Look at verse 28, and all Israel heard. As the people in the throne room witnessed Solomon's wisdom, again they were just shocked. They were astounded. You can imagine that the looks on their faces changed from horror to wonder as they watched the rifle mother take her baby, her beloved son. It may have even provoked tears there in that throne room for the more sensitive observer. Justice had been done. The king had reached the right verdict. It seems so simple now on this side of it. The true mother is the one who will do absolutely anything to save their child. And so Solomon had the joy of seeing the rightful child put back into the arms of the rightful mother. What he did basically is spread like wildfire. The people were amazed. And this story was repeated over and over again all throughout Israel. Again in verse 28, 8, and all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had judged, and they feared the king For they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to do judgment And so word spread. And the word was: don't mess with Solomon. He has the wisdom of God. You can't fool him. He will bring swift judgment. And when a king has that kind of wisdom, You know what happens? Crime goes down. It's a deterrent to crime. Listen to Proverbs 20 verse 8. A king who sits on the throne of judgment Winnows all evil with his eyes. Again in Proverbs 20, verse 26, a wise king scatters the wicked And bringeth the wheel over them, just knowing that he had this kind of wisdom was a deterrent to people doing evil. I remember when I was a school administrator here, I used to make my presence known in the hallways, you know, when uh when the classes were were over. I called this MBWA, management by walking around. You know why? Because when I was just making my appearance in the hallway, you know what it did? It cut down on a lot of misbehavior. It cut down on a lot of mischief just me being there. Some of you here may have remembered those days. I see you shaking right now. The pr uh so even so when the people knew that a wise king was on the throne It had the effect of deterring misbehavior. It winnows away all evil. But I'll tell you another thing it does, it glorifies God. It glorifies God. When God's wisdom is displayed in such a manner. Listen again to Proverbs 25, verse 2. It is the glory of God to conceal a thing. But the honor of kings is to search out a matter. So what's the principle here? The principle is God's world is filled with mystery and secrets beyond the capacity of ordinary people to understand, because God knows everything. And so God dwells in this world where He knows everything. Things that are mysterious to us, things that we can't conceive, things that we don't know, secrets. In God's world he knows all of these things. The question is, how do we get to know these things? God gives heavenly wisdom so earthly kings can get a glimpse into that world so they can have the wisdom to see things from a divine perspective, so they can search out a matter and know and have the answer that only God knows And in doing this, by God giving people this kind of heavenly wisdom, earthly kings are exalted, but most of all, God is The people of Israel knew that the only way Solomon was able to solve this dilemma was because God had given to Solomon his wisdom. And so God was glorified. And there are several specific ways that this was done. First of all, it was a confirmation that God keeps his word. That's the first thing that we see in the story. Remember, this story is in here. to show the reader that God did do what he said he was going to do, that God did give Solomon wisdom. It wasn't just a dream. When God promises something, he will fulfill it. And remember who The writer is writing to me, he's writing to exiles that are now in Babylon, who are there questioning whether God has failed to keep his word. They were thinking the reason they were in captivity, the reason there was no uh king on the throne, uh the David, the Davidic throne The reason the temple was destroyed is because God didn't keep his word. And actually, no, that's not true. The reason they were in exile and being punished is because God did keep his word. God does fulfill his word. And this story, again, points to that. God fulfills his word, but also it demonstrates the justice of God. God is glorified when his justice is carried out here by earthly kings. That's what a servant in the position of government is to do is to administer the justice of God. You know why people are angry today? Because they're not seeing the justice of God carried out. It's a man-made kind of half justice that's really not justice at all. It's not the justice of God Solomon in Psalm 72 offered this prayer. Listen to what he said. Give the king your justice, O God, and your righteousness to the royal son. May he judge your people with righteousness. And your poor with justice. May he defend the cause of the poorer of the people, and give deliverance to the children of the needy, and crush the oppressor. Now in this prayer here in Psalm 72, Solomon was interceding for himself. And again, he's praying for the wisdom to administer God's justice. He needed to be able to defend the cause of the poor. Just like he defended this mother from losing her child. He needed to be able to deliver the children of the needy. Just as he had saved this mother's son. He needed to crush. The oppressor, just as he exposed the second woman who had kidnapped a child that was not hers. And so Solomon prays for this justice That he will not give in to the temptation which comes a lot of times with the wealthy and the powerful to ignore the cries of the oppressed. Solomon didn't want to go down that road. He wanted to make sure that he was giving the justice of God and thereby glorifying God. But also, it demonstrated the mercy of God And God is glorified in that. Now think about it. When he handled this case, this story really begins with two prostitutes appearing before the king, and we see this whole ugly story here of what happened. And some people back then may have argued that since the Old Testament law prohibits this kind of behavior, it's sinful behavior, that neither one of these women deserved to be heard The fact that there were prostitutes in Israel shows you the spiritual trouble that was going on. But the king Solomon took time. To hear the case. These two women were also under his royal authority, so he listened carefully to what they had said. And he gave mercy to each of them. If each of them got what they deserved, they would have been punished. For their sin for their crime. But in giving out true justice he also showed mercy. And this is the calling of a righteous king. He delivers the needy when he calls The poor in him who has no helper, he has pity on the weak and the needy. He saves the lives of the needy. Again, we're quoting here from Psalm 72. But here's the last thing, most importantly. What Solomon did pointed to the wisdom of the greater son of Solomon, or excuse me, the greater son of David. It pointed to the wisdom of Jesus Christ, the one greater than Solomon. This whole story really we could say is a picture of the Lord Jesus and the judgment he will render one day. To all the world. Remember, Jesus described himself as the one greater than Solomon. And so when we look at the kingdom of Solomon, we always have to look at the kingdom of Jesus Christ. Jesus is the wisdom of God. And do you realize, beloved, that one day all people will stand before Jesus and be judged He will judge between the true and the false, between the sheep and the goats. He will bring the light. to light the things that are done in darkness. He will expose the hearts of people for all to see The Bible says God the Father has turned all judgment into the hand of the Son of God. Listen to John 5. 22, for the Father judges no man. But hath committed all judgment unto the Son. One day Jesus will say to rebellious sinners, I've given you a chance, but your day of grace is over. Though sometimes we see justice done in this life, sometimes we don't see justice done But the wisdom of God is in Jesus to do justice. And just remember this, beloved. One day Jesus, the just King, will make everything right. He will judge every sin. The Bible describes the day of judgment as a day when God judges the secret of men by Christ Jesus. At the final judgment, what happened to the second woman? Will happen to all the enemies of God. Their sins will be discovered. They will be brought to light. Jesus will expose the secret motives of every sinful heart. Listen to what the Bible says, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. And so I know that people are angry today, and sometimes people blame God because of the injustice. But friend, it's not God's fault. It's man's fault. And just know that God will Right every wrong and bring every person into full accountability for the things that they have done. Now, if the people in Solomon's day had awe, if they had wonder and awe for Solomon because he reached the right verdict in one case. And delivered pure justice in one case. Imagine how much honor Jesus will receive for righting every wrong in the history of the world. Every wrong in the history of the world will be made right. The book of Revelation says this, that when God executes his final judgments, That the people will cry out, hallelujah. Salvation and glory and power belong to our God, for his judgments are true and just. And so for some, the day of judgment will be a time of celebration. We will rejoice to see justice done, pure justice, the justice of God. But the judgment for others, it'll be a day of sadness and horror. You know why? Because for those who are have joy, those are the people that have put their faith in the finished work of Christ. These are they who have allowed Jesus to judge their sins for them. You know what the Bible says? We will either Allow our sins to be judged by Christ at the cross, or we will have to bear our own guilt for our own sins. And so the question is, what will your standing be in that day? Will you be someone where the Bible has said of you, there's no condemnation for those that are in Christ Jesus, I have come to Christ My sins have been judged at Calvary. Jesus took all of my sins upon himself. There's no condemnation for me. There's nothing but now I will be judged, but it won't be as a sinner, it will be as a servant And he'll judge me to see that my motives were pure. And he'll judge my works. The Bible says all of my works will be tried by the fire of heaven, whether it's wood, hay, or stubble, or gold, silver, or precious stones But I won't be judged for my sin. I'll be judged for my service. But those who don't know Jesus, the Bible says you'll be judged for your sins Listen to Revelation. And I saw a great white throne and him that sat on it. That's Jesus, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, for there was found no place for him for them. In the day of judgment, you won't be able to run and hide. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. This is the great white throne judgment. And if you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, this is the judgment seat that you will stand before, the great white throne judgment Sometimes I'll hear people mix this up in their prayers and they'll pray something like this, Father, grant that I stand before thy great white throne judgment. I always say, I don't want to be there. Don't grant that for me That's not for God's children. That's for those who don't know Jesus. Those who are God's children will go to the judgment, the Bhima seed of Christ. This judgment will be for those who have not received Jesus. And the Bible says in Revelation 20, 15, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. So for some, this will be a horrible day. This will be a terrible day. Where do you stand, friend What's your position? Are you in Christ or not? If not, I would tell you run to Christ because now is the day of mercy. Now you can find salvation, but there's going to come a day when the mercy is gone, and there'll be nothing but mercy. justice that will be rendered by Christ. May you find mercy before it's too late. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Let's bow for prayer. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, friend, what's your standing right now? If judgment were to take place today, would you be safe in Christ? Can the Bible say of you, there's no condemnation to those that are in Christ? When I stand before God, I won't be judged because of my sins. He'll judge me based on my service, but not my sins. And friend, if you can't say that, if you're not absolutely certain that Christ is your Savior, that you're that you're in Christ, that you're not in Christ, if you don't know for sure that you're in Christ, friend, you better make sure. Would you be willing to pray in your heart right now and say, Lord Jesus, I come to you. You are the only Savior. I realize that one day you will be the judge. But today, right now, you're the Savior. And right now you're offering mercy to all. All who will receive it. And I'm running to your mercy now, Lord Jesus. Save me. Forgive me for my sin. I realize on the cross you paid my sin then. So I run to you. Save me. Cleanse me. And the Bible says that those that come to him, he will in no wise cast out. They'll receive you just as you are. Father, I pray that at the day of judgment it will be a time for joy, a time of joy for all those that are under the sound of my voice, that they have made certain That they're in Christ. Thank you for the story that reminds us of the wisdom of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Of how that He one day will, while He's the Savior today, He will be the judge of all. And Lord help us give us wisdom to those that are here tonight that are facing a difficult dilemma in their own life. And they know that they don't have what it takes to make the right decision or to solve this dilemma. Lord, may they humbly come to you and asking for wisdom. And again, with heads bowed, maybe you're here tonight, maybe that's you. You are in a situation where There's really nothing you can do except go to God. Say, God, help me, give me wisdom in this time. Help me to solve this dilemma. Give me heavenly wisdom. Take a moment and ask God for that. Father, hear the prayers of your servants. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.