As we honor the Word of God in reading Scripture, and I just want to read verses one down to verse twelve for our scripture reading this morning. If you would just follow along and then we'll have a word of prayer And get into the message. Matthew 13, verse 1. The same day when Jesus out of the house and sat by the seaside. And great multitudes were gathered together unto him, so that he went into a ship and sat, and the whole multitude stood on the shore. And he spake many things unto them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow. And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them up. And some fell upon stony places where they had not much earth, and forthwith they sprang up, because they had no depthness of earth. And when the sun was up they were scorched, and because they had no root they withered away And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprung up and choked them. But other fell into good ground and brought forth fruit, some a hundredfold, and some sixtyfold, and some thirtyfold. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. And the disciples came and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables? And he answered and he said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven But to them it is not given. For whosoever hath to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance. But whosoever hath not from him shall be taken away, even that he hath And therefore speak I unto them in parables, because they seeing, see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear and shall not understand, and seeing ye shall see and shall not perceive. Can you bow with me together in prayer? This is God's holy word. May we submit to it. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your precious word. We have an inspired and errant word of God. And Lord, we've come today to hear from you. We were reminded in the Scripture that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. So Lord, help me, your servant today, to make your word clear. Because we know the power is in the message. So Lord, may no one leave here today without understanding. May they receive your word. May they receive it not just superficially, but may they receive it in the depth of their being. And may that word, that powerful word, change. who they are, who we are. May we be conform more to the image of Christ. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Let me ask you a question. Why don't we see better results from the preaching of the gospel? You ever wonder that? I mean, I certainly do. Why don't we see more people getting saved? I'm talking about in in general, as a whole, in our country, when the word is being preached, when the gospel is being preached. Why are so many people not responding to the message of the gospel? Why would anyone reject the gospel? Why would anyone reject the message of salvation? And I think there are many people that are asking these questions. I think perhaps this question has entered into your mind. There's been several times after a sermon standing in the back and some people come through and they say, Preacher, how anyone can be here and and st and leave saved, I'll never know And yet there are people that come and they get under the gospel and yet they don't respond. Why is that? And I think the disciples were wondering the same thing. I mean, Jesus preached the gospel all through his ministry. I mean, you read Matthew, you read Mark, you read any of the Gospels, you'll find out he went out all over preaching the kingdom is at hand. He preached the gospel, and I would dare say, I would venture to say, that perhaps there was no more powerful preacher than Jesus. Would you agree with me? I think perhaps there is no one who made the message of the kingdom any more clear than Jesus, any more powerful than Jesus. And yet There were people that didn't respond. There were people that rejected. There were people that walked away. And Jesus was constantly inviting people. In fact, one of the greatest invitations is in Matthew 11, where Jesus said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And yet that passage really ended one phase of Jesus' ministry and another phase began. You say, why is that? Well, because that was in Matthew eleven, in Matthew chapter twelve, we have the episode of the rel religious leaders Who basically hated Jesus, and their hatred came to a climax. And you remember in Matthew chapter 12 that they accused Jesus of doing miracles in the power of Satan. There was no greater insult to Jesus in his ministry than to say that he was not from God, but that the exact opposite, he was ministering in the kingdom of darkness. And what you'll notice is that from that point on, in the ministry of Jesus, the whole tone and methodology, we could say, of his preaching and of his ministry, it all changed from that point on. From previous to that, Jesus was out there in the multitudes. He was preaching. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. He was very clear. But when that happened in Matthew chapter 12, Jesus began speaking in parables. This is a new thing for him in this part of his ministry. And some of the disciples were wondering about that. Why are you speaking now in parables? Look in verse 10 of chapter 13. The disciples came and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables? Jesus, why are you now changing the manner Of your speaking. Why are you now speaking in parables? By the way, what are parables? Parable comes from two Greek words para, which means alongside ballow to cast. to cast down alongside. It's the idea of casting down alongside something unknown, something that is known. You cast the known down alongside the unknown so that the known will help the unknown To be known. Does it make sense? He would just take a basic earthly story, an illustration. He would cast it down alongside a spiritual truth so that you can make the mental connection. So that you can understand the spiritual truth that Jesus was talking about. Very simply put, one person said there are earthly sayings with heavenly meanings, but they teach really deep spiritual truth. And so why Did Jesus begin at that point to speak in parables? Well, first of all, it was a form of judgment. This was a form of judgment. Sometimes people say, Why don't you say more stories? Look, if you hear me saying more stories when I'm up here, it might be a form of judgment for you. That's what Jesus was doing. They say why why are you doing parables? Well, look at look at verse one, we'll kind of understand on. The same day went Jesus out of the house What sane day? The same day that he was accused of casting out demons and the power or doing miracles and the power of Satan, the same day that they They came and said, we want a sign to show that you're legitimate. The same day that his family thought he was crazy and they wanted to kind of take him uh aside. That very same day, it says he went out of the house. What house was that? That was in Capernaum. That was the house of Peter. Capernaum is where he had his earthly ministry based at that moment. But he went out of the house. Sat by the seaside and there at Capernaum, right there, it's right there on the coast of the Sea of Galilee. In fact, archaeologists have found that house, the house of Peter, where Jesus stayed, right next to the water And it says in verse 2, and great multitudes were gathered together unto him, so that he went into a ship and sat. And the whole multitude stood on the shore. Why did Jesus do that? If you could just picture this in your mind, here's a great company of people on the shore. Here's Jesus in a boat just off of the shore. And he's kind of using this boat as a pulpit, so to speak. And I think there could be some uh something in that maybe perhaps he could be heard, his voice maybe echoing off the water so that that multitude could hear him better. Perhaps that's happening here. But he's speaking to them, and now he speaks in parables. And verse 3, and he spake many things unto them in parables. Again. The disciples were wondering, why are you doing this? And Jesus answered, look at verse 11, they asked him. He answered, he said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries. of the kingdom, but to them it is not given. For whosoever hath to him shall be given, and him he shall have more abundance But whosoever hath not from him shall be taken away even what he has. And basically Jesus was saying, I will not continue to reveal truth to people who have rejected what life they what light they've already been given. That's the idea there. Why are you speaking in parables, Jesus? Well, because those who have rejected truth, they're not going to understand what I'm saying now from here on out. To you who have received the truth, you'll get it, you'll understand, you'll have enlightenment, but for those who hear me, who have already rejected the truth, they're not going to get it. And I'm not going to continue to reveal light to those who have rejected it. That's what he's saying in verse number 12. It's the old principle, if you don't use it, you lose it. You know, some people wonder, why don't I understand the Bible better? Well, what are you applying what you already know? Are you really uh applying and adding to your life what he's already given you have you received fully everything he's already taught you Because if you don't, chances are he's not going to give you any more. Whosoever hath, these are the people that already receive the truth about Jesus. They believe on him, they are receiving his words. Jesus said to those, to him, it shall be given. That is, I'm going to add more to you. If you've received the truth and you're applying the truth, then I'm going to give you more. But then he said in verse 12, But whosoever hath not, who's that? Those are they who have not received Jesus. They have rejected the light. They've rejected the truth. They saw him perform many miracles. They saw his signs. They heard his words and they did not believe. They were exposed to God's incarnate Son, and yet they rejected him. And so they don't have it. And he says, from them, it shall be taken away. You see, friend, if if you've been given light and you haven't received that light, God's gonna not only will he not give you more light, he'll take away whatever light you have. And you'll be subject to darkness. And so really the principle is you're either progressing spiritually or you are regressing. Spiritually, but you don't stand still. You're either getting more light, or you're not, or you're getting less. That's what he's saying And Jesus says, look at verse 13, therefore I speak I unto them in parables, because they seeing, see not, hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. They'll see, but they don't see. They really won't get it. They'll hear, but they really won't understand because they haven't received the truth that they've already received. And then Jesus gives a prophecy. Look at verse 14. And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, which saith, by hearing ye shall hear and shall not understand, and seeing ye shall see and shall not perceive. In other words, this was all prophesied in the Old Testament. in the ministry of Isaiah that part of the ministry of the Messiah would be like this, that he would speak in parables to those people who have already received light and yet they've rejected that light. And for those who have truly received the light, they're going to get more. And so this is really not only is it a form of judgment for some, it's a form of instruction for others. Because those who have received the truth, and if you have received the light, you know what's happening? He's giving you more light. He's giving you more truth. He's saying you're going to get it. And what Jesus is doing here in these parables is he's reminding the disciples of how the kingdom is going to advance. When we talk about the kingdom of God here, we're talking about that spiritual, internal kingdom. that period between the first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ, how is the kingdom of God expanding now? It's expanding spiritually. It's expanding inwardly in the hearts of men who receive Jesus Christ and who bow to his Lordship. Jesus said to those I'm going to reveal more about the kingdom to you and to those who have not, you're not going to get it. But look in verse 16. But blessed are you, are your eyes, for they see And for your ears, for they hear. And so the disciples are privileged to hear What's going to happen? What's going to take place in the church age? What's going to take place in the kingdom? And by the way, so are you. We're privileged to hear all this in the Word of God. But really, what Jesus is saying here is look, this is what you must expect. Again, the disciples were wondering, why are not more people coming into the kingdom when the when Jesus started out? It started out very small. Uh there was 120 in the upper room. Now later on, 3,000 got saved, and the kingdom of God has continued to expand. But basically in Jesus' day and in his ministry, it started out small. You say, wait a minute. There were thousands that followed him. Yeah, they were following him because they wanted a miracle. They wanted a free meal. They wanted bagels for breakfast. But they weren't following him because they really believed. When you get down to that, that was a smaller group. And so the disciples are wondering. How's this all going to happen, Jesus? How's the kingdom going to expand? Why are there not more people responding? How come more people aren't getting saved? And so he gives this parable. Now let me give you the first thing, the information. Look in verse number three. The information of the parable. He spake many things unto them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower Went forth to sow, and he sowed some sea, and some seeds fell among by the wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them up And some fell upon stony places where they had not much earth, and forthwith they sprung up because they had no depthness of earth. And when the sun was up they were scorched, and because they had no root they withered away, and some fell among thorns. And the thorns sprung up and choked them, and other fell in the good ground, and brought forth fruit, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some Now this would have been very familiar to the hearers of this, because back in Palestine it was not unusual to see a farmer spreading his seed. And he did it differently back then than we do today. He normally had a canvas sack along his side, and he would reach into that sack and he would go into the field and he would just begin to very indiscriminately sprinkle these seeds all over Very generous, he would reach in and he would throw the seed out. And as he was doing this, there were the seeds landed in different places. First of all, there was the wayside soil in verse number four. This was the hard packed dirt of the road bordering the fields. So picture this in your mind. When you look at the fields of Palestine, they weren't bordered by a fence. Normally it was just a hard path Kind of a checkered board formation where in the middle the squares, that was the field itself, and on the border of the field there were hard pathways. Where people walked. And you know as well as I do that if you walk on packed in dirt, it gets very, very hard. As hard as cement. And so when they would he when he would sprinkle the seeds, some of the seeds would land on these hard pathways. So very hard that the seed could not get into the ground. That was where some seas landed. And whenever the sea the seas landed on those hard paths, the birds would come and they would devour it up. But then there's the shallow soil. We saw this in verses 5 and 6. Where it says talks about sh stony places. Some fell upon stony places. What is that talking about? Well, in the land of Israel and some places, there would be what would look like fertile soil, but it was very thin And it was over a layer of limestone. There's a lot of limestone there in Palestine. And there would be these plates of limestone with a thin layer of soil. Now the farmer didn't know where the limestone was. So when he would throw seed on that certain area, the seeds would quickly be absorbed into that thin soil, and then they would sprout quicker than all the other seeds. In fact, the foliage would just grow up real big. And the heart of the farmer got very, very glad because he thought, this is going to be a great harvest. I mean, look how look how this plant is sprouting up so quickly. But then what would happen? Well, because the uh of the the shallowness of the soil, the seed really couldn't the roots couldn't really get get deep down into the soil, and so what would happen was the sun would come out hot scorching sun and pretty soon the foliage of that plant would wither and that plant was gone Gone. Even in Palestine today, you can see a fully ripe plant shrivel in seconds when the hot sun comes out. Then there's the crowded soil. Look at verse 7. And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprung up and choked them. This is the soil that looked good, it was deep, it was rich, it was fertile. The only one problem is This soil was contaminated by weeds, those fibrous weed roots hidden in the ground, and they would choke the life out of the plant. The weeds were indigenous to that soil so it was very easy for those weeds to grow up. The the the grain seeds were not indigenous, it was it was harder for them to grow in that soil and so the weeds being natural would basically choke out the seeds that were planted there in that soil. And then there was another soil. There was the fruitful soil. Look in verse 8. But another other fell among good ground and brought forth fruit. Some a hundred, some sixty, some thirty. And so Galilee was known for having rich, fertile soil. And here the soil is soft, it's deep, it's clean. And so on that ground the seed would burst forth into life and bring a tremendous harvest. By the way, the average harvest would yield about 7. 5 fold. A could a good crop would be tenfold. Here Jesus says this would yield a hundredfold. That's a huge crop. Some sixty, some thirty. So he's talking about a tremendously flourishing crops. So what do we see here? We see four different kinds of soils in this parable that Jesus is giving. And again, this is very familiar to the people of Palestine But he's going to teach them something that is very encouraging about the kingdom. Look at verse number nine, where he says, He who hath ears to hear, let them hear. If you can understand if this, if you can hear this If you can get this, if you have ears to hear, listen. So that's the information of the parable. But here's number two. Write down the interpretation of the parable. What's Jesus talking about here? Look at verse 18. Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. The you there is plural. That's all of you. It's like Jesus saying today, look, I want you to hear this parable. I want you to understand this parable. It's emphatic in the Greek. And he's speaking to us. He wants you to know this. Now this is not hard, because let me ask you, who do you think the sower in this parable represents? Who do you think it represents? I'm asking you. Jesus. That's right. He's the one out sowing the seed. Look at verse 37. He answered and said unto them, He that soweth the good seed is who? Son of man. It's Jesus. And by the way. By way of extension, this can apply to anyone who really is preaching the word or sharing the word. You're also a sower, did you know that? Anyone who's out there preaching the word? Every Sunday morning when I'm up here, you know what I'm doing? I'm throwing seeds at you. I'm scattering the seed. Anyone who preaches here in this pulpit. Sunday school teachers, when you teach, you're scattering the seed. When you're out there sharing the gospel, you're scattering the seed. And so we see the sower there. But now the seed, let me ask you a question. What do you think the seed represents? Again, this isn't hard. Look at verse 19. When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom. Now, so what is that? That's the word of God. The word of the kingdom. The seed is the word of God. Just write down your margin. Mark 4. 14. The sower soweth the word. Luke 8, 11, it's even clearer. The seed is the word. Anyone, again, preaching and teaching is sowing the word of God. You know something interesting about seeds? We can't, man can't create seeds. You know that? Do you realize if it wasn't for seeds, we would all starve to death? I mean, well I say starve to death, I mean we s we could all eat all the animals, but you know, we would have any vegetables or fruit, right? I mean the seed is what Uh it gives life. God is the one who gave us seeds. Man can't synthesize a seed, I'm trying to say. Man can't create seeds. Only God does that. That reminds me about the Word of God. You know what? I'm not here to create a message for you. You understand that? I'm just giving you the seed right here. And this was God given I'm just giving you the seed of the word of God. We're utterly dependent upon his word. And so just like the world today is dependent upon seeds that God has given, we're dependent upon the Word of God. Now the soils. So the sower, we know, is anyone is Jesus or anyone who's sharing the word. The seed represents the word, the soils. Who do the soils represent? Well look at verse 19. Again, it's clear, I think. When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one and catch away that which is sown in his what Heart, sown in his heart. So what do the soils represent? The heart The heart of the hearer. Think about that. Now remember what's what what is Jesus doing here? What question is he answering? How come there's not more people getting saved? How come there's not more people coming into the kingdom? What's the problem here? That's the question that he's answering. Why is Jesus having such opposition? Why are the disciples having such opposition? And by the way, they will get more opposition. And we will experience it. Why so relatively few results in the preaching of Jesus and the disciples and in ours today sometimes? Why are people rejecting the message? What's the problem? Problem's not the sower. I mean, I don't think the problem is with Jesus, do you? No. I don't think the problem's with the seed. I think this seed is pretty good, don't you? In fact, I'm so convinced on it. I'm not going to preach anything else other than this. Is that okay? I think this seed is effective. The problem is not the sower. And the problem is not the seed. What's the problem? The problem's the soil. That's the issue. And that's the point that Jesus is trying to make here. The gospel hasn't failed. And the preaching of the gospel hasn't failed. The word of God hasn't failed. It's the condition of the soil. A person's response to the gospel is dependent upon the condition of their heart. The condition of the soil. And again, I think Jesus is doing this to encourage his disciples because he doesn't want them taking all this on themselves. You know what? If I thought that everything was dependent on me, I couldn't stay in ministry. That's too much. That's too much of a burden for me to bear If I felt like it's all dependent on Jerry Harmon, if it is all dependent on Jerry Harmon, you people are in big trouble. But you know, I got good news for you, it's not dependent on me. It's dependent on the Word of God. The seed. Just preaching the seed, getting it out. And Jesus is telling the disciples, look, don't take all of this personal, don't take it on yourself. Just remember this parable. And by the way, what does the wayside soil represent? What kind of heart does that represent? Look again in verse 19. When anyone hears the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one and catches away that which was sown in his heart. This is the the soil is too hard. And the birds are waiting to snatch up that sea, falling on that hard soil. This is the hearer who is hard-hearted. They're unresponsive. They're indifferent. The word of God just hits this person and it just bounces off. And the birds come and they snatch away the seed. This is again the fulfillment of verse twelve. He that hath not is going to be taken away from him. If you're not receiving the word, if your heart is too hard to receive what is being preached Then you're not going to absorb the word, and none of that Satan's going to snatch away whatever you got. That's the point there. And so there's no brokenness. There's no conviction. There's no repentance on this hard heart And I think here in the immediate context, Jesus is describing the religious leaders of his day, the Jews of His day who should have believed on him, should have seen his miracles and his works, and they should have received them. But that seed was just bouncing off their hardened heart. That's the point. Then there's the shallow soil. Who is this? This is the superficial here. Look at verse 20. But he that receiveth the seed into stony place is the same as he that receives the word, and a non with joy receives it Yet hath not root in itself, but dureth for a while, for when tribulation or persecution arises because of the word By and by, he is offended. This is the person who gives all the outward signs of receiving the gospel initially. Initially, there might be a lot of what we think of as true results. There's a lot of foliage, there's a lot of early growth there perhaps It's a quick response which's not with not much depth of thought. It can be an emotional response to the gospel But this person has not counted the cause of following Christ. They don't truly understand the gospel in repentance. This person may express a lot of emotion, a lot of passion, a lot of tears. They may have come down the aisle in tears, and just all automatically right away they're just excited, but something happens along the way and they get offended and they leave. They walk away. There was nothing there. It was all superficial. It was all external. There was never any real true brokenness over sin. And we see this today, right? People jump on the Jesus bandwagon. They make a profession. They look happy. They look like they have real joy. There's tears. But something happens and suddenly we just don't see them anymore. They're gone. They're gone. James Montgomery Boy said there's many churches fit that description. We see them thriving in churches Their shallow hearts are attracted to the joy and excitement of a church where much is happening. They hear the gospel, seem to fit it. Many even make a profession, but then some difficulty comes. He says, perhaps a loss of a job or some other tragedy, misunderstanding with another Christian, sickness, and suddenly they fall away. Why? Because they were never really born again It was never real. It was just very surface, very superficial. And then there's the crowded heart. Look in verse 22. He also that receives the seed among the thorn is he that hears the word and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word and he becomes unfruitful. This is the person who's preoccupied with the cares of this world I mean it's just simply worldliness, the deceitfulness of riches. That refers to the mundane, temporal things, the promise of happiness. But really these things can't deliver a house, a car, wardrobe, prestige, good looks, riches, and affluent life. And some people when they come to church and they get under the word, they can't really focus on the word because they're thinking more about their house. They can't really listen to the preacher because they're more concerned about where they parked the car and hoping that someone doesn't come along and scratch it Their mind is totally preoccupied with the cares of this life. And what happens? The word is choked out. Because they're not focused on the things of God. They're focused on riches. Their heart is so divided. And by the way, it's it's appalling to me to know that there are some churches that use programs that try to get people in by appealing to these things. Boy, if you come, we'll give you this and we'll give you that. You're offering the temporal things of this world, and then you're gonna preach the word, and those temporal things choke out the word. You're selling the branch off that you're sitting on. How do you expect to grow like that? These weeds choke out the seed of the word of God, because the heart is so consumed with earthly temporal things. And by the way, there are there are many superficial sermons on superficial topics that are really designed to help people manage through this temporal existence. In fact, you look at the popular churches that have so many people in it and that are preachers are out there preaching on superficial things, trying to talk about God fulfilling all of your dreams. And giving you all these temporal earthly things and how to manage all these things and how to get more of these things. That's the deceitfulness of riches, friends. God doesn't honor that. You know, what you're here to hear about is his kingdom. It is his word. Not just how to make it through the week, but how to flourish in his kingdom. How to be focused on eternal things. And so then finally there's the good seed. Look at verse 23. But he that receiveth seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word. And understands it, which also beareth fruits, and bringeth forth some a hundredfold, and some sixty, and some thirty. This is the seed that falls on good soil. And that seed gets down deep into that soil. It's received. By the way, in Mark's account, the word for received, it's not the normal word used. The normal word used for received in Greek is lembano, but the word there is Paradecomai to really receive down deep into the heart, we could say Not just surface. It's not just superficial. But that word is sinking down deep into a person's heart, into their life, to super receive it, we could say. And that's the issue there. It's receiving the word of God so as to be saved, and not only that, you continue to drink it in, you continue to receive it. And you continue to grow by it, and it continues to sanctify who you are as a Christian. You're receiving God's word. And so there's four soils here. Now, by the way, only one represents a true believer, right? Four soils. Now I've heard this preach where all these four soils represent four different types of Christian. No, you missed the point. This is not four different types of Christians. These are three non-believers and one true believer. That's the point of this parable. Again, this is what Jesus is doing. He's encouraging the disciples. What he's saying is, look, the seed will accomplish what God has for it to accomplish. And you're not in control of, once you cast out the seed, I mean that's it. The sea will do its work if the soil is good and the soil is right. It has no weeds, no rocks, no hard surfaces, if it's rich. It'll receive the seed. It'll bear fruit. And by the way, what's fruit for a Christian? That's holiness. That's Christian character. That's good works. In a Colossians 1. 10, that you might be fruitful in every good work. It's winning others to Christ. It's sharing Christ with others. That's all real fruit. Those are the signs of true salvation. This is the point that Jesus is making here. It's praising God. And Jesus is saying, basically, look, there's only one really good soil out there, and when you spread the seed indiscriminately, don't Think that everywhere you spread the seed is going to produce the results that you want. It's just not God's word will accomplish what he wants it to accomplish. And this Jesus is saying, this is what you're going to encounter in your ministry, talking to the disciples. This is what you're going to experience, you know, when you're out there. And so let me just give you some conclusions here about this, some application in closing. Number one, we need all of us need to be involved in sharing the seed. Wouldn't you agree with that? So let me ask you a question. If you're a true believer, are you helping to scatter the seed? Are you sharing Christ? This should happen in an informal context. What I mean by that is wherever you go. You know, we should be people that are spreading seeds wherever we are. I mean, we should be like a leaky seed basket Everywhere we go, there are seeds left behind. Because everywhere we go, we're sharing the Word of God, we're sharing Christ, we're sharing the gospel. All of us are involved in that. Sunday school teachers, parents. Everywhere you go. And also here at our church, we have Grow Ministry and other things like VBS. We're involved. You should help us. Share that seed. Get it out. Here's a second application. We need to guard against discouragement when we don't see the results that we want. Guard against that. Because again, this is the whole point of Jesus' parable. And the disciples were going to need to understand that, and we need to understand it as well. We are responsible to sow the seed, and after we sow the seed, that's all we can do. I mean, we really we're done there. You know what? I don't control people's hearts. I don't have that power. Friend, if I can control people's hearts, you know what? Everybody in Baltimore would be saved today. If I had that power, but I don't have that power. I can't control the hearts of men And uh we just sow the seed. And after that, let me in fact let me show you one verse in closing. Look in Mark. Would you would you look in Mark? Look in Mark chapter 4, look at verse 26, look at this. Mark, it's really in the same context, same parable, same idea. Mark 426. And he said, So is the kingdom of God. As if a man should cast seed into the ground. Here's what the kingdom of God's like. You want to know how the kingdom of God advances? It's like a person throwing seed into the ground. That's how it advances. And then look at the next verse. What does he do after that? Does he stand over the seed and worry about it? Does he do a rain dance hoping it'll rain on it? Does he shout at the seed or shout at the soil? Say, receive this? Does he do anything else to manipulate? That seed to make it grow? No. What does he do in verse 27? And should what? Sleep. You know what he did? He went home and he went to bed. He threw the seed into the ground and he said, Okay, that's really all I can do. What are you gonna do now? I'm gonna go sleep. Say, what do you do when you're done preaching? I go home and go to bed. I don't worry about you say, well do you worry about, you know, if this no, honestly. Now, do I want more people to receive Christ? Absolutely, I pray for that. But friend, I I don't have that power. I I can't persuade. I can only give you the proof. The Holy Spirit does all of that. And I don't control the the the hearts I just try as the best of my limited earthly ability to make this sea clear to you. And if I do that, I feel like you know there's not a whole lot more I can do. I'll water it with the word and I'll pray over it. But other than that, there's nothing more. And this is what this man does. He goes to sleep. Look at the rest of this verse. And should sleep and rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up, and he knoweth not how. I mean he goes out and checks on it. And what's he see? From day to day, he starts to see that seed grow. And you know what he says, man. I don't know how this is happening. Look at verse 28. For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself. Greek word automatas. Automatically. That is this farmer, he throws seed into the ground, he goes to bed, he gets up, he checks on it, it's starting to grow. He's like, man, I don't know how this is happening, but it's happening. To power the seed. He says the earth is bringing forth fruit automatically of herself. This word is used only one other time in the book of Acts when Peter was in prison and the church prayed for Peter to get out of prison. And you remember that story where the doors of the prison opened up automatos automatically First automatic doors ever were in the Bible. The doors just opened up. Peter walked out. This is the same word, automatas. The earth just gives it up automatically. We don't know how But yet we do know how. Because I want to tell you something. If anything good happens, you know who does it? It's God. He's the one who does it. He's the one who gives life. He's the one that strikes life into a dead soul and quickens that person and cleanses them of their sin and changes their heart and their nature. No man has the power to do that Only God does that. And he does it with his word. And so we have to entrust the results to God. And we have to realize there are different soils out there And we just we have to be content with the harvest that God entrusts us with and be faithful. Just continue to be faithful because God will honor that. To honor that. Let me give you one more application. We have to examine and know our heart to know what kind of soil we are. That's the other thing. What kind of soil are you? I mean when the Word of God is preached, does it fall on good ground? Is your heart hardened? Is it a rocky soil? Where you're receiving the word superficially, but really your mind is more consumed with these empty, temporal riches of this world to where the word of God isn't really able to penetrate and grow You need to ask yourself, what kind of heart do I have? And if you have a hard heart, you need to ask God to break it. If you have a stony heart, you need to ask God to take out the stones. And ask God to give you a heart that's ready to receive the word. Let's let us bow for prayer today. Let's bow together. And so, Lord, we hear these words. We hear your admonition to listen, to hear this, hear ye therefore, this parable And Lord, I pray that you'll give us understanding into these things. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to examine our own heart in light of these things. And I pray, Lord, that no one will leave here today without knowing with absolute certainty that they have received the gospel seed, not superficially But they have received it into the depths of their soul, so much so that it produces true salvation. And let there be fruit. That's evidence of that in their life. May we examine our own heart and life in light of these words from our Savior. And Lord, I do, I pray for souls to be saved. Lord, our heart beats for that. Lord, would you send us hearts that are ready to hear the truth, that will respond, that will listen. Would you add them to our number, Lord, so that we can praise you with one united mighty voice, glorifying you, that we could be the faithful remnant here on this side Holding forth your word, holding forth your praise, watching you do great and mighty things. Lord, in this we confess that we are weak and we are totally dependent upon you. You and you alone. You and your spirit alone. And we ask you for this. And Lord, I ask that you would apply this word to every hearing heart here today, that you would use it in hearts and lives. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just again want to give you this invitation. And we try to do this every Sunday. We invite people to come to Christ if you don't know him. And we're doing this again today, friend. If you don't know Christ, I'm inviting you to come to him. And you can pray right there where you're. are right now. Would you just say this prayer, Lord Jesus, save me, make me your child. Come into my heart. And friend, if you've prayed that, or if you want to know more about that, we don't leave if you notice after service, we stick around. Staff here, many Christians here, we want to help you, and we're here for you today. So I pray that you'll hear the word, that you'll respond to it. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts, and we pray in Jesus' mighty and matchless name. Amen