Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of First Timothy as we uh continue our study? We're going to look tonight at First Timothy verses eight to eleven in chapter one. First Timothy chapter one And verse 8 is where we'll start. But we know that the law is good, verse 8, if a man use it lawfully. Knowing this that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers, murderers of mothers, for manslayers. For whoremongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for mansealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and if there be any other thing that is contrary to Sound doctrine according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust Many are aware of the things that have happened recently in Ashbury, Kentucky. Actually it's Ashbury University in Wilmore, Kentucky, to get that right. There's been report that there's a revival going on there. I'm sure you've heard of this, and that it's lasted for several days and has spread to other places. I've read excerpts of uh eyewitness accounts of things that go on there on social media. Some are reporting that it's a genuine revival, it's a real move of God, and some people are Pointing to the negative things that are taking place there, saying they don't believe it's really of God. People have often asked me what I think about it, and the and the honest answer is I really don't have enough information to make a judgment about that I will say this. I pray that there is a sweeping revival that hits our country, that sweeps millions of people into the kingdom of God and does a great and lasting work in many, many hearts. That would be my heart's desire. But I will also say that there's really not going to be a genuine revival unless there is genuine repentance. If you look at the revivals in history, what you'll find is that they all had that common denominator, a true repentance brought true revival. And there's no such thing as true repentance without true conviction from the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit uses the Word of God to bring conviction to people. And He uses more specifically the law of God to do that work of conviction. Now I'm speaking tonight on the proper use of God's law, or as I titled it, the lawful use of God's law. I believe the major ingredient missing in most gospel presentations today Is the proper use of God's law to bring deep and lasting life-transforming conviction of sin The people who are truly desperate for God are people who realize their own sinfulness and their own utter inability to meet God's holy standard on their own efforts. And so they run to God because they're desperate for what God offers through the gospel of Jesus Christ. People who are not convicted of their sin, they really don't understand their lost condition, are like Casual religious shoppers. There's really no desperation in there seeking for God. A desperate shopper would be like a person who has to have bottled oxygen to live. His supply is almost gone because there's been a strike at the company where he gets it. He's down to his last bottle and he goes to the place to the door of the bottled oxygen company and he pleads, if you don't sell me a bottle of oxygen oxygen, I will die. That's a person that's desperate. But a casual stopper is like a person with a c a closet full of clothes, nice clothes, who goes strolling through the mall. He doesn't have a great need for anything, but if something grabs his fancy, he may just Buy it if the price is right and if he's in the mood to buy it. And that's really what a lot of religious shoppers are today are like And I think that by not preaching God's holy law, we've given self-righteous, contented people the false impression that they can be casual shoppers toward the gospel when in fact their condition is desperate. And they're lost. And they need God's mercy. In 1 Timothy 1 7, Paul wrote to Timothy about some false teachers that were troubling the church. Because they wanted to be teachers of the law, but they really didn't understand the purpose of the law and the proper use of the law. And in verses 8 through 11, the Apostle Paul is going to allude at the proper use of the law, the lawful use of the law. And let me just give you this one idea. The proper use of God's law is to bring conviction of sin so that people are driven to the gospel for salvation. I want you to understand that. And this desperate state The good news of Jesus Christ, that he bore the curse of the law on our behalf, and he offers pardon And eternal life to any who will believe in him. That should impel them to run to Christ, to believe in him, to flee to him that they might be saved. And so thus we who have been entrusted with this great news need to know how to use the law of God properly. We must never fall into the error of marketing Jesus as a way to a happier life. When the truth of the matter is coming to Jesus, repenting of your sin, trusting Christ, that might not lead to necessarily a happier life. It might cost you. To do that. But the eternal rewards are worth it. It's not all about you being happy. It's all about you being right with the Holy God through Jesus Christ. So I want to give you two ideas that we're going to look at as as we compare these two things, two ideas. First of all, I want to talk about the mistaken understanding of the law, and then number two, I want to talk about the meaningful use of the law So here's the first thing, the mistaken understanding of the law. And as we address this one topic, we need to really ask two fundamental questions about the proper use of the law. Number one is, what do we mean by God's law? What specifically are we talking about? Theologians all the way back to the second century A. D. have divided the Mosaic Law into three divisions. Some of the early church theologians and the reformers have used these three categories of God's law. And let me give them to you. First of all, there is the moral law And then there's another division, the civil law, and then finally the ceremonial law. Now these three categories, again, were given or based on what the Bible says in the book of Deuteronomy. First of all, Old Testament laws are divided into this category, and we see this in Deuteronomy 4. You might want to mark the verse down. Deuteronomy 4, verse 13 and verse 14. And he declared unto you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform. Even ten commandments which he wrote of them upon two tablets of stone. And this verse, verse thirteen, is referring to the ten commandments where God wrote them down. Then in verse 14 And the Lord commanded me at that time to teach you statutes, there's a second division, and judgments, there's the third, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go over to possess it And so we have the Ten Commandments, literally the ten words in the Hebrew, and then we have the statutes and the judgments. And then in Deuteronomy 6:1, another passage here for you, we see the same three Now these are the commandments, there's one, the statutes, there's two, and the judgments, there's three, which the Lord your God commanded to teach you, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go to possess it. Now again, we see these three words, and they at times have overlap, but they're also very distinct words when describing the law of God. And so in it, first of all, we see the moral law, we see the Ten Commandments. These are based upon God's holy nature. And these Ten Commandments reveal the holiness of God and God's holy standard, which is unchanging. This is the moral law. And then there's the civil law, which these laws really are given to govern life in Israel. These are the laws that made Israel distinct from the other nations that were around them. And this includes everything from restitutions for a man who was gored by an ox. uh and the responsibility of the man who dug a pit to rescue his neighbor's trapped donkey in that pit. I mean it covered all of the different things that were in the life of Israel. And then number three there's the ceremonial law. Which really the Hebrew word refers to custom of the nation and this is normally translated statutes or judgments. These these laws seem to focus uh attention on uh the things where they would worship God or re or remember God. These were things that included sacrifices. uh ceremonial cleanness and uncleanness, remembrance of God's work in Israel through feasts and festivals and holy days, Sabbaths and diets and so on, the uh Passover and all of that. Now, we know that Christians are not bound by the ceremonial law. How do we know that? Because in Colossians 2. 16, Paul said this, let no man therefore judge you in me. or in drink or in respect of a holy day or of the new moon or of the Sabbath days, which are a shadow in verse seventeen of things to come, but the body, or we could say the substance, is Christ All of these ceremonial laws were shadows that pointed to Jesus Christ. When Christ came, he is the substance. He is the fulfillment of that. And so we know that these laws are not anything that are binding on Christians. There's a sense in which Christ already fulfilled all of that. But another thing I would want you to see and know is that when God gave his moral law, that he did it in such a way as to set it apart and to make it distinct from the other categories of laws. In the giving of the law in the Old Testament, the Ten Commandments, they simply stand out. We see this in the order in which God gave them. God gave the Ten Commandments in Exodus 20. And then God gave the civil laws for Israel in Exodus 21 through 23. And then beginning at Exodus 25, God provides the ceremonial laws about the tabernacle. And so the Ten Commandments then stand alone as being distinct, as being primary. The first law is given, and all the other laws are subsequent to these moral laws. But there's another thing that is The Ten Commandments, when they were given, remember this, they were revealed in a very unique way. When God gave the Ten Commandments, how did He do it on Mount Sinai? Do you remember that? It was a very fearful demonstration there. The Bible tells us there was a loud thunder and there was flashes of lightning and there was a thick cloud and a very loud trumpet blast. None of the other laws were revealed in that way. It was only the Ten Commandments. God wanted it to be memorable. He intended these moral laws, these commandments, to stand out. in the minds of the people above all the other laws that were given. And furthermore, only the Ten Commandments were spoken by God to the whole congregation. Did you realize that? These are the only laws that God spoke himself to Israel. Write down Deuteronomy again 412. And the Lord God spake unto you out of the midst of the fire, and ye heard the voice of the words, but saw no similitude. Only he heard a voice, verse 13, and he declared unto you his cut covenant, which he commanded you to perform, even ten commandments, and he wrote them upon two tablets of stone. There were no other laws that God spoke audibly, just the Ten Commandments. The other commandments were given through Moses. God wrote the Ten Commandments with his own finger. That's another distinction. None of the other laws were given in that way. In Exodus 31, 18, it says God gave Moses tablets of stone written with the finger of God. All the other laws were written by the pen of Moses. And then another thing to consider, the Ten Commandments are uniquely s sufficient among all Old Testament laws. That is to say, the Old Testament tells us that the Ten Commandments were a sufficient summary of most of God's central laws. In other words, with the Ten Commandments, you are fulfilling the heart of what God wanted in his commandments. This we see in Deuteronomy 5, verse 22, where it says that after he spoke these commandments, he added no more. After God gave the Ten Commandments, there was no need to add anything more. Because if you obey these commandments, you're loving God with all your heart, and you're loving your neighbor what is yourself. So they summarize all of what God intended in the law. But another thing to think about, talking about the distinction of the moral law and God's Ten Commandments, was that the Ten Commandments alone were placed in the Ark of the Covenant. God told Moses to put the ten commandments, the two tablets of stone, in the ark. Again, none of the other commandments were treated that way. And so again, this shows that this is the heart of all of God's laws. The civil and ceremonial laws were only a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a to be kept in the land of Canaan. That's according to Deuteronomy 5. 30 to verse 33. But the Ten Commandments were written on the hearts of the people. They were written on tablets of stone, which conveyed the idea that they were permanent. They were enduring. And then we come to the New Testament, where Jesus teaches that the Ten Commandments are never to be abolished Jesus made that very clear in Matthew 5, 17. For truly I say unto you, until heaven and earth shall pass away, not a dot or tittle will pass away from the law. And we have to again, what what law are you speaking about, Jesus? Well in the next verses he goes on to say the Ten Commandments. Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not lie. He went on to refer to the Ten Commandments right after that. So it's very obvious what Well see uh Jesus was talking about there that said it will they will not pass away. They will be permanent. Adam, the first Gentile, had the Ten Commandments written on his heart. That's according to Romans 2. And then another thing is that in the New Covenant, the Old Testament law is written on our hearts when we come to know Jesus Christ as Savior. That law is written in our heart. The Bible tells us this in Hebrews 8:10. I will put my laws into their minds and will write them on their hearts. This is a quotation from Jeremiah 31. In which the author had the Old Testament law in mind. And so, for all these reasons, the Ten Commandments stand out. Now, again, with that in mind, with that background there, again we ask the question: when Paul says in verse 8, the law is good, if a man use it lawfully, What law is he referring to? Is he referring to the ceremonial laws? Is he referring to the civil laws? Or is he referring to the moral laws? Well, I think it's clear that when Paul says the law is good if a man uses it lawfully, I think he's referring to the moral laws of God in the Old Testament. You say, how do you know that? Well, because of what follows, look in verse nine. Knowing that the law is not made for a righteous man But for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly, for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers, for whoremongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for man stealers, for liars. For perjured persons, if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine, if you go down that list of sins that Paul gives there and you compare them to the Ten Commandments, you'll find out that they line up. Paul's kind of going through the Ten Commandments there and showing how they kind of line up. The lawless and the rebel, the ungodly sinners, these are those who put uh idols in their life or Have other gods before God. The unholy and profane, those are the ones that take the Lord's name in the vein and don't keep the Sabbath. Those who kill father and mother, that's certainly not honoring your father and mother. The murderers, remember the Bible says thou shalt not kill the immoral, thou shalt not commit adultery, the kidnappers, that would be stealing, and liars and perjurers, that's no false witness. Whatever else, that covers anything else. Coveting, and so on. And so when Paul says the law is good If a man uses it lawfully, I think he's referring to God's moral laws, the Ten Commandments. This leads to a second question. What laws? I think it's the moral laws. The second question is, what is the improper use of the law? How do we use it improperly? Well, let me just give you two ways I think, at least that the law is used improperly. And here's the first one. Number one, saying the Ten Commandments are not for today. Remember, Paul's writing to who? The church, right? And he's saying it's good if a man uses it lawfully, but there are some preachers today that say the Ten Commandments have no purpose or use for the Christian today. You say who? Well, let me give you an example. Mega Church Pastor Andy Stanley. He's the son of the well-known Southern Baptist pastor Charles Stanley. In his book entitled Irresistible, Reclaiming the New That Jesus Unleashes for the World, this is what he says, and I'm quoting: The Ten Commandments have no authority over you. None. To be clear, thou shalt not obey the Ten Commandments. End quote. Pretty pretty strong. Now, what is his argument? His argument there is that Christians are now expected to obey the single this single commandment from Jesus that you love one another. Jesus says as I have loved you. And so this new law, this new commandment of Jesus replaces all of the old commandments. And so the Ten Commandments are no longer any good. But again, I refer to what Paul says here. The law is good if a man use it lawfully And I think again he's referring to the Ten Commandments. And remember, who's he writing to? He's not writing to Old Testament people. He's writing to the church. He's writing to believers. It's good if you use it lawfully. And again in verse number 10, I think he's point he's making a point that any violation of the Ten Commandments is a sin, even to today. If you look in verse number 10, where he says, For whoremongers, for them that defile themselves of mankind, and so on, at the end where he says, if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine And so i i if you violate this, this is a sin Jude warns us about people who take the grace of God and turn it into lasciviousness. You know, there are some believers who say, oh, now that I'm a Christian, now that I'm saved. And all my sins are forgiven. I had total liberty to live the way I want to. Grace is not a license for you to live any way you want to. That's called antinomianism, living as if there is no law, nomads law, anti-against the law, or as if there's no law. There are certain believers that believe they can just do whatever they want to. They have total liberty and live as if they're, you know, there's no law. Salvation doesn't mean that we throw out the Ten Commandments and we live any way we want. Paul describes those who do that as lawless, as disobedient, as ungodly, and as sinners. And I think there's even an implication in verse 11. that the Ten Commandments are according to the gospel, verse 11, according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God which was committed to my trust. In other words, there's still a purpose in these commandments working with the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the thing that we have to see here. They're still part of the New Covenant. They're part of the Christian's New Testament life even now That's one way to misuse or misunderstand the law. But here's the second thing I would say, number two, using the Ten Commandments as a means for salvation. That's another improper use of the law. The Ten Commandments were never written as a means for salvation. That was never God's intention. Some Jews, some Judaizers, some false teachers believe that keeping the law was a way of salvation. And when someone tries to use the law as a source of salvation, that is an unlawful use of the law, and you're in trouble because if you believe that's what it's going to take for you to be saved, well I have pity on you because you're never going to be able to keep up with God's standard if you go that route. In this case, if you use the law that way, the law becomes a curse. It becomes a burden. Galatians 3:10. For as many as are under the works of the law are under the curse, for it is written, cursed is everyone That continueth not in all the things which are written in the book of the law to do them. If you don't obey the law perfectly, completely, every part, then you're under a curse. If you're going to go that route, God demands absolute perfection. Anyone here want to admit that you've done it perfectly so far? Please don't raise your hand. No, we've all violated them. One violation is enough. And then the Bible says this. In Galatians 3, 11, but that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God is it is evident, for the just shall live by faith. You want to try to earn salvation by obeying the law, you have to be perfect. Anything other than total perfection results in a curse and in death The law has no power to give life. None whatsoever. All the law can do is minister death And a curse, the Bible says. In Galatians 3. 21, it says this if the if is the law against the promises of God That is, is the law contrary to the promises of God? And when he says promises of God there, he's really referring to the all the blessings that come with Grace, the promises of grace, the promise of the gospel. Is the law and the gospel contrary to one another? And then he says, God forbid it. For if there had been For if there there had been a law given which could have given life, verily righteousness should have been by the law. If it were possible for Life to come by the law, then righteousness would have come by the law, but that's not what happens. The law has no power to give life If the law could save and impart life, it would be in opposition to the promise of grace or the promise of the gospel, because what it would do was provide an alternate way of salvation. But that's not possible. And law and grace are not in opposition. Law and grace are on the same team. If the law provided an alternate way of salvation, that means that the death of Christ was not necessary. If it were possible for you to be saved through the law, why did Jesus ever come? Why would we need that? In Galatians 2. 21 it says, I do not frustrate the grace of God, for if righteousness came by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. And by the way, the Apostle Paul, there was a time in his life when he felt like obeying the law and going that route was the way of salvation, the way of righteousness. And Paul kind of rehearses all that at Philippians chapter 2, where he talks about his whole life before he met Christ, how he obeyed the law. And he said in Philippians 3. 6, touching the righteousness of the law, blameless? Paul said, you look at my life, you see that the way I obeyed the traditions and the laws, my whole life was blameless. He was very proud of his religiosity. He felt like he was making it. He was he was making big strides until the day when he met Jesus Christ on the road to Damascus. And then Paul realized that how sinful he really was. And then he said, Whatsoever things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. All that religious resume that I had, he counted it garbage. He counted it waste, that he might win Christ. He understood finally that salvation was not by Trying to come up with your own righteousness by obeying the law. It was by seeing that Christ was the only way of salvation. And so He said, you know, I count all that, my religious works, trying to obey the law, I count all that as garbage that now I might win Christ, that I might know Christ. Because Christ is the only way to salvation. And there's a lot more I can say about that, but I want to get to the next part We talked about the mistaken understanding of the law, but here's number two, the meaningful use of the law. The meaningful use. And again, we get back to the phrase. Where Paul said, We know the law is good if a man use it lawfully. And then the question again here is how are the Ten Commandments, how is the moral law of God used lawfully? And I want to just give you three ways. That I think are implied here by Paul. But here's the first way I would say. Number one, God's law was given to restrain the depravity of man. It was given to restrain the depravity of man. We could say this is kind of a civil use of the law. The law was given to keep back the evil that is in the heart of all sinners. The depraved nature. Notice what Paul says in verse 9, knowing this that the law is not made for the righteous man. God didn't give the law for those that are righteous. But for who? But for the what? Lawless and disobedient? That's who it was given for. This means that the law was given to restrain evil in the heart. The law can't change the heart. We know that. But it can provide some measure of restraint, of lawlessness, by you say, how does it do that? By the threats of punishment that come with violation of God's law. That's one of the ways in which it's done, especially when the law that is given is backed by a government or a civil code where those laws are enforced. The problem we have today is that no a lot of laws aren't being enforced anymore. When those laws are enforced, what it does is it restrains the evil that is in man's heart. And when the law was given in the Old Testament, that's what happened. And Deuteronomy chapter thirteen I'll just read this to you. Deuteronomy thirteen, verse six, if you want to follow along here, where I just want to read this to you where it says, If thy brother, the son of thy mother or thy son or thy daughter or thy or the wife of thy bosom or thy friend which is as thine own soul enticed thee secretly saying let us go and serve other gods which thou hast not known Thou nor thy fathers. Think about those close relationships. Your brother, your son, your daughter, your wife. Anyone in your family, if they come to you and they say, hey, let's go serve other gods, verse 7, namely of the gods of the people which are around about you, nigh unto thee, or far off from thee from the one end of the earth, even unto the other end of the earth, thou shalt not consent unto them, nor hearken unto them, neither shalt thine eyes pity them, neither shalt thou spare them, neither shalt thou conceal them Verse nine, but thou shalt surely kill them. Thy hand shall be first upon him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the people And thou shalt stone him with stones that he died, because he has sought to thrust thee away from the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage. Pretty serious, if you ask me. That's that's harsh. God said if you have somebody even in your family that tries to lead you astray to seduce you to idolatry and to worship other gods You don't conceal that, you make that known, and you stone that person. You put them to death. You follow the letter of the law. That's a fearful thing right there That's what would restrain the evil that is in man's heart. In Deuteronomy chapter 19, verse 16 It says this, Deuteronomy nineteen sixty, if a false witness rise up against any man to testify against him that which is wrong, then both the men between whom the controversy is shall stand before the Lord before the priests and the judges which shall be in those days, and the judges shall make diligent inquisition, and behold, if the witness be a false witness, and has testified falsely against his brother Then shall you do unto him as he hath thought to have done unto his brother, so shalt thou put the evil away from among you Again, a pretty severe law. If he's accusing you of something and you're innocent, then that person will pay the penalty for that crime that he's accusing you of. Pretty strict. That's how it that's how it it it mitigates against the the depravity that's in man's heart. That's how it restrains the evil that is in man because Punishment was severe, punishment was swift, punishment was administered. And then you can go to Romans chapter 13 if we want to go to the New Testament here. And we want to go to the purpose of the government in Romans 13, verse 2. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, what power is that? The power of government resisteth the ordinance of God, and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. For the rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt thou then be not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same. For he is the minister of God to thee for good, but if thou do that which is evil, be afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain, for he is the minister of God, a revenger, to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. That is part of the purpose of government. It is to punish evildoers. It is to do it swiftly. Even with the sword, if necessary, you say, what's the sword? That's death, beloved. That's capital punishment. The government has the authority from God to punish evil in that way whenever it needs to, whenever it's necessary, and that kind of thing will restrain evil that's in the heart of man. But again, there's two problems in our country here. First of all, we have a government that doesn't recognize the law of God anymore. And they make laws based on their own human ideas, and they forget the laws of God And by doing so, they rebel against God. And then those who commit crimes are not punished for it. They're let you let them go. Let them free. People can walk into a store, fill up their cart, walk out, and nothing happened. We're seeing all kinds of things happen where laws are not enforced, and what that does is it it just simply sets the depravity in man's heart on full throttle and people go out and they they commit all kinds of lawlessness. And it it has an effect on our society. But the law was given in the beginning to To r to help restrain the depravity, the evil that is in man's heart. Think about that. And here's here's the second thing. Say what purpose is the law? It's to reveal the holiness of God and the sinfulness of sin. That's another purpose of the law Again, if we look at verse eleven of 1 Timothy, where it says, According to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust. This literally uh reads like this, according to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God. Again, I think the law and the gospel work in harmony together to reveal the glory of God's character. That's part of what it does. How? Well the law on one hand reveals God's holiness. It reveals his holy standard. That's what we say where the law is like a mirror. that reflects the holiness of God, and at the same time, it shows us our own human sinfulness. And that's the reason for the law It reveals to us what sin is. Romans 3. 20, therefore by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of what? Sin. That's how we know sin. That's how we know that God is holy. That's how we know that we are sinful. It is through the law. The law reveals that to us. The law can't give us life. Again, all the law can do is really bring death. That in order it may bring life out of that death, and the law helps to prepare us for the Savior. for salvation. We see this in Galatians. So would you just turn to Galatians chapter 3 with me real quick? Look in Galatians chapter 3. And I want you just to see some of these verses here. Look at Galatians 3, look in verse 22. But the scripture has concluded all under sin. That is, we're all under sin, we're under the bondage of sin, that the promise of faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe. But before faith came, we were under the law, shut up unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed. Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ that we might be justified by faith. Because after that faith has come, we're no longer under a schoolmaster. And so Paul here is saying, you know, the law is kind of like a prison. We're kind of shut up in this prison of the law. It shows us how sinful that we are. Um it basically is like uh it keeps us captive. Nobody likes to be in prison. Another analogy that is used, um That I really like was given by Timothy George. Again, we're talking about the law and analogies that help us understand its purpose. Timothy George compares the law to something like chemotherapy. When chemotherapy is used to treat cancer, he says it does not give life. Actually it's an instrument of death. The chemicals that are poured into the body destroy healthy tissue as well as cancer cells. And during the course of treatment, chemotherapy Actually makes the patient feel much worse. But it's all necessary for the patient's long-term health. In much the same way, the law makes us worse so that Christ can make us better. It shows us again how sinful we are, and we're miserable in that condition. We're miserable when we see our sin. And then The law will then point us to Jesus Christ. But we first of all have to get to that place where we realize how sinful we are. How desperately we need a Savior until we cry out like the Apostle Paul said in Romans 7, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? The law beats us down. It shows us how sinful we are, how that we cannot meet God's holy standard, and it makes us ready. to run to the Lord in true repentance so that we might have true salvation. And this is what Paul means when he says the law is a guardian or a schoolmaster. That word schoolmaster there is kind of a It's a word that makes us think I think but maybe the wrong thing in our mind. When you think of a schoolmaster, you kind of think of a teacher, someone standing in front of you and teaching you all kind of things, you know, and and and we like schoolmasters because they teach us really nice things. That's not the Greek word here. The Greek word is pie digogos. And that and four bucks will get you a cup of coffee at Starbucks. But let me let me uh let me tell you what that word means, all right? This word here is not talking about a school teacher, but rather this was a tutor that was hired by a wealthy Greek or Roman family, and their job was to watch over their sons when they were smaller. And you know what they carried around with them all the time? They carried around a rod. A rod. And their whole job was to discipline them. They got 'em up when it was time for school, they got 'em up, they got 'em ready. They made sure that they brought their books with them. They followed on the school. They sat down in the back of the classroom. And if the child acted up, he would come up there with his rod. I I think we should still hire some of these guys. What do you think? And I mean that was his whole purpose. His whole purpose was to bring discipline to that one child. He stayed with them all during his younger years, all the way into adolescence. He was a strict disciplinarian until the child grew into maturity and he got to the point where he didn't need him anymore. That stage is over with. You know, again in verse 24, wherefore the law was our uh Padeodgogoths to bring us to Christ that we might be justified by faith. But after that faith has come, we're no longer under a schoolmaster. We don't need him anymore And that's what the law does. The law is that disciplinarian that is constantly beating us with a rod, reminding us of how sinful we are. That we can't meet God's holy standard. There's nothing we can do in our own to make ourselves right with a holy God, that God's wrath is upon us because of our sin, until we get to the point where we run to Jesus Christ and realize that salvation isn't Christ in Christ alone in his finished work. And once we put our faith in Jesus Christ, you know what? I don't need that schoolmaster anymore with his rod I don't need him beating me down anymore because now I've run to Christ. But I would say this that my whole relationship there now has changed. With the law. It's not a disciplinarian to me anymore. It doesn't beat me down anymore, but it does still serve a purpose that we're going to see. But that's the thing I want you to understand that the law Is that disciplinary? And again, I think that we don't preach the law of God enough to where a sinner understands how desperate they are so that they will indeed run to God's mercy in Christ. I I just have a fear that people don't do that. And you look around today, people are so casual. Oh, I'm all right. You know, I'm on my way to heaven. I'm a good person. I'm trying to do my best. I'm a member of this church. I got all my stuff together. No, what you don't understand is that you are a sinner before a holy God And all those religious works and the goodness that you think is going to help you, none of that counts in God's sight. It might count down here on the earth. It's good that you're nice to other people around here, but if you think that That money is going to be deposited in Heaven's Bank. You can forget it. That's not going to get you into heaven. That's not going to lead to your salvation. There's only one way, and that's through coming broken over your sinfulness and repented to Jesus Christ and casting yourself upon his mercy and putting your faith in his finished work. That's what the schoolmaster is supposed to lead us to do. And once that happens, we've reached a new level in our spiritual growth. And then here's the third use of the law, and let me just give this to you quickly. First of all, it's to restrain the depravity of man. It's to reveal the holiness of God and the sinfulness of sin so that we will run to God in salvation But here's the third thing to guide believers into the right way that they should go. Now, after we're saved, it doesn't mean we throw away the law, we don't know no longer need it. There's a third function, and that is the law of God is now a guide. Whereas before it was a disciplinarian, now the law is a guide and it shows us the way in which we can please God. And now because we have the Holy Spirit living inside of us, we have the inward power through the Holy Spirit to obey those laws because now that law is written in our heart by the power of the Holy Spirit. And so now it's a guide. Martin Luther said, you know, the law before salvation was a rod that beat me down. After salvation, it was a staff, it was a walking stiff to help me walk in God's way. And it points the right way for me. The Bible says, For by grace you are saved through faith, and that not of yourself. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. But listen to verse ten for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works which God has before ordained that we should walk in them. What do you think he's talking about when he says which God has before ordained? He ordained it in his law. We walk in the law now that we are saved because we received the gift of God, and now he gives us power to walk in those good works that were foreordained through the law that He had already given That's the whole idea there. And so we are now people that from the heart Obey God's law. We don't throw off any any shackles of discipline now that we're saved and live like we want to. Oh no, salvation brings us into sweet harmony with the law of God because it's written in our heart. And there's an inward desire in us that says, I want to walk in God's way. I want to please God. I want to obey his law. I don't know about you. I don't want to sin against God. I want to obey him. And I want to do what is pleasing in his sight. And if I have any question about that, all I got to do is read God's law. And it guides me and it shows me how I need to walk in his way. And so there's the misunderstood understanding of the law. There's the which says the Ten Commandments are not for today. Using the Ten Commandments as a means for salvation. Then there's the meaningful use of the law that is to restrain the depravity of man, to reveal the holiness of God and the sinfulness of man, to guide believers into the right way that they should go. Now let me just close with this. I'm a baseball fan. I'm so glad that baseball season is coming around. I've got my O's hat out. I'm ready. So I really like baseball. But so I want to give you a baseball analogy. You know, there was a time when the Chicago Cubs were teaching the gospel out on the baseball diamond or teaching salvation. How do they do that? Well because for two summers they had two players at first base Or excuse me, a third base, the Cubs made a trade for a guy by the name of Vance Law. And he started a third base. And then a few months later, they brought in a first baseman whose name was Mark Grace. So they had law and grace at the corner of the diamond. Alright? And by the way, they were in the batting order in the right spot. First law and then grace. And so there's the theology of salvation in action right there on the baseball diamond. There's law, a baseball would be hit the law, he would knock it down in the dirt, and then he would pick it up and he would throw it over the grates. That's what salvation is. Salvation is the law beating us down into the dust, making us realize how sinful we really are. And then tossing us over to Grace, where Grace catches us, holds us, and doesn't drop us. And we're there and safe with grace, that's really the theology of salvation. That's how law and grace Work together to bring true salvation into the heart of people. They're not enemies. Law and Grace are not enemies. Law and Grace are on the same team. Law and Grace work together. So that God will do a true work in every heart. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, again, we thank you for your word and how instructive it is for us. We thank you, Lord, with all our heart for the precious gospel of Jesus Christ that has saved us When we were dead in sin, when we were without hope, it was the grace of God that rescued us in our sinfulness. But Lord, we weren't really aware Of how desperate our condition was until the law came. And the law revealed how sinful we are, how we could never ever earn salvation, how we could never ever keep the standard of God. And Lord, it caused us to run to Christ for salvation. Father, I pray for anyone who may be listening to me tonight, maybe those by way of live stream. That have never been really convicted of their sin. And so therefore they've never really truly repented. Or they might have gone religious shopping, but not they were never desperate. For Christ. Because they never really fully realized how desperate their condition was, how lost they truly were, how sinful we are. And Father, I pray that you'll do what no man can do. Take your word, take your law, let it be set before them as a mirror. To show them how sinful they are, so that Lord, indeed, they will this very moment run to Christ in prayer. May they cry out. The prayer that was prayed by the publican who went to the temple and realized how desperate his condition was when he said, God be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. I pray, Lord, that tonight, as a result of your word, people will run to Christ. Let there be true revival, Lord. A true Bible that comes from brokenness. A brokenness that comes by being convicted by your Holy Spirit through your word. Lord, do that in hearts. Save souls, Father. Rip away any pretense, any superficial decisions, and Lord, let there be true repentance. And true salvation in every heart. Father, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name.