And so take your Bibles, open to Luke chapter sixteen. Luke chapter sixteen. And uh Today I want to deal with this parable, the parable of the shrewd steward that we just read a moment ago. Have you made preparations for your future? Not just your earthly future, but your eternal future. That's what this parable kind of forces us to ask. Now, most New Testament scholars would agree that of all the parables of Jesus, this is perhaps the most difficult to understand. This is the most difficult to interpret. But I'm gonna give it a shot. So y'all pray for me. Part of the reason for the difficulty of the parable is because people read this parable and they imagine that the Lord Jesus is commending dishonesty. Because the main character in this parable uh is an un the is referred to as an unjust steward And he's commended in the parable. If you look in verse number eight, it says, And the Lord commended the unjust steward. So there's no question about the crooked character of the main character here. I mean the steward's own actions reveal that he was he was wicked, he was conniving It's totally unprincipled. And yet it says in verse 8 he had done wisely. Done wisely, thronos in the Greek, it's a word that means clever. It's the idea of skill deployed in self-preservation. It means to act with foresight. This is the same word that's used in Matthew 7 when it talks about the wise man who built his house upon the what? The rock. He saw the storm coming. He worked with foresight, and he was wise. It's the same word used to speak about the five wise virgins. And another parable that Jesus gave, they brought extra oil for their lamps, anticipating the future need. And so we could really translate this word shrewd. He's being commended for being shrewd. Gary Inrig wrote this. He said the shrewd person is the clear-eyed, hard-nosed individual who knows how to play the angles and work the system for a competitive edge and for future benefits. Shrewd takes us into the cut and thrust of political negotiations and high-stakes business deals. End quote. So he's really being commended for being shrewd. What a strange thing for which to praise someone. But this is his quality. This is this dishonest manager's quality. He acts decisively in the present to assure a position for himself in the future. His behavior is consistent with his circumstances. He recognizes a crisis. He sees an opportunity and He seizes this opportunity because his eyes are not just on the present, but his eyes are on the future. And he has some practical cleverness about him. But still the story is kind of troubling. And he seems like an unlikely hero here in this parable. But you have to remember this about our Lord's parables. They often contain a twist in the story. They often contain a turn. This is one of the features of the Lord's parables. They all seem to have some kind of a shock value to them. There's a shocking point, and it seems about every one of them. There's something there that surprises us. There's something there that startles us. And the heroes sometimes are the most unexpected people And that's certainly what we see here. How is it possible to build any kind of a positive spiritual principle On the unethical actions of an unrighteous steward. That's the issue here when you come to this parable. Can any good teaching come from a bad example? Well, the answer to that is yes You can learn something from even a bad example. You can, you know, we're all sinners learning from each other, right? And in fact in verse eight, notice what the Lord says. It says, And the Lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely. Listen to this, for the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. Sometimes unbelievers who don't know God act with more cleverness and practical wisdom than the children of God. What the Lord's saying here, this man, as dubious as his actions were, and we're going to look at them, demonstrate a quality that we're going to need if we're going to make it through this world and make it into eternity. What is it? What is this quality? He acts decisively, wisely, in the present to assure his future. So let's take a closer look at the parable. I want you to see two things. We'll do two headings here. First of all, we'll talk about the parable of the shrewd steward. Then secondly, we'll talk about the principles. of this man. First of all, the parable. Now notice first his dilemma. Look in verse 1. And he said unto his unto his disciples, Jesus is giving a parable. There was a certain rich man which had a steward, and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. So here's a steward, and a steward, as you know, is basically an estate manager for a rich person. A steward doesn't own anything of himself. He's entrusted with someone else's wealth, someone else's household. That's the idea here. He had general charge of the whole house, of all the business. It was an honorable position to be in, to be entrusted with a steward. You know, in the Old Testament, Abraham had Eliezer. Potiphar had Joseph. Remember, Joseph in the Old Testament was a steward in Protipher's house. And he would manage all of the affairs. In fact, in the Old Testament, it says of Potiphar, he didn't concern himself with anything except just the food on his table, what's for dinner. Because Joseph had everything under his charge. That's what a steward does. Obviously, if you're a steward You have to be someone that is trusted, right? I mean you're not going to entrust all of your substance, all of your wealth and everything you have to someone that you don't trust. And normally also, there was a relationship that was between the steward and the owner. Sometimes it was a servant that grew up in his house that he trusted. But the bottom line is the steward had his master's interest in mind. He wanted to further his master's interest, not his own. But that's not what happens here. Here this steward he's he's more concerned about himself and the temptation to divert funds for his own purpose and his own pleasures. proves to be too strong. And so he wastes his master's money. He mishandles the master's possessions. It's like giving a uh a a a credit card that has an unlimited resour uh no uh amount on it to your fourteen year old. I don't recommend that. Here this steward had all this, and he wastes it. And word gets back to the owner of this steward's mouthfeasance, and look at verse 2. And he called him and he said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? Give an account of thy stewardship, for thou mayest be no longer steward. So he's confronted with the charge of dereliction of duty. The steward really has no answer to give So he's really given notice of his termination. Now, obviously, this owner is probably a long way away from his you know his his business. He entrusted all this to him being a long way away Otherwise, he probably would have just taken control of everything himself immediately. But instead he just gives him uh a termination notice and he says, I want you to give an account. I want you to give a full report. And once that report is given Then you're going to be terminated. Now, frankly, this is a bad decision on the part of the owner. Why keep this guy around any longer to do any damage. I mean, you know, modern companies would generally f fire an employee and say, clear out your desk today. Or better yet, we'll get someone else to do it. But this guy, he gives this steward a window of opportunity. He says, you know, get all the accounts together, get ready to give an account to me, and once you give that account, you're done. So, the termination is inevitable, but it's not yet public, and it's not yet final until the account is settled and the books are closed. But still the time is short. He doesn't have a lot of time. So he has to do something immediately. Immediate action is necessary. He has no time to waste. So notice his deliberation, we saw his dilemma. Notice his deliberation. Look at verse three. Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? For my Lord taketh away from me the stewardship I cannot dig. To beg, I am ashamed. So he's thinking about his options. What am I going to do? I'm going to lose my job. What kind of future am I going to have? I can't dig. That is, I'm not going to do manual labor. I'm too weak for that. I'm used to sitting at a desk all day. I remember one time when I was pastoring down going through seminary, I pastored a little church down south, and uh we had a men's work day. And the sec and uh you know one day I came to the office and the men were out there working and I passed by the secretary. I said, I'm gonna go out there and work with the men. And uh she said, now preacher, you go back and sit down. You're not used to that kind of work, you've grown soft. She was kind of a sassy secretary, you know. Preacher, you've grown so I I kinda resented that. How do you know I just dug in Israel? You understand that? Move big boulders. But that's what this guy says to himself, you know, I I can't dig. I've I've grown soft. And to beg, I am ashamed. That is, you know, I'm not I'm not going to go out and beg. I'm too proud to beg. So what am I going to do? So notice next his decision. Look at verse 4. I am resolved. What to do? The Greek word resolved here, Agneo. Literally, I know. Oh, I know. He has kind of a eureka moment. Oh, I know what I'll do. I know. He has a great idea. It dawns on him. It occurs to him that he still has the means at his disposal to ingratiate himself with all of the rich man's debtors. And judging by the size of the debts, these men were men of substance as well. And so the steward would use the waning remnants of his delegated authority to reduce their debts, and so. They would owe him huge favors. He would use that money, money that was not his, to buy influence and loyalty and indebted it, indebtedness to himself That way when the job was finally terminated, he would have another place to land. You know, like musical chairs where the music stops, you want to have a chair to sit on. So he thought, you know, I'll do this. Look at verse number four. He says, I'm resolved what to do, that when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their house. Then they'll receive me. So notice next his discounts. Look at verse number five. So he called every one of his lord's debtors unto him, and said unto the first. How much owest thou unto my Lord? And he said, A hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and sit down quickly, and write fifty. Now his van his plan is very simple. He begins to call in his master's customers and just simply alter their bills. After all, he has management of their accounts. He still has a legal authority to act on his master's behalf. So he says to the first one, how much do you owe? Oh, I owe you know, a hundred measures of oil. That's about eight hundred gallons of oil. I I would about eight eight hundred gallons of oil. Well, okay. Sit down here and write on your bill four hundred gallons Why didn't the steward do it himself? Why didn't he just change it himself? He gives it to the debtor and says, here's your bill. Here, here's the pen. You write on it. 400. Later on, if it comes back, he says, that's not my handwriting. That's this that's this guy here. This guy's shrewd. Verse 7. And then he said to another, and how much owest thou? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill and write for score. He says to the next guy, How much you owe? This is about a thousand bushels, a hundred measures of weeds, a thousand bushels. He says, write on it Four score, let's make it 800 bushels. Now wheat and oil were essential commodities in this culture. And it was not unheard of for a creditor to renegotiate debts on commodities. Also, we know according to the Old Testament law, it was not right. You couldn't charge interest on a loan to a fellow, to a brother, a fellow Jew. And sometimes they would cover that up. They would lend per a person money and that person would pay them back in commodities, but in the payback, they always asked for more than the loan. So they kind of hid the interest in there, in the commodities. And so maybe, just maybe, what this steward was doing was suspending the interest charges plus his own fees that he would probably add in. And he's suspending all that. Now again, strictly speaking, the man has legal authority to do this. Morally and ethically, his actions were reprehensible He was already being fired for wasting his master's resources. And really this whole discount scheme that he came up with was tantamount to embezzlement. It was deliberate. It was the misappropriation of the master's resources. And he would never be able to hide it. He knew that the master was going to find out, but he didn't care at that point. He really didn't have anything to lose. He would probably be long gone by the time he figured it out. It didn't really bother him. In fact, there was only one person on the planet that he was concerned about at that moment. It was himself. He wasn't really concerned about anyone else. And these were deep discounts. I mean 50% was the first guy, that was equal to a working man's salary for almost two years. A hundred measures of wheat that's a thousand bushels. You you needed a hundred acres to produce that much wheat. Its full value is equal to eight to ten years of labor for the typical farmer. I mean these are deep cuts. And these two debitors are just representative of all the others who owed him. Because look what it says in verse number five. So he called every one of his Lord's debtors, not just two guys. He called every one of them. I mean, this guy's slashing prices. But more importantly, he was buying loyalty. He was making them indebted to him. Uh you know, I pastored a large church down south and uh this was a church that the government of it was somewhat difficult. We had a lot of committees. In fact, we had a committee to watch all the committees I'm not exaggerating. And uh it was tr hard to keep up with everything that was going on there. There was a big budget. And uh we I remember we had a benevolence committee and their job was to find out people who had legitimate needs and then give money to help those needs, which is a good thing. And the church would budget money to that purpose But there was a guy, a certain person on that committee, that what he would do is that he would pull a person aside and he would say, What's your need? How much do you need? And he would take his personal check and write it out, making the person think that he was giving them his own personal money And later he would come back and get reimbursed from the church. So why was he doing that? He was buying loyalty. He was trying to ingratiate people to himself. You know, that way he had a power base to work with. And I kind of found this out and And I uh I didn't personally fire him from the committee, but it was no longer there. I can be true too. But notice, so this is what this guy's doing. He's just buying the loyalty of all these other people. But notice what happens when the master finds out. Look in verse 8. And the Lord commended the unjust steward. Because he had done wisely. Now notice what it's not saying. It's not saying that Jesus commended him. Jesus is not commending dishonesty. In the story, it is the master or the owner that commends him. And even then, the master is not commending his dishonesty, but his shrewdness. He's not saying that he agreed with what he did or that he liked what he did. It's rather that he angrily he was angrily impressed. by what he did. Here's my translation of it. You know, you gotta admire that snake. That's the idea there. You gotta admire this crook. You have to be impressed with his shrewdness, you know It's kinda like a defeated athlete reluctantly shaking hands with a victorious athlete who cheated and didn't get caught. And you know it, he knows it. And this is really what's happening here. And then notice what the Lord says in verse 8. He says, For the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. And there's that word again. Prudent, clever, or shrewd. Sometimes the unbeliever does this, this shrewdness, better than God's children. And here's what, again, Ingrid writes this, and I think he says it very well. He said, Sadly, the people of light are often less than shrewd. Unbelievers outpace disciples in their foresight. Their ingenuity, their risk-taking, their study of their world. They study it and they see the opportunities and they seize them, knowing that opportunities missed are opportunities lost. Too often God's people are lethargic or uncreative or unstrategic in their thinking. We spend money, but we do not use it well. Our planning is careless. Our strategy is simplistic and naive. I think he's right. There's a sense in which sometimes those who don't know the Lord have better foresight than those who do. That's the idea there. And they work based on that foresight. What does the Bible say in the book of Proverbs? The prudent man foresees the evil and he hides himself. That is, he prepares for foreseen difficulties, foreseen problems here And so this is what is being pointed out here. So what can we children of light learn from this crook? What can we learn from him? Well let me give you, here's the second part, the principles of the shrewd steward. Here's a few things we can learn about this guy. Now again, we don't commend his dishonesty. The Lord doesn't do that. But you know what? There are some things that we can look at and say, you know what? I can learn from that. What is it? Well, here's the first thing. He saw the issues clearly. He saw the issues clearly. I mean, you have to admire that about this guy. He understood his circumstances. He saw clearly the predicament that he was in. He knew he messed up, and he knew that he was going to have to give an account. He understood that. He saw the big picture. He was thinking clearly about that. When he was confronted by his master, he knew the game was up. The only thing he could do was admit it and plan the best he could for the future. And so if the Lord were kind of spelling out the points of the parable, I think the Lord would say this: it would be good if all people could see the issues as clearly as this dishonest steward could This dishonest steward could see all the issues clearly. It would be good if we could do the same thing. You know what I I think one thing that appalls me is uh so many people today are so shallow and so muddled in their thinking about things. They really, this is especially true about ultimate issues. You listen to people today, they're just not clear in their thinking. Oh, there could be a God, I'm not sure. He might be personal. I mean, we may have come from God. Or, you know, evolution could be true. He might exist. He might be personal. Jesus might be the Son of God. It's possible He could be just a good teacher. There might be a heaven. Maybe. Not sure. You know, Jesus might be the only way, but then again, he may not be. That's just, can you not think clearly about this? Is that impossible for you to do? You know, if if there is no God, how did everything get here? Are you willing to jump in the abyss of irrationality and say that Something came from nothing? I mean that's what you're gonna have to admit. If you ever debate an evolutionist and they want to say, well, you know There was this primordial mud, uh this you know, these chemicals, and lightning struck the chemicals and that generated a single cell of life, and then it evolved through the chain and blah blah blah blah blah. Where did the mud come from? And where did the lightning come from? I mean let's take it a step back. Are you saying that something came out of nothing? Really? You really want to put your faith in that? You know, if how how can you believe that something came out of nothing? That's just totally ridiculous. But that's what evolution will tell you. Oh, and it was all by chance. Everything happened by chance. Chance is a mathematical probability. Chance is not a force. I can flip a coin and I can tell you the odds of it landing on heads or tails, but chance can't flip the coin. Chance isn't a force, and yet all that's built on that. Such unclear thinking, and yet it's scholarly. It's deep. If there is no God, then I'm alone to myself and I can do as I please. That means there's no meaning in life. There's no purpose. But if there is a God, then He is the creator, He is the judge, and you're gonna have to give an account. You're gonna have to stand before Him. Because everything that we have here, he is entrusted to us. We are stewards of it. And you're going to have to give an account. Can't you think about that? You know, um And if there is a God, wouldn't it be logical that he would reveal himself? If there was a God he didn't reveal himself, then there it's it's no use really having a God if he doesn't reveal himself And if he reveals himself, then how would he do it? And we believe he's done it through creation and through the special revelation of his word. And in his word, he revealed his son, Jesus Christ. All we know of Christ is in his word. And if none of these things are true, then we have nothing on which to base anything. There's no hope for no one. The point is, can't you think clearly through these things? Can't you see to think through the issues clearly? Let me tell you, he's either He's either God or he's not. He Jesus is either Son of God or he's not. And if he is, you better get ready for him. And if he's not, you got a lot you're writing on that. You say, well you could be wrong. I well if I'm wrong, I would say I had a good time in this life thinking I was right. But what if I'm right and you're wrong? You're risking a whole lot more. So this man, he saw the issues clearly. He knew that he was going to have to give an account Here's the second thing. He cared about the future. That's another thing we have to admire about him. He cared about the future. He knew the game was up. He knew he was going to have to give an account. And he could have had a carefree attitude and said, you know, well, you know, whatever happens, happens. No, that's not how he acted. He acted to prepare for his future. You know, again, it's I'm stunned by some people who will not think seriously about death and eternity. They just don't prepare for that. They prepare for everything in here in this earthly life, but they don't prepare for eternity. And I'm stunned by that. Especially in light of the fact that God put eternity in our hearts. That is, He put within the heart of mankind this understanding that this life is not all there is. There's something after this. And mankind knows this instinctively. That's why you go to these tombs and you see Egyptians and they bury a guy and they put all these possessions around them and they give him two coins to cross the Mystic River None of that is true, but the point is they know instinctively that this isn't all there is. There's a life after this. Man knows that. And yet Somehow he suppresses it. He doesn't prepare for the future. We prepare for everything here. We just don't prepare for eternity. We don't prepare for what's going to happen. I I think I told you one time I was out soul winning and I was walking down the street and this guy looked at me and he was out on his you know, in on his lawn doing some work and as I approached him he said, You're an insurance salesman, right? I said, Yeah. He said, uh, what kind of insurance? I said, well, home insurance, fire insurance, life insurance. He said, really, yeah. I said he said your company big? I said we got offices all over the world. He said, uh, how much is the premium? I said the premiums are free Really? I said, yeah, our owner has a son who paid all of the premiums. So it's free. He said, what kind of insurance is this? What's the name of your company? I said, the name of the company is the Church of the Living God. The owner's son is Jesus and he paid for your eternity. And of course he wasn't interested after that. You know, he was interested in securing all this stuff here, but he had no thought for the future. And that's the way people are. You have to admire this man. He saw the issues clearly. He cared about the future. And then here's the third thing: he made provision for what was going to come. We should learn from that example. We should seek out the Word of God and the gospel. We should absolutely know that we're going to heaven and we need to live in light of eternity. In fact, the whole point of this parable is not necessarily faith. It's more about using whatever the Lord entrusts to you for eternal purposes. That's the whole point. Look what Jesus said. Look what he said in verse 9. And I say unto you, make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, that when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations. What's the Lord saying here? It's really the same thing he said in Matthew 6 when he said, Lay offer yourselves treasures in heaven. That's what he says. He says, you know, basically he's saying We need to be shrewd enough with our own resources that God has given us that we invest them in eternal purposes. That's the whole point. When he says, make yourselves friends of unrighteous mammon, mammon is a term that means not only money, but possessions He's basically saying, make good decisions with all that God entrusts with you here, so that you're not enslaved To money here. You're not a debtor to creditors because you can't serve two masters, verse 13. You'll either be a slave to God or a slave to money. You can't serve two, but by being shrewd in your decisions and being free from enslavement to the things of this world and using these things and investing them into eternity for an eternal purpose. When you fail, look at what look what he says in verse 9 when he says that when ye fail, that's not talking about debt, it's talking about dying. When you die. They may receive you into everlasting habitation. What he's saying is you should be so wise and so shrewd with the material possessions that God gives you here That you invest them wisely in eternity so that one day when you die and you go to heaven, you know what? There's going to be a whole lot of people there meeting you. You know why? And they're going to welcome welcome you into his everlasting habitation because you use your resources that God entrusted to you so that the gospel could get out and they could get saved. You invested in people. And one day when you get to heaven, there'll be someone there that says, you know what, when we didn't have anything, you gave to our family. And we were so touched by that. And we got saved. Or you invested into a missionary and they came to our village and they shared the gospel. And that's why I'm here today. That's why Jesus says, make friends of this material, this unrighteous mammon, these material things, and if I can trust you with that, I will entrust you true riches. And if you invest this into eternal purposes, you know what? You're going to have a big reward. You'll be welcomed into everlasting habitations. Money doesn't get us to heaven. We get to heaven by faith. But if we invest in God's kingdom, we'll have a whole lot of people there waiting for us. That's the whole point. Some people when they go to heaven, they won't have anybody there waiting. Because all they invest in is themselves. All they care about is self. And here's the last thing. We have to admire this about the guy. He he saw the issues clearly. He cared about the future. He made provision for what he knew was coming. He was shrewd with what was entrusted to him. And here's the last thing. He moved quickly. He moved quickly. He knew that he only had a window of opportunity. So he didn't delay. There was no time to lose. He had to hurry. He had to hurry. And again, yeah, it surprises me. Some people, you know, I they don't hurry about their salvation. They don't really care about it. But I want to tell you something, dear friend. You have a window of opportunity right now. And that window is getting smaller. Each day that passes by and you haven't settled your eternal salvation, the opportunity is closing more and more and more. You better hurry. This guy, he knew. He had to hurry. And friend, you have to hurry as well. If you haven't made this thing sure, don't delay Do it quickly because you know what? You're gonna have to give an account. You're gonna have to stand before the master. You're gonna have to give an account. So you better you better think clearly. You better get your head out of the clouds. Stop swallowing this postmodern nonsense You better care about the future. You better prepare for the future. And you better do it quickly. That's what we can learn from this guy. That's what Jesus tells us. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord help us to receive your word today. This parable that you gave to warn Those that were standing around, even in that crowd of Pharisees who were sneering, who were laughing at truth. Who had up until that point rejected truth and were living more for money and the things of this world than they were for you. Lord, let this be a warning to all of us. That we better move quick. And we were gonna have to give an account. We know that, Lord, to you. You've entrusted to us so much. And it causes us to question how much of this have we invested in ourself? And how much have we invested into eternity? Are we laying up treasure in heaven? But we're more concerned about your kingdom than we are ourselves. So, Lord, speak to our hearts and reshape our priorities. And help us, Lord, to get our head out of the clouds. And make the truth of eternity real to us. Make the truth of heaven and hell real. There is a real heaven, there's a real hell. And Lord, help us to prepare for the future. For those who haven't, Lord, speak to their heart. For those who know they are children of God, I pray that they would begin to invest more into that eternal kingdom. But use this, Lord, we pray. Heads bowed and eyes closed. I just want to invite you, if you don't know the Lord, if you haven't prepared, I want to invite you to Christ today. I want to invite you to make sure of your eternal salvation. And if you are a child of God, how much are you laying up in heaven? You're going to have to give an account of whatever the Lord has given you. Are you investing that wisely for eternity? Let's all stand together. I'm going to ask our Pastor Earl and Pastor John to come down here. We're going to sing the invitation hymn of God's spoken to your heart. Friend, you come as the Lord leads. If you need to know about salvation, we'll take you aside. We'll explain to you how you can know Jesus as your Savior. But would you tarry with us while we give this invitation? And pray for people around you. That should be your major concern right now. Let's sing just as I am.