Would you take your Bibles, open to the book of Philippians, please, Philippians chapter 3. And we're going to look at verses 4 to 11 today. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Philippians chapter 3, verse 4. So we look at this together. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any other man think that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I'm more. Circumcise the eighth day of this stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as touching the law of Pharisee, concerning zeal persecuting the church. Touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. But what things were gained to me those I counted lost for Christ? And yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I may win Christ And being found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith That I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, be made conformable unto his death, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's authoritative word. May we hear it today. Bow with me in prayer, would you? Father, thank you for your word, and thank you, Lord, for But the salvation that you give us, may we come to a new understanding of this. Lord, help us to see what this passage says, and may we apply it to our life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to tell you the story about a lady named Debbie. Debbie uh was on an airplane through with a certain airline and she didn't have a good experience. She her luggage was mangled. And her purse disappeared. Instead of entering the airport through an enclosed quarter, she stumbled off the plane in the pouring rain. She was drenched She was far from home, she had no money, no identification, and no dry clothes. Now under normal conditions, Debbie would have been furious. But that night it really didn't matter much because she had just survived the plane crash of flight fourteen sixty in Little Rock, Arkansas. And when she walked off that plane, she said this. She said, I walked off with nothing. And then I stopped and thought, I have everything. She uh suddenly realized that her life was more important than those other things that she lost. You know, sometimes it takes a dramatic event to help us to get the right perspective. That's certainly true of a man in the Bible by the name of the Apostle Paul. I don't know if you know much about him. Before he was called the Apostle Paul, his name was Saul Tartius. And uh he had uh a reputation as Saul of Tarshius for uh hard-earned righteousness. He was a Pharisee, he was proud of all his religious accomplishments, accomplishments But then one day he met Christ on the road to Damascus and his whole outlook changed. He got a brand new perspective. And then he wrote this. Look again in verse number seven of chapter three. This is really what happened with his new perspective. He said in verse seven, But what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Paul began to see what was really valuable. And he began to calculate his losses and his gains based on that experience that he had. with the Lord Jesus Christ. So we're going to look at this passage. This is very autobiographical. And what this describes here, these verses that we just read, are the inner workings of Paul's heart when salvation was taking place. Now in Acts chapter 9 it gives a story of Paul on the road to Damascus when as a Pharisee he was headed to Damascus really to c to capture Christians and persecute Christians, but on that road he met up with the Lord Jesus Christ and his whole life was changed. And in Acts chapter 9, it's the outward experience of Paul's salvation. But here in Philippians chapter 3, Paul gives us the account of the inner work of God in his heart. It is the record of the inward work of the Spirit in a person who is truly repentant from their sin. This is what was going on in his mind and in his heart. You see, after meeting Jesus, all of his religious accomplishments were shattered. All of his self-confidence, it all vanished Suddenly all the religious badges that he wore, being so proud of all his religious achievements, all of that meant nothing. He looked at his resume, his religious resume, and he wanted to basically tear it up. In this passage, Paul counts everything that he previously considered as a gain. He counted it as a loss as a result of meeting the Lord Jesus Christ. And really what we see here in this passage is Paul becomes like an accountant in this passage. He He really is putting on his accounting hat, and what we see are bookkeeping terms. Look in verse number seven again. What things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. Gain Kurtos That's a profit on a investment. Loss is again a financial term. It's the exact opposite of the word gain. Paul says, when I met Jesus, I took a loss on some things, and I also gained some things. And again, he's describing salvation. And just know this that in salvation it's a really a great transaction where that when you meet Jesus Christ, there are some things that you lose, and there are also some things that you gain. And that's what Paul's talking about here. Normally, when a businessman takes a loss on a transaction, they're not very happy about it. But here, Paul is very happy for the losses that he had in Christ. In fact, you can almost sense a spirit of joy when you read these word these words about the losses. And why? Well, because the gains so far outshine the losses, the gains that he had. Paul lost all of his religious works, which amounted really to filthy rags, when he came to know Jesus Christ. This is what Jesus referred to in Matthew 16 when he said this, for whosoever will save his life shall lose it. And whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall find it, for what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul That was the trade for Paul, what a trade. He was very religious. He had a resume of all these religious works None of those things were helping him to gain favor with God because you can't get favor with God through religious works. You can't get salvation through religious deeds. And Paul, if he were an accountant, he was looking at his ledger sheet. And all the things that he had done in his past life, they were all in the gain section. But what he met Jesus, what he did was he transferred all of those things into the lost section. However, the gain was, now he met Jesus Christ. You see, the way to salvation is not through religious deeds. The way to salvation is through knowing Jesus Christ. And that's what he's talking about here. And Paul said, all those religious things that I did, I not only did he put them in the loss countem, but he says, I also count them as waste as useless. Look in verse 8. Yeah, yea, doubtless and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I might win Christ. The word dung there is scubula, strong word, manure All my religious past, all those things I gloried in, all those things I boasted in, all those things that I thought was going to make me right with God. Paul said, now I count them as waste. It's no good. You see, friend, there's a difference between being religious and knowing Jesus. God doesn't want us to be religious, quote unquote. He wants us to know Jesus Christ. He wants us to know his son. And this is what happened to Paul. Paul said, now all those religious things, I just I count them as manure. It's nothing. But now I know Jesus Christ. That was the game. Now, again, Paul may be using this word because of these Judaizers. If you were here with us the last time, these were false teachers and they were boasting in uh religious accomplishments. They were boasting in um their merits. And Paul said, I don't boast in that. I count it as as as waste that I might win Christ. Now, let me just show you then in this passage three factors regarding this great transaction that takes place in salvation. Here's number one. If you're taking those right down the empty assets of a religious man. Look at verse number four again. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh If there any man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. And here's Paul, and again we have to look at this in the context. Remember, Paul isn't rebuking these false teachers who came behind Paul and taught that in order to be accepted by God, you had to add works to your gospel of grace. You had to do some things. You had to be religious. And so they mixed human righteousness in with The grace of God. They were to them salvation was a mixture of man's effort and religion and God's grace. And they wanted to mix those things together. And what Paul does here is he demolishes that whole idea. And what he shows us is that salvation is by grace alone, with no human works, no human merits whatsoever. It's all the grace of God. It is all putting faith in Jesus Christ and him alone. It's not mixing in religious deeds. Because Paul says here, humanly speaking, he had required all the religious assets that anyone could imagine. Here these Judaizers are saying, oh listen, in order to be saved, you have to bring some of your own assets into this. It is the grace of God, but that's not enough. You have to do some religious things too. And Paul says, look If anyone can bring religious assets into this, I could do them better than anyone else. Paul says, I will compare my religious resume next to anyone. And then he pretty much gives us his resume. Look at verse 5, we see his ritual. He says, circumcise the eighth day. This was something that every male Jew did. If they were from a devout home, on the eighth day they were circumcised, that showed that you were part of a covenant people. This is a religious ritual. And some Jews thought that that actually brought salvation. Paul said, I was circumcised, and then he talked about his race. Look again at verse 5 of the stock of Israel. That is Paul had been been a Jew by birth. And again, he's taking aim at these Judaizers. Some of them were Gentiles that were converted into Judaism. Paul said, look, I'm a purebred Jew. If you want to brag about religious pedigree, I can put myself next to you any day. Notice his rank of the tribe of Benjamin, it says in verse number five. This was one of the most prominent tribes in Israel. This was the tribe that produced the first king of Israel. When the div and when the promised land was divvied up, the tribe of Benjamin was right there in an area where they inherited the city of Jerusalem, the holy city. And so this was a very prominent tribe. Paul says, I'm from a prominent tribe. I'm from the aristocracy of Israel. And then he says again in verse 5, Hebrew of Hebrews. He was simply saying he was Hebrew through and through. He was born to Hebrew parents. He spoke the Hebrew language. He lived by Hebrew customs. He was schooled by Hebrew traditions. He learned under one of the greatest rabbis I mean this is a good resume. Notice his religion, he says in verse number five at the end, as touching the law, a Pharisee. Paul worked very hard to get to that point. He had become a Pharisee, which was the highest among the sect of Judaism. Now we we kind of have a negative connotation with Pharisees today. We think of someone who's a hypocrite or someone who is very hardened, uh has religious pride. But back in Paul's day, it was a noble thing to be called a Pharisee And Paul called himself a Pharisee. In fact, he said in Galatians 1. 14, he said, I profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in my own nation. being much more exceedingly zealous of the tradition of my fathers. Paul said, of all them, I was number one in my class. I was more zealous. than anyone in that. In fact, look again in verse number six concerning zeal persecuting the church How fanatical was Paul as a Pharisee? He was so rigid. He was so zealous in his Phariseeism that he, the Bible says, persecuted the church And the and this is where he brought people in. Some of them suffered death under Paul. He was so zealous Paul said that Christians were dying because of his zeal. And then he goes on to say down in verse number six, touching the righteousness which is on the law. blameless. And here Paul speaking about his outward conformity. He's not saying that he was sinless. He was just saying if you had looked at my outward religious life, you would see someone who was blameless. You wouldn't be able to find any fault in the way I practice my religion. I practice all the traditions. I practice all the commandments. And if you looked at me you would see a person who was blameless. He was very proud of all of his religious deeds. And you know what? There are a lot of people like that today. When you talk about Christianity to them, if you ask them, are you a Christian? You know what they'll say? They'll say, well, of course I'm a Christian. I was born in America. My family I was raised in church. My father's name is on the stained glass window of that church. My grandparents are buried in the cemetery. out back of the church there. I came from a God-fearing home. I give my tithes. I support missions. I've been a member of that church for years. I was baptized when I was just a little child And what are they doing? They're rehearsing to you all their religious gains. But I want to tell you something, friend, if that's what you're trusting in to get you to heaven. Then you're not going to heaven. Because you can't get to heaven by being religious. You can't get to heaven by your resume. Of all the things that you have done. In fact, human righteousness falls sh way short of God's standard. What does the Bible say? All of our righteousness is like filthy rags. If you want to go that route, you're going to have to be perfect. Because listen to what Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount, talking to the Pharisees who were going that route. He said this, be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect. If that's the route you want to go, then you need to be perfect. And friend, how many would are willing to say I'm perfect? There's no one that can go that route. All of us have sin in us, we're born with sin. In fact, even the best works that we do Now, let me just say this. When God sees our works, He He smiles at those works. We should do good things. It's good to do those charitable deeds. But friend, if you think that that's going to get you into heaven, it's not. It's good for here in this world. It's good in this day and age to do good deeds. But good deeds don't register in God's bank. I I call it monopoly money. You know. You can do good deeds, you can do charitable deeds. They all have their place. They're all wonderful things and we should and and and God smiles on that and he likes that. But friend, it it's not going on your record in heaven. It's like monopoly money. You can use monopoly money to play monopoly, but you can't deposit monopoly money in the bank. In fact, I dare you to try it. I dare you to take the monopoly money and go down to the bank, fill out a deposit slip, give it to the teller, and see what she says to you. She's gonna call the police. Because she thinks you're crazy. You know why? Because that money doesn't spend in that bank. And your money of religious deeds does not spend in God's bank. You can't get there through your own religious works. And when Paul met Jesus on the road to Damascus that day, he finally realized that. He finally understood that. And that's why we see the second thing here. Not only the empty assets of a religious man, but number two, write down the enlightened assessment of a repented man. Because look what he says in verse 7. But what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Notice that word butt there. There's a lot in that word. Here's Paul, and he's got his religious deeds. He's got all kind of monopoly money. He's brimming over with religious works. He's very proud of the person that he was religiously, but when he met Jesus, He says, I count it now, but loss. It's all loss. He's counting it loss. Why? Because for the first time he understood that God's righteousness Is not attained through man's deeds, man's works, that his own righteousness was nothing. So you know what he did? He refigured his ledger book Three times we see the word count here in verse seven and eight. In verse seven, well what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Verse eight, yea, doubtless I count all things but loss For the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I might win Christ. three times. He says, I counted it. I counted it. And here's Paul the accountant. And what he's doing is he's taking all his religious works that are on the ledger sheet under gain. And he's making an evaluation, he's calculating, and he's saying, you know what? I gotta put all this now in the lost column. Because all these religious works are not going to give me favor with God. It's not going to bring me salvation. It's not going to bring forgiveness of my sins. And so all these things that I was trusting in, that I was boasting in, it's now a loss. I count it a loss. And by the way, the word the perfect tense here in the Greek means that this is at one point in time, he counted it all loss, it was all thrown away, that is, he never turned back to it ever again. There was never another point in Paul's life where Paul looked back on that and said, you know, I can sh surely count some of those things. No, it's total loss. It's gone. None of it's worth anything, he says. He abandoned it all. And what was the gain? Knowing Christ. In verse 8 again, he says, I suffer, I count all things but loss for the excellency Of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung. But notice that last phrase, that I might win Christ. It was knowing Christ. That was the game. You see, Paul realized that all of his religious deeds weren't helping him to get to know Christ. If anything, they were hindering him. from getting to know Christ. You know why? Because he put all his faith in that. And he had and he had all his pride in what he had done. And you know what? You can't get to know Jesus with being proud. You have to humble yourself. You have to realize that you're a sinner, that you're nothing. And Paul says, I counted all this loss for the excellency of the knowledge. Look at that word knowledge there. There are two Greek words for knowledge, Oda, which is really knowledge through education, by books. It's theoretical knowledge. There's another word called gonosco, which is knowledge by experience, personal knowledge. That's the word Paul uses here. He didn't learn about Christ through some book theoretically. He got to know Christ personally It's personal knowledge. Knowing Jesus personally. That's what salvation is. Salvation is abandoning all of your own self-righteousness. It's abandoning all those things that you boast in in your religious life, and it's realizing that all those things are nothing It's humbly coming to Jesus Christ, realizing that salvation is in him. It's in knowing Christ, the one who went to the cross, who took all of your sins upon himself. It's knowing Jesus. It's repenting and asking him to come into your heart to be your Savior. It's knowing him in a personal way. And this is what Paul is talking about as a gain. I lost All of those religious things, but I gained a personal knowledge of Jesus Christ. So let me ask you, have you exchanged all your assets for Christ? Have you come to know Jesus personally? Or are or are you somehow clinging to these deeds in your past lives, these religious deeds, as if somehow those deeds that your goodness will get you into heaven. My friend, it will not Listen to what the songwriter wrote. I love this hymn. Nothing in my hand I bring. This is he's describing the heart of someone who's truly repented. Nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress. Helpless look to thee for grace. Thou Saying, I'm foul, foul, I to the fountain fly. Wash me, Savior, or I die That's so very true. It's so very profound. We are spiritually naked. We need to be clothed in the righteousness of Christ. And we need to come humbly with nothing in our hand. Simply clinging to the cross and saying it's Christ and Christ alone. George Whitfield was one of the most effective gospel preachers our country has ever seen. He was from England, but he would come to America and God used him during the Great Awakening in the middle of the 18th century. But listen to his life. As a teenager Winfield desired to live a religious and serious life. He was a student at Oxford. He joined a club there at Oxford called the Holy Club. Along with two other guys he knew there, John and Charles Wesley, we have probably know those names from church history. They were the founders of the Methodist Church And these guys, together with a bunch of others, they joined the holy club, and this is what they would do. They would rise every day early in the morning for lengthy devotions. They disciplined themselves not to waste one minute of the day. They wrote in their diary every night. They examined themselves. They condemned themselves when they found any fault in their life. They fasted every Wednesday and Friday. They set aside Saturday as a day of Sabbath to prepare for Sunday, the Lord's Day. And they tried to persuade all their friends to come to church. They visited the prisons, they gave money to help the inmates, they provided to educate the inmates' children. In fact, one biographer says that Whitfield nearly ruined his health by going out in the cold weather and lying prostrate before God for hours, crying out for deliverance from sin and Satan. For seven weeks he was sick in bed, confessing his sins, spending hours in prayer, reading his Greek New Testament, yet by his own admission he says he was not saved. Because he was trusting in all of those things to bring him salvation. And one day Charles Wesley gave him a copy of a book called The Life of God in the Soul of Man. And when Whitfield read that book, he realized that he was not saved. And this is what he wrote. Quote, I must bear testimony to my old friend, Mr. Charles Wesley. He put a book into my hands whereby God showed me that I must be born again or be damned. I learned that a man may go to church, say his prayers, receive the sacrament, yet not be a Christian. How did my heart rise and shudder like a poor man that is afraid to look into his ledger, lest he should find himself bankrupt? Shall I burn this book? Shall I throw it down? Or shall I search it? I did search it. And holding the book in my hand, thus addressed the God of heaven and earth, Lord. If I am not a Christian, for Jesus' sake, show me what Christianity is, that I might not be damned at last. And a little further. I read a little further and discovered that they who know anything of religion know it is a vital union or relationship with the Son of God, Christ formed in the heart. And then he wrote this, Oh what a ray of light, divine light, did break upon my soul. Because at that moment George Whitfield stopped trusting in his religious works, and he put his faith in Christ, and Christ alone, as his only way of salvation. Let me give you the third and final point here today. We talk about the empty assets of a religious man and the enlightened assessment of a repentant man, but here's number three. The enriched account of a righteous man. Because look down in verse number nine now. Excuse me, verse nine. And being found in in him Not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. And now Paul gives the wonderful benefits of placing Christ alone in the game column and knowing Christ. And here he talks about the purity of Christ, being found in him, not having mine own righteousness. What Paul is doing here, he's contrasting the two ways of salvation or or that one might seek righteousness. Now what does the Bible say? Without holiness no man can see God. And the bad news is that none of us are holy. And there's no way we can make ourselves holy. Our righteousness isn't going to do it. So if you're depending on your own holiness and righteousness, you'll never see God. But here's the good thing. When you put your faith in Jesus Christ, God gives you the righteousness of Christ. He gives you the holiness of Christ. And this is what Paul's contrasting here in verse 9. Not having mine own righteousness, which is by the law. I did that in my past life. I tried to live by the law and I tried to obey and be religious, but that's not it Not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. The moment you give up all of your religion and you come to Jesus humbly and you say, Lord, I have no righteousness, I have no holiness. I put my faith in what Jesus did for me on the cross. I ask him to be my Savior. What God does is he takes all the righteousness of Christ. He transfers it to your account. Because what happened on the cross is Jesus took all the sin in your account. And he put it on the Lord Jesus Christ. The God the Father put it on the Lord Jesus Christ. And when he died, he paid your sin debt. And now he's giving you his righteousness. And this is what Paul's saying here. This is the wonderful transaction. He lost all of his religiousness, but he gained true salvation. He gained the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he talks about this very thing, the imputed righteousness of Christ. In the leisure book, God put all of Christ's righteousness into your account. the moment you put your faith in Christ. And then notice verse 10, that I may know him. If you're truly saved, you're going to want to have fellowship with Christ. In fact, this is the whole goal of the Christian life right here. Do you know what you're saved for? Do you know what the goal of the Christian life is? If you get your eyes off of it, you're probably not going to accomplish it. It's very simple. Paul puts it to us here in simple terms. What's the goal of the Christian life? That I might know him. And the power of his resurrection. What's the goal of the Christian life? Trying to know Jesus, know him personally in salvation, humbly coming to him as a sinner, saying, Lord, save me, cleanse me of my sin, make me your child. Coming by faith to Christ, you get to know him personally, and you know what? You grow to be more like him. That's what the Christian life is all about. And we learn about the power of Christ in verse 10 and the power of his resurrection. And you know what that power is? That's the power that transforms the heart, not just your outward man But it transforms your heart from the inside. That's when God works mightily. He doesn't start on the outside. He starts on the inside and he transforms your heart. And Paul became to know this power of the resurrection on the road to Damascus when he was born again, when he became a child of God. And basically that's exactly what happened. You say, how can I know the power of the resurrection? The moment you put your faith in Christ, God will make you alive spiritually. That's the power of the resurrection You're made alive spiritually. The deadness of your old life is gone. And you are now resurrected to live a spiritual man in Christ. Any person who's been truly saved has experienced that power of the resurrection. It changes who you are. But then it says this in verse 10, in the fellowship of his sufferings. This is knowing Christ in a deeper way. We know his person, we know his power, we know his persecution. What does that mean? That means that when you grow in Christ and people see Christ in you, You get persecuted for it. In fact, persecution, anyone who's persecuted for the sake of Christ, you don't have to wonder whether or not you're saved. That's one assurance right there. You see, the world still hates Christ. Hate to tell you. I know we're getting close to Christmas. We have all these warm feelings about the baby Jesus. But don't let that fool you, friends. The world still hates Christ. And since Christ is no longer here, they can't persecute him personally. They're going to persecute those that are his. Those that look like him, those that act like him, those that walk like him. And Paul said, I'm I'm for that. I want to know Christ so much and know his power in my life and grow to be so Christ-like That I will be a partaker of the sufferings of Christ, that I will take the blows meant for him. I'll take them on myself here. This is a new level of intimacy with Christ when we suffer with him and for him. And then here's the last thing, the perfection of Christ. Look at verse 11. If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. What does he mean by that? Well, the literally resurrection from among the dead, that that's I think what he's talking about there is when the Lord comes back at the second coming, there's gonna be a great resurrection. And you know what happens? Our salvation is complete. There's justification, sanctification, glorification. When Jesus Christ comes back. The Bible says we get a brand new glorified body. How many are happy about that? And we're made just like Christ. And you know what? There's no more vestiges of sin in us. We don't have to wrestle with sin anymore. You know, here in this life, while we're trying to be like Christ, we're constantly wrestling against this inward sin nature. And Paul, at one point in Romans 7, cried out and said, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? Paul himself wrestled against sin in his life, and he hated the weakness of his flesh, and he longed to get rid of it And he knew that one day that was going to happen. And when would that happen? That would happen when the Lord Jesus Christ comes again. And there's the great resurrection. We get our glorified body. We become glorified. as believers that we're going to live in heaven forever there in our glorified body. And Paul says we're waiting for this. And in fact, we groan In Romans 8. 23. Even we ourselves grown within ourselves, waiting for the adoption to wit, the redemption of the body, that is the whole completion of our salvation. That's what we're waiting for. We're waiting for this salvation process in us to be complete when we're glorified. When we are finally made just like Christ. And so this is the great transaction that takes place at salvation. And Paul is saying to the people of Philippi, it has nothing to do with your works. It has nothing to do with your assets, religious assets. You've got to throw all that away. You can't try to mix works with the grace of God. Salvation is all by grace. Come to Him empty-handed. Come to Him humble. Come to Him as a sinner, confessing your sin and say, Lord, save me. I'm putting my faith in you and you alone, not in any religion, not in any denomination, not in any ritual. I'm putting my faith in Christ and Christ alone. That's what you gain. You gain Christ. My friend, have you done that? And are you sure of that? I close with the words of the missionary Jim Elliott, the missionary martyr, who said, He is no fool to give what he cannot keep, to gain what he cannot lose. Let's bow for prayer together. So I would ask you from with your heads bowed and eyes closed, where are you? Are you still trying to earn your own salvation through your religious works? Trying to be good? That's the wrong way. You'll never make it. You may as well try to sail the Atlantic in a paper boat to get to the other side. You've got a better chance of that. than your own works earning you any merit with God. You have to do what the Apostle Paul did. You have to count all that. You have to take all those things you thought you thought were gains. You have to throw it in a loss column. In fact, you have to count it as a waste. And you have to turn to Jesus and Him alone. And pray the prayer of the publican in Luke who said, God, be merciful to me a sinner and save me for Christ's sake. Save me, Lord. And friend, if you do that, I'm telling you, we have a merciful God. He'll turn no one away who comes to him in faith. If you'll come to him in faith, he'll save you. You can get saved right where you are. Right there seated where you are. Reach out in prayer Just tell the Lord, Lord, I'm a sinner, save me. Use your own words. Save me, Jesus. Save me now. I throw aside all of my religious works. I put my faith in Christ. Friend, run to him. And you know what? You'll rejoice just like Paul You'll have a knowledge of Jesus, a personal knowledge, and you'll call it the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord. You can call him my Lord when you put your faith in him. How many say that's my prayer? Would you pray for me, preacher? That's my prayer. I'm putting my faith in Christ alone. Let me pray for you. Anyone here? Just slip your hand up. I'll pray for you. Anyone here? God bless you friend. God Father, thank you for your word. Speak to hearts We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to have an invitation this morning. I want you all to stand together. We're going to sing the invitation hymn, Just As I Am. If God's speaking to your heart, if you just need to come to the altar and pray, I want you to I want you to do that here today. Let's not be in a rush. Let's let God work in our hearts. Sing with me just as I am. Just Friend, you want to know Christ? Come and let us help you. All right. Let's pray together. Father again, thank you for your word. Speak to hearts and use your word, Lord, to bring many to Christ. And we thank you again for what you've done for us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.