Well it's good to see you here tonight in the Lord's house. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the book of James, chapter number one James chapter one. And we're going to look at verse 13 down through verse 17 tonight. But as you know, on Sunday evenings I have been doing this series called Echoes from Puritan Pulpits. This is really just looking at a lot of the the books that Puritans that have been reprinted based on sermons or sermon series preached by men during the Puritan era. And I've read I've read these books and they have had a lot of uh spiritual impact on me and I just wanted to share with you some of the things that I've been learning as we've been looking over uh as I uh looking over some of the books that uh And some of the sermons that have been presented in time past by Puritans and then reprinted for us today. And tonight we look at the title of the sermon is The Anatomy of Secret Sin. And this was a series of sermons preached by a faithful Puritan minister from the 17th century, a man by the name of Obadiah Sedgwick. He pastored a church in London, St. Paul's Coven Church. He was also a member of the Westminster Assembly. And people who heard him preach uh said that his preaching had a strange effect. People would leave the service uh not necessarily talking about the sermon, but thinking about themselves and how what he said impacted them. It's as if their inner life had been exposed by the way he had preached the Word of God to them. And that's of course the Word of because the Word of God it has that effect, right? The Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword and it it it pierces us inwardly. It discerns our thoughts and the intents of the heart. And that is the kind of ministry that Obadiah Sedgwick had. And so the context of this was Uh again, this was a series of sermons and it was kind of put into this book called The Anatomy of Secret Sin. Now if you've been with us on our series on by uh Puritans, you know that they deal with sin a lot. I've already preached this uh based on Jeremiah Burroughs who wrote a book called The Evil of Evils talking about sin. And among the many Puritan books that are out there, there's a lot that deals with this issue of sin. There's another one written by Thomas Watson called The Mischief of Sin which is also another really good book to read. I would recommend that to you. But this is a book that I uh purchased and read uh years ago. And Obadiah Sedgwick uh is not as uh as well known as some of the other Puritans, but does such an incredible job talking about the danger of secret sin. Now why did he preach these sermons? Well, because he saw the people uh that he preached to in that day were satisfied with external religion and public morality while neglecting really the condition of their heart. They saw a lot of of their Christianity was just on the outside what was allowing their heart to grow sinful. And so he preached to awaken them. He preached to shake them up, to help them. Many were deceiving themselves about their spiritual condition. Uh but you cannot deceive God. And the battle that we have to fight, as we all know, in this thing of sanctification, is on the inside. We have to win the battle on the inside. It's easy enough for people to clean up the outside and to have religion on the outside, but what is our heart like? What are we carrying in our heart? And Sedgwick died in 1658, but his message is just as needed today And I think even especially more because again, I think Christianity a lot of times is measured by what people see on the outside. But God's truth is not changed. Now, we uh hold what he says next to James one, verse uh chapter one, verse thirteen down to verse seventeen. This was certainly a verse that he referred to in his book. and many others, but um we want to kind of look at what James chapter 1 has to say and then bring in some of the thoughts that Obadiah Sedgwick had regarding secret sins. Now here in James, James basically gives us the anatomy of sin, as you will. If you will, that is, he kind of tells us where sin came from. Look in verse number 13. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed Then when lust has conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, brings forth death. So in this passage, James kind of exposes to us the progression of sin. from desire to destruction or we could say or death. Now Sedgwick's purpose was to help Christians recognize this process. So let's just go along and let me give you a few thoughts from Obadiah Sedgwick's book and also kind of bring it in here from the perspective of James as well. So first of all, think about this, the definition of secret sin. What is it? What is secret sin? And James begins by correcting a dangerous assumption. Again in verse 13, let no man say, when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. In order to properly deal with temptation, we have to know the cause of it. And James begins by looking around for the cause. Where does temptation come from? And first of all, James looks up and he says, you know, you can't blame God. Sin and temptation do not come from God. That is not the source. So he says, let no man say this is a third person imperative. That means a strong command. There were people in that day rationalizing that God was the cause of their temptation or at least somewhere involved in the cause of their temptation and James is saying you need to stop that. Let no one say, that's in the middle voice in the Greek. It could be translated like this. Let no one say to himself Or let no one excuse himself in this manner. The Greek preposition in the phrase translated, tempted of God, is not hoopo. which is the preposition of direct agency, but it's Apo, the preposition of origin, conveying the idea of remoteness. And so in other words, James is saying, God's not remotely involved in this. So Don't try to blame your temptation on God. God is not the near agency, we could say, of temptation, nor is he even the remote So when you're fighting temptation and nearing to yield to that, don't make the excuse that you're being tempted by God. James says, because that is never the case. Now again, that was the thought that went around in James' day. For example, some of the Jewish rabbis are that they believed that God was at least indirectly responsible for temptation They believed in the God, what they called the God-given, it wasn't God-given, but this is what they called it, the Yatsahara, the evil impulse Uh one Greek scholar writes this, God has ordained that I should yield to the temptation which I have fallen. That's the way they rationalize. I have been driven to sin, not by God himself, since he hates sin, but by the very circumstances which God has placed me. God is the ultimate cause and therefore I should absolve myself of that responsibility. That was the rationale that was going around in that time and James was saying, stop thinking like that. Stop blaming it on God. That was true in James' day, but we can go back farther, right? That was true in Adam's day. What's the first thing that Adam did after he sinned? He blamed it on someone else. The woman that thou gavest me. Oh God, I mean I look I was fine here in the garden and you brought this woman in And now look at me. It's the woman that you gave me. It's not my fault. You did this, not me. Um you created the woman. The woman ate the fruit. She gave to me. What was I supposed to do? You know We we have men still use that excuse today sometimes. What was I supposed to do? Eve's excuse was even better. She said, Well the serpent deceived me. It's like one country preacher said, Adam blamed Eve, Eve blamed the serpent, and the serpent didn't have a leg to stand on. But actually, they were saying, you know, it's really God's fault. And this rationale still continues even in our day. People are trying to blame their sin on everybody else but themselves. Everybody is a victim in our society today. And in essence, what they're saying is, it's not me. God, this is what you place me in. This is the circumstances I'm in It's your fault, not my fault. And God, James says, cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. God is absolutely holy He exports nothing but what is holy and right and just, and you can't blame your temptation on God. He doesn't tempt any man. Now in our society today, most people don't come right out and just say that. They again have a clever more way of saying it. But the bottom line is the the catchphrase is it's not your fault It's not your fault. But where does sin come from? Where does it come from? Well, James tells us Again in verse 13. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But look at verse 14. Here is the anatomy of sin, but every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and entice. It starts within the heart. James says, look inward. That's where it starts. Sedgwick emphasizes that the root of sin lies within the human heart. This is what he writes. The greatest enemy a man has is within him. It is within him. Now temptation may come from without, but sin grows from the desires of the heart, from the fallen human heart. And this should humble us. James says, from his own lust. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust. And so Sedgwick defines secret sin not just as hidden actions, but as inward sins. Inward sins, sins that start on the inside, private indulgences, hidden corruptions of the heart. He writes in substance that sins are those which are carried on in the soul, but sins where God sees. No one else may see it, but God sees those sins. And so it includes the inner life. Not just what you do, but what you think, what you desire, what you imagine. Christ said this, Whosoever looketh with on a woman with adultery in his heart, or excuse me, with lust in his heart has already committed adultery. Sin doesn't begin with the hands, it begins with the heart. It begins with lust from the inside. And Obadiah Sedgwick presses this truth. He writes, This secret sins are the sins of the heart, though they never break forth into visible acts In other words, a person might appear clean on the outside while corruption and sin is growing actively on the inside. And he warns that a man may refrain from actions. You can do that. You can govern your speech. You can order your outward life. And yet still live in the daily practice of sins just in your thoughts. Just in your inward life. So here's the next thing, it thrives in secrecy, he says Not only it includes the inner life, but it thrives in secrecy. He says many men bless themselves in this that their sins are not known. They say, no one sees this. No one sees this. This is just between me and myself, but there's a great mistake here because, again, there is no secrecy before Almighty God. God fully sees secret sins. And what I said was very clear on this in his book, he writes, though sin may be secret to men, yet is it open and manifest before God. You might hide it from others, but you cannot hide it from God. And this is one of the all-inspiring things to me about Almighty God is his omniscience. He knows everything. He knows everything. And that's just that one thought right there, it's hard for me to even comprehend. It blows me away to think that God knows every thought. that you have in your heart and he knows the thoughts that you're gonna think even before you think 'em. And I you know, uh sometimes when I'm flying over a big city and I'm looking down and I'm seeing all the buildings and cars and thinking about the many people that live in that city. The thought just blows me away when I think God knows every one of those people He knows the very hairs of their head are numbered. And he knows every thought, every intent of their heart. And he knows those thoughts before they even think them. And that just that idea of the omniscience of God is just, I can't wrap my mind around it, that God knows everything, but He knows everything, and He knows every thought that you think in your heart. And so nothing that you do is hidden before God. Nothing is secret. He knows the motive behind every intention. He knows the desire even before it is acted upon. And so uh God sees the moment when sin is conceived in your heart. James continues, he says, then when lust Look at verse fifteen, then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. God sees it at the moment of conception. God sees the birth of sin the moment that it comes inside of our heart. Settle in your mind. Think about that. You're never alone in your thoughts. Never. You're never hidden in your desires You live every moment before an all-knowing, all-seeing God, whether you realize that or not, you live before a God who sees all and who knows all. So secondly, he speaks about the dangerous of secret sin. Why is this so serious? And again, we have to look at verse 15, where James here uses the metaphor of a birth. Where he talks about the conception when lust is conceived. The appearance of sin are inward lust and outward temptation. When these two come together, the evil child of that is sin. And again, Sedgwick writes this, beloved, remember this, that though the first ground of sin is within the heart, yet the propensity of sin is to come forth into public The child in the womb does not have stronger throes to go out of its private lodgings than sin secretly wrought to fly into the open and manifest action. And what he's saying is you can't hide the child. of sin very long. Just like in a conception, you can't hide that child. That child is going to come forth. And that's the way he says it is with inward secret sin. It may stay there for a little while, but eventually that child of sin is going to come forth. It's going to come forth. So you can't hide it forever. Just as a woman with child cannot hide it, even so sin by its very nature. will become public. And then there's the completion of that. What happens in the end, and verse 15 again we see then sin when it is finished brings forth When the child reaches full maturity, what takes place? Death. Sin brings death. And Satan doesn't want us to see the end result of sin. He hides that from us. He doesn't want us to think about it, but the end result of sin leads to death. When I think about this verse, I think about uh a Florida pastor, one of my favorite stories, is was there a pat there was a pastor in Florida and he had a church close to a brewery And this brewery put up a billboard sign uh that had as a caption, and by the way on the sign it had a man in a tuxedo and a woman in a nice evening dress and a beautiful scenery there And they're both drinking and there's the caption at the bottom, the the the finest product of the brewer's art. And um This pastor really got upset that that billboard was close to his church. And so he put up a billboard right in his church parking lot to kind of offset that one. And in his uh billboard, he showed a man laying in a gutter in his own filth. if you will, his own vomit, uh, you know, and tattered clothes. And then he put at the bottom the caption the finished product of the brewer's art. You know, the devil wants us to see the finest product, but he doesn't want us to see the finished product. And the Bible says that when lust has conceived The end result of that is death. And James is describing sin like stages in a birth and the end of it. And he warns this, quote, Sin is modest at first. It rarely appears in its full deformity at the beginning. And that is so true. But it's so dangerous and he gives some reasons why. First of all, he says it escapes human restraint because sin, secret sin, is that is that it's inward, it's secret, no one confronts it, no one corrects it, and therefore it can grow unchecked. He says secret sins lack those rebukes and restraints which open sins meet with. We see someone living in open sin, we're going to confront them, we're going to rebuke them, but when it's secret sin, he said, there's no one there to rebuke that or confront that. And if you don't do it yourself, there's no one there that's going to do that. That's why it's so dangerous. And then next thing it hardens the heart because of that. At first it might trouble you some, but over time the conviction, the conscience, the conviction fades, I should say the conscience hardens, the sensitivity towards sin dulls. And and that's the way sin is. That's the way it is. You know, um my wife has this habit. She likes to change the furniture around in our house like every three or four months or so. Um and it's just I don't know part of her nature. It'll just be a different design. And I remember one time she didn't tell me about the different design and I tried to walk through the living room in the dark and whoa ho But I I I realize that when the room is dark, I better not walk until first I stand there for a while because she may have changed the furniture around and I don't want to fall again. That wasn't fun. And what I'll do is I'll stand there in the dark for a while, and you know what will happen because this happens to you. What happens? Your eyes adjust. The dark suddenly isn't so dark. And after a while you can pick up objects, and if you stand there long enough, you're able to see in the dark, and if not so bad. And that's the way it is with sin. When first sin comes into your heart It's terrible darkness. But if you're in it for a while, what happens is your your conviction fades, your sensitivity to the darkness dolls and sin doesn't seem as bad while you're there. And this is what Cedric warns about. Sins, secret sins, do insensibly waste the conscience uh that sensitivity is gone and it hardens you. And then he says the next thing is it breeds hypocrisy. A man may appear holy outwardly, he says, while cherishing inward sin, and this is one of the most dangerous spiritual And then another thing he writes is that it invites God's special displeasure. There is something really especially offensive about sins that are covered. All sin is offensive to God. But he makes the point that there's something even more offensive to God about secret sins that are covered instead of exposed. This seems to be more the object of God's displeasure and wrath when uh than when they're covered Remember the story in Joshua chapter 7, the story of Achan, the children of Israel went into Jericho. God said, Don't take anything out of Jericho. That first city was devoted to God. Don't take anything out of it. It would be the accursed thing if you did. And Achan took some gold and a Babylonian garment and he hid them in his tent, thinking no one saw, but God knew. And that sin brought defeat for Israel. And he was singled out. And what happened was he became the object of God's special judgment. And he was stoned, he and his whole family. God dealt with it severely. Remember Anisnias and Sapphira, they lied about the money given to the curse. No one else knew, but God knew. And that secret, hidden sin was offensive to God so much so that when they came to church, they died. God took their life because of that hidden sin. God sees what is hidden, and secret sin is treated as serious. It's not minimized in God's sight. It is worse And there's a greater consequences that seem to come with those that want to continue to hide it. And then Sedgwick writes, this also, it leads to greater sin. Secret sin never stays secret forever. It grows, it develops, it eventually manifests, and it leads to greater sins. It leads to more sins. It multiplies Just like in the case with David and Bathsheba, you remember that story where he committed adultery with Bathsheba, he tried to cover it up, and in the act of trying to cover it up, what happened was sin multiplied More things took place. There was lying and deceit and then murder all along with that. Hidden sin multiplies. It leads to greater sin. And that's why again it's so dangerous. But then Sagrick makes this point, the deceit of secret sin, how it tricks you. How does it trick you? Again, look in James chapter one verse fourteen where it says, But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. So along with the inward desire, there's always the outward deception. And entice is what this idea here is. Entice is really a term that's used in that day in the hunting or fishing world. And it really means to lure away. It has the idea of baiting a hook. It's the idea of a snare where there's bait placed in the trap. And James, if you read his epistle, you know he uses a lot of great illustrations. And that this is this is yet another illustration that he uses from the outdoor world of that day. And he's using, I think, really a fisherman's term, baiting the hook. What does a fisherman do when he's out there fishing? You are deceiving those fish. Shame on you, fishermen. Because you're putting a hook in the water, but you're hiding the hook, and you're saying to that fish, I really want to bless you. I want to give you a free meal here, just because I'm a good person. And you're lying to that fish, and you've hidden the hook. And that's the idea behind the word entice here. And this is what Satan does. The lure hides the hook. He is hiding the consequences of sin. This is how sin tricks you. Satan flashes the bait or the lure. Before you. He is the master fisherman. Satan knows exactly what lure to use to get you out, to get you to swallow the hook. And this is one of Sedgwick's most powerful observation when he talks about the deceptive nature of sin. Sin rarely presents itself honestly. Instead it disguises its consequences. It exaggerates the pleasures. And he says this, quote, sin ever presents the bait, but hides the hook. And this deception is seen all throughout Scripture. We've seen it, where Satan in the Garden of Eden made the forbidden fruit look so alluring to Eve. And then so on. We can go throughout scripture, but we know that. But he mentioned several ways that sin deceives the soul. First of all, he says sin minimizes itself. That was one of the points that he makes. It minimizes itself. It's only a thought That's the rationale. It's not going to hurt anyone. This is how sin speaks to your soul, he says. It never presents itself as dangerous. It never announces its consequences up front. It never tells you how the what the end will be. It always downplays itself. And that's the idea behind this word here, enticed. But Sedgwick kind of cuts through all of that kind of thinking with the piercing truth. He says, quote, the least sin is more evil than the greatest affliction. And uh what he's telling us here is that, you know, we naturally think um that suffering and loss and pain and trouble, that's the worst thing. But Sedgwick says the worst suffering you could endure uh is still not as evil as the smallest sin you could commit. Um sin is so bad, don't minimize it. And you may say, well, you know, it's worse you know, suffering is a lot worse than this little sin. No, it's not. That's that's that's its whole point. Whatever suffering you go through, it's still not as bad as the least little sin. That's how bad sin is. Why? Well, because it's rebellion against the Holy God. Affliction, he says, may make you weep, but sin is what made Christ bleed. But then the next thing he says is sin presumes upon God's mercy. The person rationalizes in their mind and they say, well, you know, God will forgive me. I can do this and God will forgive me. This isn't a big deal. That's how sin reasons. I think I was telling you when we were talking about the mortification of sin with John Owen, but how he said that when we do fa fail at times W sometimes we're too quick just to forgive and move on. We we need to uh feel the guilt and the shame. We're too quick to quote first John 1 9 and move on. And sin sometimes will reason and say, well, you know, God will forgive it. Just just ask for just confess it later, and then, you know, you'll be fine. Uh it isn't that big a deal. And what it does, that kind of thinking takes one of the most precious truths in the Bible, which is what? The mercy of God There's nothing more precious than the mercy of God. And it takes the mercy of God and it turns it into a license to sin. And that is what is so terrible about that. And Obadiah Sedgwick exposes his danger when he says, Men sin upon hopes of mercy, and so turn the grace of God into an encouragement for sin. And that is not faith, that is presumption. That's presumption. Faith says God is merciful. Therefore, I will flee from sin. The mercy of God should cause us to run from sin, not easily give into it. Presumption says God is merciful, therefore I can indulge in sin. Faith trembles at offending a holy God. And presumption takes comfort in doing so. And so think about that. And by the way, in the book of James here, verse number five. 17. What does James do? James gives us a reason to flee from temptation, to run from it. And how does he do that? Look at verse 16. Do not err, my beloved brethren. That is, don't err in your thinking. Look at verse 17. Every good and perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of life, with whom there's no veritableness, neither shadow of turning. What's the whole point there? James is telling us how to overcome temptation. And what's the way that we do it? By dwelling upon the goodness of God. Remembering how good God is, because if you remember how good God is and how that every good and perfect gift comes from God, that in itself should cause you to want to run from sin. And temptation. That's his whole point there. God's goodness is meant to lead you away from sin, not deeper into it. So when a man says, God will forgive me while planning the sin, he is using the mercy and the goodness of God as a license. He's not trusting in God, he's testing God. And that is a dangerous place to be. Sin also, Sedgwick says, relies on secrecy for comfort. It relies on secrecy for comfort. He says the wicked will say, and he quotes Psalm 94, verse 7, The Lord shall not see, yet they say, The Lord shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it And then he says this, understand the verse says, ye brutish among the people. He that planted the ear shall he not hear. He that formed the eye, shall he not see? And this is again the rationale of the wicked. They say, oh, you know, God won't see this. He won't hear about this. Yes, he will. The God who created the eyes sees all. And the God who created the hear the ear hears all. And the sinner can try to comfort himself with the thought that God does not see, but the Bible calls that kind of thinking brutish. What is that? Stupid. spiritually foolish. And so we need to remember that God sees all. He sees sin clearly. But then here's the next thing he says, the heart becomes self-deceived. The heart becomes self-deceived. Sin relies on secrecy for comfort, but also the heart then becomes self-deceived He says the heart is ready to cover up sin, to excuse sin, to defend sin, and so the sinner becomes the criminal, and then he also, the sinner also becomes the defense attorney. So we know how to defend ourselves. But then let me give you the fourth point here: the discovery of secret sin. How does God deal with it? Again, James says it comes forth. You're not going to hide it for long. And Sedgwick emphasizes, again, this one point over and over again: secret sin will not remain secret. It won't. God won't allow it to. If you're his child and and and he's sanctifying you then you can rest assured that if you have secret sin in your life and you're holding on to it and you're cherishing it, you can rest assured that God will not allow that to stay secret long. Because that goes against what he's doing in your life and of sanctification in your life. And so God will make sure that it's revealed. God sees it now, as we said, every thought, every desire, every hidden act. But then here's the next thing he said uh Sedgwick says, God often exposes it in this life. And he warns, God will bring it into the open. Not always immediately. A person can be in secret sin for a long time. And it may not happen immediately, not always the way we expect, but often in providential ways, God uncovers what men try to conceal. Sin is never static. It may begin secret, but it will be uncovered, he says in this life. And Sedgwick gives several ways in which this can happen. Circumstances, things we didn't plan. Or through consequences, which is the natural fruit of sin, sin brings with it its own consequences, and those consequences sometimes Bring that out into the open, that sin out into the open, but also providence, God ordering events in his own way. to expose those things. The sinner says in his heart, I will cover this, and God says, I will uncover it. I will uncover it. And Scripture confirms this. Be sure your sin will find you out. And again, we certainly see this in the life of David. In the 2nd Samuel, David managed to hide his sin and to cover it up until God sent Nathan the prophet, who said, Thou art the man, you're the man. And God uncovered it. And and we we know this, this is not a hard lesson. We have sadly heard of many pastors or leaders or well-known preachers who had a great public image while living in a private hidden life that contradicted their public life and for a time it seemed like they were very influential and everything was going great, but God in his providence brought things to light. He exposed secret sin. But Sedgwick also says it will be revealed at the judgment. And Ecclesiastes 12, 14, for God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing. There will be no hidden sin on that day. That is to say, any sin that is not been taken care of by the blood of Christ, by the forgiveness of Christ, will be exposed. And Cedric warns very clearly here. What is now acted in secret shall one day be proclaimed openly. The very sins that no one else knew will be brought into the light of God's holy presence. And then another thing he mentions is that it results in spiritual death if unchecked. If unchecked, that secret sin will eventually result in spiritual death. Sin is never harmless. It is never neutral. And it is never content to remain small. You might reason and say, oh, it's just a small stand. It won't remain small. It won't stay small. A child in the womb doesn't stay small. It grows. And that's the path of sin. And what it'll do for us is it'll be the it'll bring in our life this kind of damage, the loss of fellowship. The first thing sin secret sin has done it secret sin does, excuse me, is break your communion with God. You can still attend church, you can still sing hymns, you can do all the outward things, but there's something gone in you, inwardly, there's a sweetness that's gone, a fellowship that's gone, a nearness that's gone, because sin always creates that loss of fellowship. Secret sin also brings a loss of secure of assurance. There comes uncertainty where there was once perhaps a confidence of your assurance and salvation. Secret sin destroys all of that assurance and all that confidence. Sedgwick observes this. He says, secret sin darkens the evidence of grace. And you begin to question, Am I right with God? Is my faith real? And that's not because God has changed, but because sin has clouded your Saiyan has caused you to walk in darkness and it brings barrenness and no fruit. And prayer feels empty. But ultimately, again, it brings death, as we said before. But let me give you the last thing here, the cure for secret sin, how to overcome it. And this is where Sedgwick gives some suggestions. What do we do about it? Because it's not enough to see it, it's not enough to know it. What do we do about it? We have to deal with it. And in his book, Sedgwick doesn't just expose secret sin, but he prescribes how we overcome it. And one of the things that he really hammers on is cultivate a sense of God's presence. Remember that, and I think that we don't think about that enough. Live every moment of your life knowing and understanding that you're living in the presence of God. And this is what some theologians will refer to as quorum deo. Deo is the Latin for God and quorum in the presence of or before the face of. Everything that we do is before the face of God. This is one of the most simple yet most powerful truths that we can really hold on to in the Christian life and that God everything that we do everywhere we are we're in the presence of Almighty God and we have to cultivate that kind of thinking And Sedgwick presses this, he says, the sense of God's all-seeing eye is a strong preservative against sin. God sees me not just in public, not just in church, but he sees me in the secret places. And if a man will truly live with that awareness that God sees everything, it will restrain him from Much sin. But then he also says this, practice serious self-examination. Constantly examine your heart. Don't live superficially as a Christian. Scripture commands this kind of inward work. What did Paul say to the Corinthians? Examine yourself to see that you are in the faith. Examine yourself, not others. We're good at examining others. I don't know about that guy over there Well, the Bible says, examine yourself to see whether you are in the faith. Ask yourself, what do I love in secret? Satrix says, think about this. What do I think about when no one is around? What do I excuse that God condemns? Because what is hidden is often what is most dangerous. And he says if a man never examines his heart Never searches his heart. He will overlook sin. He will excuse sin, and he will continue in sin all the while thinking he's doing fine. Well, actually he's living in danger there. So don't live on the surface. Examine yourself. And there's many much scripture about this. But let me move on here. Bring sin into the light. He says, stop hiding. Sin lives in the dark. Sin like fungus grows in the dark. But when it's exposed to light, it's killed. And again, sin's instinct is to cover, but it has to be exposed. We have to bring it to light. And this is why the psalmist praised in um Psalm 139, when he says, Search me, O God, search me and know my heart. Bring it to the light of God's holiness before the presence of God. Ask God to manifest it and reveal it, reveal it, and bring it to light and see it for what it is and confess it before the Lord The Bible says again in the book of Proverbs, he that covers his sins shall not prosper, but whoso confesses and forsakes them shall have mercy. That is, don't conceal it, confess it openly to God. And kill that sin. But then and that's the next thing, mortify sin early. And mortification is the idea of killing sin, uh weakening it in you. Um That thought, you're that mortify it, kill it when it's in the thought stage. When it's the desire stage. Don't let it stay. When it comes, immediately deal with it. Bring scripture to it. Expose it before Scripture and kill it immediately. Don't let it grow. Again, James shows us the progression that when lust has conceived, so don't let that lust stay in your heart. Sedgwick uses a lot of metaphors. He said it begins as a spark, a thought, a desire, a moment entertain. And if it's not dealt with there, it will grow. And then the other thing he says is rest in Christ. Rest in Christ. And what he does here, Sedgwick, which I think is wonderful, he ultimately points beyond self-effort In other words, there is a danger. You know, we may think in dealing with secret sin that if I just try harder, I'm dealing with this, but I have to try harder and I or I need more discipline. Or I need more resolve. And Sedgwick warns, he says, that is not the gospel. True victory comes through grace. It comes through the cross. It comes through the work of Christ. Victory over sin is not something that you manufacture from yourself. It is something that God gives. And so he points to the cross of Christ. You see, the problem with self-effort is he says you can fight sin, you can resist temptation, you can make resolutions, but if you're relying on yourself, you will eventually fail. Because the same heart that produces sin cannot ultimately cure itself. So we can't depend upon our own strength in this. We saw that this morning, right, Peter? in the Garden of Gethsemane, taking a nap rather than praying for protection to overcome sin when it comes. We have to depend upon Christ. We have to go to Him. Our sufficiency is not in ourselves. Our sufficiency is in Jesus Christ. And we run to Him. And so this is his argument that he uses, Sedgwick. He emphasizes that God grace does not excuse sin, but it enables the soul to overcome it. The cross and Jesus Christ gives us the power to overcome that sin. So what do we do? when we were dealing with sin. And really, I end this sermon tonight, much like I ended the sermon this morning, run to Christ. Run to Christ. Run to Christ with your sin. Run to Him with your weakness. Run to Him with your failure. And you know what you'll find? You'll find mercy. He'll pardon you, and he will give you grace to help. So it's not just you trying harder, it's you coming to Christ. So let me ask you this question in closing. Who are you when no one else sees you? What you are in secret before Almighty God, that is what you are and nothing more. So what are you before God? Let's let's bow for prayer together And just take a moment here right now and just examine your own heart before the Lord And I know that you're here tonight because you want to hear God's word and you want to grow in your spiritual life. You want to grow in Christ-likeness. And all of us are in this battle. against our own sin and the flesh and the world. And that's that's really the the barriers to our Christlieness that we so desperately want. And just ask God to search your heart even now. And ask God to bring delight if there's something in you. That you need to deal with before him. Don't leave this message tonight unchanged. Do not leave with hidden sins. Still hidden. Let God's word do its work. Let God search you Let God expose what needs to be exposed. And when He does, just run to Christ. Run to Christ. Who is a source of mercy and forgiveness and help. Father, thank you again for your word. Thank you for the grace that you give us, Lord. In this process of Trying to become more like Christ, how we thank you for the work of your word and the work of the Spirit to help us deal with sin in our life. And Lord, may we live a life In your presence, quorum deo, before your face, seeking, Lord, to please you in every moment of our life. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name.