Can you take your Bible, please? Open to the book of Isaiah tonight. Isaiah chapter five. And uh we'll just talk a little bit tonight from Isaiah 5 and some from chapter 6. We'll kind of get a bird's eye view of some things here. It's hard to believe that uh the 4th of July is on us, right? Coming this weekend. And um of course we celebrate our nation. And as we think about these things, well as I think about our country, I can't help but be burdened. And I know that you are too. And I don't want to be pessimistic tonight. I don't want to be negative. I want us to honestly leave here with a burden to really pray and intercede on behalf of our country. To intercede for our leaders and for churches. And so I just want to show you some things here in Isaiah 5. And this is about Israel, but I see parallels in the life of Israel with America. So look in Isaiah 5, verse 1. Now will I sing to my well-beloved a song of my beloved, touching his vineyard. My well-beloved hath a vineyard and a very fruitful hill. And he fenced it and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted it with a choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and also made a wine press therein. And he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes. And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge, I pray you betwixt me and my vineyard. What could have been done more to my vineyard that I have not done in it? Wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grace, brought it forth wild grapes. Now, Isaiah 5 is a sad song that is being sung. Some people call this a funeral dirge. Or we could say a lamentation. It is a song of a nation that is under the judgment of God. And of course, this all refers to the nation of Israel. And what I want you to see in the in these chapters is the striking parallel to our own nation. They're very evident. When we see what God has done for Israel, and then we think about what God has done for America, and then we see God's punishment on Israel, and then we see some of the things happening happening in our country. Sometimes people ask me, is God judging America? Well when I look at passages like this, I basically say, you know, if God judged Israel, what makes us think that we're going to get a pass? If we don't obey the Lord. And so I want us to see just the several parts to this song, this funeral dirge, you could call it, this lamentation. If you're taking notes, just write down number one the planning The planting. In verse 1, again, in the latter part of verse 1, my well-beloved hath a vineyard and a very fruitful hill. And the well-beloved here in this verse is God. And he has a vineyard and a very fruitful hill. God is the well-beloved. The vineyard, of course, represents Israel. Many times in the Old Testament, Israel is called a vine. Or symbolized by a vine in Jeremiah 2, 21. Yet I planted thee a noble vine, the Bible says. In Psalm 80, verse 8, thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt, thou hast cast out the heathen and planted it. And we know this is Israel because look at verse 7. For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel. And so this vine then speaks about Israel. God planted Israel in a very fruitful hill. God did great things by bringing Israel out of Egypt. We all know about that. We know about his great miracles, his delivering power that planted Israel in the land of Canaan. God is basically saying, I put this nation in a very fruitful hill, in a very great place. I did it with my great miracles in my strong hand. We could say the same thing about our country, couldn't we? Has God blessed us? Has he, with his strong hand, his providential hand, made America what she was? And we think about the beginning of our nation, we think about how God providentially made this country what it was. I want to say what it is, but it seems like we're losing that. America could have begun as a Muslim nation. Did you know many centuries before Christopher Columbus uh sailed to see what was on this side of the Atlantic? The Muslims sent out a fleet to discover the other side of the Atlantic Ocean. History tells us that they sailed through the gates of Gibraltar out into the Atlantic Ocean. They were on their way to found and colonize America, but a great storm arose. far beyond the Straits of Gibraltar, and the entire Muslim fleet sank into the depths of the sea. Because it was not God's providential will that this nation be under the religion of Islam. Now I know that's controversial, and so be it. But that was not the Lord's will from the beginning. America could have had been could have been a French nation. But that was not God's will there in 1606, 14 years before the pilgrims landed. The French made an attempt to colonize New England. They sent out uh ships under the leadership of Des Mont and they made three attempts And on the first two, they were turned back by great winds. On the third attempt to approach the treacherous shoals of Cape Cod, the ships sank and Dimas was killed. It was not God's providential will that America be like uh have the religion that the French had and and be founded upon those kind of principles. We often read about Columbus How did he discover America? Well really he d he landed at San Salvador. Uh history tells us that his ships were headed to the Carolinas. And there was a mutiny on board because, you know, of course back then they felt if you sailed too long, you know, you could be in danger. And uh the the sailors thought they saw land and the mutiny was averted, but what they saw was actually a cloud bank. But a few days later, mutiny was threatened again. The first mutiny they turned the ship southwest to what they thought was land. The second time there was a mutiny that was threatening, some birds flew over, headed southwest, and they adjusted again. The first they were headed to Florida, but they adjusted southwest and they landed in what we now know as San Salvador. And uh had Columbus landed in this part of the continent a continent, we would have had the same religion as that of South and Central America, but that was not God's providential hand. And I don't want to give you a history lesson today. You all know it. And uh, you know, you probably already feel like you're in Dr. Harmon's history class as it is But when God sent the pilgrims to come to America, they landed the only place on the eastern coast they could have landed and survived. And they landed and found that the Indians, a tribe of Indians that surely would have killed them had just died, leaving a storehouse of corn to get them through that first winter. They also happened to see or meet an Indian who spoke English. who had been a slave, taken as a slave over to um Great Britain. And serving there years, learning the English ways, he finally made his way back. on a ship to Canada, made his way down the coast to find his tribe that all died out of a plague, and they looked up to see the sails of the ma the Mayflower and the pilgrims coming on shore, and he happened to be there to show them how they could survive. You think all that's an accident? Of course not at all. God, it was all the hand of God. When the Puritans came to settle here in America, one historian writes this, in New England the Puritans compared themselves to the ancient Israelites. They called Boston the Jerusalem of this land. They called themselves Christian Israel. They called England the land of Egypt. King James was Pharaoh. The Atlantic Ocean was the Red Sea, America was the new Canaan, the Promised Land, the Indians were the Amalekites in the Philistines And that's and they gave biblical names to their towns and to their people. I say all that to say that when God s began this country as we know it Despite what you might hear by uh revisionist historians and redactors, America was founded as a Christian nation on Christian principles. And again, I know that's controversial, but so be it. Just look at history. Don't believe me. Do your own research Study yourself, and you'll find out that this was founded as a Christian nation. God planted us This country in a fruitful place. It was his providential hand that guided this country to be what it was from the very beginning. But then notice not only the planting, but I want you to see another parallel, the protection. Look in verse two. And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it. And he also made a wine press therein. And he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes. Here's the protection. You know what God did for Israel? When God put them and planted them in that choice place? He built walls of protection around that nation. You say, what were those laws? What did this represent? This represents God's law, God's word, God's moral law. Those strange laws that other nations would look at and see in Israel. But those were for their protection. And then it says they built a tower to watch over the mine. Some people see this as, you know, God watching over Israel, and that could certainly be true. That's what God was doing, watching over, protecting Israel He built a tower. That's what a uh a farmer would do when he put planted a vineyard. He would put a tower in there and someone would be in there and constantly watching over that vineyard for predators and enemies to keep it safe. But then there was also a wine press He mentions in verse number two. And also made a winepress therein. The wine press could speak about the sacrifices in the temple, but I think a better way to see this was the anticipation of the fruit, the grapes that were produced what? Good wine. God was looking for a return. He was looking for a harvest to produce wine. And so all of this speaks about God's protection, God watching over Israel from the very beginning God said in Deuteronomy twenty one, When thou goest out to battle against thine enemies, and sees horses and chariots and a people more than thou, be not afraid of them, for the Lord thy God is with thee, which bringeth thee up out of the land of Egypt, God said, don't worry about the might, the military might of those enemies. You just remember that I am with you. You might not have the same weapons they have, but you got me. And I will protect you. That's why God would give a command in Deuteronomy 17, 6, commanding the future kings of Israel not to multiply horses unto themselves. Why? Because horses were military weapons in those days, and God wanted Israel to trust in him ultimately for their protection. That's why the Bible says later on in Psalm 27, some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we will remember the name of the Lord our God. We're going to put our trust in the Lord. Now God was not saying it was wrong to have a military, and he was not saying it was wrong to have weapons. He was just saying don't get into an arms race And don't think that that's the thing that ultimately is going to protect you. What's going to protect you is depending on me, looking to me. Instead of your military. Isaiah 31. 1. Woe to them to go to Egypt for help. And stay, or that is trust on horses, and trust in chariots, because they are many. Because they are strong, but they look not unto the Holy One of Israel, neither seek the Lord God said, woe to Israel, if you begin putting faith and confidence and military might instead of me, woe to you. And you remember that God punished David for numbering the people. You say, what's the big deal there? He was numbering his military strength. And that was pride. And it angered the Lord. You know Israel, three times a year, all the fighting men had to go up to Jerusalem to worship. Think about what that means. They leave their posts. Every male. No one to guard the borders. No one in the towers. No army on guard. They all had to drop what they were doing and go and worship God. Now that's a very vulnerable time when there's nobody on guard and they're all in church. But you know what God said? God said, listen, in this Exodus 34, 24, for I will cast out nations before you and enlarge your borders, and no one shall cover your land when you go up to appear before the Lord your God three times in the year. God said, listen, when that happens, don't worry. When all the men leave their posts and everyone comes to worship, don't worry about an enemy. coveting your land and invading you. In fact what'll happen is I'll expand your borders. Don't worry about that, God says, because I've got your back. I'll be the one doing the watching there. God was a mighty warrior that kept them safe. Israel didn't need a CIA. They didn't need military intelligence. They didn't need satellite photography. They didn't need drones. They had God. They had prophets. There's a funny story in 2 Kings. The king of Assyria was making his battle plans, and he found out that Israel already knew all about it. So he calls his military and says, which one of you is a spy for Israel? And one of the generals said, None, my lord, O king, but Elijah, the prophet that's in Israel, tells the king of Israel the words that thou speakest in thy bedchamber. He said, listen, the words that you say in secret, Elijah tells them to the king. Well how does Elijah find out about it? Well God tells him. God listens. He hears you, tells the plans of Elijah. Elijah tells them to the king. God was their defense. You say, why do you bring all that up? Because in the early days of our country, do you realize that when we fought for the war of independence in our country, that that literally you had farmers Men who didn't have military experience, and they were going against the most well-trained, disciplined army in the world. They were going against the might of the British Empire, a bunch of farmers with pitchforks And General Washington assumed command of these frontiersmen. They had hunting rifles and they had things like that, but they were not trained military men. So how did America win that? Because I believe it was through prayer. I believe that, thank God, General Washington, George Washington, was a praying man. And again, I know that, you know, you'll hear historians talk say he was a deist. You know, and a deist is someone who just believes you know God is out of touch. He created things like and threw it out through creation out there in space and then let it go and he's out of touch. And you know that's what some of our forefathers were. Some of them may have been. But friend, if you read some of the prayers of Washington, you'll be convinced that he was a believer and he trusted and he depended upon God. And this is what he said No people can be bound to acknowledge and adore the invisible hand which conducts the affairs of men more than those of the United States. He trusted in the Lord. It was through prayer. Let me just say this. A House Judiciary Committee reported on March 27, 1854. This is uh brought this was a a report that they gave after someone brought a suit to force The separation of church and state. And this was the result of this Judiciary Committee. This is what they reported. Quote, it cannot be emphasized too strongly or too often that this great nation was founded not by religionists. But by Christians, not on religions, but on the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's a quote from them. And so God protected us from the very beginning. You know why? Because Americans then were trusting, were praying, we're looking to the Lord, and God honored that. So we see the planting, we see the protecting, but I want you to see number three the pity. The pity. Look at again in verse number two. Look at the latter part. And he looked that it should bring forth grapes. God planted this this vine, he built all this, moved out the stones, put a wine press in, put in a fruitful hill, put in a fence. He wanted it to bring forth fruit, and it says, and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild. grapes. The word look here means to wait patiently, expectantly, with hope, with anticipation. And he was looking for fruit, but it brought forth Boshim, wild, stinking, worthless. Rotten grapes. Good for nothing. After all that was done for the vine After everything that this vineyard, this is the line dresser did, after this huge investment, he expected a return. And there was no return. He got wild, stinking grapes. Look at verse 7. It kind of explains this. It says, For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plan. And he looked for judgment. But behold oppression. And for righteousness, but behold a cry. And really what the writer is doing here is in a very poetic way. He's kind of doing a play on words in the Hebrew. He looked for Mishpat. judgment. But behold, bloodshed, Mishpach. He looked for righteousness. Zadeka. But instead of oppression, zaika instead. Rhyming words is kind of a play on words. And what he's doing is he's lamenting I wanted a good return. I wanted justice. I wanted righteousness. But instead, I got the opposite. I got bloodshed. I got oppression. Exact opposite. Look at verse 4. God's lamenting, what could have done been done more to my vineyard that I had not done in it, wherefore when I looked at it should bring forth grace, be brought it forth wild grapes. And the answer to that question is, what more could God have done? Nothing. He did everything he could. And again, he's talking here in these verses about Israel. But again, I I see a parallel, I can't help but see it. What else could God have done for our country that He didn't already do? What else, what other blessings can He give that He hasn't already given? America has been the most blessed nation on the face of the earth in all of history. No nation has been as blessed as us. America was 7% of the world's land area, about 10% of its population, accounts for one-third of the world's production of goods and services. Its farmlands produce 13% of the world's wheat, 46% of the corn, 21% of its meat. Its factories produce goods almost equal to the size uh combined output of the USSR and Western Europe. The auto factories, their output of over 12 million passenger cars a year is 41% of the output of the whole world. God has blessed America with vast resources, with scientific advancement, with riches. If you don't believe how blessed we are, just take take some time and go to another country. If you've ever been to another country, especially go to a second or third world country and see how people live there. And then you'll see. You'll see the difference. I've been to those places. I'm telling you, friend, God has blessed America more than any other nation. And so we have the finest hospitals, we have the finest scientists, we've had some of the greatest medical breakthroughs. And how has America returned the blessings that God has given us? What has this country done in return? You know what we have done in the last two years? We basically, as a nation, as a country, have tried to kick God out of our life. We've kicked God out of public places. We've kicked out out of the school system. Congress now, it seems like enacts legislation that's designed to isolate people from God in their life. We've legislated God out. The school systems, you can't pray without someone coming down on you. And yet it's okay to teach the blasphemous lie of evolution. That's the return. What is it? Staking fruit. Wild grapes, good for nothing. God said, I looked for righteousness, and instead I found oppression. And by the way, down in verses 8, from verse 8 on down to verse 25, what Isaiah does is he begins to list one thing after another some of the stinking fruit. That was happening in the nation of Israel. And we'll just touch on these. What he basically gives are six woes. Look at verse number 11. Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning that they may follow strong drink. Verse 12, woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and then so on. In verse 18 and verse 20, verse 21, verse 22, he gives one woe after another. And he's mentioning some of these things, some of these rotten fruits. And again, it's remarkable to me how they parallel our time. You say, what are they? Let me just go through them real quickly with you. First of all, selfish materialism. Look in chapter five, look in verse eight. Woe unto them that join house to house, that lay field to field till there be no place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of the earth. What's he talking about here? Isaiah is describing the insatiable greed of landowners who oppress others to increase their riches. They accumulate more and more, and it's never enough. And they oppress the poor. You say, how do they do that? By lending back to them at exorbitant rates. And Amos cried against this. And Micah cried against this and Hosea cried out against this. Wealthy men ruthlessly acquiring property and squeezing out the poor and the helpless by making them buy houses and jacking up the interest rate and pulling money out of them. It's just ungodly greed. Is what was happening. By the way, this is illustrated in the Old Testament in the life of King Ahab. He has a king, as a king, he had everything he could want, but he wanted Naboth's vineyard, this poor man's vineyard. And when he wouldn't sell it to him, he killed him So he can get it. And God never intended people to stockpile and stockpile and stockpile. That's why in the Old Testament there's the Sabbath rest. of the land every seven years. That's why there's the 50th year of Jubilee. When everything is returned back to its original owner. Why? Because God didn't want people getting greedy and just continuing to stockpile things and hoard things. He was against that kind of greed. And by the way, we're seeing the same thing in our country today. You know why our nation has gone through the financial crisis, the housing crisis that it has gone through? It's because of the greed of people, that's why. You could boil it all down to this one thing. You have these banks giving out these predatory loans that they can get richer and then jack up the interest rate on people that can't afford it. What is it? It's nothing but just greed. It's greed. Selfish materialism. But then there's another thing, there's sinful merriment. Look in chapter 5, verse 11. Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may follow strong drink. That continue until night, till wine inflame them. Apparently in Israel there was a problem of drunkenness in Isaiah's day. He said this he mentioned this sin twice. He mentions it here in verse 11. He mentions it down in verse 22. Woe unto them that are mighty to drink wine and men of strength to mingle strong drink So there was a problem of drunkenness. And by the way, that's the same thing we could say in our country. In America today, America is a nation of addicts. America has only five percent of the world population, but consumes sixty percent of all illegal drugs produced in the world. There are 47 million school-aged kids in America. Currently, 27 million of them use drugs and alcohol every year. And here Isaiah says about these people, they're so addicted to wine, when they get up in the morning, they gotta begin the whole morning by drinking. And they can't function through the day unless they have a drink. Even until the evening they can't function And verse twelve, and the harp and the vial and the tavern and pipe and wine are in their feasts, that is, they sought constantly to be entertained and enjoyed the music of their banquets But they cared nothing for the work of the Lord or nothing of the operation of his hands, verse twelve. And I think this refers to unthankfulness for what God has given them. They became selfish. And self-indulgent. In verse 13, God says he's going to take them away into captivity. And when death comes, it has no rank or social standing. Verse 14, God's speaking about the judgment that is going to come In verse 16, but the Lord of hosts shall be exalted in judgment. When God says, When I judge Israel for these sins, my holiness will be exalted for the sins of this nation. And so we see the same thing. Friend, God is a holy God. He's not to be trifled with, and you can rest assured that he will judge sin. He just will. He's holy. Selfish materialism, sinful merriment, skeptical mockery. Look at verse 18. Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity and sin as it were with a card rope. And then this is vivid imagery here. It simply pictures the sinner as a beast of burden attached to a cart, and this beast of burden is hauling around a wagon load of iniquity. He's pulling it around with him. Here's a sinner and he's pulling around this this filthy burden, dragging it with him. He's making great efforts to sin against God, pulling around this wagon load And then in verse 19, he wants to see what God will do. They say, Let him make speed and hasten his work that we may see it, and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and come that we may know it. Let's see what God's going to do. Let's just do this and we'll sin with a high hand and we'll see if God does anything about it. So they're mocking God. They're irreverently mocking God's character, mocking his name. And again, friend, I hate to say it, but God's name is not honored today in our country. It's not. Some want to take God's name off all the monuments. They want it off the money. They want to take in God We Trust off of everything. We don't want to acknowledge God as the creator, the great God, skeptical mockery, and then self-determined morals. Look in verse 20. Woe unto them that call evil good and good evil, that put darkness for light and light for darkness, that put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. You know what this is? This is making up your own moral standards, or immoral standards. You see, when you cast God out of your thinking, you have no fixed standard. You have no objective truth. And what's happened is moral relativism has spread all over the country. Everyone does what they think is right. They all have their own standard, and now in America we call evil good and good evil. Because we no longer, first of all, people don't no longer believe this is the authority of God here. And if you cast this out, you have no standard. Every man one man's opinion is just as good as another. And you have no final authority, you have no moral compass, and when that happens, then everything's adrift. And everybody does whatever they want to do. And abominations that are committed in society today are all acceptable now because people have no moral standard. A recent Barna survey kind of illustrates this. Barna asks this question to Americans, is there absolute truth 66% of American adults responded that they believed that, quote, there is no such thing as absolute truth. Different people can define truth in conflicting ways and still be correct. 66%. The figure rises to 72% when you ask people from the ages of 18 to 25 if there's any moral or absolute truth. And they say no. Self-determined morals, and then superior mentality. Look at verse 21. Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes. And prudent in their own sight. Since you're the one who's the judge now, you become wise in your own eyes. You set your own, your wisdom above everyone else's And this is an arrogant attitude. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Everyone thinks they have the answer. If I hear another expert on TV giving their opinion Everybody thinks they know the answer. I'm still waiting for some statesman to say what we need to do as a country is to get on our knees. And repent before a holy God and ask for his favor. I just pray for someone to do that. I just pray for some leader to say, God is the one who has the answer. We don't have the answers. But God does. So let me give you the last thing. The punishment. Look in verse uh verse five. And now go to. I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be eaten up. And break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down, and I will lay it waste, and it shall not be pruned nor dig, but there shall come up briars and thorns, and I will also command the clouds that they rain, no rain. Upon it. Here's God's punishment. What's God going to do to Israel? Because of this rotten fruit? Because of all this investment and all he got back was selfish materialism and sinful merriment and skeptical mockery and self-determined morals and superior mentality. And God says, well here's what I'm going to do then. Since I've got this stinking return, God says, I'm just going to take away the hedge Remember he built a uh us a wall around it to protect it. God says, I'm I'm just gonna take that take away the edge. It's not going to rain on it. I will not prune this this vine. I will not pour rain upon it This vine will be open. This vine will be exposed to whatever enemy wants to come in and consume it. And what you see in this judgment really is God says, I'm going to judge this nation two ways. First of all, financially, I'm not going to pour rain on this. And by the way, if you don't have rain, you can't produce a harvest and crops. If you don't have harvests and crops, you have a drought. If you have a drought, you have a financial depression. God says, I'm not going to bless this nation. And then secondly, militarily, if the enemy comes in and consumes it, that's a military judgment. And what I notice in the Old Testament all the time is that when God judges a nation, he always does it those two ways. First, financially, and if that doesn't get their attention, then he rises he r raises up an enemy against that nation to humble that nation. And that's what he did to Israel. God said, I'm going to remove the hedge and I'm going to let all of this come in. And that's again, I see the same kind of judgment in our own country. You know, when God begins to judge, there are several stages. First of all, he convicts a sin, and then he sends warnings. You know, w you know, if you're if you're not living for the Lord, he's going to convict you. Then he's going to warn you maybe through the Word of God or through a friend or through preaching. And then He's going to send remedial judgments, little judgments designed to get your attention and call you back And if that doesn't work, then he's going to withdraw his presence from you. And then after that, he's going to take away the hedge. And all kind of bad things can come in and happen. And I want to tell you, since 1963, when the Supreme Court ruled God out of the school system, when they said that no more by-worthy and no more prayer, you know what's happened to America since then? It's gone straight downhill from there. Straight downhill. And I don't have the time to read you all the stats. I don't need to read you the stats. You know that. Look at verse 26 what God said. And he will lift up as an ensign to the nations from afar. And he will hiss unto them from the end of the earth, and behold, they shall come with spe with s speed swiftly, and none shall weary nor stumble among them, none shall slumber nor sleep, neither shall the girdle of their loins be loose, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken. The Bible says God's going to raise up an advertising sign saying, Come over here. Here, here's here's a here's a nation for you that you can pray upon, and he's going to whistle to them. Hey Come over here. And Isaiah says that army is going to run there swiftly and speedily, and not one shoelace is going to be untied of the soldiers of those armies. They're going to come in And they're going to devastate Judah. And of course you know the history of Israel. That's exactly what happened there. And you know, again, I I can't help but see the parallels. We we now live in fear because of terrorism. You know how ISIS can be defeated? The first thing that needs to happen in our country is America needs to humble herself and pray and seek the face of God. That's the first step. If you want to defeat an enemy, go back to God and depend upon God once again And cry out to the Lord for His help and for His protection. That's the very first thing that we need to do as a country. And I realize that ISIS is attacking more than just Americans. But I want you to know that we're their primary target. America is their primary target. They say, boy, thank you for this uplifting sermon tonight, Dr. Harmon. I'm so blessed by all this. Well I don't want to leave you on a negative note, but look, you know, the Bible you know I don't just get up and just try to you know shoot sunshine and joy. I I say what God says And this is God's word. And sometimes we have to be warned. And sometimes we have to be challenged. And sometimes we have to be knocked out of our apathy. And we need to get on our knees and pray and seek God. And sometimes it takes a warning like this to get our attention. But now I don't want to end on a negative note, I want to end on a positive note Because really when you get to chapter 6, you kind of see a response to this. You get Isaiah in chapter 6, verse 1, and he goes into the temple, and what does he see? He sees God high and lifted up on his throne You know what, don't get the idea that God's not in control. He is in control. He is on his throne. And by the way, it was says in chapter 6, verse 1, in the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord. You see, Isaiah couldn't depend upon any human political figure to help Israel out of the mess because man is useless to help That nation, any nation out of a mess. And if you're looking to the next political figure to help out America, you're looking in the wrong spot. He said, oh my candidate did not get in there. Good. Maybe you'll start to pray and seek God. Isaiah went to the temple when Uzziah died. He got his eyes off of any earthly political king, and he put his eyes on the king of kings. He saw God high and lifted up You know what this tells me? God has not abdicated his throne. He is still on his throne. And he sees a holy God. He recognizes that God is holy. Therefore, he's doing what is right. Sometimes the best way to to bring revival is to first bring remedial judgment. God always does what is right. He's too holy to do anything wrong. And this is what Isaiah sees. He sees God high and lifted up. He sees the angels in chapter 6, verse 1 crying out, holy, holy, holy Is the Lord God Almighty? And here's the thing I want you to see, beloved. Your view of God determines how you think and how you live. How you live your life, if you understand that God is sovereign and that he's holy, you know that he's on the throne. And this will have a profound effect on your whole life. First of all, see God is holy. And then you know what Isaiah does? He recognizes his need for repentance. Look in verse 5. Here's the next woe in this series of woes. Then said I, Woe is me, for my eye am undone, I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. So here's the thing that we need to do, like Isaiah did. The next woe that we need to be concerned about is our own life That we're living the way we should. Isaiah said, Woe is me. You know, he was saying, I need to repent. I need to get my heart right. And let me tell you that if we want to cure America's ills, it starts with us We have to say, woe is me. I need to get my heart right. I need to do what's right before a holy God. I need to repent of my sins and turn to the Lord with all my heart. And so that's what Isaiah does. And then notice the next thing here. Look at verse 8. And I heard a voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? And he said, Here am I, send me. And he said, Go and tell this people, hear ye, but understand not, and see ye indeed, but perceive not And so here Isaiah says, Lord, I'll go. And the Lord says, Then go. How long, Lord? Verse eleven, then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities be wasted without inhabitants, and the houses without man and land be uh and the land be utterly desolate and so on. You know what? He says to Isaiah, Isaiah says, I'll go, Lord. And the Lord says, Go. Take my word. How long, Lord? You just keep preaching until there's nobody left. You keep standing on truth until there's nobody left. Now I'll be honest with you, I don't know what God's going to do to our country. I don't know what is going to happen in the future, but I know this. What God wants from us is he wants us to see him as holy, see him as sovereign. Be willing to be his servant, stand for truth, and keep speaking truth. You say, how long? Until no one else is left. God might judge this country or he might bring revival, but you know what? It doesn't really matter. We need to stand for truth regardless. It doesn't matter what the polls say. It doesn't matter what's popular in the eyes of the world. We need to stand on God's truth regardless. We need to do what's right before God and pray for God to send revival. Who knows what the Lord might do on our behalf? Let's bow for prayer tonight. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I what I would like for you to do tonight as we end this service is I would like for you to spend some time right there where you are. I would like every person here tonight To pray. You know, in a few days we're gonna go out and we're gonna have a cookout with our family and friends. We're gonna have hot dogs and hamburgers and we're gonna wave the flag and all that. And that's all good and fine. That's all fun But I want to tell you something, friend. We need to really pray for our country. We need to get serious about it. And so what I'd like for you, I'd like to challenge you tonight So right there we are, be an intercessor right now. Right there where you are. You know the Bible says that we need intercessors. We need people that'll stand in the gap. We need people like Daniel. Daniel prayed and confessed the sins of the nation. He was an intercessor. Nehemiah did the same thing. He confessed the sins of his nation and asked God for mercy. And Moses was a great intercessor on behalf of Israel. And Samuel the prophet. And this is what we need in our country today. We need Christians who will be intercessors and intercede on behalf of our country. And I would ask you to do that. I would ask you to ask God to be merciful to us for our sins. First of all, search your own heart and ask God to cleanse you of your own wrongs and failings. We all have them. We all need to do that. And then, secondly, confess the sins of our nation before a holy God and ask God for mercy. And then I want you to pray and ask God to bring revival to our country. Would you do that? In fact, just take a few minutes here. We're not gonna rush. I want you to make your place a place of intercession. And then I'm going to be silent. I'm going to let you pray. And then I'm going to close and I'm going to turn it over to Brother Earl. He'll lead us in a song. But just take a minute and pray. Oh Father, we do come into your presence. We acknowledge that you are indeed a holy God, a God of truth. And Lord, we thank and praise you for all of your blessings. You've poured out blessing after blessing upon us. Forgive us for our ingratitude. Forgive us, Lord, for thinking lightly of the blessings you have given us. Lord, forgive our nation for turning away from you. I think about the murder of the innocent and injustice and all these things, Lord, that provoke your holy anger. Father, we pray for mercy. We pray, Lord, that you'll make your church strong. Make us what we ought to be, what you've designed for us to be, the pillar and the ground of the truth. And may we shine as lights in a dark world. And Lord, we know that man does not have the answer. He just does not have the answer. Man is weak. Political agendas are weak. We don't look to any of that. We're grateful for government. You ordained it, but Lord, we know. That you're the only one that can bring healing to our land. So Lord, we look to you. We pray for revival in our country. We pray for all of our leaders that you would grant them true wisdom, heavenly wisdom, to turn to you in righteousness and in truth. And Father, as we celebrate what you've done in our nation, Lord, let us truly, Lord, enjoy the blessings you've given us. But Lord, help us not to forget. Lord, that we need your hand of mercy upon us. And so, Father, again, we thank you and we praise you for all that you have done. Bless all those who are here tonight. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.