If you will, please take your Bibles open to the book of Genesis, chapter sixteen. And this morning I want to speak about the God who sees and from Genesis chapter sixteen. While you're finding that, again, this is a very special day, and today we celebrate mothers and it's a time when we reflect on their incredible service and love and diligence and devotion to us. Someone said that um the hand that rocks the cradle is usually attached to someone who isn't getting enough sleep. And that's normally true. Now, about this time of year when we have Mother's Day, we normally uh hear a lot from the scriptures of godly mothers. We uh um there's some mothers in the Bible that get a lot of attention. There's Mary, the mother of Jesus, and Hannah, the mother of Samuel, and Sarah, the mother of Isaac. And of course the mother of James and John. And then of course there's the Proverbs 31 woman. And these all get a lot of attention and rightly so. But I this morning want to focus on a mother that is often overlooked And yet we find some valuable lessons by looking at her life. I want us to look at the life of Hagar. She would represent mothers who persevere through very difficult circumstances, very difficult times. If you look at her life here in Genesis 16, she's a mom who's trapped in a system, as though, uh, and it's she feels as though perhaps that she is invisible. And she doesn't realize her greatest need until God meets her. So look at Genesis 16. Let's read some verses together. Hopefully you're following along with your Bible in verse number one of Genesis sixteen. Now Sarai, Abram's wife, bare him no children. And she had a handmaid, an Egyptian whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold, now the Lord has restrained me from bearing. I pray go in unto my maid, and it may be that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai, and Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar, her maid, the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife And he went unto Hagar and she conceived, and when she saw that she had conceived her mistress was despised in her eyes. And Sir I said to Abram, My wrong be upon thee I have given my maid into into thy bosom, and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes. And the Lord judge between me and thee. And Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thy hand, do to her as it pleases thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she fled from her face. And the angel of the Lord found her by a fountain in of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Sure. And he said, Hagar, Sarah's maid, whence comest thou? And whither wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai And the angel of the Lord said unto her, Return to thy mistress and submit thyself to her hands Now, looking at this passage, we can say that Hagar really can represent any one of us when we look at her life. First of all, she was a slave under a cruel master, just like us. We were before our salvation we were all slaves to sin and sin is always a cruel master. She was outside the blessings of the covenant She was not really a part of the blessing of the covenant of Abraham. That's the way we were before our salvation. The Bible says we were aliens and strangers from the commonwealth of Israel. She was a daughter of Ham, which meant that she was under a curse. And even so, all of us who before we knew the Lord, we were under the curse of sin, and because we were children of Adam And she was in a very difficult life situation. Think about it. She was forced to into a marriage, into a relationship that she did not want. And then she was abused And for all practical purposes, when you read this account, she's really a single mother. She was a concubine of Abram, that or Abraham, that is, uh kind of a second class wife And she was a surrogate mother for Abraham and Sarah. And she probably thought that nobody loved her. But the story of her life teaches us that God sees and God cares, especially about lonely mothers Especially about mothers who seem to be struggling in isolation. He is the God who sees. Now Hagar thought that she could solve all of her problems by running. And you know, we're much the same way. When problems come to us, we sometimes think that the best thing we can do is just run from them. That's kind of the nature of human nature. That goes all the way back to Adam. When Adam first sinned against the Lord, his initial spons response was to run from the Lord. And then of course you have the story of Cain who sinned by murdering his brother, and he became a fugitive all of his life running And man has been running from his problems ever since. But so often we when we run, we find that our problems are waiting for us at the next destination. And why is that? Because the Bible says that God uh that He captures what has been in the past. That is, uh He captures what we drive away and He brings it back to us. The problems that we run from they'll be waiting for us somewhere else. And that's because God doesn't want us to run from our problems. He wants us to learn from our problems. He wants us to grow to be able to handle them. But nevertheless, let's look at the life of Hagar here, and I want you to notice with me in this story three lessons for moms, or really it could apply to all of us, but specifically today we're talking about mothers. And here's the first lesson I want you to see. As a mother, you will face many difficulties that will make you want to run. Perhaps there are some out there right now saying, yeah, I know exactly what you're saying. I feel like running from some of the problems that I'm facing. And so really we think about the causes of running and why Hagar felt like it was time for her to run. And and first of all, it was because of her difficult circumstances. Remember the situation. She was a slave from Egypt. In fact, Abraham and Sarah got her when they sojourned in Egypt because there was a famine, and when they left Pharaoh gave Hagar to Abram as a gift. Being a slave was not an easy life for Hagar. And since Sarah couldn't have children, as we saw here in the passage, Hagar was given to Abram as a surrogate mother. So think about this. Here's a woman who is a slave who really has no say-so on what happens in her life. And part of the culture in the ancient Near East is if a woman could not have a child And and the family was well off where she could have a handmaid, she would give that handmaid to her husband, and that handmaid would act kind of as a surrogate mother And so now she's forced, Hagar is forced, to do something that perhaps she does not want to do. And uh she's in a situation that she doesn't want to be in. You can you relate to that? You ever been in a situation where you just don't want to be in that situation? You seem to have no control over your life. And so these difficult circumstances perhaps made her want to run away. But also it was a an abusive relationship. When when Hagar became a surrogate mother Things went downhill in and Sarah and Hagar's relationship. Sarah despises Hagar and the feeling was Look in verse number six again in your Bible. But Abraham said unto Sarah, Behold, thy handmaid is in thy hand, do to her as it pleases thee. And when Sarah dealt hardly with her, she fled It doesn't speak well of Abraham that he would say to Sarah, do with her whatever she wants, whatever you want. And then Sarah, it doesn't speak well of her because the Bible says she dealt harshly with Hagar. The Hebrew word here means to afflict. to oppress, to try to humiliate. By the way, this is the same word that is used of the Egyptian taskmasters and how they treated the Israelites when they were slaves. in Egypt. And so Sarah tried to make Hagar's life miserable. Have you ever had someone in your life like that? They just seem to be someone who wants to make you Miserable. They want to uh humiliate you. They want to oppress you. This world is filled with abusive people who want to make life miserable for others, and you're going to find them wherever you go. And so she was in this abusive relationship. That made her want to run. But also some of the problems that Hagar had, we could say that she brought on herself. If you look in verse number five where it says, And Sarah said to Abraham, My wrong be upon thee, I have given my made into thy bosom when she saw that I had conceived uh that she had conceived rather I was despised in her eyes And so when Hagar became Abram's concubine, it was a promotion really from being a common slave. It exalted her somewhat, and she began to gloat in the fact that she could have a child for Abraham. And and she took every opportunity to rub it into Sarah that she could have a child, and Sarah could not. And this provoked anger from Sarah, which provoked the mistreatment. And there's a sense in which Hagar, even though she was in a difficult situation, she was bringing some of these problems on herself by not acting wisely. You know, many of the problems that we run from are problems that we cause ourselves The Bible says in Proverbs 19:3, the foolishness of man perverts his way, and that his heart frets against the Lord. That is to say that we make our own mistakes with our own foolish behavior and decisions, and yet we seem to blame our problems on God or blame it on someone else. Saul is a great example of this. He disobeyed the word of the Lord. God rejected him. And then Saul lived the rest of his life blaming other people because of his predicament. It was foolish for Hagar to provoke Sarah This was a woman Sarah was already struggling emotionally. She was already feeling insecure. And now here was Hagar taking opportunities to provoke her. The Bible says the fear of a king is as a roaring of a lion, and whoso provoketh him to anger sinneth against his own soul. The king would represent anyone who's in authority over you. And the Bible says it's not wise to provoke those in authority over you to anger. We would say it like this you don't bite the hand that feeds you. And there's a sense in which Hagar was doing that. Ask yourself, am I experiencing problems in my life because of my own foolish actions? But then there was another thing I think she just she wanted to run because of the difficult circumstances, because of the abusive relationship. She wanted to run really, I think, to get relief from stress It's not specifically stated in the text, but we can deduce from knowing these circumstances that this was a very stressful situation. And we can relate because all of us are under pressure to some degree. All of us have some manner of stress on us. And so we have to understand that we will never really live in an environment that is stress free. In fact, I would say that God uses the pressure of life He uses stress as an instrument to refine us and to teach us to depend upon him. Stress can be a great character builder if we respond correctly. But the wrong way to respond to stress is simply to run away. God wants to use it to build our character. And so she wants to get out of this stressful situation. But I think another thing was homesickness. Look at verse number seven. Notice what it says. And the angel of the Lord found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness by The fountain in the way to Shure. I want you to see where it says that she was on her way to a place called Shore. And according to Genesis 25, 18 and 1 Samuel 15, 7, that was near the border of Egypt. So it's likely that she traveled from Abram's camp to Beersheba through Kadesh Barnea to the Bitter Lakes. And Sure is the name of the desert in northwest Sinai. And so it's next to Egypt. So she's on her way home. She's going home to her people. She's carrying a child with her. But she's traveling in this difficult wilderness and really she's almost there. Sometimes we think that the answer to our problems can be solved if we just go back home If we just go back to that place of supposed safety and security. And so I think she's experiencing homesickness. She wants to go home, go back to a place of safety. But running back home doesn't always solve your problems. In fact, it could make her problems worse. How would going back home help? Perhaps her family were slaves. How could they help her? But I think another reason that she runs is just simple rebellion As I read this passage about Hagor, I don't get the impression that she's kind of a meek and quiet personality with a submissive spirit And also you have to remember that in this culture, like it or not, she was a slave, she was the property of Abraham, and it was illegal for her to run Running for her was rebelling against all of the authority in her life. By the way, this is the reason why a lot of people run away, why teenagers run away, but not only teenagers, but adults Sometimes adults go from job to job because they have a problem just simply submitting to authority. They refuse to submit to their boss. They quit. They run from one job to another And that's why some people, by the way, go from place to place is because they simply don't want to submit. They don't want to be obedient. This is illustrated in the life of Jonah, who ran away because he was rebelling from God's call. So as a mother, there's going to be Times in your life when you face difficulties and challenges that are going to make you want to run. But the second lesson I see from this is this: running will not solve your problems. In fact, It might even make matters worse. Because as we look at the story of Hagar, we notice that her running away didn't solve any of her problems. And by the way, let me just say that there are times, however, in Scripture when we should run. Did you know that in the New Testament we are commanded at times to run? We're to run from temptation In 1 Corinthians 6. 18 it says, flee, fornication. In 2 Timothy 2. 22, it says, flee also, youthful lusts. In 1 Timothy 6:10 it says, For the love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. But listen to this, but thou, O man of God flee from these things. That is run. And the Greek word there is fuege, where we get the word fugitive. Run from these things, Timothy. Godly people are constantly running from temptation. But they never run from their trials. The Psalm said in Psalm 111, In the Lord put I my trust. How say ye to my soul, flee as a bird to your mountain? The difference between a mature Christian and an immature Christian is this. A mature Christian runs from temptation, but not from trials. An immature Christian runs from trials, but not from temptation. And here she is, she's running from the trials, she's running from the difficulties, and again it didn't solve her problem. She still had unresolved conflict. All she did was just sit put simply put distance between her and her problem, but it didn't mean the problem was solved. There's still that animosity that is there. She's still a slave, and now she's a runaway slave And that means that she was a fugitive from the law and runaway slaves could be put to death. She really just traded one set of problems for another. She only compounded the afflictions that She was under rather than remove them. Now she's in a brutal wilderness with very little to eat and very little to drink. At least with Abram and Sarah, she was well provided for. And having escaped probably in the night, maybe she was she could get a few supplies with her, but it wouldn't be much. She would run out very quickly, and now she's traveling through a hostile dry desert. I'm sure she's exhausted by this time. I'm sure she's probably run out of resources by this time. She endangers herself and her child that she was carrying. It was a very dangerous thing for her to do to run into this desert like this. She could have been abused. She could have been taken captive by Nomad traitors being pregnant, she could have lost her baby from the rigors of traveling in that type of terrain. Now she might have had temporary relief from her problems. But really it made things worse in the long run. Again, what could a pregnant woman, single mom do in Egypt with a family that was slaves? They probably could couldn't help her. They probably were too poor And so she's suffering from running. Someone said the way of obedience is hard, but the way of disobedience is even more difficult. So often when we run, we end up in a wilderness of confusion. But there's a third lesson that I want you to see, and this is the main lesson from this story here. The first lesson really are the causes of running. As a mom, you'll face many difficulties that will perhaps make you want to run at times. There's the consequences of it. You don't solve your problems by running. In fact, you might even make them worse But there's a cure for running. And that's to realize this. And here's the lesson. God sees and cares deeply for mothers. He cares deeply. Now, look at verse number seven. Somehow she made it to a fountain of water on her way to Egypt. She no doubt is hungry and exhausted. She knew about the God of Abraham, the true and the living God, but she may be wondering, does he really care for me? One commentator wrote this, her future was uncertain, her past too painful to think about. She felt abandoned by everyone on the earth and forgotten by God in heaven. But in this context, we're going to read that she has an incredible counter encounter. And verse 7: And the angel of the Lord found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness. By the fountain in the way to sure. How does God help us when we're so overwhelmed with our problems and our circumstances that we want to just run from them? What help is there for hurting mothers? Just know this that God He sees and He Will come to you. He he finds her here. I noticed I love the way it reads in verse 7, and the angel of the Lord found her. What's that telling me that God was seeking after her? God had compassion on her. This reminds us of the good shepherd in the New Testament, right? Who goes out seeking after the lost. He runs down those who are running. And let me tell you something. You can never outrun God. Sometimes I hear people talk about their salvation and they say, I'm grateful that I found God. Friend, let me tell you something. You didn't find God, God found you You were running. He came to you. He found you. The Bible says the Son of Man comes to seek and to save that which was lost. And notice it's the angel of the Lord. Who is this angel? There's a debate among scholars as to who this is, but I believe this is a pre-incarnate appearance of the second person of the Trinity, Jesus, the Son of God. He is the one who finds her. You say, why do you think it's the Lord? Well, because look at verse number 13 where it says, And she called the name of the Lord that spake to her, The God, Thou God sees me. So she knows it's the Lord. And there's glimpses of deity in this passage if you look close enough. So I believe that this is the Lord Jesus Himself. And before there was the woman at the well in John chapter 4 in the New Testament, there was the woman by the well here in the Old Testament, where Jesus met Hagar here. from in this well. Hagar could flee from the presence of Sarah, but she could not flee from the presence of the Lord. God caught her, God called out to her. Notice that he knows her name in verse number eight and he said, Hagar Sarah's May, whence comest thou, and whither wilt thou go? When she heard her name called by the angel, this had to be a comfort God was in a sense saying to her, I know you. I know what you have been going through. Notice he calls her Sarah's maid. He doesn't call her Abram's wife, even go, even though that was the custom That shows that God didn't necessarily accept that man-made custom. And so he he calls her Sarah's handmaid. And then he asked her the questions. Uh whence comest thou? Whither will thou go? And whatever in Scripture God is asking questions, you can rest assured He's not looking for information because he already knows everything. He just revealed he knew all about her and he knew her name. Donald Gray Barnhouse says that the questions of God are always for a purpose. He must bring us to ourselves. He wants the person that he's asking to think hard about their situation to awaken them. And that's what he's doing here with Hagar. Hagar, do you realize that you're in a difficult, helpless situation? And so God called out to her, and then God corrected her. Look at verse number nine. And the angel of the Lord said unto her, Return to thy mistress. And submit thyself unto her hands. Notice the command. Turn around, go back, and submit yourself to your mistress. The great need of Hagar was simply to ad Submit. This was an imperative here. This is a command. Hagar, you need to submit. We don't like to hear that word, do we Submit seems to be a dirty word in our day today. We Americans have a history of not submitting to anyone who oppresses us. Our country was founded because the settler says the king can't make us do that. We will revolt. If we're treated unfairly or harshly, we'll stand up for our rights. The very word submit makes us mad. We don't like it. But the Lord who made us and who knows us knows our real need. And he says to Hagar here, your number one need is to submit. Do you know that your number one need in a time of trial is to submit to God? Submit to what he is doing. You can almost hear Hagar saying, But wait a minute, Lord, you don't understand the abusive situation that I am in. Don't you know what I've been through? Don't you know My afflictions. In the New Testament, the book of 1 Peter is written all about submission to authority in a time of trial. The Christians to whom Peter wrote were suffering, some as slaves under harsh masters, some as wives under disobedient and harsh husbands, some as citizens under a harsh and unreasonable government. But Peter's word to each of those groups was submit. Submit. He sums it up like this in 1 Peter 5. Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you at the proper time, casting all your cares upon him, because he cares. for you. We need to submit to God. We need to submit to our circumstances. God wants us to learn to be triumphant right where we are. We need to submit to the authority structures that are in our life And so God says to Hagar, turn around, go back, submit yourself to her hand. God will catch you where you are. God will call out to you. God will correct you. God will comfort you. Because look, he gives her a great promise in verse 10. And the angel of the Lord said unto her, I will multiply thy seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude. And the angel of the Lord said unto her, Behold, thou art with child, and shall bear a son, and shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord hath heard thy affliction And he will be a wild man, his hand will be against every man, and every man against him, and he shall dwell in the presence of his brethren. And so God basically gives her a promise of a son that will come. He says that the offspring from you will be numerous. And he will have a name that will commemorate our meeting here. The name Ishmael means God hears. He kind of gives her a snapshot of what the future will be like for her son. And so God, in a sense, encourages her with this. But then the next thing is God will change you. Because from verse 13 on down to verse 16, we see the response of Hagar. How did she respond? Well, she expresses her gratitude by giving a special name to God in that place in verse 13. This is the only time in all the Bible where a gentile woman gives a name to God. And notice what she gives in verse 13. And she called the name of the Lord that spake unto her Thou God seest me. For she said, Have I also here looked after him that seeth me? And so the Hebrew El Roy is the name there, the God who sees me. And she marks the spot of the encounter in verse number 14, wherefore the well was called Deer Lehi Rui. Which means the well of the God who sees. And the writer here says it is between Kadesh and Barid, that well is still there. the well of the God who sees me. And this later became a testimony to others because when they would come to this well and ask about the name of this well, which is a very unique name, people would talk about the encounter that Hagar had with God there at that well, the will of the God who sees. You see, God doesn't always change our circumstances, but He will change us so that we can be victorious in the circumstances. And I think that there is a note of Victory in the way that she says this. There's a sense in which now she can return because she's not invisible. She's seen by the Lord. Moms, you might at times feel like no one sees you, or no one cares, or that you're invisible to the world around you, but I want you to know that God sees you. He knows what you're going through. And because she knows this, she's encouraged by this, and she returns, just like the Lord commands her, she submits. And she obviously tells Abraham about what happened because it says in verse 15, and Hagar bear Abram a son, and Abraham called his name. Ishmael. So she had to tell Abram all about it because Abram is the one who named them Ishmael, the very name that God gave in the wilderness. But the great lesson that I want all moms to know from this message today is he is the God who sees you are not alone. He knows your trials. He knows your heartaches. He knows what you have gone through. He knows the sorrow that many of you mothers bear. For some on Mother's Day it may be difficult because perhaps you maybe have lost a child. And this is a very painful day for you. I want you to know that God sees and he knows. Hagar just needed to know that somebody cared. She needed to know that someone understood her. And that was God. She needed to know that she was not taken for granted. And God did not take her for granted. God saw her heart. God knew her. And God was in a sense saying, I see you, I know you, I feel you, I understand you, I know your pain, I'm here for you, I see you. And that registered with Hagar. I said before I played baseball growing up until I was about sixteen years old. From the time I was eight till the time I was sixteen. I I had hundreds of turns at bat hitting the ball playing in little league. But I only remember three times at bat, very specifically the things that I did. And you know why I remember those times at bat? Because those on those specific three occasions I knew that my father was there and he was watching. He saw me. I can tell you every strike. I can tell you every foul ball. I can tell you everything that happened at those three at bats. I don't remember any of the others But I remember the ones where my father was there watching. There seems to be something about knowing that your father is watching you. It has an impact. It makes a difference. And mothers, I'm here to report to you that you are not invisible to God. He sees you. He sees your sacrifice, your service, your pain, your heartbreak In Scripture, what does it mean to be seen by God? There's a beautiful verse in Zephaniah 3:17, which says this talking about being seen by God, and he will take great delight in you, and he will quiet you. with his love. Do you know that feeling? To know that you are seen, to be quieted by the love of God. Where you just dare to sit and to be loved by him and know that you are seen by him. Let's bow for prayer together today. Father, I pray that you'll take these words and make them a comfort to those who are watching and listening, specifically mothers. But even more specifically, the mothers who are struggling perhaps in a very difficult situation, difficult circumstances. Lord, let this truth be a comfort that, Lord, you see them, that they are not alone, that you're with them. And Lord, knowing that is a source of strength for all of us to know that Lord, you see us, you know us. I pray especially, Lord, for those who may be hearing and listening that are who hearing and viewing that may not know Jesus as their Savior. I pray, Lord, that they would realize that strength comes from walking with the Lord, from knowing Him. And the very first thing that they must do is trust Christ as their Savior. To get that relationship settled, to know that they're saved, that their sins have been forgiven. And friend, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you: do you know that for certain? That Jesus is your Savior? Would you be willing right now to reach out to him? Say to him, Lord, I've been running all of my life from my problems. I'm tired of running. And I come to you, I run to you. This is the place I stop. And I come to you, and I turn to you with all my heart, and I ask you to forgive me for my sin, dear Jesus. Save me. My dear friends, if you'll pray that, would you just reach out in faith and just pray that if you haven't already? Lord Jesus, I'm Tired of running, I come to you. Save me, Lord Jesus. Cleanse me from my sin. If you'll reach out in faith, friend, he will save you. He'll give eternal life Cleanse you from your sin. And he'll be there with you. And if you've made that decision, would you just let us know Tell us on one of the social media outlets or call us, email us, let us know that you've made that decision to follow Christ so we can help you And we can encourage you. Father, bless these words to your people, to all that listen and watch. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.