Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Luke, the Gospel of Luke. Chapter number fifteen. Luke chapter fifteen. And we're going to look at verse eleven. And Would you stand for the reading of God's word? I want to read a few of these verses with you. Luke chapter 15, starting at verse 11. And he said, A certain man had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in the land, and he began to be in want. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into the fields to feed swine. And he would fain have filled his belly with a husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. And when he came to himself he said, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough to spare, and I perish with hunger? I will arise and go to my Father. And will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and am no longer worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said unto him, Father, I sinned against heaven, and in thy sight am no w more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet. And bring hither the fatted calf and kill it, and let us eat and be merry, for this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. And they began to be merry. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, thank you for this beautiful parable given by our Lord. Lord, help us to learn from it. Some things that we can apply to our own life today. And may we learn most of all, Lord, about you, your grace, your compassion, your mercy as the perfect Heavenly Father. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The title of my sermon today is The Prodigal's Father. As Christian fathers, our heart's desire is that our children follow in our faith. Unfortunately, that doesn't always happen. Many times Christian parents go through seasons of rebellion or backsliding. Children of Christian parents, I should say, go through seasons of rebellion and backsliding. And they turn their back at times on the faith that their parents taught them. No family is exempt from that possibility Some of those godly parents who raise their children in the things of God and raise them in church still have children who go astray. God, the perfect Heavenly Father, had two children, put them in a perfect environment, and both of them rebelled against them. I think of Ruth and Billy Graham and their son Franklin, who for years, their son walked away from the things of the faithful for years he was a prodigal and finally came to faith. It's always a possibility that our children, like because they're like us and have that sin nature, can walk away from the things of God. Now they grow up and become responsible for their own choices and they don't always choose wisely or according to our desires. Now of course this As fathers, as parents, we want to make sure that we allow our children the freedom to grow and to develop into the person that God called them to be. And to follow God's will for their life. If we're wise, we're going to understand that God's plans for their life might might might not be the same plans that we have for their life. I remember my daughter Annie was graduating from high school. We went out to eat and I said, um, now you're going to go one year to Bible college. And she said, Dad, with all due respect, I I'm not going to Bible college. And I said, uh oh oh yes you are. You're going to Bible college. And she said, Dad, I already know what I want to do. I'm going to move back down to Tennessee. I'm going to get married. I'm going to be a mother. I want to be a a housewife and a mother And I want to be a doula, which is kinda like a midwife. She already had the man picked out. I'm not sure he knew that she was gonna marry him. But um I said, Oh no, no, you're going to go to Bible college. And she said, Dad, she won the argument with this one line, Dad, what could they possibly teach at Bible college that you haven't already taught me? She appealed to my ego, won the argument. I said, Well, you know, you're right, honey. Uh what could they possibly teach you that Today she's a mother of two beautiful daughters, married to a Christian husband, faithfully serving the Lord in that way as a godly mom, and she's as happy as she can be. And so, you know, we our desire should simply be as parents that our children seek God's will for the life and follow what the Lord has for them. But all the heartache and the grief for Christian parents when our children turn away from the faith and no longer seek God's will for their life. The Bible says in Proverbs 1725, A foolish son is a grief to his father, and a bitterness to her that bare him. Proverbs 1913, a foolish son is the calamity of his father Now the situation that we read about here in Luke chapter 15 represents this very thing. This is the parable of the prodigal son. The word prodigal never appears here in this parable. In fact, it never appears in Scripture at all. The word prodigal actually means wasteful. However, this is called the prodigal son because here's a young man who wasted so much. And he ran away from his father at his home, and his father's God And so now we use the word prodigal to talk about any wayward child, anyone who walks away from what their parents have tried to teach them. You don't a child doesn't have to physically leave home to be a prodigal. There are many children that live still in their parents' house that spiritually their heart has departed from the things of God. They've put some distance between themselves and their parents. A prodigal child can be of any age. There are many adult prodigal sons and daughters who have families of their own But because they have abandoned the Christian faith and the values that their parents taught them, they are still prodigals. And no matter how old they are, their parents still long for them to return to the faith. So for those of us who have prodigals, this parable is very helpful. It gives us insight on how we are to respond to our children who walk away from the things of God. Many parents of prodigals are in great pain over their children. Some of you know I have I have four children. I have three children that serve the Lord and are believers. I have one son who is a prodigal and I pray for him every day. Now I can remember when things started to unravel for him, when uh someone taught him to begin to question the Bible. That's where Satan always works when you begin to question the Bible as the Word of God. That was Satan's tactic from the very beginning in the Garden of Eden. You become your own authority rather than trusting the Bible. If you don't trust that the Bible is the authority of God, you have no moorings. You have nothing as a foundation. And honestly, I I used all of my apologetic skills to convince him how wrong he was, and you know none of that helped. Our natural reaction to sometimes our prodigal children is to lecture, to nag, to get angry, to despair, and finally give up But God shows us a better way, a way that is based upon the promises and the character of God. So I want us to look at this Parable and pay special attention to it with this one thing in mind. How did the prodigal's father respond to his son? And we need to get the background of this parable. Why did Jesus give it? Well, it was given because of a criticism that was made against Jesus. If you look in chapter fifteen, look in verse one. Then drew near unto him all publicans and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes mur murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and he is with them. This was a criticism against Jesus. He he eats with sinners, he receives sinners. What was meant to be a criticism was actually a compliment. So on the heels of that, what Jesus does in chapter 15 is give three beautiful parables that shows God's love for sinners. His love and concern for the lost. He gives the parable of the lost sheep Verses 3 to 7, the parable of the lost silver, verses 8 to 10, and then the parable of the lost sun, or we call it the prodigal son, verses 11 down to verse 31. What's missing, I think, about this parable is that it is really more about the father than the prodigal Many places put the emphasis on the Son when they look at this parable, but the parable will be misunderstood unless the emphasis is rightly placed on the Father. in this story. Twelve times he's mentioned here in this parable. We could call this the parable of the loving Father. Because really that's what this is about. It's it emphasizes the graciousness of the Father rather than the sinfulness of the Son. So I want you to notice four lessons that we can learn from this Father and we can apply to our life Number one, fathers of prodigals must demonstrate unconditional love despite their children's disrespect. Now to say that this son was disrespectful to his father is an understatement. The son's actions demonstrate his disrespect. Notice the son's request. Look again in verse number eleven. And he said, A certain man had two sons, then verse twelve, and the younger son younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. So that's the request. Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. Now, this young man's request is a dagger to the heart of this father. This son here is not asking for a loan. He wants his inheritance. This is the inheritance that he is supposed to get when the father dies. So in essence he's saying, if you won't hurry up and die, I want what's coming to me right now. I want it now, I want it all, I don't want to wait. And I think the Lord wants us to feel the shock of this request. Some of the experts of the Middle East culture tell us that this young man was virtually expressing a wish for his father to die. A father could initiate a discussion about an inheritance, but a son never should in this culture. That was completely inappropriate for him to do that. This is such a disrespectful request. The people listening to this parable, they would have gotten it. They would have been appalled for a son to come and make that request. But what's even more amazing at this father, despite this disrespect, gave his son his inheritance. No doubt he probably tried to talk to him and probably tried to dissuade him from doing this, but the father was not listened to, the son would not listen to his words. And sometimes as a parent, it's helpless to prevent a course of action that our children take. Children can be stubborn. They can have a mind of their own. And there comes a point in time when we have to let go and put them in the Lord's hands. But notice verse 12 where it says, And he divided unto them his living. Notice the word them. He had two sons, so he went ahead and he divided the inheritance for the two sons so as to be fair. His living, that is to say, it's all that the Father had. Not only his capital, but his property as well. He gives it all. There was no this is not a small matter. After all, all of this represented the father's security for himself for the future. This left him incredibly vulnerable. So according to Jewish law, the elder son got two-thirds of the father's property and capital. The younger son got a third of the property and the capital. Now how many fathers would have done that? I mean not many fathers today. I mean I I can rem if I go to my father and say, Dad, I want what's coming to me, I want it right now. I wouldn't have gotten any capital. Capital punishment maybe. But and in this in that society and culture, this would be such a shameful action. I'm talking about what the father did. The culture back then would have expected the father to disown the son They would have expected him to give the ceremonial slap on the face, a formal dismissal from the family, even have a funeral and say, you're you're dead, you're no longer a part of this family. That would have been the only way to avoid allowing the boy to bring a lasting reproach against the family's good name. But here, this father, he demonstrates Incredible love, despite the son's disrespect. Now the people who heard this or who saw the father do something like this would say that what the father was doing was shameful. Isn't he a Aware of his own honor? Does he have any self-respect at all? Why would he allow his son to walk over him that way? But the actions of this father demonstrated that he was truly a loving father. He was willing to endure the pain of disrespect and even public humiliation rather than to disown his son. And then to make matters worse, not only the son's request, but then his righteous living, the son wasted no time after he got his money. Look at verse thirteen. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. This young man determined to live independent When it says he gathered all together, that means he liquidated all his assets, the property that his father had allotted to him, he sold that. Turning everything into ready cash. He intended to cut off all past ties with his parents and with his father's God as well. He went into a far country, which means that can only mean Gentile country. He went into a country that was characterized by pagan values and heathen morals. And it doesn't take a whole lot of imagination to understand what riotous living meant. In fact the word riotous here is the Greek word for wasteful. I mean he's wasting all of his inheritance, all of his substance. And verse 30 says he spent much of his money on prostitutes. So here he is living like a fool, living senselessly, wasting his inheritance with ungodly friends, shaming the family name. And yet his father still loved him. Fathers of prodigals must demonstrate unconditional love despite their children's disrespect. But here's number two. Fathers of prodigals must demonstrate steadfast hope, despite their children's or their child's foolishness. This story reveals that this father never gave up hope that one day his son would return. Let me fast forward just a little bit in verse number 20. If you'll notice down there in verse 20 where it says, But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion. The father saw the son coming when he was a great way off. So what does this tell us? It tells us that this father was looking every day for his son to return. To see a long way off, you have to be looking. And and to see a long way off you couldn't do it really on the same plane. I think he went up on the you know, there were stair steps on the side of the houses in Palestine at that time. The roof was really kinda like a porch. I think he went up to the rooftop every day and he looked out over the horizon all around north, south, east, and west. And what was he looking for? He was looking for his son to come home. I think he did that every day. I think he did it several times a day. He never gave up hope that his son would Return. All this man could do really is place his son in the hands of God and ask God to work. And God sure enough began to work. Look at God's providence in verse 14. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he began to be in want. Several things happened in the providence of God. You know, God is able to get the attention of our prodigals. And he's able to do it through the circumstances of life. The Bible says the ear that hears the reproof of life abides among the wise. Simple translation is life can be a cruel teacher. And a lot of times things can happen that can get the attention of our prodigals. And what happens here is his finances run out. Notice it says, and when he had spent all Sooner or later, choices bring consequences. And this young man's folly with his money spending all caught up with him, the Bible says in Proverbs 13, 11, wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished. But he that gathers by labor shall increase. That is easy come, easy go. And he spent it all, wasted it, and his friends left No doubt this man had a lot of new friends with all this wealth, flashing around his gold coins. But when the when the money left, his friends left. Proverbs nineteen four. Wealth brings many new friends, but a poor man is deserted by his friend. And so verse 16 says, When the young man was destitute, no man gave unto him. And then famine came. Look in verse 14 again, and there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he began to be in want. Now this family was not the prodigal's fault, of course, but God sent it. And this was divinely orchestrated payback for the son's rebellion and sin. It was kind of like a perfect storm that this kid had, you know, no finances, no friends, and now a famine comes. This was like the perfect storm that hit Jonah when Jonah ran from God. God brought the storm. And his life completely unravels. And he has nowhere to turn to for help. The good life that he had, that's all now a memory. And then notice verse 15. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his field to feed swine. What does it mean when it says he joined himself to a citizen? Well a citizen at this time spoke about a Roman citizen or a privileged person. This is a person who came with a lot of privilege and honor and perhaps wealth. When it says he joined himself to him, that the Greek word very vivid. It is uh the word kola'o which means to be glued to. In other words, this Boy became so destitute. He became homeless. He had nothing. He found a citizen who was somewhat wealthy, and he kind of glued himself to him. This wasn't the Roman citizen's idea. I mean this guy just started following him around and begging him and playing saying, please help me, can you help me? And this Roman citizen offered him one job and that was to feed his pigs. That's an unthinkable task for a Jewish boy. This is the lowest possible job in the whole hierarchy of believer. I mean, it paid next to nothing. I remember years ago preaching in a church in Illinois out in a rural area and we came out of church and across the way was a pig farm. And the stench was overwhelming. I just remember thanking God that I didn't have to pastor that church. I mean that would be hard. Wa one of the uh cable television networks that specializes in educational documentaries focused on a uh on a a feature on a hog farm in Nevada and it and it focused on the means by which they feed their animals. And they start by collecting massive amounts of garbage from the Las Vegas Strip. where several tons of spoiled or leftover food are thrown away daily from the casino's extravagant buffets. These leftovers are systematically gathered and hauled to a pig farm And enormous swap trucks. In the desert heat, by the time the garbage arrives at the farm, it's already blended into the tank of a nauseating semi-liquid stew. The stench from so much com de decomposing food was just is unbearable to to smell. The substance is poured into buckets and then poured out into these long filthy troughs. that are permanently caked with large amounts of mud. Even the workers filling the troughs, uh it's hard for them to even stand doing that. And the pigs squeal with delay, pushing from one one position to another Trying to get in there to eat all that junk and in just a mere minutes all of it is devoured. Can you imagine feeding pigs every day? This is this is what this boy Has been brought down to. And he's so desperate. Look in verse number 16. And he would fain have filled his belly with the hus that the swine did eat. And no man gave unto him. Translation, he was lower than swine. At least the swine had something to eat. This product was literally starving to death, even while he watched the hungry pigs He he got so low he was jealous of the picks. And so this is just a terrible, terrible Position to be in. And by the way, this is a there's a lesson here about the nature of sin. This is what sin does to you. This is where sin brings you. Sin always alienates the sinner from fellowship with a good, loving, merciful Father. People sin thinking it'll bring happiness, and for a little while it does. But it's not a lasting happiness. And this is where ultimately it leads. It plunges you into things like this. You know, it's at first thing could be fun. You know, I imagine this young man stayed in first class hotels, ate from the finest restaurants, lived like a king, but then all the bills started coming due. And this is where he ends up. But then I want you to notice the prodigal's repentance. Look at verse number 17. And when he came to himself. When he came to himself, we would say it like this, he came to his senses. He finally came to his senses. You know what? There's an insanity to sin. There's a madness, a spiritual madness to living in sin. Makes you feel like you're living in some fantasy world. You're out of touch with reality. The first step to sanity is true repentance. Truly repenting. You have to see yourself as a sinner. A return to a realistic understanding of who you are and who God is. And so this young man came to realize the folly of his way. You say, what is true repentance? Well it it's a true it's true repentance involves seeing yourself as a sinner. In verse 18 he says this, I have sinned against heaven and before thee. He realizes he's a sinner. In verse 19, he realizes how unworthy he is. He said, I'm not worthy to be called your son. That's characteristic of true repentance when you see your sin as it truly is And then true repentance accepts responsibility for what we have done. He says, I have sinned, and there's no excuses attached to it. True repentance does not offer excuses or justifications for behavior. It doesn't blame others. He didn't say, you know, Dad, I wouldn't be like this if you weren't such a demanding and sensitive father. I wouldn't have gotten into trouble if you hadn't given me all that money and I didn't have enough maturity to handle it property properly. He didn't blame anyone else. He knew it was no one else's fault. He knew that it was all on him. And he took full responsibility. True repentance involves the action of turning away from sin and turning to God Some people think repentance is just a change of the mind. No, he didn't just change his mind. He turned around. He said, I'm going to go back to my father. I'm going to put myself under the authority of my father. I need to repent before my father. I need to ask for his forgiveness. He didn't stay in the far country. He didn't stay in the pig pen. He determined to return. And submit to his father. So notice in verse number 18, I will arise and go to my father and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven. and before thee. And am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. I think his determination reveals the true nature of his repentance. He determines to make things right with his father. He even prepares a speech on what he's going to say. He rehearses, here's what I'm going to say. to my father. Here's the right thing to say. And don't miss this. It was the memory of his father's goodness that brought repentance. How many hired servants in my father's house are treated so well? It was the memory of his father's goodness That brought him to repentance. The Bible says the goodness of God leads thee to repentance. Fathers of prodigals must demonstrate unconditional love despite Their child's disrespect must demonstrate steadfast hope despite their child's foolishness. But here's the third thing I learned from this father. Fathers of prodigals should demonstrate an eagerness to embrace their returning child. Because look what happens. Notice verse number 20. And he arose and came to his father. Now coming home is not an easy thing. But it was his true repentance that drove him home. The boy's actions, no doubt, was the gossip of this whole town. He knew going home he was going to face a gauntlet of hostility and judgment and criticism and several possibilities of what could have happened. The father, first of all, he could have refused to even meet with his son face to face. And a culture of honor in that day, that would be typical. That's what the people there would have expected. That's what the Pharisees and the scribes listening to this parable would have. expected. The father could just make his son sit at the city gate for days soaking up the humiliation and the shame of people going by, making their comments. Exposed to the elements, and after a few days of that, then the father could have brought him back to his house under conditions. I mean, in a small village like this, everyone would know what's going on. Everyone would know who this boy is and who he belonged to and what he did A gesture like this from the Father would have been understood by all. And everybody would say, Oh, he's getting what he deserves. He's getting what he deserves. Another possibility, if the letter of the law were followed He should have been stoned. I mean, going back home was a risky for this reason. Not only the shame and humiliation and judgment of all the neighbors and people in that town, but also the possibility of death. This boy brought such disgrace, not only to his family, but also to his village. And according to Deuteronomy 21, 18 to verse 21, he should have been stoned. And walking back into that village when people recognizing him, that could have been a real possibility. People could have picked up stones to stone him. And this boy well understood these possibilities. And yet he takes the road and he's headed back home, bearing the smell of pigs, wearing the rags of failure and shame. And what happens next had to shock the people. who are listening to this parable because notice again in verse number 20 where it says, but when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him. And had compassion and ran. Again, this is not an accidental sighting. That father was on the rooftop every day looking out over the horizon, each direction. And finally he sees him a long way off. He sees him coming. And you know what the Bible says he did? He ran. He ran. In the east, old men do not run. I don't think old men run here in the West either Running was good for little boys and servants. This father was a wealthy, dignified landowner. And when people like that walked back then, they walked in a dignified way with a slow gait and deliberate steps. And the whole concept in that society of honor and dignity, which was very important, made the actions of this father really inappropriate. The father couldn't care less about any of that stuff. He saw his son and he ran. He didn't send a servant ahead to go collect him. He ran himself and the word for run here is a word used of a sprinter in an athletic competition. And I assure you that's pretty hard because they wore long robes back then. But the father gathered up the hem of his garment, his robe, and he took off an undignified manner. He ran. Why? Because he loved his son so much. And I think also he had a desire to get to his son before any of the judgmental people in that town could get to him. He wanted to be there first to greet him. He wanted to deflect the abuse that he knew the boy would suffer. And if the neighbors had picked up stones to stone him, when they threw the stone, they would have hit the father who was embracing him. Of course, look at verse number 20, what it says. And he arose, came to his father, and what he was yet a great way off. The father saw him. And had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the word kiss here is the idea, just continued to kiss him, showing affection. Think of how the Father could have acted. The conditions he could have put down, the restrictions he could have put on them. That's exactly again what the Pharisees would have expected, but no. Not this father. The villagers see this boy coming into town smelling like a pigsty, and they're startled to see this wealthy old man sprinting across town. falling into the arm of his son, lavishing affection on him. And the father doesn't even give him a chance to finish his speech. Because look in verse number twenty-one. And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight, and no more worthy to be called thy son. He's cut off. Verse 22. But the father said to the servants, His servants bring forth the best robe and put it on him and put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet. This leads us to the final lesson that we learn from this Father. Fathers of prodigals must demonstrate unconditional love despite their child's disrespect, demonstrate steadfast hope, despite their child's foolishness, demonstrate an eagerness to embrace their returning child. Demonstrate a joyful forgiveness when their child repents. The father says to the servants, It's interesting to me that the servants were there They had to see the master run and decide to run after them. And they finally get there, perhaps out of breath, and the father just turns to the servant standing there and he And he and he gives them in an emphatic way some some duties, some things to do. Listen, here's what I want you to do. I want you to go and get a robe, the best robe. And put it on my son. The robe, that's a symbol of honor. This would have been a robe that was used for only the grand occasions. Sometimes when you would have a feast, a wealthy man would have a robe for the guest of honor that he would put on that guest when they came. Every nobleman had one of these ornate beautifully woven with the best material type robes. I think the parallel would be in our day a tuxedo that we only use on certain occasions. The Father takes the rags from off his back and he robes him with this beautiful robe. And the shame of his son's sin is removed, and it's replaced with the honor of sonship. That's a picture of salvation, is it not? That's what God does for us. Isaiah 61, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, my soul shall be joyful in my God, for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. And then he says a ring. Look at verse 22 and put a ring on his hand. This was the signet ring that had the family crest or the family seal. This meant the son was fully received back into the family. And then sandals and shoes on his feet. I think the sandals made an unmistakable statement about the Father's acceptance of the Son. Remember the Son said in his speech, Father, I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. Just treat me as one of your hired servants. Hired servants went around barefooted. By the Father giving this son shoes, the father is saying, You're not my servant, you are my son. You're my son. And then notice verse 23, verse 24, and bring hither the fatted calf and kill it, and let us heed and be merry, for this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. And they began to make Mary. The father orders the fatty calf to be brought. This is the one prepared for special occasions. This was the family uh this was the animal that the family would use for, you know, getting it ready for some glorious event. And the father says, now is the time to use this. Why? Because my son was dead, but now he's alive. My son was lost, but now he is found. And so the father's joy is so Fool because his son has returned. There's no hint of him not receiving him. There's nothing but joyful forgiveness when his son returns back. Did the son deserve any of this? No. He didn't deserve the honor of a robe. He didn't deserve the honor of a ring or sandals. It's all grace. And by the way, that's a picture of how God treats all of us. None of us deserve his grace. Grace doesn't treat us as we deserve. Grace treats us with love despite the fact that we don't deserve it. God honors us. He loves us with an everlasting love. He welcomes us back into the family. He fully forgives us when we turn to him. He rejoices. And I pray that as fathers, we will extend the same kind of love and grace to others. So, fathers, how should you respond to your prodigals? Demonstrate unconditional love despite their disrespect. Demonstrate steadfast hope despite their foolishness. Demonstrate an eagerness to embrace them. Demonstrate a joyful forgiveness when they repent And when your prodigal son or daughter returns to you, restore them completely in that relationship. Honor them. Pledge your love. You probably don't have a fatted calf out back, but Just take them to the best restaurant and rejoice. Your child was dead, but now is alive. And so, again, this is a picture of grace. This is a picture of our Heavenly Father. Our Heavenly Father is not a tyrant. Passively dispensing justice, waiting to show approval only when we're worthy of it. That's not our Heavenly Father. His grace is almost undignified in its exuberance in the way it's expressed to us. He's a heavenly father who runs to meet us, who rejoices and embraces. He's a heavenly father who not only accepts the dry, cleaned, and sanitized, but Who also runs to the filthy and the wayward son who has turned their heart towards home. He is the heavenly father who, as time will make clear in the life of Jesus, not only gives the best robe, but will give his son Jesus. He is the heavenly father who shouts to the returning sinner, welcome home. Welcome home. He doesn't merely accept prodigals, he rejoices over them. And the whole point of this parable was Jesus was giving this to the Pharisees. You see, this was a God they didn't know. They didn't know anything about a God like this. But Jesus was showing the incredible love of our Heavenly Father. And his desire to receive back is prodigals. And friend, you know what? The bottom line is all of us are the prodigal in this story. We all Ran away. We all went in the wrong direction. And God in His grace brought us back and received us and gave us a new robe and a ring and Shoes on our feet. And if you're here today and you you don't know that kind of love, I would just encourage you to run to your heavenly father and experience his incredible love.