Take God's word this morning, please, and open to the Old Testament book of Malachi. If you don't know where that is, go to Matthew and take a left. And you'll come to the book of Malachi, the last book in the Old Testament. And this morning I want to talk about the title of my sermon is The Tragedy of Half-Harted Worship. The tragedy of half-hearted worship. From Malachi chapter one I heard about a mom who went to uh church with her little boy and they went to a big gothic church that had big stained glass windows and uh those windows were dedicated to to fallen soldiers in World War II and The the little boy asked his mom, he said, Mom, who are those people in that window? And she said, Son, those are people who died in the service. And he said, Well mom, was it the Sunday morning service or the Sunday evening service? Some services are so mechanical and dry that people are dying in those churches. The problem is not the word of God, because God's word is alive. The problem is the people. They have the same problem that the people in Malachi's day had. They were simply going through the motions of worship and they really weren't putting their heart into what they were doing. And so the the context of this is the Jews living in Jerusalem. And Malachi is the prophet, he's a man really kind of shrouded in mystery. Little is known of him except his name, but his name means my messenger. And carelessness in worship is what offended him. He wanted to restore true worship to true believers at that time. He was addressing j Jews that had been in exile but had returned from exile. They had repatriated the land, they had uh rebuilt the temple, and they reinstituted worship. So from the outside everything really seemed okay. But inwardly there was this cancer of apathy and complacency that had that had overcome the people. And so Malachi is God's prophet. He's the last Old Testament prophet. uh who arrived to challenge God's people. Now the whole book of Malachi is structured in a dialogue form. God will pose a question, the people will uh they will basically uh contend with God about some of the things that he says. Uh God tells the people how he expects them how to live, and then they will basically answer cynically or they will uh They will question what God has said. For example, look in Malachi chapter 1, look at verse number 6. A son honoreth his father and a servant his master. If then I be a father, where is my honor? If I be a master, where is my fear, saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priest that despise my name? And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? There were some people that were despising God's name and God told them, you know, you're despising my name. And they said, what? How can that be, God? So they questioned the Lord about this. Look at verse number 13. Notice what it says. Ye also said, Behold, what a weariness it is. These are people in the worship service saying, Man, it's weary. All this worship going on. I'm kind of weary of it. I'm tired of it. And then in verse 13 it says that the people snuffed at it. What does that mean? One scholar paraphrased this, they turned up their nose at it. They were simply going through the motions outwardly of worship, but their heart was not in it. And this was uh a a tragedy. And I suppose that the greatest tragedy of our age is not the lack of worship, but the lack of true worship. The kind of worship that God accepts The kind of worship that involves the heart. Remember, Jesus said God the Father is seeking worshippers who worship in spirit and in truth. We talked about the truth part of it this morning. This passage addresses the spirit, the heart in worship The joy in worship. And we have to examine our own heart and ask ourselves the question is, is our worship heartfelt, or are we simply going through the motions of worship? How can we know that? Well, there are several indicators that Malachi gives us here in the text that we need to apply to ourselves and ask ourselves these questions Where our our worship is half-hearted when we, number one, when we doubt God's love. When we doubt God's love. Malachi was writing to a group of people who were doubting the love of God. Maybe you're here today and maybe you have questions about whether or not God really loves you, like the people in Malachi's day. Perhaps you're going through some tragedy in your life, some trial, something that is crushing you. And you're wondering, you know, does God really love me? How can I go through this and yet the Lord say that He loves me And God is sending his messenger to these people who are doubting God's love with the message that he does. Look at verse number one of chapter one: the burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. The word burden here speaks of a heavy, weighty message. The burden that's on the heart of Malachi. He wants to communicate this message from God, and that is that God does love them. Don't doubt God's love. Because if you doubt the love of God, it's going to make your worship shallow. You won't worship with your heart. And there are two reasons why we should not doubt God's love. First of all, there's God's spoken word. How do we know God loves us? Well, look at verse number two. I have loved you, saith the Lord. The reason we know is because God said He loves us. That's why. Because He says so in verse number two. Now that's not enough for some people. It's not enough for God to say that he loves us. Some people want to dispute with God. In fact, that's what the people here are doing in this book, Malachi says, you know, they're constantly questioning back what God says. They're constantly disputing. Again, this is a literary feature that we see in the book of Malachi, this dialogue going back from God and the people. Forty-seven out of fifty-five verses are spoken directly by God. That's the highest percentage of any of the prophetic books. God would declare something and the people would say, Where in? What do you mean? Uh you've got to be kidding. That's kind of that cynical attitude that they had Let me tell you something, beloved. When God says something, he means it. And you don't need to question it. You just need to accept it. There is nothing more sure than the Word of God. The Word of God is much more sure than your emotions, your feelings. You may not feel like God loves you, but you can trust in this. God loves you because God has communicated that in Scripture. Please don't doubt that. But there's another reason why we don't doubt God's love. We shouldn't, is that be because of God's special people. We're God's special people. Look in verse number 2. Again, I have loved you, saith the Lord, yet ye say, wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother, saith the Lord, yet I loved Jacob and I hated Esau. So God is saying, you're my special beloved people. Now God has a common grace for all people. God loves all the world. The Bible says it rains upon the just and the unjust. There's a common love that God has for all, but there's a special love that God has for his people, for his children. And this is what Malachi is communicating right here what God is saying through his prophet. How do we know that God loves us? Well, because you're his special people. Just like God says, Jacob have I love, but Esau have I hated Now when that verse is read, a lot of people have problems with it because they say, did God really hate Esau? And the word for hate here really is not, we have to understand that it was used in a different way in that time in this context, it really has the idea of passing over. Or we could say an idea of comparison. The love that God has for his people is so great that in comparison, all the other common grace that God gives for the world looks like hatred. That's the idea. It's God has his people. And since they're his people, he has a special love for his people. He passes over others. He passed over Esau. If you look in the Bible and you look at Esau, he had the common grace of God. God loved him in a lot of ways. He had a lot of blessings. But God had a special love for Jesus. Jacob. And this is the message that God is communicating to you. God loves all the world, but if you're a child of God here, you have a special love from God. I love all people, but Carolyn is my beloved. I I love all children, but my children are uh are get my special love. And that's what it's saying right here. Since you are a child of God, you are the recipients of God's special love. So don't doubt it This should really cause us to worship, like John in John 1 John 3. 1. Behold, what manner of love the Father has given unto us that we should be called the children of God. John was overwhelmed and amazed at the love of God, and we should be too every time we come and worship here. That's why our worship should not be half-hearted. But here's the second reason, a second indicator of half-hearted worship when we lack due reverence. When we lack due reverence, look In verse number six, and notice what it says. If I then be a father, where is my honor? If I be a master, where is my fear, saith the Lord. of hosts. So first the priests and the people were not giving God his due reverence or respect. They were coming to worship with a careless attitude, with a frivolous heart And many people are still like that today. They don't treat coming to God's house as something special. And again, I want to remind you that when you come here to gather together for purpose f for public worship. It is something happens here in this context that can't happen in any other place. There's something special about being here because the God has promised his presence when we come together. So it's very special. It should have some kind of special feeling in your heart, or you should treat it with great reverence. And here they were not treating it that way. They were not looking at it as a holy event. And the really shocking part of this is that it was really the priests and the leaders, the people that should be setting the example, the Bible says in verse number six. It says, O priests that despise my name, and you say, wherein have we despised thy name? It's the priests, the leaders that should be leading in reverence and worship that are not doing that. And so they were not giving God his proper respect. You see, God as a father is to be honored. Again, we see this in verse 6. If I then be a father, where is my honor? Our God in heaven is a Father. And he should be honored as a Father. We know in the Ten Commandments the Bible says we're to honor our Father. That word honor there means give our father and mother. It means really give weight to. It's something weighty. And what it means when it says to honor your father and your mother, our earthly father, that means that you give them importance. You attribute to them something special that they're important. And they should be honored. Well, if we are to honor our earthly Father, how much more should we honor our Heavenly Father? But God says, here, if I'm your Father, where's my honor? How come you're not giving me the right honor? And as a master, God is to be feared. Look again in verse 6. And if I be a master, where is my fear? And this idea of fear is again reverence, a fear of the Lord. Sometimes people, when they come to church, they have such a careless attitude. And God says, you ought to be fearing me. This fear of the Lord is a healthy fear. Again, it's an all, it's a reverence. What is the fear of the Lord? It is a reverential attitude that leads to right actions in your life. And God says, I'm a father, but I'm not getting any honor. And I'm a master, but I'm not getting any any reverence, any fear. Don't treat me with contempt. Don't worship me with half of your heart. When we come to worship, we are not here to entertain people. This is not a performance. None of our people who sing in our praise team here, they do it from the heart. They don't do it as a performance. They want to point to the Lord. And so when we're here, we're not here to entertain people. We're not here to manipulate emotion or manipulate worshipers. We're not trying to indoctrinate people. Our purpose is to honor and glorify and worship and praise our God. That is what we want to do. But when our worship is half-hearted, it's when we lack due reverence. So when we doubt God's love, when we lack due reverence, but another indicator that our worship may be half-hearted is when we give God second best. These people were bringing to God their leftovers instead of their best. Look at verse 7. Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar, and you say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say the temple of the Lord is contemptible. Verse 8, and ye offer the blind for sacrifice. The priests were offering upon God's altar polluted bread. Any sacrifice that was brought, whether it be animal or vegetable, any sacrifice brought was generally called bread. And God says, you have polluted these offerings. And they're again questioning God, how have we polluted these offerings? God rejected what they were bringing as unfit and as unqualified. And uh and again they asked the question, wherein? And that and it says that the table you say that the table of the Lord is contemptible. Now they weren't saying this with their mouth outwardly, but in the attitude and the manner in which they were bringing their worship to church, it was unacceptable to God. It was unacceptable. Verse 8 says this that they were bringing God the second best. When they're supposed to bring a lamb for the sacrifice, it's supposed to be a lamb without spot, without blemish. It's supposed to be their best But what they were doing is they were bringing instead a blind animal, or sick, or dying. Notice verse number thirteen, notice what it says. He said also, Behold, what a weariness it is And you snuffed at it, saith the Lord, and you brought that which was torn, and the lame and the sick. Instead of offering God the best, they were offering God the worst. And the bad thing is is the priests were actually encouraging it. They're saying, oh, it's good stewardship. It doesn't make a whole lot of sense to take a perfect animal like this and offer it in sacrifice. Why don't you do one of those sick ones or maim wings or one that was toured by an animal? They're gonna die anyway. And uh you know w everybody wins. We keep the altars f on fire and uh and and you save some money here, it's good stewardship, it all wins. This is a good good idea to do this. Yeah, everyone wins except God. Because instead of offering your best, you're offering your second best. And God calls it evil. Look in verse number 8. And if you offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if you offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? Imagine that, God calling their worship evil. You can come to church and you can leave worse than when you came. Because the way in which they were bringing their worship to the Lord was just simply not acceptable. God called it evil. In verse 8, he said You know, try that with your governor. Look at verse 8 where it says, Offer it now to thy governor. Will he be pleased with thee or accept thy person, saith the Lord of hosts? See if you can get away with this with your government. Why don't you try that? Let's do a little experiment. On tax day when your taxes are due, just write a letter to the IRS and just say, you know F friend to whom it may concern. Things have been really rough at our house. We've had a streak of bad luck. Our children have been sick and I've been laid off. And uh we're not going to send in our income taxes this year. We're not going to file a report. But please know it's not because we don't love you It's not that we're not concerned. But I have other responsibilities. Uh do you think you're gonna get a nice letter in return from the IRS? And God says, try this with your governor. See if he'll accept that. And yet here are these people giving all these excuses and giving God their second best. And again, we do that all the time. Again, try it with your boss. When it's raining, just call him and say, you know what's raining? I don't I don't want to come to work today. I'm a little tired So I'll tell you what, I'll get around to it when I get around to it. Try that with your boss. That's not gonna work. And yet it just seems like the least little thing keeps us from giving God our best. A little bit of rain, people don't come to worship the Lord. And God says, Do you expect me to accept this? Look in verse number nine. And now I pray you beseeek God that He will be gracious to us. This hath been by your means. Will he regard your person? Malachi in essence is saying, do you expect God to be satisfied with this? Do you expect me to entreat God on your behalf after you are so half-hearted in your worship? You expect God to accept that? Now, today we don't bring animals to an altar, but we do bring our worship with us to church. You don't come to church to get worship, you bring your worship with you to church. And every one of you are bringing your worship here today. The question is, what kind of worship is it? Is it the kind of worship that God is going to accept? You see, in the New Testament, all of us are priests, all of us give offerings to God, and we offer to God the sacrifice of praise. That's one thing. Do we praise God from a heart filled with gratitude? The way we give, the way we listen, the way we submit, the way we pray, the way we obey, all of that is worship in the sight. of Almighty God. We are to be a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto the Lord. God says if you're not going to give me your best then it would be better just to close the doors of the church. Don't bother even coming to worship if you're not going to bring your best. Just don't come. Look at verse number ten. Who is there among you that would shut the doors for naught? Neither do you kindle fire on mine altar for naught I have no pleasure in you, saith the Lord of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand. What he's saying is it would just be better just to nail the door shut. than to continue to worship like this, half-hearted, going through the motions in vain. God said it would be better just to shut the door because your worship your worship is unacceptable. It is worthless. God says you might as well not even kindle the fire. Don't even worry starting a fire to put a sacrifice on because it's vain and it's worship and I have no pleasure in your worship. May that never be said of May that never be said of me. Where God says, I have no pleasure in you, I have no pleasure in you. I want God to have joy and pleasure at the worship that we offer our Lord. So we have to ask ourselves this question: does God take pleasure in my worship. There are several standards on how you are to give to God. First of all, we're to give God our best. We're to give God our best. God wanted the best of the flock. God said, give me your best. After all, the lamb that he gave you was his best. You don't get any better than that. God gave you his lamb, and you're going to return a main lamb to him? Or a sick or a weekly lamb? Did you know according to the Old Testament in Exodus 22, verse 31, uh It says that animals that are torn of beast in the field, what do you do with that? You don't bring that to the to the Lord to offer it. You don't even eat it. What you do is if it's an animal is maimed or sick or blind or torn, you give it to the dogs. Give that animal to the dogs So in essence, what these people were doing was they were offering God dog food. And that's how they were treating the service of the Lord contemptible You don't give God leftovers. You give God your best. But also you're to give God first. In Proverbs 3:9, honor the Lord with the thy substance with the first fruits of all thine increase. God wants first He wants it first. You're to give to God first. Not the leftovers again. We give it first. I remember one time I was called a pastor of a church. I'm not going to name it. But what they did was they had a a pounding, what they call it, a pastor's pounding. It doesn't mean they come up and beat on me. What that means is that they everybody brings canned goods and all this food and things and they kind of fill the the refrigerator and so on. And they did that for us. And and my wife and I we were looking through some of the things in the refrigerator and cabinets and it was so wonderful and so gracious. And yet at the same time I saw some cans that were a bit rusty. And the and there were some things that the expiration date on it was way, way past two. So while there were some people that were really glad that was there, others were trying to kill me. I mean if I ate that stuff, I wouldn't be here. These people were giving God not their first, they were giving him second best. We're to give God the best, we're to give to God first, but also we're to give God what cost us. What cost us. Remember in 2 Samuel chapter 24, David wanted to make an offering to the Lord to stay his hand. A plague had broken out. And he goes to a man by the name of Aruna, and he has a threshing floor. And David says, I want to buy that threshing floor, and then I want to build an altar and I want to make a sacrifice unto God. And Aruna said to him, Look You know, I'm just going to give it to you. And David said, No, no, no way. I'm not going to offer anything to God. They cost me nothing. I want it to cost me something And that's the kind of worship that God wants. He wants it to. If it means little to you, it's going to mean little to him. But he wants costly worship. He wants our giving to be costly, whether we're giving praise or service or tithes and offerings, it should cost us. That's the kind of offering that God accepts. We're to give to God the best, we're to give to God first, we're to give to God what it costs us. And then we're to give to God ourselves. Worship is us giving ourselves to the Lord. He doesn't just want your possessions, he wants your heart. He wants you. Again Paul said, we're to present our bodies as a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto the Lord. Worship is not one day a week. It's every day a week. It's not confined to a place. If it's confined to a place, then when we leave this place, we leave our worship. We don't leave our worship. We bring it with us. And everything we do all throughout the week is an act of worship to Almighty God. We live it out every day of our life. It's not just what we do once a week, it's what we are. God wants us. We're going through the emotions when we doubt God's love, when we lack due reverence, when we give God second best. Finally when we forget whom we serve. Look at verse eleven. From the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same, my name shall be great among the Gentiles, and in every place shall be offered unto my name A pure offering, for my name shall be great among the heathen, saith the Lord of hosts. You notice how God again emphasizes my name, my name, my name We see that over and over again. One of the key phrases in this book. We see it here in chapter 1, we see it in chapter 2, we see it in chapter 3, and chapter 4. Over and over again, God emphasizes my name. God's name, as I told you before, refers to who he is, his character. Another key word we see here is great. In verse 11, For my name shall be great. In verse number 14, for I am a great king, saith the Lord. You know why they were going through the motions? Is because they were forgetting who they were serving. They were forgetting the greatness of God and they were saying, Oh, what a weariness it is. What a drag. Would that describe our worship today? I mean you come to church and say, man, how long is this going to last? Those announcements went on too long. Now he's going to preach longer. He's going to want equal time. Man, it's already twelve o six. You come to church and you make a mental list of all the things you need to be doing. You're forgetting who you are. Serve. You're forgetting that he is a great king and a great God. Can't you just for one hour just put all of your heart and focus and attention on who God is The greatest reason for our coming together is to make God's name great. Look again in verse 11. For from the rising of the sun even to the going down the same, my name shall be great among the Gentiles. Malachi was talking of a future time when God's name will be exalted through all out all throughout all the Gentile nations. That was Israel's calling. They failed at it, but now that's the calling of the church. We are to make God's name great throughout all the world. And it starts with the way that we proclaim his greatness and the way that we worship here in God's house when we're here. How does our body language, how does the way in which we worship communicate that God is great? He's a great king and a great God. Don't forget who you're worshiping. Don't forget the reason that you're here. Word got out to the community one day that of a certain church, the pastor was uh contacted by the White House saying that the President was thinking about worshiping there on a Sunday, and word got out in the community And one lady called the church and she said to the pastor, Pastor, is it true that the President of the United States is going to be in church next Sunday? Because if he's there, I don't want to miss And and the pastor said, ma'am, he's not going to be here, but I got good news. The King of Kings will be here next Sunday. It doesn't get any greater than the King of Kings. And he's here every Sunday. He does not miss. So are you just going through the motions? Are you giving God your second best? You need to ask yourself that question. And we're doing that. We're giving God second best when we doubt God's love, when we lack through reverence, when we give God second best, when we forget whom we serve. And if that's been the way that you've worked worship, would you just ask God to forgive you? And would you ask God to help you remember how to worship? And to never ever devalue God and the way that you bring your worship to his place, to his Let's bow for prayer together. God gave us his best when he gave us his son, Jesus. Lamb, the spotless lamb without blemish, who died for our sins. And the first thing you must do in order to honor Him, to honor His name, is to recognize who He is The sinless Son of God, the Savior, the only Savior, to repent of your sins, to submit to His Lordship in your life, to turn to Him for forgiveness. And friend, when you do that, God is honored. God is worshiped. God is praised. And if you haven't done that, then I would just say this morning, please don't leave here without making sure that you know Jesus as your Savior. Don't leave here without knowing that. And if you're here and you are a child of God, will you examine your own heart under what Malachi just taught us? Is your worship half-hearted? Do you bring God second best or lack of reverence? Or forget who it is that you serve? Ask God to cleanse you from that and ask God to help you be a true worshiper, the kind that the Father is seeking after, who worships in spirit and in truth. Father, thank you again for your word. Speak to every heart. Bless your word to every heart. Pray in Jesus' name. Let's all stand together. We're going to have a moment of invitation. If you have a spiritual need, we have ministers up here in the front that can take you aside and help you. We want you to know Jesus and we want to help you in any way we can as we sing this love invitation.