Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the Gospel of Mark, chapter number four. Gospel of Mark, chapter four, and uh look at verse number twenty-six. We're going to read a few verses. Would you all stand together for the reading of God's Word? Mark chapter 4, verse 26 And he said, So is the kingdom of God as if a man should cast seed into the ground and should sleep. And rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up. He knoweth not how. For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself. First the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear. When the fruit is brought forth immediately putteth in the sickle because the harvest is come Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for your word and for how it enlightens us and teaches us. And Lord, we know that uh in and of ourself, Lord, we can't uh get full spiritual insight. We need the help of the Holy Spirit. So Open our eyes that we might behold wonderful things out of your word. And Lord, help me your servants and make the word of God clear. And Lord Jesus, speak to your church today and bless hearts. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. As you know, on Sunday morning we'd be going through some of the parables of our Lord Jesus. Parables are earthly sayings with heavenly meanings. Jesus, the master teacher, often would take a story, an earthly story, and put it down next to a spiritual truth. In order for us to be able to understand it, that's where the word parable comes from, terra alongside bole is the Greek word to cast down. Jesus will cast down a simple story alongside spiritual truth so we could understand it. And this morning I want to talk about the parable of the sleepy farmer. You know, there are many ways to grow a church, or or I could say grow a crowd. It's not hard to get a crowd together. All you have to do is just use the right means, use the right promotion, and you can gather together a crowd. crowds out on Sunday morning. I recently read an article in the Huffington Post about the things that pastors are doing to get a crowd to church. In fact the title of the article was The Most Ridiculous Stunts Pastors Have Pulled to get people to church. And it talks of several different things that have done. For example, there was one pastor in Ohio who was willing to be bruised and trampled upon by a bull by the name of Bone Crusher. in order to spread the gospel. This pastor turned his church into a uh a bull ring basically. And uh he wrote he he got everybody together and he a actually managed to stay on the raging bull for about three seconds before being bucked off And then he got up on the stage and gave a gospel sermon, at least I think it was, and um 300 new believers responded to the altar call and were baptized. Um I read of another past another church actually in Kentucky. They in an effort to reach what they call the unchurch rednecks, that's the article, that's not me saying that, the rednecks. The Kentucky Baptist Convention hosted what they called Second Amendment celebrations during which churches served steak and gave away guns as a prize for coming. How'd you like to get a gun? You go to church. You'll get your gun. And then another church tried mixed martial arts fighting. Um, you know, basically the pastor came up with this idea to include it in the men's ministry to got try to get more men out, even though Jesus Commanded us to turn the other cheek. That didn't seem to matter much to these guys. One pastor said we're just a couple of God's fearing men punching each other in the face Well the tactic worked. Reportedly it brought more than fifteen hundred men out and many made professions of faith. And then another church tried on a motorcycle club And the pastor actually preaches from a pulpit designed like a motorcycle. And he prays over his parishioners' bikes He anoints them with oil and prays over them. I don't I don't do that, just in case anybody wonders. I do pray over our HVAC units that they will work throughout the summer, but that's about the extent of it. I don't go any farther than that. Another pastor tried live animals to church. Another one tried wrestling matches. An article in the Wall Street Journal talked about one church's bid to perk up the attendance. He had all of the church employees uh wrestle Um that was the that was the the plan. They took uh lessons from a professional wrestler on how to how to pull hair, how to throw each other around without really hurting anyone, at least not hurting anything physically And then other special effects. Another large church tried um a uh all the s all the laser lights in the auditorium, the fire, the the smoke, the sparks. And one service ended with the pastor being uh you know pulled from wires all the way up through the ceiling, um, you know, to a to uh ascend out of sight like Jesus did one day. Now, there's no denying that these innts work in the sense that they draw a crowd. Many churches do these things that do these things. They report growing numbers. The attendance figures go up And some of these mega churches, they fill auditoriums of thousands of people every week. And now it just seems like churches all over are trying to do all these new things to try to get people out Now whether the method is is biblical or not doesn't really seem to matter to the average church leader today. Some some will say, well, you know, as long as uh the Bible is taught, as long as big biblical principles are shared uh if the medium really doesn't matter. Is that really true? Is there a sense in which the medium can overshadow the message or corrupt the message in some way or um bring the message down? If entertainment is a legitimate way to get people into the kingdom of God, why not go all out? Why not just have a carnival Why not do anything and everything you can to get people out? I think that those sort of things, I think the Bible makes clear, cheapen the actual power and message of the gospel. And yet it just seems like there's no limit to what modern church leaders will do to entice people to come to church who aren't interested in worship and in preaching Now it'll be a great day when we realize in the church that not all growth is healthy growth. And not all growth is true kingdom growth. Jesus, in this short parable, will give us a, I think, a profound spiritual truth. He'll give us insight into how the Lord makes his kingdom grow. Or we could say real legitimate church growth because real church growth is kingdom growth. There's a lot of things that go on for church growth that is not real Growth. And so this parable explains how it happens. And notice again, look in verse 26. And he said, So is the kingdom of God. As if a man should cast seed into the ground. I want you to see four principles here, or we could say four stages of growth that take place in the kingdom and how God does it. First of all, number one, there's the principle of sowing. Just simply sowing in verse 26. Here's a man who cast seed onto the ground. Jesus is describing a sower. This would be very familiar to the listeners in Jesus' day because uh sowers would basically take a canvas bag, drape it over their shoulder, it was filled with seed, and they would go along the furrows And the sower would just simply spread the seed out along the furrows, just sowing seed. As he walked up and down, he would reach into his bag and he would just scatter the seed. He would just throw it out. Now in order really to understand this parable, we're going to have to back up a little bit because really this parable is in context with what Jesus had already said. So look in chapter four, back up to verse number 3. Jesus is giving parables. Actually, look at verse 2. And he taught them many things by parables. And he said unto them in his doctrine, A hearken, behold, there went out a sower to sow. And it came to pass as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and the fowls of the air came and devoured them up. And some fell on stony ground, whereby it had not much earth, and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of the earth But when the sun was up, it was scorched, and because it had no root it withered away. And some fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. And other fell on good ground, and did yield fruit, and sprang up, and increased, and brought forth some thirty, some sixty, some a hundred. And he said unto them, He that hath an ears to hear, let him hear. So the sower sows seed and it's really divided into four different kinds of soil. If you look at this parable that Jesus gives, here's a sower, he's out, he's scattering seed. And the sea falls among four different kinds of soil. First there's the wayside soil. In verse number four, we saw that. This is hard-packed dirt. This might be a a pathway that people walked over. They walked over it so much that the soil becomes hard. almost as hard as concrete. And the seed that falls upon those paths, what happens? The birds come and they devour those seeds. They carry them away. Then there's the stony ground in verses 5 and 6. This is a shallow soil. It might look like it's fertile, but right underneath the soil there is a plate of rock. uh that's there, limestone rock, which was common in Palestine. And so the soil had no depth to it. It was really very shallow. And so when the plant would spring up Uh because there was no depth of of roots, it would wither away. And then among the thorns in verse 7, here's some seed sown among thorns, but when the Plant begins to sprout, the weeds choke out the plant, and again it withers away. And then in verse 8, we saw the soil that is good ground. And when seed is sown in the good ground uh it begins to bear fruit. Now you say, what does all that mean? Well look at verse 13. Jesus tells us, and he said unto them, Know ye not this parable? And how then would you know all parables? Look at verse 14. The sower soweth the what? The word. So what does the seed represent? The seed represents the word of God. And the wayside soil, look at verse 15. And these are they which by the wayside where the word is sown, but when they have heard, Satan comes immediately and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts. This is where the seed is spread, and because the heart is not prepared and ready, it falls upon a hardened heart, and Satan will come and he'll take away the word of God. You know, you're here in church this morning. It's great to see you. Hopefully, however Satan will not take away the word of God that God's trying to sow into your heart because your heart's not ready to receive it. But then in verse 16 and 17, and these are likewise which are sown on stony ground But when they have heard the word immediately receiveth it with gladness Verse seventeen, but have no root in themselves, and so endureth for a time, and afterwards When affliction or persecution arises for the word's sake, immediately they are offended. This is people that come to church and it looks like that there has been an initial response to the gospel and they have received all of what God has for them However, something happens along the way where that uh they perhaps they didn't count the cost of following Christ. Maybe there's some trial that comes into their life, some tribulation. Some persecution for being a believer. And they say, you know what, I didn't sign up for this. I signed up for what Jesus can do for me, but not to go through this. And so they say, you know, I don't want this. And so basically they They they are offended. The Greek word there is scandalon, we uh really to stumble, and they basically end up walking away. At first there was an emotional response to the gospel But however, that was very superficial. There was no death to it. And eventually they walk away from the faith. And then in verses eighteen and nineteen, the cares of this world, this is the seed sown among the thorns. What's that? That's people that may give receive the word at first, but their heart is so cluttered with the cares of this world, with the things of this world. that they the the word of God has no place to germinate and grow in their heart. And so again, there's no real fruit. There's no real growth that takes place there. You see, the soils in this parable represents what? The heart of man. The sower represents anyone who sows the seed of the Word of God. The seed, of course, is God's word, and there's power in that seed, and the soil represents the heart. It represents the heart So, in order to understand what Jesus is saying here, we sow purposefully. We have to understand that it's not the sower that causes the growth. All the sower can do is just spread the seed of the word. The seed is fine. And seed is meant to be sown. Nothing wrong with the seed. Nothing wrong with the word of God, dear friend. We just need to spread it. We just need to sow it. There's power in the seed of God's word. You know, if you look at a seed, it looks like something that is dead. There's not much to it, but when it's planted into the soil There's something about it where it the outer shell breaks open and life, powerful life, is released out of that seed. That's the way God created it, our wise Creator God. So we have to sow the Word of God purposefully. You know how kingdom growth begins? It begins when the Word of God is sown in hearts. The Word of God has to be priests. There's absolutely no way to have kingdom growth unless you're spreading the seed of God's word. Every time I stand up to preach, every time you share the gospel with someone, every time a father leads his family and family devotions, every time a Sunday school teacher teaches. We have BBS or anytime the Word of God is given, the sower is sowing the Word, the seed of God's word. We have to sow purposefully. We have to sow plentifully. The Bible says in verse number 24 here that, you know, take heed what ye hear, with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured unto you. In other words, the measure we use will be the measure used for us. We have if we want to get good kingdom growth, we have to spread a lot of seed. We have to just get the seed out there. The Bible says, he that soweth bountifully shall reap Bountifully. If we want a big crop, we have to sow a lot of seed. But then we also have to sow patiently. We have to realize that the harvest doesn't come overnight. We don't get discouraged and quit because we don't see the results that we want to see immediately. We realize it takes time. Galatians 6. 9 says, and be not weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. I don't know what God's doing with the word of God that goes forward. That's up to God. I uh you know, honestly, I can't see sometimes the results. Now sometimes I see what God does in hearts of people. Some most of the time I don't. Most of the time I don't know what's taking place. But I do know this, that God's word will not return void. It will accomplish the purpose that God has for it. And there's power in that sea. God is able to take his word and use it in ways that we can't even imagine in people's heart and in people's lives. Sometimes I get emails, sometimes I get letters, sometimes they're even nice. And I'm no, I'm just kidding. Most of the letters are very kind about what God is doing with His Word. But again, uh it's how the Lord uses it. It's His seed. There's not power in the sower The power is in the seed of the Word of God. So that's why there's this next step. First of all, there's sowing, but number two is sleeping. Look at verse number 27. He should cast seed into the ground and should sleep. And rises night and day, and the sea seed should spring and grow up. He knoweth not how. Notice, here's something we don't expect to see in a parable about kingdom growth. When Jesus gives a parable, he normally gives only the important facts in that parable. It's always very brief. And uh but he Includes a detail here that I think is very interesting. Once the farmer or once the sower sows the seed, what does he do? Does he stand over the field and begin to wait? Does he, you know, pray for rain to come immediately so that he can get an immediate harvest? What does he do? He goes to bed. He sleeps. He slept. Jesus is making a point here. Once the farmer has sowed the seed, his work is done. There's nothing more for him to do. We do what did someone write, do your duty and leave the rest of heaven. Um a young man applied For a job as a farm hen, when the farmer asked for his qualifications, the young man simply said, I can sleep while the wind blows And the farmer didn't really understand that, but he liked the young man, so he went ahead and hired him. A few days later he was awakened by a violent storm, and he went to check everything and he saw that everything was in order, all the animals were put away and locked in, all of the Uh everything was taken care of. A good supply of logs had been sitting next to the fireplace. Everything was perfectly in order, and he found a young man sleeping And then the farmer understood what he meant when he said, you know, I can sleep when the wind blows. That is, you do all that you're supposed to do, do all of your duty, and then after that you rest. You sleep. And this is what Jesus is talking about. You know, once a farmer puts the seed into the ground, his job is done. There's nothing more he can do. And beloved, once the seed of the Word of God is sown into a heart, there's nothing more to be done. Sometimes people ask me, Pastor, you sleep well? I sleep really good. I preach the word on Sunday. I try to preach it as clearly as I can, and then I I go to bed at night and I sleep fine. You know why? And I have rest in that. I don't fret or worry. If I felt like kingdom growth was all dependent on me And my giftedness and my abilities, it was all dependent on me, or my particular method, or my particular style of ministry. If that would determine whether a person would go to heaven or hell, just whether I were how I dressed, or the style of ministry that I had, or whether we had smoke and lights or whatever. If I felt like it was all if that was the way that the gospel got out, if that was the way that the kingdom would grow, I guarantee you I wouldn't sleep at night. I would be worrying, I would be pacing about, I would be concerned that could I have said something better, could I have done something more? But that's not how kingdom growth takes place. You know how it takes place? We simply spread the seed of the Word of God. And you know what? God takes over from there And the issue is not the seed, and the issue is not the sower, the issue is your heart, the heart of the People? What's the condition of the soil? And guess what? I have no control over that, but I know this. I'm not going to use worldly methods to try to make the seed more appealing. You know, what did the Bible say that the sea was was choked out by the deceitfulness of riches? That's why I don't understand why churches will use promotions to give things away. I I heard of one church where they actually put money under the pew. And you don't know we f you can sit wherever you want and then you can look under the pew if there's money there. You got it that was your get your your reward, your seat prize. Don't bother I see some of you looking. Don't bother. Don't bother, we don't do that here. All right. Why would I want to use uh worldly things like that to try to make the gospel more appealing? Or more palatable. You know, it's the seed that does the work. There's power in the seed. That's why the the uh farmer he just went to bed, he slept. He rested. You know why? Because all the other things that need to take place in order for that seed to grow is out of his hands. It's out of his hands. I can't control kingdom growth. And I laugh at church expert experts who who say, church growth experts who say that, you know, we can control how growth takes place. The only thing we can do is to spread the seed of the Word of God and God takes over from there. You know, do you think that the seed would have sprouted better if that sower had a designer canvas? When he planted the seed into the ground? Or if I got up here and, you know, if I dress a certain way, it might be more appealing to certain people, you know. If I were tried to be more cool and all that sort of thing. Now don't don't get me wrong. I'm not trying to be critical. Everybody has their own style. Go ahead and be who you are. That's all fine. But if you think style is what it takes to cause a church to grow or to have true kingdom growth, you don't understand how it takes place. It happens through the seed of God's word. Remember, Paul was criticized by the Corinthians because he didn't have the right style of ministry. The Corinthians, they were accustomed to Greek rhetoric. They loved to hear oratory that caused them to be spellbound. These traveling teachers of philosophy would come and charge fees so people would listen to them and they would give these great oratorical speeches and people would be blown away. They would be entertained by the speaker When Paul says, but when I came to you at Corinth, I didn't come to you with excellency of speech. I just wanted you to know Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Paul said, you know, I didn't want to blow you away with all that, my style, and and how I dress like a sophist. Sophist teachers always made sure that they dressed very, very immaculately. They were trying to garner students. Paul said, Look, when I came to you, this is in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, he said, I came to you in weakness and in fear and in much Trembling and my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom. Why? I don't want your faith to rest in style. Or any of those things. I want your faith to rest in the Word of God, the power of the gospel itself That's what changed his lives. And so because of that, because Paul didn't didn't really cater to the to what people wanted, but simply preached the simple gospel He was criticized, and yet Paul later wrote, One man waters, one man shows, another man waters, but God is the one who gives the increase. And that's how it happens. It happens because God does the work, God gives the increase. And it's according to how the soil, the condition of the soil, as the seed is spread, what is the soil like? God will do the work with the seed if the soil is fertile, if the soil receives the word of God, then growth will take place. Notice what this farmer does. This is the third part of the parable, the growing. There is the sowing and then the sleeping. We sow the seed, we rest. We let God take over, but then there's the growing. Look at verse number 27. And should sleep and rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up. He knoweth not how. That's funny. Jesus makes it clear that it's not the sower that's involved in the growth. In fact, he doesn't even understand how it takes place. He put the seed into the ground, he went to bed, he gets up the next day, he comes out, looks, he checks on it from day to day, and you know what? He starts to see it's starting to grow And he says he doesn't know how. I can relate to that, can't you? You ever planted something and you just watch it grow? Can you explain to me how that happens? No. I mean science can probably dissect what takes place. But how? That's the mystery of growth. How can a dead seed produce that kind of life? That is something that God does. I can't explain that. It's something from God. A farmer can plant the seed, he can come out, he can check on it, he can watch it grow. But he knows that he doesn't know how it does it. It happens by the work of God You know, again, all these church growth experts out there trying to push an agenda, pretending to tell us how they know it all takes place, they don't know. And just because a church is full, and by the way, no one wants a full church more than me. I want to see many people in the kingdom of God, but I want it to be real kingdom growth. Not all growth is real kingdom growth. And I don't want people to have a false understanding of how people get into the kingdom. It's not through entertainment, it's not through worldly methods. It's through the seed of the word of God. There's the mystery of growth, then there's the miracle of growth. Look at verse 28. For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself. That Greek word there is automatos. Of herself is automatos. Does that sound familiar? It's where we get the word automatic. Automatically. He just goes and he checks on the seed and it's growing. And the earth is doing it automatically. It's just happening there. I can't explain it. I can tell you this, if anything good happens in your heart and your life, I'm not sure how it happened. I just know God did it. It's God who's doing it. Don't thank me, please. Thank God. All I did was sow the seed, or someone else sows the seed. God is the one who gives the increase. It's automatically, it's God who does it. This word is very interesting. It's used only one other place in the whole New Testament. It's used Here it's used in Acts 12, 10, where Peter's in prison. Remember when Peter's in prison, they're praying for Peter to get out, and the Bible says that the doors of the prison opened us automatically. First automatic doors ever invented. It happened right there in the Bible. Automatic doors. The door just swung open. In other words, it's talking about something that God did. It is something that is divinely automatic. And actually, this is the whole emphasis of the parable. This is what Jesus is trying to emphasize. Again, we could actually in the Greek, it's actually that word is at the beginning of the sentence for emphasis, automatas. It brings forth fruit. God is the one who does this. I can do nothing to cause regeneration I can do nothing to cause transformation in anyone's life. I can do nothing to bring justification. I can't start it and I can't stop it. It is something that God does. I can't manipulate it with anything that I do. I can't manipulate kingdom growth or church growth. Again, it is something sovereignly done by Almighty God. So we see the mystery of growth. I don't know how, nope, I don't know how it happens. That farmer didn't know. The miracle of growth that is divinely automatic. And then the manner. Look at verse 28 again. First, the blade, then the ear. After that, the full corn. In other words, once the growth begins, it begins, it continues steadily, slowly. The seed grows according to the laws, according to the cycle. Again, people would like to do things to speed up growth. We can't do that. This is something that God does. You know, this is why pastors, Paul said to Timothy, Timothy, preach the word. And use a lot of doctrine and a lot of longsuffering, a lot of patience. You know what? Because what God will use his word to bring kingdom growth. And then you know what? You have to wait and let God bring the growth. Let it continue to grow. Because again, I'm not in control of how you grow. That's you and God. God is the one who does that. Every step that you must go through in your spiritual life. God is bringing you through through spiritual growth. What's he doing in your life? He's trying to conform you more. to the image of his son Jesus Christ. And again he uses the word of God to do that. It's all of God, one step at a time. one part at a time. How egotistical it would be of me or of any other pastor to think that we had any of those things in our control. We don't. We, by the grace of God, get this incredible privilege just to stand and spread the seed of the Word of God And there's power in that seed. There is the sowing, then the sleeping, and then the growing. But here's the fourth stage, the reaping. Look at verse number 29. But when the fruit is brought forth Immediately he putteth in the sickle because the harvest is come. And here's the next stage. This is when the farmer gets back to work. This is when he does his job again. He gets to be a reaper in what God does. Again, we cannot control growth. All we can do is reap what God does. That's why it's wrong for anyone to take credit for what God does. You know, uh if if the the big harvest comes, I'll tell you one thing, it's it wouldn't be because of this preacher here It's because of God. And we get the joy, however, of reaping what God does. Of bringing in those sheets. There's the guarantee of the harvest. Notice in verse 29. Not if, but when the fruit is brought forth. If we're faithful to sow the seed, God is faithful to reward with the harvest. There's the guarantee of the harvest, there's the gathering of the harvest. Again, our place is not to cause the growth, but to observe when it is there and to reap it. Again, we can't get too fixated on reaping, on the numbers, and all of that. That's all in God's hands. We just simply reap what God ripens. What God does. But then I want you to see another key thing here. There's the greatness of the harvest. Look at verse number 30. Now this parable is kind of linked with the last one, but notice what he says. And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? Or with what comparison shall we compare it? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds that be in the earth. But when it is sown it groweth up and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out great branches, so that the fowls of the year may lodge under the shadow of it. And here Jesus speaks of the greatness of the harvest that God is going to give. What's the outcome going to be like? Now remember, Jesus is trying to encourage his disciples in this parable. Because you know what's happening with the disciples? They're looking around and they're seeing not many people following Christ. And they're wondering, you know, this kingdom that you're talking about, Lord, Is there not going to be a lot of people that's a part of this kingdom? Because we don't see a really huge response From people. Now you say, well, there are great multitudes that follow Christ. Yeah, because they wanted a free meal, some of them. They wanted the loaves and the fishes. They wanted to see Jesus do a miracle. But the Bible says in John 6, when Jesus began to share the gospel and the Word of God, many people were offended and they walked away. And Jesus said to his disciples, You're going to walk away too? And Peter said, Lord, where are we going to go? You have the words of life. You have the words of eternal life. And they're looking around and they're not seeing a big result. Jesus gives this parable and he says, you know, the kingdom is kind of like a mustard seed. The mustard seed is the smallest of all seeds that are sown in the ground, and yet at the end it produces the largest of herbs or trees. we could say, that that grow out of it. And in fact, the end product, the the the herb of the tree is so large That all the birds of the air can come and they can find lodging in the branches in the end when the seed is finally fully grown. So what's the point that Jesus is making here? The point is the kingdom growth, it might start all small in the beginning. But as God works it, it'll continue to grow bigger and then bigger and then it'll get bigger until finally When it says all the birds of the air, I think that's a reference to people and nation from all over the world. Remember the the uh dream that Nebuchadnezzar had in Daniel 4 The tree that grew up, and all the birds of all the world could find lodging in its branches. Those birds represented nations and peoples from all over the world. I think likewise here in this parable that all the birds coming and finding lodging in the branches represents people from all over the world. That will come and be a part of the kingdom of God. That kingdom that started out so very small, like a mustard seed. Never despise things when they start out small. Because God is if God's in it and God's the one growing it, it's going to be an everlasting, continual growth. And the kingdom of God. It'll be the work of God. There's a lot of things out there that is called kingdom growth. It's not kingdom growth because it ends up withering and dying and going away. There's no lasting value to it. But here in the kingdom growth, it's going to stick around. You can't stop it. Once it starts, persecution can't stop it. Trials can't stop it. Nothing will stop it if it's what God is doing. That's the way the kingdom grows. In Ethiopia, Africa, I've been there a few times. There's a group of people called the Walemas people. And In 1927, the Sudan Interior Mission sent missionaries to evangelize this wild tribe of people. They were literally worshippers of Satan. And during their annual, what they call Passover, they would sacrifice a bull to Satan and sprinkle blood and put on the doorposts. The atmosphere of missionaries said when they went into this tribe to minister smelled of demons. After years of ministering there, giving the word of God, a small church was established. The kingdom growth started small there in that church. But after they were there for only a few years Their missionary work was interrupted by Mussolini, who invaded Ethiopia in 1935. Some you might remember those events just during prior to World War II. When the Italian troops reached the tribal areas, they demanded that these SIM missionaries leave. And the missionaries met with this small group of believers for one final time before they left. They had been there for nine years. There were 48 believers that were part of this church that they had planted there. And this little church worshiped and they wept and they had the Lord's Supper. Then the 26 SIM missionaries boarded army trucks for evacuation. On April the 17th, 1937, the first day without missionary support, this little group of people, this little church of the Walimas people, they found that they had to stand on their own with no missionary. just by themselves. The missionary wrote this, we knew God was faithful, that he was able to preserve what we had begun. among those people. But still we wondered, when we finally were able to come back, would there be anything left there And then the invasion of Ethiopia marked the beginning of World War II. It wasn't until July 4th, 1943, that the missionaries returned. Finally they were able to get back. And what they found there Defies belief. The Italian soldiers, when they went in, they tried to stamp out this small church. Church leaders were given 100 lashes. One particular leader was given 400 lashes. They were unable to lie on their back for months. Several died. One of them was beaten in public. But while they were beating this man, this Christian man, he was sharing the gospel the whole time. He was being beaten. Another one was stripped naked in the marketplace, flogged with a hippo hide whip. Again, during that time, he bravely shouted out the gospel. Instead of stamping out this small little seed that was planted, this little church, what was happening is conversions were springing up all over the place. It continued to grow. And when the missionaries came back, instead of 48 believers, the returning missionaries now found 18,000 believers. That were there in return. You know why? Because that's how the kingdom grows. That's kingdom growth. When the seed is planted, you can't stop it once God starts growth. And so when we read a parable like this, we have to examine again our own heart. Am I truly a part of the kingdom of God? Is my heart fertile, ready to receive the seed of the Word of God? Has it landed among third among fertile soil? Is there fruit in my own life that demonstrates true transformation, true kingdom growth in my own heart and in my own life? Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for this parable. From our Lord that gives us so much incredible wisdom. Lord, we know that if anything positive, good for the kingdom takes place, it's because you do it, Lord. Pure work. We are privileged to handle the seed. We're privileged to spread the seed. But after that, Lord, our our responsibility is done. The power of your word takes over among soil that is fertile, ready to receive it I pray, Father, that the seed of God's word that is sown here today will land on good soil, and that it might bring forth fruit, some thirty, some sixty, some a hundredfold, for your honor and for your glory. Father, I pray for Grace Bible Baptist Church. Your hand was in the beginning of this church ministry when it was started years ago, and your hand continues to be on it. Lord, let us see true kingdom growth. Let us see something that happens to where no one can take credit for it, except for us to say it's the Lord's doing. And it's marvelous in our eyes. I don't know how it happens, Lord. I just know God does it. It's the work of the Holy Spirit and the Word of God and hearts and lives that does the transformation. Father, please do that that you might receive honor and glory for what you do in hearts and lives. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I don't want to embarrass you, but I do want to ask you to examine your own heart friend and make sure That you're trusting Christ and Christ alone as your only means of salvation. Remember that Jesus died on the cross for your sins. Was buried and he rose again the third day. On the cross, the wrath of the Father fell on Jesus when it should have fallen upon me and you for our sins. Jesus paid our sin debt. He satisfied the wrath of a holy God, God the Father. Salvation is now a gift. We receive it by repentance and faith, turning from the world, turning to Christ, putting our full faith in what Jesus did for us on the cross. Cross. Friend, have you done that? Has the seed been planted in fertile soil? So how do I know? Well, is there growth Is there fruit? Because that's the measure of the work of God. Seed won't lie dormant It'll begin to grow. You say, how? I don't know how. I just know God does it. He'll do it in every heart of those that truly receive the gospel. And put their faith in Christ. Friend, please know. Please make sure. If you're not sure, would you just pray right there? God, it will hear your prayer. God, be merciful to me a sinner. Save me, Lord Jesus. I turn from my sins, I turn to you. Save me. Make me your child. Father, bless your word. I know it won't return void. It'll accomplish what you have for it. And in this we give you praise. In Jesus' name, Amen.