But it's good to see you here tonight. And I want you to take your Bibles and open to First Peter chapter one. Now we've been doing a series through First Peter on Sunday night. Actually it was a while back, actually before I went to London that I started this. And then on Sunday morning, if you were here, you remember I really took some sermons from this series and preached them on Sunday morning because I felt it was appropriate. But I want to come back to doing this on Sunday night, and we're going to be dealing with verses 10 down to verse 12 of 1 Peter chapter 1. And the title of my sermon tonight is The Privilege of Salvation. Look at verse number 10. Of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow. Now let me remind you that when Peter is writing to these believers, these are suffering believers. These are believers that are going through a very difficult time. You know that uh they were he was writing to believers in Rome, Nero was on the throne, and he was persecuting Christians at this time. And so they're going through hard times. And of course, we know that God's people throughout every age of church history has gone through hard and difficult times. That's just something that we expect And Peter here is reminding these believers that even though they're going through a time of heaviness, they can still have joy. You know, it's possible for gladness and sadness to dwell in the same heart. It's possible for you to be heavy and yet at the same time happy. You're going to have a heavy heart and yet still be filled with happiness. Look at verse number six of chapter one. It said, wherein ye greatly rejoice Though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptation. And so we can be sorrowful, yet we can still rejoice. On the surface, we may grieve over certain things, but way down deep in our heart, there's a rejoicing, there's a joy that we can have at the same time that sustains us through the hard times, through the sorrow. Now, why is that? Now, what Peter does here in chapter 1 is he gives us some reasons why we can rejoice even though our hearts are heavy. And you remember we went over these. One is our protected inheritance. If you remember in verse number four, he says, we have an inheritance in heaven. that is incorruptible, undefiled, and it does not fade away. It's reserved in heaven. Did you know that already you're rich? You're not going to be rich. You already are rich. You already have that inheritance in heaven. And it's very secure. You might have riches here on earth, and I thank God for banks and thank God for investments, but you know what? We don't have a real really a hundred percent security here on this earth on anything. But friend, your investment in heaven, your inheritance in heaven, it is absolutely secure. You know why? Because God is watching over it And the same God that is watching over your inheritance in heaven is watching over you to make sure that you'll get there. That's why I know I'm not going to lose my salvation. The same God that keeps my inheritance for me is keeping me for my inheritance. And so I can rejoice to know that that is waiting for me. So our protected inheritance. And then we talked about our proven faith. Look in verse number 7 where it says the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold. Peter points out that when you go through trials and you persevere and you don't talk turn away from the Lord, what you reveal is that your faith is real. That your faith is authentic. If you go through a very difficult time and you don't get bitter at God, but actually you cling to the cross and you cling to the Lord, that shows that your faith is a genuine faith You know what? That's something to rejoice about. We rejoice about our inheritance, we rejoice about our proven faith, but also our promised reward. Look at verse 7. The triangle of your faith be much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto the praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus And what he's talking about there is that when Jesus comes back, you will have of him praise and honor and glory. Now the praise and honor and glory that he's talking about here is not the praise and honor and glory that Jesus has, he always has that We know that Jesus will have honor and glory, but it's talking about the honor and glory and praise for the child of God who has gone through difficulty. They've held on to their faith They've grown in the Lord, and the Bible says that when Jesus comes back, you will have from him praise and honor and glory. You know what? It's wonderful to be honored. It's wonderful to receive glory, but you know what, as believers, we don't want the glory of this passing world. We want the praise and honor and glory that Jesus will give us. And so Peter says, that's another reason to rejoice. You have an inheritance waiting for you in heaven. Your faith has been proven to be authentic You have a promise reward at the appearing of Jesus, praise and honor and glory. But then the fellowship that we have, look at verse 8, whom having not seen ye love. In whom though now ye see him yet not yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, there's a sense in which again when you go through these difficult times and you hold on to the Lord, there is an intimacy and a fellowship that you have with Jesus that causes you to have a joy that is indescribable It is beyond the ability to even vocalize or verbalize, I should say, what it's like. This this Savior of ours, even though we can't see him face to face, we know him heart to heart. And we have this joy that comes as a result. And so we have a personal fellowship. But then also a present glory. Look in verse 9. Receiving the end of our your faith, even the salvation of your souls. And the word receive here means to obtain. The end is tellios, the goal, the completion. What's the goal or completion of our salvation? It is glory. future glorification that waits for us at the end. And what he's saying is there's a sense in which that future glory that we're all going to have, did you know that you can have that right now There's a sense in which you can get a little taste of it already, a foretaste of glory divine, as Fanny Crosby wrote in her hymn, as one person said, A little faith will take your soul to heaven, but great faith will bring heaven to your soul. And so we have a little bit of that glory right now. And Peter said, that's another thing to rejoice about, even though you may go through difficulty, even though you may go through sorrow. Now, as we get down to verse number 10, I'm giving you this because I want you to see the context, because what Peter's going to do is really he's going to continue the same argument, the same idea as you get down to verse number 10. He's going to continue to talk about salvation. This is the theme of chapter 1. Did you notice he keeps mentioning the word salvation? He mentions it in verse 5. He mentioned it in verse nine, he'll mention it in verse ten. But each time he mentions salvation, he gives us a new facet of this great salvation that we have. Now in verses ten through twelve Peter is going to attempt to increase our appreciation for this great salvation that we have. If you don't appreciate it by now There may be a problem. But Peter says, I'm going to help you to appreciate this great salvation that you have even more. And by doing that, I'm going to continue to increase your joy. Even though you may go through sorrow. Now, the question is, how does Peter do that? How can Peter cause us to appreciate our salvation even more? What he's going to do here in these verses is he's going to show us that we have a special privilege as believers on this side of the cross. We have a special privilege to understand salvation in a way that those on the other side of the cross, we could say, those who were perhaps part of the Old Testament um covenant, those who were in the uh before the cross, perhaps they didn't have the grasp of the knowledge of salvation that we now have. Do you know that you have more knowledge about salvation than the Old Testament prophets? Did you know that? And did you know that you have more knowledge and experience about salvation than the angels that are there in heaven? What a privilege. What a privilege. I can stand here and say, you know what, the Old Testament prophets were great, but they didn't really see what I see Maybe they saw it from a distance from a long way away, but guess what? I get to see it close up. Jesus gave us this thought. Hold your place here in 1 Peter chapter 1. Go back to Matthew 11 for just a minute. We're going to kind of see the thought that's there. Jesus is saying the same thing. Now in Matthew 11, Jesus is exalting John the Baptist. You remember at this point he was thrown into prison and he's wondering if Jesus was the Erchromai, the coming one, the Messiah And so he sent his disciples to ask that question, and Jesus said, You tell John what you've seen. And then Jesus turns to the crowd and says, talking about John the Baptist. Look at verse number nine. But what went ye out to see? A prophet? Yea, I send you more than a prophet, for this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. Wherefore I send you among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater Then John the Baptist, isn't that an incredible statement for Jesus to make? You say, who's the greatest prophet in the Old Testament? We don't have to wonder about that because Jesus tells us. John the Baptist was the greatest of the prophets of the Old Testament. And yet, notice what Jesus says after that in verse 11, notwithstanding He that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. Wow, that's incredible. Jesus said John the Baptist was the greatest of the prophets, however The one that's part of the kingdom of God, the least, and the word for least here is mikros. It's where we get our word micro, the smallest person now in the kingdom is greater than John the Baptist. The least important person, the least prominent person, the least outspoken of today's believers is greater than John the Baptist. Now the question is, how can that be? How can it be that the least that is in the kingdom is greater than John the Baptist? And what Jesus was teaching us here is that John was part of the Old Testament economy. He was the last of the Old Testament prophets, and so therefore he was part of that old covenant system. He was the last. And actually he was executed before he had the opportunity to see Jesus crucified and risen again. And so there's a sense in which John was great. He was obviously great because of his ministry, and it climaxed. The covenant of the Old Testament is a sense in which it climaxed under the ministry of John the Baptist. And John was the one who pointed out Christ. Yet, there were certain things that John didn't get to experience. There were certain things that John didn't get to see. He didn't witness the resurrection. He only saw redemption from the other side of the cross. And you know, all of us who are part of the kingdom of heaven now We get to see those things that John didn't see. We see salvation. We see redemption. We see all of it now from this side of the cross. And because of that, we see things that John would have loved to have seen, and we know things that John would have loved to have known. He knew some of them faintly, he had a foreshadowing of it. But he never saw it the way we see it. Reminds me of the little girl who was walking with her grandfather one beautiful starry night, and she looked up and she said, Grandpa, if heaven is so beautiful from the wrong side Just imagine how beautiful it's going to be from the right side. There's a sense in which salvation was beautiful when those in the Old Testament economy were looking forward to it. There was a beauty to it. There was a glory to it. But they saw it from a distance. Now, when we look back on the cross from this side, we see a greater glory. We see a greater beauty. And this is what Peter's talking about. Now go back to 1 Peter chapter number 1. This is really what he's pointing out. There's a sense in which we are privileged. In this time of redemptive history, to be a believer, to have salvation, to experience the grace of God, do you understand what a privilege that is? That's an incredible privilege. And this should cause our heart to rejoice as well. So let me give you three reasons why we should feel privileged. To be a part of so great a salvation. And here's the first one. Number one, it is the subject of prophetic investigation. Again, look at verse 10, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you. Now notice the search. There are two key words here in this verse There's the word inquired. The prophets inquired. This means to exert considerable effort, care, and learning something. And then there's the expression search diligently. That's one word in the Greek. And it means to seek for something Especially something that is hidden. Like miners engage in digging for precious metals in the earth. That's the idea there. This word was first used to tell of a dog sniffing out something with his nose In the Septuagint, the same word is used in Proverbs where it says, If you seek for her as silver and search for her, talking about wisdom, Solomon said, if you search for her, same word there, search You're searching for something that is precious, something that is a bit hidden, and you want to know what it is. And so taking these two verbs together, as Peter intended, he's really showing us that these Old Testament prophets They looked diligently into the scripture to find out more about what God was saying, more about this great salvation. that was yet to come in fruition, to full fruition in the l latter days. I remember now let me ask you a question, you ever study long hours over something? You know, I remember when I was going through the PhD program at Mid America Each seminar that I took, I had to spend 10 hours in the library. We had to log those hours and then 10 hours in your own study. So for every seminar I took, I had to spend 20 hours of research, logged research And I wanted I didn't want to be in this seminary the rest of my life, so I took two seminars a semester, which meant 40 hours of studying just for uh the the uh the seminars that I was taking. All that study had to be logged. You had to show the f the the fruits of it. You had to make presentations to the professors and students in class. And you talk about long hours searching Studying. And plus I pastored a church. And those poor people, they got more seminary studying. The fruits of my seminary. God bless, they have a special reward in heaven. And you know, but sometimes the professor he would give us the topic. He would say, here's the theme, here's the issue, I want you to research this. I want you to find out about this, and I want you to present the results of it. I think about that when I think about this verse. In the Old Testament, God would give these prophets revelation about salvation. That revelation was not the full revelation. He would give it in a kind of a C form. He would kind of give a foreshadowing of what's happening And then those prophets would take that and they would look into it and they would search it and they would research it. You know why? They wanted to know more about it. They wanted to understand. And specifically, what Look in verse number 10, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you. They wanted to know more about this grace. They wanted to see it more clearly. Again, we on this side of the cross, we see this grace close up, but the Old Testament prophets, they saw it from a long way off. You know, the way I I like to use the analogy of a jigsaw puzzle, I think I may have used this analogy with you before. You know, I've told you, please, if you want to buy me a gift, please don't buy me a jigsaw puzzle. They drive me crazy. You have the you see those time where it's ten thousand pieces, you know, and it's gonna take, you know, a few years to get it together? I just don't have that kind of patience. But just imagine a jigsaw puzzle that has 23,145 pieces. You say, where do you get that number? There are 23,145 verses in the Old Testament. Imagine a jigsaw puzzle that has that many pieces. And let's just say that you don't get all the pieces at once. You get pieces, you know, by and by. Maybe you'll get a few pieces here this year and then a few pieces later on. And let's just say that you don't get all the pieces. There are other people who get pieces of the puzzle. You don't get home all. And so when they put their pieces down and you put your pieces down, by and by the full picture of the puzzle begins to get clearer and clearer, but even so you don't get the full picture and so you look and you study those pieces because you want to see this full beautiful picture of grace that is coming together progressively, one piece at a time, and there's a longing in you, there's a desire in you to see that full, beautiful picture. This is what the Old Testament prophets long for. They wanted to see this beautiful picture of grace. And notice specifically, look in verse 11: searching what or what manner of time. They wanted to know the time. They knew that the Messiah was going to come. We know Isaiah 7. 14, therefore the Lord Himself shall give you a sign. Behold a virgin shall conceive Isaiah and do that. Isaiah said, for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders. He said in Isaiah 11, 1 And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, a branch shall come out of his roots. And so he's got these pieces and he's looking at it, but you know what he wants to know? Specifically the time, when is all of these things going to happen? Even Daniel. With the great knowledge that Daniel had, prayed in Daniel twelve nine, uh where he said, or twelve six I should say, how long shall it be to the end of these wonders? When is all of these things Going to happen? When is it all going to take place? They wanted to know more specifically about the time. And they were unable to see that when the the Messiah would come. There would be a first coming And then later on there will be the coming in glory. One person said it very eloquently, he said it like this, that the Old Testament prophets saw two mountain peaks. They saw the Mount of Calvary, and then they saw the Mount of Olives, where Jesus would come back in his glory. But what they were not able to see was the valley between those two mountains. And they were unable to see that there would be things that would take place there. There would be a period of time before the Messiah would come back in all of his glory, and so they wanted to know about all of these things This was part of what they desired. And so they looked and they searched diligently into knowing these things. They wanted to know again in verse eleven. The Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow. And so The Old Testament was what they were looking at. And by the way, I believe that the Old Testament is still valuable for the church today. When Peter is speaking about this, he's speaking about Old Testament prophecies. You say, why do you bring that up? I bring that up because just recently a very well-known preacher of Omega Church made the statement that we need to unhitch ourselves from the Old Testament That was his statement. We need to unhitch ourselves from the Old Testament. It's no longer useful for believers in this day. I beg to differ with you, sir. This is all of the Word of God. Is valuable for the church. We should study these Old Testament scriptures. There are beautiful pictures and portraits, and there's things that will help us to understand our salvation even to a greater extent, I believe. As we study the Old Testament scriptures, so we need to apply ourselves. We need to study diligently, just like these Old Testament prophets did. But But also notice the source. We see the source that in verse 11 it says, the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify. Now these prophets weren't religious geniuses who invented all these things in the Bible. What they received, who did they receive it from? They received it from the Holy Spirit of God. And I think this is one of the great verses in the New Testament that speaks of divine inspiration, the divine inspiration of the old Testament. Again, Peter will say in 2 Peter 1. 21, no prophecy was ever made or came by the will of man. But Holy men of God spake as they were moved. And the word move there is really a term that our fishermen would use, talking about the wind pushing along the sails of a boat. And Peter was speaking, I think, of this inspiration, the doctrine of inspiration. Of course, of course, we hold to that the verbal plenary inspiration of the scripture. Every word came from the mouth of God, every written word. And yet, but here's the point. They were studying, they were looking, they were searching, but we here on this side of the cross, do you understand the privilege we have of being able to see all these things? What a privilege that is. What a great privilege we have. And so our salvation is the subject of prophetic investigation. But here's the next thing. Our salvation is the subject of spiritual illumination. Look at verse number 12, where it says, unto whom it was revealed. That not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven. In other words, what Peter is saying was that the Holy Spirit, the same Holy Spirit that inspired the message and gave them the revelation, is the same Holy Spirit that also began to reveal something to them And what did the Holy Spirit reveal to these prophets while they were looking into these scriptures? And by the way, the word for reveal here is a word is apocalypto. It's a word we know very well. It's used often in the New Testament. It means to uncover. Where we get the word apocalypse to unveil, to uncover. And as these Old Testament prophets were searching The Holy Spirit finally illuminated and revealed to them this one thing. And what did he reveal to them in verse number 12? That he says that not unto themselves. But unto us they did minister the things. In other words, the Holy Spirit revealed that the things that they were actually writing down and putting together was not really for their benefit fully, it was for future believers that would come. It was for us. Now I don't know about you, but again, that makes me feel privileged. Why were they doing all they were doing all this and the Holy Spirit revealed to them that look You're only going to know or understand so much the things that are being revealed to you now, the revelations you are giving, the pieces that you have. Really, it's not for you to see fully It's for later believers who will see it. They'll get a full picture of it. Wow, what a incredible thing this is. They were ministering for a future generation. They were ministering for our behalf, for us Again, that's a reason for rejoicing. Thank God for the ministry of these Old Testament prophets who wrote these things down faithfully, and the Holy Spirit says this will be to future generations who will see the Messiah But there's a principle again that we want to extract from this, and you know what it is? You know what this teaches us? That we can investigate, we can dig, we can do all of that. But unless the Holy Spirit gives us illumination, we're not really going to understand the truth. We have to have the help of the Holy Spirit. One time a pastor asked a young staff member to pray on Sunday morning and he was very nervous when he prayed and he prayed the uh the prayer he meant to say, Holy Spirit, illuminate our minds. Instead he said, Holy Spirit, illuminate our minds today. And you know what? God doesn't want us to eliminate our minds when it comes to studying the Bible. We have to use our minds. We have to use all of the uh faculties that the Lord has given us. But if all you use are just your own logic and reason, and that's it, you'll never come to really understand the truth. Unless the Holy Spirit of God begins to give it to you, illuminate. In fact, hold your place here. Let me just show you this real quick. Go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. And I want you to sh I s when we went through First Corinthians, we kind of looked at this. I want to point at it again, just to remind you of what Paul is saying In first Corinthians chapter two, Paul is arguing that the wisdom of God is greater than the wisdom of man. You remember that the Corinthians were enamored with man's wisdom, and Paul was showing him that God's wisdom is so superior And he's giving one reason after another why God's wisdom is so much superior to man's. But one of the reasons he gives is that because God's wisdom, the way it's received. Shows that it's superior to the wisdom of man. That's the point that he's making here in chapter 2. God's wisdom is not humanly received Look in verse number 6 of chapter 2. Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect And when he says perfect here, again, this is the Greek word telios, which means mature or complete, it can refer to a person who has a full membership into a group, one who's fully initiated. And Peter here uses the term to refer to salvation In other words, you had been initiated into this wonderful thing of salvation. And because of this Well, you can understand the wisdom of God. How bad we speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world. Nor are the princes of this world that come to naught. The princes is talking about the leading men, the men of authority, the men, you know, that are in charge. They seem to have all of the intellect, the PhDs. Paul's saying, you get to understand God's wisdom, a wisdom that none of the world understands. They don't get it. They might have PhDs, they might have education, but they don't understand what you got. They don't understand the wisdom that you have. Because only truly believers who have the Holy Spirit can really comprehend the wisdom of God. And it comes because of the Holy Spirit. You see, it's comprehended by the mature. That's what Paul says in verse 6: God's people. It's contained in a mystery. Look at verse number 7. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. Even the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory. This wisdom is in a sense contained in a mystery that is uh the word mysterion it's not talking about something strange or puzzling but something that was secret that was revealed kind of progressively Little by little, this is God's plan of salvation. The wisdom of the cross was not fully revealed until God wanted it to be fully revealed. And verse 7, where it says, which God ordained. This plan originated in God's mind before the world began. God saw the full picture of the whole puzzle way back in eternity past But he revealed it a piece at a time. And there's a sense in which it was kind of mysterious in that we didn't get it all, but eventually God would show it all. But notice at the end of verse 7, where it says, before the world unto our glory. The plan was for our glory For us that we would share in glory, future glory. Again, this is the same thing that Peter is talking about. The wisdom of God is comprehended by the mature, it is contained in a mystery But as concealed from the mighty, look in verse number 8, which none of the princes of this world knew. For had they known it, they would have not crucified the Lord of glory. If they really understood what God was doing, they would have never crucified Jesus. But they didn't get it. Now I'm not saying they weren't smart. They were smart. They probably had high IQs. But they didn't get it because it wasn't revealed, because they didn't have the Holy Spirit Who helps us to understand truth? The Jewish leaders didn't get it. The gospel was a stumbling block to them. The Gentiles didn't get it because the gospel was foolishness unto them. The earthly rulers under did not understand this plan of salvation But look what Paul says in verse number nine. But as it is written, I has not seen, neither ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of men the things which God has prepared for them that love him. And what Paul is saying here is that again That in order to really understand this salvation, uh we're not going to be able to do it on our own. We can't do it with just our own eyes studying. He's talking here about all the empirical ways that we learn, by listening, by studying, by seeing, by imagining, by using reason. Those things are all good. We don't eliminate those things. We use those things. But if that's all you have, you're not going to really get it. Because man can't do it on his own. But look in verse number 10. Here's the key. But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God. Isn't that wonderful to know? That the reason you have one of the reasons God gave you the Holy Spirit is so that you can know these things and you can know the deep things of God. You say, Oh, I you know, I don't I don't I didn't really graduate with a college degree in this and I don't have them. Look, you don't need that. You have the Holy Spirit of God. And the Holy Spirit of God will teach you. And he will show you all the deep things of God. He wants you to understand it. It's divinely revealed. That's the point. That's why have you ever met believers that Perhaps uh didn't study at a Bible college or a seminary, didn't have any kind of formal education, yet when you met them, you had a sense that this person knows God and they know the Word of God, and there they know deep truth from God Where do they get that from? They get that because they have the Holy Spirit, who opens their heart, not only just their eyes to see and their ears to hear. But also reveals, illuminates their minds so that they're able to see these wonderful things about salvation. Again, this is the reason to rejoice. Because of the Spirit's illumination who shows us all of these wonderful things. Now go back to chapter one of Peter. Let me give you the third point And so this is why we feel so privileged in our salvation, because it is the subject of prophetic investigation. It is the subject of spiritual illumination. But here's the final point. It is the subject of angelic imagination. Look look in verse number twelve, look at the end, where it says, Again, unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto us did they they did minister the things which are now reported unto you. that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Spirit sent down from heaven. By the way, thank God for good preachers and teachers who, through the power of the Holy Spirit, make the word of God clear. That's a gift. And Peter speaks about them. Now watch this. Which things the angels desire to look into Even the angels want to understand this. Look at the word look into. It's an interesting word. It means to look, to stoop, to bend down beside. To give a careful inspection. In fact, this is the word that was used. Do you remember on the resurrection morning when Peter ran to the tomb? And uh you remember the story that is given there in the account of Luke and John, where both Peter and John run to the tomb, and John, because he's in better shape, outruns Peter. And he beats Peter there, and he kind of looks in, peeks in, stoops down and peeks in. What does he see when he peeks into that tomb? He sees that the grave clothes were folded. That's all it took for John. At that point, he believed that Jesus had resurrected. That's all he needed to see. He knew the body wasn't stolen away. Who would steal a body and then fold the clothes up and leave them behind? Peter, when he came along, he just kind of just walks right in and he stoops down and he looks. This is the word that is used in Luke 24, 12. Stooping and looking. Looking, examining carefully Jews of Peter and John as they were looking at the empty tomb. And can you imagine how intensely they looked? This is how intensely angels look when they want to know about this salvation that we have. And by the way, this is present tense. They didn't just look one time. They are continually looking, wanting to understand the things of salvation. They are fascinated with the salvation that we have. And they want to know more and more about it. And you know, angels, they know a whole lot of things. They're privileged to have spiritual information. They see what goes on in the invisible realm. They see many things, but one thing they don't really understand that we understand is this wonderful grace that God has given to us. They just can't understand it the way that we do. There's a song that we love. I think you probably know the words holy, holy, holy is what the angels sing. And I expect to help them make the courts of heaven ring. But when I sing salvation story, they must fold their wings, for angels never felt the joy that our salvation brings. That's so very true, and that's exactly what Peter is saying here. You see, there's a greater glory in our salvation yet to be fulfilled, and the angels they want to know about this. And they will see it, but yet they really won't know it the way we know it. And so again, what's Peter pointing out? Man, what a privilege we have. What a privilege. This great salvation that God has given us. It's so wonderful to know that That we know things that the prophets didn't know. This salvation is the subject of prophetic investigation. It is the subject of spiritual illumination. It is so great, and we have the Holy Spirit that teaches us the great truths of our salvation. And I don't know about you, but I've been saved for a long time. And as I study scripture, you know what? I just learn more and more. I'm more amazed. I'm more amazed today about the grace that God has given than I was yesterday. And I think that's the experience of the believer. It's the subject of spiritual illumination. It is the subject of angelic imagination. What a privilege. And so Peter is writing to these believers that are suffering, and he's saying, look, you can have joy, even though you may have heaviness. And one of the ways you have this joy is by understanding what a great salvation you have. And what a privilege that you have to be living in this time, to be recipients of the grace of God. This grace that the prophets really they wanted to learn about. That the angels are fascinated with. We have it. It's ours. So let's rejoice and let this thought of the greatness of our salvation carry us through any sorrow, any difficulty, any heartache that we may encounter. And we will encounter them while we're here. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you with all our heart. For this wonderful salvation. What a privilege that we have. And even though we may have times of heaviness, even though there may be seasons of sorrow, Lord, help us to focus on what you have given us. Remind us about that wonderful inheritance. Remind us, Lord, that That the trial of our faith brings us joy because it proves the authenticity of our faith. And that there's a sense in which we can receive that future glory right now, and this wonderful fellowship that we can enjoy with you is beyond description. And to know that our salvation is so wonderful. The angels are fascinated with it. The prophets inquired more about it. And yet we have it. We see it. What a great privilege. May we focus on these things. May we dwell on these things. May our hearts be lifted with joy and rejoicing even in the midst of our sorrows. We thank you, Lord, for what you've done. With heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just ask you, do you know the Lord Jesus? Is this salvation yours? Friend, if it's not, this is the greatest thing you could ever receive. Is this great salvation that God's given us? And friend, if you don't know the Lord, I just want to invite you this very moment, which you just the Lord will meet you right where you are. He'll come to right where you are. And by faith you can reach out to Him. And you can say, Lord, I don't really know this salvation experientially, but I want to. I want to be a partaker of it. And so, Lord, I know that you died for my sins, that I might have forgiveness. And so tonight I turn to you, I reach out to you in faith, I ask you to save me. Make me your child friend. I just encourage you, if you haven't done that, would you do it right now? He will meet you. Would you pray? And if you have prayed that prayer, would you let one of us know Just pull us aside. We want to rejoice with you. We want to encourage you in the things of God. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Use this for your servants, Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.