56. Now I am so glad that we had the Lord's Supper this morning and that we have music and songs about the cross because I want to preach about the cross today. I want us to go to the cross. A great missionary to India was once asked by one of his converts this question, what is the most difficult problem you've ever faced? Without hesitation, he said, the problem is when my heart would get cold before God. And when that happened, I knew I was too busy. He said, I knew it was time to get away. So I would take my Bible and go off through the hills alone, and I would open my Bible to Matthew 27, the story of the crucifixion. And he said, I would wrap my arms around the cross. Now it's my heart's desire today that for the moments that we have here, that we would stand at the foot of the cross of Christ, that we would be taken back in our heart and in our mind to the place where Christ was crucified. There's a very interesting verse in Galatians 3. 1. When Paul was writing to the Galatians, he said to them, before whose eyes Jesus Christ has evidently set forth crucified among you. He was writing to the Galatians and he said earlier, he said, who has bewitched you? They weren't obeying the Lord. They got off track. And he said, who bewitched you that you would believe a lie? And then Paul said, you need to get your eyes back on the cross. You need to go back to the cross. Fixing our eyes on the cross can fix a lot of problems in our life. I don't know what your problem is here today, but if you go to the cross and you fix your eyes on the cross, that problem can be Taking care of him. Paul said, before whose eyes Jesus Christ has evidently been crucified among you. What did he mean by that? Were the Galatians in Jerusalem? Were they at the crucifixion of Christ? No This can only mean one thing, that when Paul preached, he preached the cross so vividly that it was as if they had come to the foot of the cross and they were there. And that's what I would like for us to do today. There's a sense in which we've already been there, right, with the Lord's Supper? When we go to the Lord's Supper, we go, as it were, to the foot of the cross. And we see our Lord Jesus crucified for us. But I want us to do this here now through the preaching of the word. And look at verse 45 now. Let me read these verses with you and go back to the cross with me. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lamox Sabothani. Which is to say, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Some of them that stood there when they heard it said, This man called for Elias And straightway one of them ran and took a sponge and filled it with vinegar and put it on a reed and gave him to drink. And the rest said, Let be, let us see whether Elias will come to save him. And Jesus, when he had cried again with a loud voice, yielded up the ghost. And behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom, and the earth did quake, and the rocks ran. And the graves were opened, and many bodies of the saints which slept arose, and came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city and appeared unto many. Now, when the centurion and they that were with him, watching Jesus, saw the earthquake and those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God. Incredible passage. Now Matthew here, as we read, focuses really on the miracles that took place around the cross. Someone might ask, why so many miracles? Well the miracles really had two purposes. First, it was to prove that Jesus indeed was the Son of God. In 1 John 5, 6, John said This is he that came by water and blood. Not water only, but also but water and blood. What does that mean? Water is one word that refers to the baptism of Christ And blood is one word that refers to all the events that took place around the cross of Christ. At the baptism of Christ, let me ask you a question. Were there miracles at the baptism of Christ that proved he was the Son of God? Yeah, there was a voice from heaven. Right? The Holy Spirit descended like a dove. Now, John is saying there were also miracles at the cross of Christ that proved that Jesus was the Son of God. This is God the Father's commentary on the cross. At the baptism of Christ, there was a voice from heaven that said, This is my son. But at the crucifixion there was no audible voice. However, there was miracles, and those miracles was God the Father's exclamation point to what was taking place there on the cross. These miracles were also to demonstrate to the crowds in Jerusalem that something unusual was happening that day. This was not going to be the typical Passover. Picture in your mind that this day, thousands, we could even say a million or more pilgrims were coming into Jerusalem preparing to celebrate the Passover. And God was saying to them who were coming, this is something unique. My lamb, my Passover lamb, is being crucified for you today. Can you imagine being in Jerusalem on that day? And not knowing what was taking place there. This event was the focal event of all of redemptive history. This is the uh climax of God's salvation plan that was going to happen there. This day. It was God the Father saying, This is my Son who is dying for you. So I want us to look at the five miracles. That took place here on this day. First of all, if you're taking notice of the miracle of the sun, look in verse number 45. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. Now, the scripture says from the sixth hour, that's 12 noon, until the ninth hour, that's 3 o'clock in the afternoon, there was darkness over all the land. Jesus was on the cross for about six hours. The Bible says in Mark 15, 25 that he was crucified the third hour. That's 9 in the morning. So the first three hours was from 9 to 12. And from 9 to 12 on the cross, Jesus broke his silence three times, once to offer forgiveness. He said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Once to save a thief, a thief said, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus said, Today you'll be with me in paradise. And he broke his silence once to take care of his mother. He said to John, Behold thy mother. In other words, take care of Mary, she's now your responsibility. And then the second three-hour period began at 12 noon And Matthew tells us that at the sixth hour, at twelve noon, there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. That's incredible. Now let me ask you a question. If at twelve o'clock today all of a sudden that's only five minutes away, you're not getting out of here at twelve, all right? We'll try to keep it as close as possible so you don't burn your roast or whatever. But what if at 12 o'clock, all of a sudden, it got dark as midnight today? Would you just say, well, just a typical day here in Baltimore? You would say, what in the world is going on? And not only did it get dark, it stayed dark for three hours. That is unusual. That would cause someone to stop and say, what is going on? Now some have tried to read this and say, well, this was simply an eclipse. Really? This couldn't have been an eclipse. First of all, the sun and the moon were at opposite ends of the sky at this time of year. That could not have been an eclipse. And other others who don't want to believe this was a miracle. They say, well, this was probably a Sorako wind, you know, one of those east winds that's popular in that region that accumulates so much dust that it blackens out the sun. Well that's not possible either. Luke 23, 45 clearly says the sun was darkened. It was the sun. The Greek word here, ecleppo, what does that sound like? It's where we get the word eclipse. It literally means to utterly fail. The sun failed. God turned it off supernaturally. Now, we know scientifically if that happened, there would be some events that would take place as a result of it, but you know, God is all-powerful and he can do whatever he wants. And the Bible says that somehow God turned out the sun and sustained the world. And again, this lasted for three hours. No eclipse would last for three hours. No Siraco wind would last for three hours. And consider this. Matthew said it was darkness all over the land. I don't think this darkness was local. This was universal. This was something that happened all over. According to some of the church fathers, the supernatural darkness was something that was noticed throughout the whole world. For example, Turt Tertillion, the early church father, who wrote his book Apologeticum, it's a defense of Christianity against pagans He wrote this, quote, At the moment of Christ's death the light departed from the sun, and the lamb was darkened at noonday, which wonder is related in your own annals and is preserved in your archives to this day. And then during the third century, the church father Origen referred to the statement by the Roman historian Philagian who mentioned this unusual darkness. So what happened? God, who in the beginning said, Let there be light, when his son was dying on the cross, said, Let there be darkness. And don't think it's a hard thing for God to shut off the lights. God did it during the Exodus in Egypt. Darkness fell upon Egypt, the Bible says in Exodus 10, 14. In Joshua's day, God caused the sun to stand still, at least from Joshua's perspective, that's what it looked like where the earth slowed its rotation. God can do anything. God is all-powerful But God was saying to the people there that they stop what you're doing and take notice. I remember one time I was in a department store ready to make a purchase and the lights went totally out And when that happened, everything got deadly silent. People were wondering, what's going on? That's the reaction that probably took place, I think, in Jerusalem. People were wondering what's happening. And God was saying through this miracle, I am about to purchase something for you I'm about to buy something for you. Now what I don't understand is how these people did not see this as a miraculous sign from heaven. How could they ignore this? I mean the Jews were constantly asking Jesus for a sign, right? In Matthew 16, they said, show us a sign from heaven. Okay, here it is. I can't think of a greater sign than this. And yet they still did not believe. What kind of darkness was this? I think it was the darkness of sympathy. The Creator was dying on the cross, and I think at that moment all of creation groaned and moaned for its creator, its man. Creation suffered when Jesus suffered. We sing in the hymn, Well might the sun in darkness hide and shut his glories in. When Christ the mighty maker died for man, the creatures sin. We must remember that when Adam sinned, it affected all of creation. All of creation is suffering for man's Sin. And while creation is in rebellion against man, we live in a rebellious, a natural world today. However, it is in submission to its creator. And when Jesus died on the cross, all of creation was in sympathy with its creator. And all of the sun and the stars threw over the stripped body of the Lord Jesus a blanket of dark midnight. This was the darkness I think of solemnity. It was a moment when God was judging sin Sin was being judged. Darkness in the scripture is a symbol of God's judgment for sin. Write down Amos 5. 20. Shall not the day of the Lord be darkness? Not light, even very dark. That is the idea when God judges sin, it is darkness But I think it's also the place of secrecy, or the darkness of secrecy, I should say. You know, in the Day of Atonement when the priest would go into the Holy of Holies, it was dark. And when he was sprinkled the blood on the mercy seat, it was in darkness that that blood was sprinkled. There's a sense in which this is exactly what's happening here. This transaction is happening there on the cross. The blood was being sprinkled, so to speak, and the blood of Christ was satisfying the wrath of Almighty God. But it was the darkness of separation. Notice what Jesus said in verse 46 again. About the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lamax Sabothani, which is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? This is God the Father turning his back on his son at that moment in redemptive history. Why? Because at that moment Jesus was bearing on him, on the cross, the sins of all the world. And the Bible says that the eyes of God the Father are too pure to behold sin. And at that moment God the Father turned his back on his Son, and there was a separation for that moment Between God the Father and God the Son. Think about this. This is the only time in all of eternity that there was a separation between God the Father and God the Son. And it was at that moment on the cross. What kind of separation was it? It was a separation of fellowship. Jesus never stopped being God. He wasn't separated out of the Trinity, he was always God. But it was a separation of fellowship. Because Jesus at that moment was bearing sin. The Bible says he was wounded for our transgressions. He was delivered for our offenses. The Bible says in 1 Peter 2. 24, Christ bore our sins in his own body on the tree. The Bible says that Christ was made a curse. for us. In 2 Corinthians 5. 21, God says, he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. That's an incredible thought. It really, really is. That's it. Why he came to earth to bear sin. And so There was the darkness there at the cross. Notice the next miracle. There was not only the miracle of the sun, but the miracle of the sanctuary. Look in verse 50. And when Jesus had cried again with a loud voice, he yielded up a ghost. And behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain from top to the bottom, and the earth did quake. What happened here? Matthew records that precisely when Jesus died, the veil in the temple was rent from top to bottom. What was this veil? This was the huge curtain that hung between the holy place and the holy of holies there in the temple. Now how do we know which veil it was? Well, because the word for temple here in verse 51 doesn't refer to the whole temple. It's the Greek word naos, which here refers to the inner sanctuary, the holy of holies. And so this curtain hung there just before the Holy of Holies, and it was about the thickness of a man's hand. And it had hung there in that place for about 1,500 years. And why was it there to show that God is holy and sinful man can't get into the come into the presence of God unless He had the blood with him, the blood which satisfied the wrath of God. And once a year the high priest would pass through that veil, but when he did, he was very fearful, he was very careful about how he went into the Holy of Holies because if he went in there with sin in his life, God could take his life. Which is why the high priest would normally Stay up all night the night before, reading the scripture, confessing sin, getting himself ready to enter into that veil, and whenever he went in it, again it was always a very fearful prospect You had to be careful how you entered into the holy presence of God. But when Jesus died on the cross, the Bible says the veil was rent from the top to the bottom, which shows that no man ran it. It was God who did it. And now man can enter into the presence of God because of what Jesus did for us. That's why this morning we could we can we we can now come into the presence of God because of The body that was broken for us, because of the blood that was shed for us, we can now go into the holy presence of God. And by the way, this happened when all the worshipers were there in the temple. Again, kind of put yourself in their place. You're there in the temple, you're ready to worship, all of a sudden you see this veil being torn. What an incredible demonstration that must have been. And then notice the next miracle. The stones, again in verse 51. Notice the latter part of the verse. And the earth did quake, and the rocks rent. This earthquake was so fierce and devastating that the rocks and the stones were creating fissures in the ground. At that very moment when Jesus died, not only was the temple veil rent, but there was a huge earthquake Now the miracle here is not in the earthquake because earthquakes happened, but it was in the timing of it, at that very moment when Jesus died. The earthquake came. And it was very violent. This was not a coincidence. And the people there understood that. Look at verse 54. And when the centurion and they that were with them watching Jesus saw the what? the earthquake and those things that were done, they feared greatly. They knew that this wasn't just a coincidence. They knew that something was going on here, and the Bible says they feared. And again, earthquakes in Scripture, like darkness, was a symbol of God's divine judgment or God's presence. When Moses was on Mount Sinai and he was giving it all, the Bible says the earth quaked. David wrote, when God was angry, the earth shook and the heavens also dropped at the presence of God. The Bible teaches in Revelation that God's final judgment will commence with a great earthquake. And so an earthquake, in a sense, is God's, again, divine punctuation mark at what was going on at that moment. on the cross. And by the way, I think there's another thing happening here. Do you remember when Jesus rode into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday? There were thousands of worshipers that were crying out, Hosanna, Hosanna! And the Pharisees got angry and they said, silence those people, Jesus. And Jesus said, well, if these people become silent, the stones will what? The stones will cry out. And by the way, that's future indicative in the Greek. We could say it like this, when these people become silent, the stones will cry out. In other words, this is going to happen in the future. These people will become silent. And when that happens, the stones will cry out. And just a few days later the people were silent. They weren't crying Hosanna anymore. They were crying what? Crucify him. And then the stones did cry out, how, right here. When the earthquake came, the stones rent. It was the stones crying out, saying, He is the Son of God. He is the Son of God. But notice the next miracle. Not only the sun, the sanctuary, the stones, but also the saints. Look at verse 52. And the graves were opened. And many bodies of the saints which slept arose and came out of the graves after his resurrection and went into the holy city and appeared unto many. Wow, here's another incredible sign of the power of the cross and the deity of Christ. Matthew records that when the earthquake took place. Old Testament saints resurrected and they went went into Jerusalem and the Bible says appeared to many that were in the city. This was not a resurrection of spirits, but of bodies What an incredible thing this is. Resurrected saints going into Jerusalem? I mean, wow. This is somewhat mysterious. There's a lot of questions. Normally people ask me questions about this. How many were raised? Were these saints that died long ago, or did they die fairly recent? How long were they alive after they resurrected? Was this a permanent resurrection? Did they die again? Were they taken to heaven like Elijah? When they went into Jerusalem, what were they doing? What did they say? There's an answer to all those questions. I don't know. I don't know. This event was not written to satisfy our curiosity. You say, why was this event recorded? Did you know that Jewish rabbis taught that when the Messiah is revealed, Old Testament saints will resurrect? Did you know that's what they taught? And Matthew is writing primarily to Jews. This is a kind of a Jewish gospel. And the Jews of that day, namely the rabbis, were convinced that there would be a bodily resurrection revealing the Messiah. In fact, let me quote you one rabbi who lived in this day. This is what he said. Quote, When you bury me, put shoes on my feet, give me a staff in my hand, and lay me on one side, that when the Messiah comes, I might be ready. There are synagogue walls that have paintings of Old Testament saints being resurrected. You say, where did they get that from? Where did the rabbis get this from? Well, let me show you real quick. Hold your place here in Matthew. Go back to Ezekiel 37 real quick. Show you this one verse. Look at Ezekiel 37, look in verse 12. Ezekiel 37, 12 and 13. Prophetically speaking about the time of the Messiah Therefore prophesy, this is Ezekiel 37, 12. Therefore prophesy and say unto them, Thus says the Lord God, behold, all my people, I will open your graves. And cause you to come out of your graves. Look at verse 13. And ye shall know that I am the Lord when I have opened your what? Your graves. O my people, and brought you up out of your graves. So there's where they get that from. That when the Messiah would come, there would be a resurrection of Old Testament saints. Also write down Isaiah 26, 19. Shall they arise? Awake and sing he that dwell in the dust, for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead. And so here in Matthew 27, this is the fulfillment of those Old Testament prophetic verses that speaks about the revelation of the Messiah. Now those who knew the Old Testament, especially the rabbis back then, they should have known this. And they should have embraced Christ at that moment. Let me give you one more miracle, the last one. There's a miracle of the sun, the sanctuary, the stones, the saints, but then the miracle of the soldiers. Look in verse 54 Now, when the centurion and they that were with him watching Jesus saw the earthquake and those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truly, this was the Son of God. What an incredible confession of these soldiers at the cross. In other words, these signs were so clear. So compelling that even a group of hardened Roman soldiers, they got it. They understood it. And they confessed, truly, this was the Son of God. Think about that. These Roman soldiers, they were hardened men. I mean, they did crucifixions all the time. They did thousands of executions. In fact, history tells us that 30,000 Jews were crucified by the Romans around the time of Jesus Christ. So they were doing these executions all the time. And yet there was something different here about this one. When they saw all the signs, everything that took place around Christ. They said, truly, this was the Son of God. They feared greatly. They were terrified. I suggest to you that Roman soldiers normally don't get terrified. But here they were terrified. They knew that something momentous had just taken place. They didn't grasp the enormity of their own sin in crucifying Christ. That's why Jesus said, Father, forgive them. Why? They don't know what they're doing. They don't understand what they're doing. But by the end of the crucifixion, they knew something here terrible had taken place. And they confess that he is the Son of God. By the way, this confession should have been a rebuke to the Jewish leaders and the Jewish people around That didn't believe. Here they had all these signs. They had all these miracles. And they knew the Old Testament scriptures and still they weren't ready to believe. And yet at this one event, these Gentile soldiers confess it. They believed that Jesus was the Son of God. Part of the reason for Matthew recording these things is to show the hardness. And the blindness of the Jews that did not confess Christ. And so, friend, all of these miracles and signs tell us that Jesus was the Son of God. He was who he claimed to be. And friend, if he was, that means everything he said is true. And Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes under the Father but by me. And that means that if you believe that Jesus is the Son of God, it's not enough just to believe it here. You have to surrender to his lordship. You have to repent of your sin and confess him as Lord. That is the only proper response to the cross of Christ. And so my question is: have you done that here today? There was a man who was visiting the city of Chicago and he heard about a famous nightclub there, a bar, called the Gates of Hell. And he wanted to go there. The Gates of Hell was located on a street called Michigan Street. There was a church there called Calvary Church, and right down the street from that church was this famous bar, the gates of hell. This man went to Chicago looking for it and he happened to ask a police officer. He said, Sir, excuse me, can you tell me how I can get to the gates of hell? And the police officer said, sure. He said you go right down here and you bypass Calvary, and if you bypass Calvary, you'll come to the gates of hell. And you know what, friend? Any person who goes to the gates of hell, you're gonna have to walk past Calvary. You're going to have to walk past a Savior who was bleeding and dying for you, who took all of your sins upon himself and died for you so that you can have eternal life. And so, friend, let's go to the cross and let's see our Savior. And let's kind of push the reset button, as it were, in our own spiritual life. And let's commit ourselves to surrender to Him and to love Him and to serve Him and to call Him Lord. Let's bow for prayer together. And while you're praying, I I want to read to you a poem written by John Newton. John Newton was The wild man who was saved by Jesus and he wrote Amazing Grace. He wrote many beautiful poems. I want you, while your heads are bowed and eyes are closed, I want you to listen to what he wrote here about the cross. He said this, in evil long I took delight, unaled by shame or fear, till a new object struck my sight and stopped my wild career. I saw one hanging on a tree, in agonies and blood, who fixed his languid eyes on me as near the cross I stood. Sure, never till at my latest fresh can I forget that look. It seemed to change me with his death, though not a word he spoke. My conscience felt and owned the guilt, and plunged me in despair. I saw my sins his blood had spilt and helped to nail him there. Alas, I knew not what I did. But now my tears are vain. Where shall my trembling soul be hid? For I the Lord have slain. A second look he gave, which said, I freely all forgive This blood is for thy ransom paid. I died that thou mayest live. And thus, while his death my sin displays in all its blackest hue, such is the mystery of grace. It feels my pardon too. And with pleasing grief and mournful joy, my spirit now is filled, that I should such a life destroy, yet live by him I killed. Friend, did you see Christ there hanging on the cross for you? It was for you. And friend, if you're here today and you've never been to the cross, as it were, for forgiveness of sin. Today Jesus is reaching out to you yet again. And he says, Come to me. Come to me for forgiveness. For salvation. How many of you here today would say, you know, I've never turned from my sin, I've never confessed Christ as my Savior, but today I'm coming from the cross And I want to receive Christ today. Is that your prayer? Would you lift your hand so I can pray for you, friend? Is that your condition here? Do you know Christ? Maybe you say, well, I'm a Christian, but I want to go back to the cross. Even though I'm already saved, I want to go back to the cross again. And I want to see Jesus And I kneel there and lay all of my burdens and my problems there and realize he's the answer for all of that. He's the answer for all that. Father, we come to the cross We stand amazed, we thank you for sending your son to die for us Lord, I pray that this will help all of our problems, all of our fears, all of our burdens to melt away. That we can get fresh strength by going to the cross today. Today. Bless this word to our hearts. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.