Take your Bibles tonight and uh open to 2 Kings as we continue our study through the book of 2 Kings. We're going to look at chapter 4 and we're going to look at verses 38 down to verse 41, or excuse me, 44. of this narrative. Second Kings chapter 4, verse 38. And Elisha came again to Gilgal, and there was a dearth in the land, and the sons of the prophets were sitting before him. And he said unto his servant, Set on the Great Pot, or set on the great pot and sieve pottage for the sons of the prophets. And one went out into the field to gather herbs, and found a wild vine, and gathered thereof wild gourds, his lap full, and came and shrewd them and in into the pot of pottage, for they knew them not. And so they poured out for the men to eat, and it came to pass as they were eating of the pot, they cried out and said, O thou man of God, there is death in the pot, and they could not eat thereof. In my early years of ministry, I served in a church in Louisiana. When I first moved down to the South, I knew very little about the South and its culture. Louisiana is known for their Cajun food. One dish I was introduced to I'd never heard before is gumbo. Anybody ever heard of gumbo? In case you don't know what it is, it's a thick stew. It has a mixture of vegetables and meat and beans and rice and there are different types of gumbo that a person can have. Sometimes when you're served gumbo, you're not really sure what's in there um what kind of gumbo it is. I remember one time we had a special speaker come to our youth camp and that summer the the dining hall was serving gumbo. for dinner and the speaker went by the uh the line and he looked down into this big pot and it actually it kind of looked like mud in that pot to be honest with you. It had that color to it that consistency. He said to a a little boy next to him, a Cajun boy, he said, What is in that pot? And the little boy looked up and said, Anything and everything. I think about that when I uh read this story here in uh 2 Kings chapter 4. Here's a story of a pot of gumbo filled with anything and everything. A man was making stew and he went out and he gathered some vegetables. He thought that he would make a tasty stew. Unfortunately, the person who gathered these uh vegetables was not a Cajun chef. In fact, he didn't he really didn't know what he was doing, and he kind of caused a stir, no pun intended there. In this narrative, we have really what we see are gonna s are are two stories of food. It's interesting to me how much the narratives of Elijah and Elisha have to do with food. You know, as me as modern readers of to of the the scripture, um, you know, w it's hard for us to understand what life was like in ancient Israel. You know, here in America, uh getting food is not a big deal, the starvation is not really a problem. But in the ancient Near East One of the big challenges was being able to just be fed, especially if there was a famine going on, if there was a drought. Starvation was never really far away. And what we see are two miracle stories here, and it basically shows God's compassion for his people. He's able to take care of them even in difficult times. His compassion is extended to even the basic needs of life. But these are just some more miracles that we see in the life of Elisha. And the purpose of these miracles are are several. First of all They demonstrate that the God of Israel is the true God. You have to remember that Israel, many of them had turned to Baal, right? And Baal was the God of fertility. Well, if he was the God of fertility and rain, why are they going through a drought? Why are they experiencing this severe uh lack? Baal is not able to sustain his people in a time of drought. However, the true God, Yahweh, is able to miraculously provide for his faithful people. Yahweh is able to give uh children to a barren woman, as we saw already in some of these miracles Elijah did. Yahweh is able to provide food where there is none. He's able to provide financial resources to a suffering widow. He's able even to raise the dead. Baal is weak and powerless by contrast. He can't do any of these things. There's another reason for these miracles, and that is they teach the cost of disobedience and the blessing of trusting God. The reason Israel is experiencing these drought conditions is because this was the part of the curse of disobeying the covenant that God warned about in Deuteronomy. When God's people were not faithful to the covenant, God would curse their land. In fact, the Bible says in Deuteronomy 28. 18, Cursed shall be the fruit of thy land. There's another interesting verse in Deuteronomy 29, 18. Beware lest there be among you a man or a woman or clan or tribe whose heart is turning away from the Lord our God to go and serve other gods He goes on to say, beware lest there be among you a bitter, poisonous, or bitter fruit. God is saying, look, if you turn from me, then the land will produce poisonous fruit Herbs, bitter fruits. And this story of a man going out into the field and reaping uh wild bitter fruits should really be a reminder that this was a curse that God was putting on the land because of their covenant disobedience. Yet even in the midst of that Those who are faithful to God, those who trust God, God will protect them, even in the midst of the curse, even in the midst of famine. That's what this miracle demonstrates. But there's another purpose in the miracles, and that is it's to teach truth. All of these miracles serve as object lessons. The famine in Elisha's day pointed to a deeper problem. It pointed to a spiritual famine that was in the land. There was a spiritual famine because God's people had turned from the true God. and they were worshiping a false God. They had turned from the true word of God, the true message, and they were embracing false messages. God's prophets, however, were able to counteract the deadly effects of this false religion by preaching the truth. God's people turned to a false God, and they were reaping deadly benefits. God's prophets can set things straight And this is the message we need today, because you know what? We have the same spiritual famine in our land today. There are people turning from the true God, turning from the true message, turning from the Word of God, and the effects are the same. It's deadly, it's poisonous for people spiritually. And so the message that are these these miracles really communicate to Israel are are needed today, they communicate something fresh to us that we need to hear. Someone has rightly said for every New Testament truth there's an Old Testament illustration. And what I want you to see in in this narrative are illustrations of how these miracles point in a way to the ministry of the gospel So I want you to see three parts to this then. First of all, if you're taking notes, think about the poisoned pot. To me, this illustrates the perversion of the gospel. Again, we see in verse 38 there was a famine in the land, there was a dearth. And again, that reminds us of the deeper famine, that there was a famine spiritually, a famine of the Word of God. You might want to put in your margin, Amos 8. 11. Where Amos said, Behold, the days are coming when I will send a famine on the land, says the Lord, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst of water, but of hearing the words of the Lord. Well, you know what? I think we have that famine even today. A famine of hearing the words of God. People are turning away again from the true message. And they are turning to false religion. They're replacing the true God and the true gospel with a false gospel. And people are not satisfied then with just the word of God. They think that they have to have something more. And this illustration, this story illustrates this. Now here's Elisha. He's at Gilgal, we see in verse 38. There was a school of prophets there, about a hundred students. So Elisha is the president of Gilgal Theological Seminary. And these students are coming to him for spiritual guidance, and it's it's lunchtime and and and prophets need to be fed. So Elisha says, go heat up the big pot. This is obviously uh something that they would use constantly, heat up the pot and uh and um and set it uh just put it on fire. And so there was this huge pot that uh needed to be reheated. The servants uh whose job it was to do this, I want you to see that he makes several mistakes here. First of all, uh there's what I call the mistake of improvement. You know, he goes out to the pot and he looks in and he says, you know, there's not enough here I need to add to this pot. I like what Spirgy said about this at this point. He said, you know Uh it was for him to set the pot over the fire. It was for the Lord to fill it. Some of the young men were not so sure as Elisha that God could fill it. without their help. There was a drought out there. They were expecting God to just provide and Elisha was expecting that. But here's this young man who looks in the pot and he says, you know, it's not enough. I need to add something So in verse 39 he goes out into the field to gather herbs, and he finds a wild vine, and he gathers there all this says in verse 30, wild gores uh his laugh full that as you he kind of pulls up the bottom of his robe, makes a little pouch there, and he starts putting all these wild gourds and things that look rather tasty. Um you know, that he could add to the stew. Uh unfortunately this guy was not a botanist. Not only was he not a chef, he was not a botanist. He doesn't recognize what's edible and what's not edible. He just uses his own judgment. You know, this looks pretty tasty This looks like this would be okay. And so he gathers all these together. He's using his own opinion and reasoning, and he fills his lap with all of these wild gourds. He takes them back, cuts them up, puts them into the stew, and he makes his own Gilgal gumbo, is what I want to call it. His own little secret recipe And I think he's excited about this. I think uh when someone comes along and said, What's in there? I can't prove it, but he probably said anything and everything is in there. In verse 40 it's poured out. In verse 40, so they poured out for the men to eat, and it came to pass as they were eating of the pottage that they cried out and said, Oh thou man of God, there is death in the pot. You don't want to hear that after you've eaten some soup. There's death in the pot. That is to say, there's poison in the pot, and they could not eat thereof. It was so bad. It was disgusting. It had a terrible effect. Now I again I compare this to the gospel. You know there are some people out there trying to improve the message of the gospel, and so they they think the gospel is insufficient, that there's not enough to it to really help people, and so They go out into the world and they try to find different ways to try to help out the gospel and they they collect, as it were, some spiritual wild vines. They devise all these ways to make the gospel more palatable. Churches in America are doing all types of things to help out the gospel, even though the gospel doesn't need any help. In the book of Shame to the Gospel, the author writes this, there seems almost no limit to what modern church leaders will do to entice people who aren't interested in preaching. Too many have bought the notion that the church must win people by offering an alternative form of entertainment. And in the Book of Shane of the Gospel, the author documents all of these different things that churches are turning to and doing, all different kinds of forms of entertainment to try to just attract a crowd, you know And it's really r laughable. Uh he talks about uh one church that staged a wrestling match between church employees to try to gather a c a crowd. And just to make sure that the church employees wouldn't hurt each other, they hired Tugboat Taylor, a former professional wrestler, to teach them how to do all those fake wrestling moves, you know, pull hair, kicking shins, tossing bodies around, yada yada. Can you believe that? And there are all these things that are being done in the name of the church, you know. If he talks about churches that send staff members down to Ballys Casino in Las Vegas to figure out how to run a church service. These are just wild gourds that people are trying to add in because they think the gospel is not enough. It's ridiculous. And we need to be aware of that. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It's the power of God and the salvation. I'm not ashamed of preaching the word. God's word will build the church. But it'll also, you know what it'll do? Whatever's not of God, it'll tear it down. Whatever's of God, it'll build it up. And that's the effect. The Word of God will not return void. I have full confidence in the power of the gospel. I know a lot of these churches that are doing all these different things, you know, um, they they you know they're reporting big numbers in big crowds, but not all growth is healthy growth. Now I don't want to see a church decline. I want to see growth, but friend, I want it to be real gospel growth, and I think we can trust God for that. And so there are people that want to make the gospel less offensive, and doing so they poison the pot. But here's another mistake I think this guy makes. Not only improvement, he's trying to improve things, but also ignorance. Really, he doesn't know what he's doing. And the Bible tells us in verse 39, the latter part, it says he put them into the pot of pottage, for they knew them not. Now what does that mean? Could mean that the guys there watching maybe didn't know what they didn't recognize what he was putting in there. Or maybe it just means that he didn't really know what he had. I think that's probably the end the idea here. He didn't really know what he was putting in there. He just pretended that he knew what he was doing. Not everyone who wears a chef's hat is a real chef Not everyone that acts like they know what they're doing and really know what they're doing. Here's this guy, he's totally ignorant, he doesn't really know And you know, there are many people who seek to minister the gospel of God's word, and they're just simply ignorant of it. They're ignorant of the very gospel itself. They're ignorant of the message of the Word of God. They don't know what they're doing. Not everyone who stands behind a pulpit knows what he's talking about. Not everyone who stands behind a pulpit knows what they're doing. I'll even go willing to say not everyone who has a uh letters after their name like Master of Divinity or PhD, don't just don't be fooled by that. You better listen to what they're saying You better make sure they know what they're talking about. It's alarming what I hear coming out of pulpits in America today. And the dangerous thing is that many people are are swallowing it. They're receiving it. They're being fed poison and they don't realize it. As disciples of Jesus Christ, it's our job to learn the Word of God. The Bible says, study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needs not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Write down Hosea 4. 6. My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. You know it'll destroy your spiritual growth. It'll destroy our church and ministry. When you don't know the Word of God. And you open yourself up for all kinds of things. We can't afford to be ignorant about the message of God's Word. That's why we have Sunday school. That's why we have schools of the Bible and Theological seminaries. We try to train people to know God's Word and to handle God's Word accurately. All over the Word of God and the gospel is being mishandled. by people that are really ignorant of the truth. And there's poison in the pot. But then there's a second thing I see here. Not only the poison pot, the perversion of the gospel. But I want you to see number two the flower. In this I see an illustration of the power of the gospel. What does Elisha do about this dilemma of poison in the pot? Notice what he does And this is the first miracle here in this narrative. In verse 41, but he said, Then bring meal, and he cast it into the pot. Elisha asks that they place meal or basically flour. The word for meal here just means flour or grain that's been ground or sifted. He takes a handful of it, maybe just a small bit of it, puts it into the pot, and you know what it does? It changes that whole stew. It just changes it. It spreads throughout And miraculously the poison is removed, and suddenly in this huge pot, everything in there is now edible and it's now nourishing. You know, when I read this, you know what I think about? I think about the parable that Jesus gave in the New Testament in Matthew 13, 33. Remember the parable about the woman with the uh Uh with the leaven. She the Bible says that the kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven which a woman took and hid it in three measures of meal till the whole was leavened. She takes a little leaven, puts it in this huge batch of dough And that little bit of leaven spreads and it permeates and it goes all throughout the loaf and it it it it leavens the whole thing until the whole was leavened. That little piece of leaven extended to every part of that big, huge portion of dough. And this is what we see here. Here, there's just A little flower is thrown into this pot, this huge pot, and the flower spreads and it permeates the stew until all the poison is gone. And you know what this speaks to me about? The power of the gospel to influence the whole world. That's what the gospel does. It permeates throughout the whole world. And the kingdom of God is extended wherever the gospel comes and people get saved and they know Jesus. That's the kingdom of God that is spreading. And what we see is that it overturns the curse of sin. You know, those wild gourds, wild vines, those bitter herbs, you know what they represent? They represent the curse of sin. You realize that when God created Adam in the beginning, everything in the Garden of Eden was edible. Adam didn't have to go around looking and saying, Can I eat this? Everything there's food all around. But when sin came, then there came poison plants and wild gourds. As far as we know, there were no poison plants growing in the Garden of Eden. They show up After the curse of sin, the thorns and the thistles. And even today we see all over the world the effects of the curse of sin. There's death in the pot. We're living under the curse of sin. But of course, we know that Jesus died on the cross. He bore the curse of sin. He bore the curse of the law upon those who disobeyed it. And because of Jesus Christ, the curse of sin is being removed. And when the peop when people come in contact with the with Christ, the flour that is put into the pot, that's Jesus the bread of life. When someone comes in contact with the Lord Jesus, the effects of sin, the curse of sin is being reversed all over. And I want you to think about this. You know, just like the leaven spread throughout the whole oaf, the flour spreads throughout the whole pot, and it spreads silently. That's how the gospel spreads. That's how the kingdom of God is spreading into the world today. It doesn't make a lot of noise. You don't read about it in the newspaper. It's just silently spreading all over. We don't know about it. Some of you don't know about it. I've been to places in the world where I've seen the gospel spreading in places you would never think it would spread. I've seen Muslims get converted. People that were former Al Qa Al-Qaeda come up and hug me and say, you know, a few years ago I would have wanted to kill you, but now I'm a Christian. Thank God for the gospel. When I was in Egypt just here recently, I went to many places where they're very difficult. It's 95% Muslim And people are Christians are persecuted, and yet despite all of that, the gospel is spreading. And people are meeting in secret places, and the gospel is growing. That's how the gospel spreads. It spreads silently. The Bible says in Luke 17, 20, the Pharisees said to Jesus, if you're a king, where is your kingdom? And Jesus said, The kingdom is in the midst of you. It's spreading all around you. You just don't see it. You can't discern it humanly, but the kingdom is spreading. It spreads inwardly, just like the leaven and the loaf spreads inwardly, so this flower spreads in the pot inwardly. You know, the kingdom of God doesn't, we don't use guns and weapons to share the gospel, do we? I know some religions that that's how their religion spreads through threats. Through violence. But the kingdom of God does not spread with guns. We don't need a president or a politician or have the right government in order for the kingdom of God to spread or to influence the world. Thank God for good, godly political leaders. There are a few around, I think, but God doesn't need them, and the church doesn't need them, and the gospel doesn't need them, because God can open up doors whenever he wants to. And the kingdom and the gospel is spreading inwardly. That's why Jesus said, look, my kingdom's not of this world. If it were of this world, my servants would fight. But it's not of this world. So it doesn't really matter who's in office. It can't thwart the purposes of God. It can't keep the gospel from spreading. The kingdom spreads. inwardly in the hearts of men. Romans 14, 17, for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. Paul says the kingdom is spreading inwardly. But number three, it spreads relentlessly. That is to say, once it starts to spread, you can't stop it. No one can stop the gospel from spreading. Throughout history, people have tried, but you can't stop it. It's relentless Once the leavening process begins, you can't short circuit it. You can't turn it back. Once the flour begins to permeate the whole pot, you can't Stop it. Someone would say, well, in certain places, you know, in the world the church is declining, it's weakening, it's closing its doors. Yeah, but there are new churches taking their place. And there are more growing and there are more things happening. New church plants are spreading all over the world. Did you know that there are so many churches springing up all over the world? That missionary agencies are struggling to find and train pastors to fill those needs. In fact, the great need of the world today is to train leaders on the mission field to take some of these churches. That's the biggest need. That's what we're facing. The kingdom of God cannot be turned back. 1 Corinthians 4. 20, for the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power. Hebrews 12, 28, wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. That is, you can't shake it You can't stop it. You can't halt it. It's the most powerful force on the world today. It spreads silently, it spreads inwardly, it spreads relentlessly, but also it spreads thoroughly. Again, in that parable, Jesus said, until the whole was leavened. And here we see in this, the flour isn't finished until all the stew in the pot is healed from the poison. And the gospel will permeate all of the nations and the people and the tongues and the languages of this world. It'll reach around the entire globe and continue to increase. That's what Jesus meant when he taught the disciples that parable. That had to encourage the disciples. And the Old Testament prophets predicted that the kingdom of God would eventually come to the earth and encompass the entire globe. And so from the very start, it started out small, just like a little handful of flour, and then it began to spread all out. I mean you think about it. Think about all of the advances. Think about the world and how it's been influenced by the gospel. How many parts of our world have been touched and where the the curse is being reversed? It hasn't been completely removed. We know that. It won't be until the Lord comes. But there's a sense in which the curse of sin is being held back. It's being reversed wherever the gospel is spreading. Think about human rights. and the concept of universal human rights. That comes from the Bible. That all people are created in the image of God. Think about the treatment of women. You know, in ancient cultures A wife was the property of her husband. Aristotle said that a woman was somewhere between a free man and a slave. Think about how Christianity exalts Womanhood and shows the gift of womanhood is to the world and how it it exalts women for the gift that they are to our world. Think about children. In the ancient world, infanticide was practiced all the time, especially in ancient Rome. But because of the Word of God, there was the sanctity of human life. These pro-life movements are basically Christian movements Because of what the Bible says. And on we could go. Marriage and family, education, the influence in government, art, literature, music, and so on. All over we're seeing the effects of the Word of God and the gospel. Now let me show you the third point here. We saw, first of all, the poison pot, the perversion of the gospel. Secondly, we see the flower, which to me illustrates the power of the gospel. But here's number three, the twenty loaves, and this is what I think illustrates the program of the gospel. Look down at verse number 42 because Here's the second story in the second miracle in this narrative. And there came a man from Baal Shalisha And brought the man of God bread of the first fruits, twenty loaves of barley, and full ears of corn, and the husk thereof, and he said, Give to the people that they may eat. Now, just as the world needs food to satisfy the hunger of their bodies, the world needs the gospel to satisfy the hunger of their soul. And so what is God's program? How does he minister his word? Well Here's the first thing we see. God uses dedicated people to do it. Here's this man. He comes to make an offering to the Lord, as we read here in verse 42. In the northern kingdom of Israel, there was no official temple dedicated to God. Many of the faithful priests and Levites had to leave apostate Israel and they moved to Judah. And since there was no sanctuary for the people to bring their tithes and offerings, they would bring them to the nearest school of prophets, where they would share them with people who were true followers of God. People who were true to the Mosaic Law. And the first fruit offerings of grain, they this these could be roasted heads of grain, or it could be fine flour that was baked into cakes, even little loaves of bread. And this is what this man brings. He brings twenty loaves of bread, and he brings some corn, and he brings it as an offering. He brought it to the right place. He brought it to a seminary of hungry preachers. They could take care of that. This would be very welcome by the sons of the prophet, and certainly the Lord Honor this man because of what he did. So here's this man. He's so dedicated to the Lord. He makes this trip to Gilgal and he gives this offering to the Lord's work. And this reminds us, you know how the gospel spreads? God uses the gifts of dedicated people to accomplish his work. That's what God does. Thank God for the gifts Dedicated people. We cannot accomplish the ministry of the gospel without them. And this story also teaches us the principle that God meets the needs of people through other people. Through dedicated people. God could have fed these guys many different ways. He could have done several different miracles. He could have sent down manna from heaven, like you know, Moses fed the uh the people in the the Jews in the wilderness, or actually God did through Moses. God didn't do that. He could have sent an angels down to cook cakes like he did for Elijah. He didn't do that. That the people would have been amazed by that. How does God choose to do this? He uses the gift of a dedicated man to do his work. But here's the second thing we see. God uses inadequate people. God uses dedicated people, but he also uses inadequate people. What this man gave was really not that much. Now Uh this was a wonderful thing that he did, don't get me wrong. But barley loaves are really small. They're really like small little dinner rolls. Okay? They were about the size of a normal dinner roll. And you're talking about a hundred hungry preachers, all right? Twenty little dinner rolls and a little bit of corn isn't enough. It's inadequate. Again, what he gave was a blessing and honored the Lord. And it was all he could do in the midst of a famine. But it simply wasn't enough. And you know this miracle kind of parallels the miracle of Christ. Remember the feeding of the five thousand? This really is kind of a forerunner to the to the feeding of the five thousand. Notice in verse number 43 Again, you know, he says, give to the people. And then it's the servant says in verse 43, What should I set before a hundred men? Are you kidding me? You want me to put this in front of a hundred men? This isn't enough This sounds like Andrew what he said when Jesus said, take the five loaves and the two fish and just give it, you know, start to pass it out. Andrew said, How is this going to take care of so many people? You know. But let me remind you that little is much when God is in it. And what God wants us to do is to do what we can do and then trust God. For the rest. Give to God your inadequacy. Give to God what you have. Yield to God what you do have. Jesus doesn't ask us to give him what we don't have, just to give him what we do have. And he uses the inadequate things when we yield them to him. So we give our inadequacy to God. Trust God to bless and multiply whatever we give him. I promise you, whatever you give to God, God can use it. And he can multiply it. Remember the miracle of the five thousand? All they had was a little boy's lunch, five little barley loaves, and two small fishes. And again Andrew said, What is this among so many people? Five thousand people? Remember what Jesus said? He said, bring them to me. I love that. Bring them to me. And you remember what the Bible says Jesus did with that? He did three things with it. First of all, he blessed them. You understand that anything we do without the blessing of God is a waste of time. We have to have the blessing of God unless the Lord builds the house. They labor in vain that build it. The problem in many churches today is that we've learned how to get along without the blessing of God. We need the blessing of God. If the blessing of God's there, even an insufficient amount is sufficient. Without the blessing of God, you can have all you want. It's not enough. The blessing of God makes the difference. And so he blessed it and then he breaks it. You know, blessingness, blessedness and brokenness kind of go together. You won't find God's blessing apart from God's breaking. And a lot of times before God can use us, He has to break us in some way Jesus breaks the bread. Vance Habner said this. God uses broken things. He takes the broken soil to produce a crop, broke broken clouds to give rain, broken grain to give bread. Broken bread to give strength. It is the broken alabaster box that gives forth perfume. It is Peter weeping bitterly, who returns to greater power than ever God doesn't want our adequacy. He wants our inadequacy. And when we give it to him, he will bless it. He will break us. But then, notice Jesus, the third thing Jesus did is he said, it says he gave it to them and he multiplies. That little gift. And this is what we see here in this story. Elijah in this miracle is kind of a type of Christ, isn't he? He says the same thing in verse 43. He said again, give the people that they may eat. For thus saith the Lord, they shall eat and shall leave thereof. He speaks of blessing over this food in the form of a promise, just like Jesus did He speaks the word of God over these twenty loaves. He blesses them, you could say. And he says, they shall eat, and they shall leave thereof. That is to say, everyone's going to eat, they're going to get full, and we're going to have leftovers. What a promise. God's word blesses this inadequate offering, and it becomes more than is needed. Again, little is much when God is in it. And then here's the third thing, God uses obedient people. Because look what happens in verse number 44. It says, So he said it before them. And they did eat and left n uh left thereof according to the word of the Lord. Trust God to meet needs through us as we obey His word. The servant does as the prophet says, and God did the rest. And there were leftovers just like the word said. God simply wants us to be obedient and He will do the rest. His word will not return void. It'll always accomplish what God intends. And so if we just obey the word of God. We'll see God do great things. So we see in these miracles three lessons. The poison pot is an illustration of the perversion of the gospel. The flower is an illustration of the power of the gospel. The twenty loaves is illustration of the program of the gospel. And let me just close with this. In his book on spiritual leadership, Sanders wrote about a great Scottish missionary named Dr. John Getty. Getty went to an island in New in the New Hebrides in 1848, and he worked there for 24 years. When he went to the island, it was filled with savages. They did all kind of abominable things. Um, for example, um uh women were very degraded. The wife was practically a slave to her husband The practice of killing unwanted babies was common. When a man died, his wife was immediately strangled so that her spirit would accompany him to the next world. If there was a grown son, he was the one expected to perform the act of strangling his mother. That was part of the culture. The revolting practice of cannibalism was prevalent on the islands. And many times when they had enemies, they would just simply uh kill their enemies and make a feast of their bodies. But for 24 years John Getty worked among that island, sharing the gospel, diligently laboring. He preached, he prayed, he built schools. He led natives to Christ. He baptized. He discipled. And during that 24 years The leaven of the gospel began to spread throughout that island and it changed that whole island. It transformed them. And after 24 years of being on that island, There were no savages left. They were all converted to Christianity. And on December 14, 1872, John Getty died And the people erected a tablet stone there on the island. And you know what the stone said? It said in memory of John Getty. Born in Scotland, minister in Prince Edward Island, missionary for 24 years When he landed here in 1848, there were no Christians. When he left in 1872, there were no heathen. What an incredible thing. This is an illustration of the power, of the influence of the gospel. I pray that all of us will Be part of seeing this gospel get out and change our community. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we uh thank you for the power of the gospel, the power of your word. Lord, we believe in it. We're not ashamed of it. We refuse to go out and collect wild gourds and mix it into the pot. We believe in the sufficiency of your word And that Lord, your word and the gospel is enough. It has power, power to change lives, power to permeate our community and our world. And change hearts and lives. Lord, may we stand firmly on the gospel. May we be people who are actively involved in sharing it and getting it out. Lord, this is why you left us here. So that we can be part of sharing the gospel. Lord, may we take this story to heart. May we, Lord, have confidence in your word in a day and time when people are turning from it. May we stand firmly on it. And God use us to help spread this wonderful message to people all around. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.