Would you take your Bible now this morning, please, and open to the Gospel of Luke? As you know, we have been doing a series that we have labeled From Garden to Garden. And this is where we're looking at the passion of our Lord Jesus Christ from the Gospel of Luke. And we go from the Garden of Gethsemane to the finally to the Garden Tomb. And this morning we're going to be looking in Luke chapter 22 and part of chapter 23. And I want to confess This morning before we get started, failure in this sermon, because there's no way that I'm going to be able to get through everything today. And rather than keep you here and try to get through all of it and you burn your dinner and then you'd be angry with me. I'm going to try to do half of the sermon today and uh at this service and then tonight in the evening service I'm going to give the rest of this. We're talking today about the trial of Jesus There's so much that is taking place in this part of the Lord's life when he goes to trial. This is an unjust trial. And Luke tells us all about this trial. And I just want all I my goal was very, very simple. I just want to show you from Scripture exactly what Jesus endured in this unjust trial. It's all part of what he did for you and I to be the Savior, to pay for our salvation with his death on the cross. So we see really here in Luke chapter 22, and we're going to look at verse 63 on down to verse 71, and then again part of verse of chapter 23, we see really a courtroom scene here And courtrooms are normally d designed for one purpose, and that is to reveal truth and to render justice. Evidence is presented, there are witnesses that are examined, a verdict a verdict is reached And we hope that that is a right verdict. But every so often history records a trial where everything goes wrong, where justice is perverted. And the verdict is driven not by facts, but it's driven by power, it's driven by the pride of sinful men, it's driven by pressure. And this is what Luke chapter 2 brings us to, one of these moments. What we see here is the most significant miscarriage of justice the world has ever known. This is the trial of Jesus. Here our Lord stands before sinful men. He stands before sinners. The only truly innocent man who ever lived. And yet what we'll see is that he is mocked, he is beaten, he is falsely accused, he's ultimately condemned. The very ones that are entrusted to upholding justice and truth are the ones that are responsible to abandon it. in order to bring Jesus to the place of execution. And also we're going to see that the crowd is given a choice. They can choose a criminal or they can choose Jesus and they choose a criminal over the Son of God. But this story really isn't just about what happened to Jesus. It's really a mirror on the heart of human humanity today, the human condition. Because what we see in this trial is not just their sin, we see ours, our world today. The same rejection, the same compromise, the same willingness to silence the truth. We see this even today. It still lives in the human heart. But also what we're going to see is that beneath the surface there's something else going on. This looks like chaos, but actually it's divine control. Everything that is taking place is according to God's plan. And God has not surrendered control. He is absolutely in control. And Jesus is not a victim. He is the willing substitute for you and I. We're the ones that should be on trial, not Jesus. It should be us. But Jesus is our substitute. We deserve the guilt and the condemnation, but Jesus is standing in for us. He's the substitute for our sin. So as we look at this passage, we're not just observing a trial, we're witnessing how people respond to Jesus. And that's really the thing I want you to think about. Every person in this courtroom Rejects him in a different way. And the question before us today is not simply what will they do with Jesus, but the question is, what will you do with him? So what I want you to see here from our text are six ways people reject Jesus even today. First of all, number one, the malice towards the Savior. This is the first point. I have six points. Again, I'm not going to get through all of them, but we'll see how well you do in listening, and I'll try to make this passage clear. But some reject Christ with open contempt. And we see this beginning in verse 63. Look at verse 63. And the men that held Jesus mocked him and smote him. Now, where are we in the Passion of Christ? Well, when Peter denied Jesus for the third time, it was in the early morning hours of Friday morning. The trial of Jesus is already underway. They arrest Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane and they take him to, according to Matthew's gospel, they take him to the home of the high priest Caiaphas. But according to John's gospel in John eighteen, they take him first to the home of Annas. Now some people say, well that's a contradiction. No, it's not, because the house of Annas and the house of Caiaphas was really one Complex. Uh on one side was the house of Anis, the other side the house of Caiphus, and there was a courtroom in between that joined them together So first they take him to the home of Annas and then Caiaphas, as we'll see. Really the uh the high priest is Caiaphas, but the real high priest is Annas. When you're placed at as high priest, that's supposed to be a position for life. But the Romans deposed him because they didn't trust him. They thought he was getting too much power. And so what they did was they put another high priest in the place of Annas, a man by the name of Caiaphas, who was really Annas' son-in-law. So really Annas is still in control and the people still consider him to be the high priest. And so really you have two high priests here. You have Annas and you have Caiaphas. And Jesus is at the home first of Annes, and he's waiting to see what's going to happen. They're holding him already. We can see this is an illegal trial because when you have a court case, you normally don't do it at the judge's house. If you're ever called to go to a judge's house early in the morning, don't go. That's not a just trial. That's not a fair trial. And the and Jesus is waiting there to see what will take place. And the soldiers are detaining him. Look down in verse number 63 where it says, And the men that held Jesus, these are the guards. They should be protecting the prisoner. They should be ensuring that he has fair treatment, but they begin to mock him Mock is a key word in Luke's passion. He uses it three times. Later they're going to mock him as being king, but right here they're going to mock him as priest. Look at verse 64. And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee? The soldiers begin to play a child's game of blind man's bluff Just as children would do back in that day, and they would lightly touch the person to find out if they knew who touched them. And here the prophet who was without parallel, Jesus was ordered to prophesy who had hid him. This is not a surprise to Jesus because already he had predicted that he would be delivered over, that he would be mocked. That's in Luke chapter 18, verse 32, that he would be spitefully Treated. He told the disciples this was going to happen, that he would be spit upon. And all this is happening. What the soldiers did not know is that the very mockery they were doing proved that he was a true prophet of God. Their mockery fulfilled prophecy. And by the way, he did know who hit him, and one day they'll stand before him But look at verse 65. And many other things blasphemously spake they against him. That is, speaking evil. They were insulting him. Maybe they were mocking Jesus by imitating his teaching style or Speaking with a Galilean accent, making fun of the things he said. And some of the other gospels it says that they spit upon him. Can you imagine? Spitting on the face of God. This was the supreme sign of contempt uh in that day in Jewish w in the Jewish world There's a there's a tomb, if you ever go to Israel called the Valley uh or call excuse me Absalom's tomb in the Valley of Kidron. And uh even today Orthodox Jews when they walk by that tomb will spit upon it in disdain because Absalom was the one who betrayed his father David. And so it's a sign of supreme disdain. And yet here they are spitting in the face of our Lord Jesus. Ken Hughes writes, the hands that flung the stars into space were now bound, and the face that shines brighter than the sun was now spit upon. This is absolute open contempt for our Lord Jesus Christ. And that's how some reject Jesus even today. Even in our world today, there are people that show contempt for Jesus. It may not be with fists, it may not be with spitting, but Christ is treated irreverently. He's treated with contempt. Every time I hear the name of Christ used in vain, it's just hard to bear. Someone who is so holy and pure. But every time Christ is treated lightly, every time his authority is dismissed, the spirit of this moment continues to live on. So there's malice towards the Savior. Some reject Christ with open contempt. But see number two, then there's the manipulation of the Sanhedrin. Some reject Christ under the cover of religion We move on to verse number sixty-six. Notice what it says. And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the chief priests and the scribes came together and led him into their council, saying Art thou the Christ. So as daylight comes, the Sanhedrin gathers together for a formal gathering. The Sanhedrin is really the supreme court of Israel. It consists of seventy men. And at this stage, Jesus has already endured uh two phases of this trial. Really, we can divide uh the the trial of Jesus into two different trials. There was Jesus' trial before the Jews before the Sanhedrin and that's part divided up into three parts. And then later on there will be the Roman trial where he stands before Pilate and then Pilate will send him to Herod and then Herod will send him back to Pilate. Here is the first part of his trial. Again, already he stood before Annas, who is in the people's mind the high priest, and then he's from there he goes to stand before Caiaphas, and then at the dawn he will appear before the whole Sanhedrin, and they'll render their verdict on Jesus. But he's taken first to Annas. This is recorded in John chapter 18 Again, he's the one still wielding the power. And before Annis, Annas will ask him some questions. In John 18, verse 19, you might want to jot that reference down. It says this the high priest then asked Jesus and of his disciples and of his doctrine. So here he is first standing before Annis, and Annas is asking him about his disciples He's asking him about his doctrine. Why does he ask those questions? Well, because he's trying to build a case against Jesus. They want to put him to death. But they're looking for a reason to do it. And so when he's asking about Jesus' disciples, he's probably asking questions like, how many followers do you have? How are they organized? Are you leading some kind of a movement? Because that could be seen as a threat against Rome. That could be something they could use. And when they ask about his doctrine, he's wondering, is there something blasphemous that he could use that Jesus is teaching? What exactly are you teaching? Can you label this as false doctrine? That's what he's wondering in his mind. Can I charge him with blasphemy? They're already uneasy about Jesus because during his ministry Jesus claimed to have the authority to forgive sins, and indeed he could as God. He challenged their traditions. He spoke of God in a unique way as his Father. And so already they're suspicious of Jesus for all of these. things. And so Annes is just probing, hoping he can find something against Jesus. Trying to he's trying to build a case basically without witnesses. He doesn't have any witnesses. And the key is Jewish law required witnesses. They could not use self-incrimination. But they're ignoring all that. They're throwing out all of their laws. He doesn't have a solid case. And Jesus' response to Annes is recorded in John chapter 18. Jesus said this in verse 20, I spake openly to the world. In secret I have said nothing. Why askest thou me? Ask them which heard me. That's a remarkable reply from Jesus. And in essence what he's saying is, look, you already know what I teach. It's not been a secret, it's been in public Just go go find some witnesses. They'll tell you exactly what I teach. In other words, I'm not going to incriminate myself. Do it right. This is an illegal trial. You go get your own witnesses. Go get your own witnesses. And so then from there, Jesus is sent to the home of Caiaphas. So he's in the home of Annas. Now they walk him through the courtyard, and now he comes to the home of Caiaphas. And this is recorded also in Matthew and in Mark. They're part of the uh Sanhedrin is there. Part of the scribes and the elders are there. But again, this is a nighttime hearing. Again, imagine having a court trial at 4 a. m. Four in the morning. That's when they're trying this case. You can't try a case in someone's home, by the way. Trials could only be in the temple. But again, they're violating all of that. And also law the law was very specific that trials had to happen during the day at daylight hours. You couldn't have a trial at darkness in the early in the morning. That again was all against the law. Every trial was to be held in public. But the trial of Jesus here, the preliminaries of it are done in secret. You know why? Because the outcome was already determined. They want to get rid of him. They want to kill Christ. This is not a neutral court. This is a court probing to find out how they can put him to death. And so what they do is they bring in false witnesses. Again, they're trying to build a case. So they they bring in false witnesses. Write down Matthew 26, verse 59. Now the chief priests and elders and all the council sought false witnesses against Jesus to put him to death. So multiple witnesses are brought in and what is when it says they sought false witnesses, how do you think they did that? They offered money. Same thing they did for Judas to turn Jesus in. They're bribing witnesses, which is again against the law again. Can you imagine the Supreme Court of the United States bribing witnesses against you? I mean that's what's happening here. And by the way, to bear false witness was a serious crime. The Bible tells us in Mark, many bore false witness against him, but their witness did not agree. So they have all these people bringing false witnesses, but None of their witness agreed. It was all false. And according to the Old Testament, if you bear false witness against someone else and it's not true, you are then prosecuted for their crime and you take their punishment. If you accuse someone of being a murderer as and being a false witness, then you then are punished for murder if you're a false witness But nothing happened to these false witnesses. Nothing was done to them. Finally they find two men who come forward and they agree in their testimony, and what was their testimony? That Jesus said that he would three days uh he would this temple would be destroyed, uh and then three days it would be put back together, that he would destroy the temple. And actually, that those words of Jesus were taken out of context. He wasn't talking about the temple. He was talking about the temple of his body. He was a new temple where man met God. And he was talking about his own death. Destroy this temple in three days, it'll be raised again. So they really twist Jesus' words against them, but that's enough for the Sanhedrin. They are using this against him. And so again, imagine how all this is happening. Imagine a case today where the Supreme Court of the United States, you're called in, and they begin to look for evidence, and they are not just the judges, they then become the prosecutors. The Sanhedrin is not supposed to prosecute a case. They're not supposed to look for witnesses. They're simply supposed to judge the facts, but that's not what is going on here. They are becoming the prosecutors. They're bringing in false witnesses. This is a travesty of justice. But in the face of all of this, Jesus remains silent. He doesn't defend himself. And in that, he fulfills what the Bible says in Isaiah 53, 7, that he was silent before all of his accusers. This is a majestic silence. This is Jesus submitting himself to this. And this silence really is frustrating because, again, there's still no clear cart charges brought. against Jesus. And this brings us now to Luke chapter 22, verse 66. It's all the background of it. Now we get to verse 66. And as soon as it was day The elders of the people and the chief priests and the scribes came together and led him into their council, saying, And so he stood before Annas, he stood before Caiaphas. Now at the dawn All the Sanhedrin is brought in, and uh they still don't have any charge against Jesus. And Caiaphas forces the issue. He puts Jesus under an oath. Again, they were frustrated at his silence. So look at verse 67. Art thou the Christ? Tell us. Tell us. In Matthew's account of this, in Matthew 26, verse 63, Caiatha says this, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ. the Son of God. And that phrase, I adjure thee, is important because it is placing uh uh Jesus under an oath. It is forcing him To give testimony. It is demanding from him a testimony. So he's essentially forcing Jesus to answer. Jesus up to this point had been silent. And so Jesus will respond. And he really gives two responses. In verse number 67, he says this. Again they said, Art thou the Christ? Tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not believe. And if I also ask you, ye will not answer me, nor let me Go. Here's the first part of his response. And essentially what he's saying is, you're not asking because you want the truth. You're asking is because you want ammunition against me. Jesus had already taught publicly. He already performed miracles. He already made claims to be the Messiah. When he says, if I ask you, you'll not answer me nor let me go, he's saying, look. If I cross-examine you, if I press you with the truth, if I ask you to deal honestly with what you already know, you will refuse to engage with me. You're not searching for real truth. You just want me to give you something so you can give your verdict. They were not seeking enlightenment, they were seeking execution. So notice Jesus' second response. He gives them what they want. Look at verse 69. Hereafter shall the Son of Man sit on the right hand of the power of God. That's the answer. And that is a specific claim to be God. Matthew's gospel again says it like this. Thou hast said Nevertheless, I say unto you, hereafter ye shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. You're not looking for the truth. That's really not what you're after. However, let me just say this. One day you're going to see me in glory in the place of judgment. In other words, right now I'm standing before you, but one of these days you all are going to stand before me in judgment. And this is an unmistakable claim to be the Messiah. This is a reference to divine authority. It really echoes Daniel chapter 7. And it's also a declaration of future judgment. Now the Sanhedrin, they're taken back by that. Look at verse number 70. Then said they all, art thou then the Son of God? And I mean they're just they're they're shocked. Are you claiming to be the Son of God? Are you claiming equality with God? And how does Jesus answer that he said to them, He say that I am In other words, yes, what you said is true. Mark 14, 62 adds that Jesus also said, I am. Yes, that's exactly what I am saying. And they seize on those words. They twist the truth into blasphemy. And so notice verse 71. And they said, What need we any further witnesses? For we ourselves have heard from his mouth. They think this is all that we need. This is what we need. And by the way, it was against the law to use a prisoner's confession against himself. But again, they're violating all their own laws. But they just heard the truth. Jesus gave them the truth. But they'll use it for blasphemy. Now, according to Matthew 26, 65, Caiaphas, when he hears Jesus say this, he puts on a show, he rips his clothes. Which is supposed to be a sign of grief. But what's really interesting is that according to the Old Testament, Leviticus 21:10, the high priest was forbidden under the law to rip his robe. And to do so would disqualify him from his office. Evidently, Caiaphas didn't know that So he rips his clothes. Unknowingly, what he does is he disqualifies himself as high priest before the true high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. You see what's happening here is that uh there's a message in all of this. Jesus, who is the real high priest is the one who is actually exalted and the disqualified high priest is there ripping his clothes. And actually this is really a a sign that the last high priest, Caiaphas, all of that old covenant sacrificial system, all that is ending, all of that is coming to naught, Jesus is the high priest of the new covenant. a high priest forever. And we see all this happening here today. But here's the point. Jesus is being rejected by the religious establishment. And again, we still see this today. The greatest rejection of Jesus sometimes comes under the cover of religion. These men, they knew the scripture, but they rejected it. You know, it's possibly to be biblically informed, to know your theology, to be very active in your service of your religion, and still you reject Jesus. That's what happened here with these guys. They still rejected him. J. C. Rawls said this, knowledge of Scripture, if it's not accompanied by grace, will only make a man more guilty. And we see that response that they had to Jesus then, and we still see that response even today. Let me give you number three. Some reject Christ with oath of contempt, some reject Christ under the cover of religion. But here's number three. This is the misrepresentation before Pilate. Some reject Christ by redefining him By redefining him. Now when we get to chapter 23, Jesus is now brought before Pilate. Now that the Sanhedrin had what they wanted, They take Jesus to Pilate. And why do they do that? Well, because they had a verdict, but they had no power. You see, uh the Jewish Sanhedrin did not have the authority to put anyone to death They could judge religious matters, but they couldn't put someone to death. Only Rome could do that. So now that they they knew that Jesus they wanted him to die, they their verdict was death, they had to get Rome to check off on it They had to get Pilate to check off on it. And so what they do in order to get Jesus executed, now they're going to reframe the charges against him. Under the Sanhedrin, the charge was blasphemy. But as they take them before Pilate, they're going to change the charges a little bit. The charge now is going to be treason. Because blasphemy before Pilate, that doesn't matter to him. He doesn't care about Jewish theological disputes, about someone blaspheming. That doesn't really that's no concern of his. But now, however, treason, that's a different story. And so now they kind of change the charges. Look in chapter twenty-three, look at verse number one. And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate. Verse 2 And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow perverting the nation and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ a king. What happened to blasphemy? Well, that's gone. Now the charge is treason. So Pilate will examine him himself. And Pilate's concern is very simple. Is this man Jesus treasonous? Is he a threat to Rome? And so he gets to the heart of the matter with one question. Look down in verse number Verse 3. And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the king of the Jews? Again, that's the bottom line for him. Why does he ask this question? Because claims of kingships could equal rebellion against Caesar, rebellion against Rome. Again, he's not interested in theology. He's interested in political stability there. And so Jesus will answer Pilate. Look again in verse number three, the latter part. And he answered him and said, Thou sayest it. In essence, what Jesus is saying is, yes, I'm king, but not in the way that you think. Not in the way that you think. He doesn't present himself as a political rival to Caesar. And John's Gospel again kind of fills in this because John eighteen verse thirty six kind of gives us what else Jesus said It says this in verse 36. Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would fight That I should not be delivered to the Jews, but now is my kingdom not from thence. So what does Jesus say to Pilate? Yeah, I'm a king, but the kingdom that I have is not of this world It's a spiritual kingdom. It doesn't operate by worldly systems of power. My authority is not derived from earthly politics. Authority is a divine authority from heaven. It doesn't come from human institutions. It comes from the Father. Jesus said, If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would fight. Christianity doesn't spread through military force or intimidation. That's not how the kingdom of God spreads. Earthly kingdoms are defended by armies and violence and political force. What Jesus said If I were that kind of king, you would see resistance right now. If I were that kind of king, my followers would be fighting to keep me from being turned over. But Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, what do you say to Peter? Put up the sword, Peter, because he who lives by the sword is going to die by the sword. That's not how the kingdom spreads. So Jesus is saying, Yeah, I'm a king, but not the kind you're concerned about. I'm not a rival to Caesar. And Pilate's verdict only serves the religious figures. Look what he says in verse number four. Then said Pali to the chief priests and to the people, I find no fault in this man. He sees no sin or fault in Jesus. And again, look at verse 5. And they were the more fiercely saying They were more fierce saying, excuse me, he stirs up the people, teaching throughout all jewelry, beginning from Galilee to this place. And when Pilate heard of Jesus, he asked whether he be a were a Galilean. And as soon as he knew that he belonged under Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time. So what happens when Pilate says, I find no fault in him, the religious leaders get more fierce. They don't have any new evidence. They just ramp up the pressure. And so they're trying to put pressure on Pilate to give them the verdict that they want. Their case is weak. It's no longer about proving guilt. It's about just getting them the decisions that they want. And when Pilate hears that Jesus was from Galilee, he he finds a little loophole here for himself. He doesn't want to deal with this because he's had bad uh relationship with the Jews already. They've been mad at him for several things that he did. And so he feels like there's a way out of it for him. So what does he do? When he hears that Jesus is from Galilee, he understands that Herod has uh authority over that district. So he says, Oh, he's from Galilee. Okay, well, then let Herod deal with this. And he pushes the case up to Herod. Herod happened to be in Jerusalem because it's Passover, and that's why he's there. So this is Polly's way of saying, I don't want to deal with this. This is too politically charged for me. Again, he's already had a bad history with the Jews. Because he slaughtered some Jews in Galilee. They got angry at him because he brought the standard of Rome into the temple. They got angry at him because he used money in the temple to build an aqueduct. They were all angry at him for that. And they reported Pilate to Rome and Rome rebuked Pilate and so for Pilate this is just another place where he can get in uh trouble, so he he has the whole case shifted up to Herod. It'd be like uh a judge here in Maryland saying, Oh, this guy's from Pennsylvania? Well let him go be judged in Pennsylvania. I don't want to deal with it. Even though he had the authority to. So he pushes it over to Herod. And the Jews are really putting pressure on him. But again, this whole scene demonstrates another way that people reject Christ. What are they doing here? They're redefining him. The religious leaders tried to portray Jesus as this revolutionary who was a threat to Rome. And people all the time are trying to recreate their own version of Jesus. All the time. They try to frame him in a way that they want. They create their own Jesus, not the Jesus of Scripture. There's a lot of different Jesuses out there. Made by man. There's the American Jesus. He's going to give you the American dream. He's a supporter of your political position. He he has all the values that you want. And there's a s a subtle shift there. Jesus is no longer Lord over the nation. He's made to serve it. He serves us. What we want. That's the American Jesus. Then there's the therapeutic Jesus. He's reduced to being a life coach. Someone who makes you feel better about yourself, never confronting your sins. It's all grace, not holiness. It's grace without repentance. And then there's the moral teacher only, Jesus, you admire as a teacher, but you don't really confess him as being Lord. He becomes an inspirational teacher, and that's all. And then there's the prosperity Jesus. I like this one. This is the one we hear about a lot. He's the Jesus of health, wealth, and success. It means that he's all for me having personal gain. And if your life goes well, that means you're favored by Jesus. And if it doesn't go well, well then You're not so much. And then there's the customized Jesus. This is the probably most common Jesus today. People pick and choose. They pick the parts of him that they like. And they forget about the parts of him that they don't like, or they ignore them. And so Jesus really becomes a reflection of me instead of being Lord over me. This is the Jesus that I have created. What do all these have in common? Every one of these versions of Jesus does the same thing. They reduce Jesus down They reshape him. They make him manageable. And that is exactly what is going on at this trial here. The Sanhedrin want a Jesus that they can control. And Pilate wants a Jesus who is not a threat to him in any way. But the real Jesus doesn't fit into any of those categories. No. The real Jesus is the Jesus of Scripture. He's not owned by any nation. He's not confined to emotional comfort. He's not merely a teacher. He's not a political tool. He's not a means to personal prosperity. He is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords and Savior. Any version of Jesus that is reshaped to fit us is no longer a Jesus that is calling you to follow him. You're calling Jesus to follow you. And that's not the Jesus of Scripture. But that's what people do all the time. With Jesus. So some reject Christ with open contempt. Some reject Christ under the cover of religion. Some reject Christ by redefining him. And then Jesus then is sent to Herod. You say what what's gonna happen with Herod? Well you have to come back tonight to find out what happens on that. But let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, let me ask you, are you a follower of the true Jesus? Is he the one that you bow to, the Lord and the Kingdom? Will you reject him like the soldiers did? Or resist him like the Sanhedrin? Or try to avoid him like Pilate? Or will you receive them as your substitute, your Savior? Because the same Jesus who stood silent before his accusers is now stands as Lord over all. And he offers grace to every person who wants it. And if you're here today and you want his grace, he'll give it to you, friend. All you have to do is reach out. Would you just pray if you haven't done that already? Lord Jesus, come into my heart. Say to me, be my Savior. We're going to have a moment of invitation. Let's all stand together. If you want to know more about how you can become a child of God, a true believer in Christ, we're going to have ministers standing up here in the front. And they can Take you aside and pray with you. If the Holy Spirit speaking to you this morning, we want to give you the opportunity to come and respond as we begin the invitation to have