Take your Bibles now. Open to the book of Matthew, chapter twenty, a passage we read not too long ago. And we've been dealing with the parables of our Lord Jesus on Sunday morning And I want to look at this one parable here, Matthew 20, verses 1 to 16, the parable of the workers in the vineyard. Bill Borden was born a blue blood and brought up with a silver spoon in his mouth, some people might say. His parents were descended from British aristocracy. His father made a fortune in the real estate in Chicago and in the co and the uh silver mines in Colorado. Bill Borden was already worth a million dollars by the age of twenty one. That was in 1908. The equivalent today would be about forty million dollars. Think I could live on that. He was uh handsome, he was intelligent, he was well educated, and he was popular. But in nineteen twelve At the age of 25, Bill Borden did two things that made headlines. First, he gave away his entire fortune. Half he gave to God's work in the United States and half to work in missions overseas. The second thing that he did was he set sail for missionary work among the Muslims, first in Egypt to learn Arabic and then ultimately to remote parts of China. Now to the public and the media and even the Christian friends that knew him, uh Borden's actions kind of seemed incredibly wasteful. In fact, that was especially true when he died of spinal meningitis shortly after reaching Cairo. uh to his friends he apparently threw away his life he threw away his money his career um and to what end people ask to what end what makes people like Bill Borden tick He had literally forsaken all to follow Christ. What's he going to get in return? What kind of return is he going to get on that investment? And then there's the story of C. T. Studd. C. T. Studd was a famous English cricketer. You say, what's that? It's kind of like a British baseball Yeah, cricket, you ever heard of cricket? Anybody here? My British son-in-law tried to describe the game to me. I still don't get it. They kind of have a ball like we do in baseball. They they don't have a picture, they have a bowler. That's what they call it And a guy has a bat, but it's really not a bat, it's kind of like a flat paddle. Just I won't waste your time with the rest of the details. He was a he was a famous British athlete. He had also vast wealth. But he gave it all away. He became a missionary. And he literally was lost from sight when he went to the remote parts of Africa. They hadn't heard from him. He was without contact for about 13 years. Here he was, first in the eyes of the world, a famous athlete who had money, but he made himself last in the eyes of the world. And b became a missionary and no one ever heard from him. What's he gonna get for that? What kind of return is he gonna get for that investment. Now Jesus in this parable is giving answers to questions like this. In fact, notice chapter 19, verse 27. This is really the reason for the parable. It's a question that Peter asked the Lord Jesus in verse 27. Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all and followed thee. What shall we have therefore? Peter and the disciples uh when Peter asked this question, Lord, what are we going to get? We've left all. We forsaken all to follow you. What's in it for us? Now why did Peter ask this question? Because Peter and the disciples had just witnessed what it unfolded with the rich young ruler. If you look at the earlier part of chapter 19 The rich young ruler comes to Jesus, and Jesus, of course, says, you know, if you want to follow me, sell all you have, give it away, follow me. The rich young ruler wouldn't do that because money was his God. And so he turned and walked away And Peter says, Lord, you know, we've done that. I mean Peter was perhaps riveted by the phrase that Jesus made when he said, You'll have treasure in heaven. He said to the rich young ruler, if you walk away from all that, follow me, you'll have treasure in heaven. Peter said, Look, Lord, we we have done that. In verse 27, the we is in the emphatic. He's contrasting himself and the disciples with the rich young ruler. We have left all to follow you. What do we get? And by the way, the disciples were pretty well off by their standards up until the time when they followed Christ. If you look at their life, Matthew was a tax collector, he made very good income. Peter, Andrew, and James and John All had a prospering fishing business. James and John inherited the family business. Peter had his own boat. That's pretty prosperous back then. In 1989, some archaeologists found a fishing boat from the time of Jesus. That's because of the drought. The Sea of Galilee was very low. They found this fishing boat and they were able to kind of take it out. It was a pretty, pretty nice boat. From that standard, could hold thousands of fish. If Peter had a boat like that, then he was pretty prosperous. And he left all of that. And so his question is very genuine. Lord, we have turned our back on all of these things. And we are following you. What do we get as a result of that? So, in response to this, what Jesus does is he gives them a promise of rewards. Then he gives them a principle of rewards. And then he's going to give them a parable about rewards. So that's what I want to talk to you about. First of all, the promise. What does Jesus say to him in response? Look at verse twenty-eight. And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that ye which have followed me in the regeneration When the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes. So the Lord, when he responds to Peter, it's not a rebuke It's more of a reaffirmation. And the idea is it's not wrong to focus on rewards or eternal blessing. It's not carnal to want treasure in heaven. Jesus often extends this promise of rewards in the gospel. We read that. If you go through Matthew, you find that Jesus said, you know, Blessed are you when men revile you and persecute you. Great is your what? Reward in heaven. You're going to get rewarded for that. He said, Lay not for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, but lay up for yourselves treasures where? In heaven. So it's not wrong to want these things. Jesus said, if you give a cup a cup of cold water in my name, you're not going to lose your what? Reward. So these are not demeaning bribes or the incentive programs of a sales organization The rewards of God are appropriate results of a life that is pleasing to him. Remember what the Bible says in Hebrews 11:6. God is a rewarder. of those that what diligently seek him. God's going to reward you for that. And so Jesus directs Peter's attention to the millennial kingdom. And Jesus clearly lets them know that your payoff is not necessarily going to be here in this life, but it's coming in the regeneration. This would be the future day when after eliminating Satan and his influence, and he will restore the world to its original Purpose. This is the time prophesied throughout the Old Testament when God would establish the kingdom of the Messiah on earth. It would be during the millennial reign of Christ. This is the thing that the disciples long for It's the thing that Peter longed for. In that period, the Lord says, You're going to sit on thrones When Jesus returns, and by the way, by I know that's to the disciples specifically, but by extension that's also to all of us who follow the Lord Jesus Christ, when he returns, we who are his co-heirs will share in his glory. And we will reign with him on earth. So that's the promise But then he gives a principle. Look at verse 29. And everyone that has forsaken houses and brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake Shall receive a hundredfold and shall inherit everlasting life. And in this next verse, here the Lord establishes the principle of reward. And the principle is very simple: present sacrifice Produces eternal privilege. The greater the sacrifice here, the greater the eternal reward, or the greater the eternal privilege. Now you have to understand that the disciples were constantly squabbling over who would be the greatest in the kingdom. I mean that's that's they were constantly doing that You see that if you read through Matthew, they were constantly arguing over who would be the greatest So there was this kind of this competition between them. In fact, it got to the point, if you look in chapter 20, just look at this real quick in verse 20, it got to the point where James and John got their mother to compete with them Look at verse 20. Then came to him that is Jesus, the mother of Zebedee's children, with her sons, worshiping him in him, and desiring a certain thing of him, and he said unto her, What wilt thou? And she said unto him, verse 21, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on the right hand, thy right hand, the other on the left in the kingdom. They got their mother on the Jesus. Hey mom, will you do us a favor? Will you go and ask Jesus if we can sit on the right and the left? Of course me, I'm the oldest. I sit on the right hand. Him on the left. He won't say no to you. And of course she goes. And what does Jesus say? Verse 22. Jesus answered and said, You know not what you ask. Are you able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? And what baptism was he talking about there? The word baptism means it means to be immersed. It's not being immersed in water, it's being immersed in suffering. And here again he's referring to that principle, the greater the sacrifice, earthly sacrifice, the greater the reward. The greater the suffering here on earth, the greater the reward, the greater the honor, the greater the glory. And so, in a sense, what she was asking was, Will you allow my sons to suffer a lot here? Because that's what he she was asking. And and they said, Yeah, we're able. And he said to them Ye shall drink indeed of my cup, if you be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with. But to sit on my right hand and on my lap is not mine to give. It shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my Father. Look, I don't make those decisions That's going to be my father. But again, we see the principle here of that Jesus is establishing a reward. The greater the present sacrifice, the greater the eternal privilege. Or the eternal reward. And then Jesus sums it up in verse 30 of chapter 19 when he says, But many that are first shall be last. And the last shall be what? First. So from an earthly perspective, the rich young ruler was one of the first in this world. And in Christ's eternal kingdom, he'll be the last. Because he chose to follow earthly riches. That was his God. Those who look like winners from a human perspective are often losers from an eternal perspective. The disciples represented the last. They walked away from their job, they walked away from their vocation, they walked away from earthly riches to follow what was at that time pretty much a rejected leader. They wondered as vagabonds, followers of a despised man who claimed to be the Messiah. Like Bill Borden and C. T. Studd, they took a huge risk. And at that time, from that perspective, it looks like they came up empty. That's why Peter is asking the question. But appearances can be very deceiving. When the disciples And the Bill Bordens and the C. T. studs of this world are seated at the millennial throne alongside Jesus. You know what? They will be revealed as the first. They will be honored. So, to answer your question, Peter, what's in it for me? What's in it for us? More than you can ever imagine. More than you can imagine. You will give up what you cannot keep to gain what you cannot lose. Many of you probably heard the name Jim Elliott, the missionary to the Alka Indians. You heard of him who was martyred. He was born early in the 1900s in Portland, Oregon, to a successful family. He was taught Christian values by God-fearing parents. He dedicated himself early as a teenager to the Lord. He was known in school for his speaking, his acting, his writing ability. He was encouraged by his teachers to pursue acting or public speaking. He was Hollywood handsome, just a great guy. But his course was already set, much to the dismay of his friends and teachers. After entering college He knew he was going to go serve the Lord. And by the way, while he was in college, many of the students in the faculty were impressed by his uncompromising beliefs. He would not involve himself in anything that was displeasing to the Lord. And after he graduated from college, he was told, You can do anything you want. You could obtain a lot of wealth You can have houses and accolades and applause and treasure, but he felt the call to go to Ecuador To minister to some people there, Alka Indians, they were a barbarous, flesh-eating society. They were so savage that one out of every two in their own society died due to murder. And on January the 8th, 1956, at the age of 29, missionary Jim Elliott and his small group of missionaries were savagely and brutally murdered. And sometime later, Elizabeth Elliott, Jim's wife, his widow, was asked this question: when did Jim die? And her response was, he died in high school. And the person said, I thought he died in January of nineteen fifty six. She said, Oh no. It was when he was a teenager When all of his friends and peers were living life doing what felt good and some doing bad, Jim was in his room beside his bed on his knees with his Bible open, seeking the will of God. She said he died when he was in high school. And it was Jim Elliott who penned the oft-quoted famous words He is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. Maybe he learned that from this parable here. So Peter got an answer to his question. But Jesus wasn't finished answering just yet. Because there was a troubling note in Peter's question, you know, what's in it for me? You know, there lurks kind of a commercial spirit behind that question that misses the essence of Christianity. So it was kind of an underlying attitude that was present in Peter and perhaps sometimes is present in me. It may be present as well in you, and it has to be addressed. So Jesus does that here in this parable. So I want you to see the third thing. We see the promise of rewards, the principle of rewards. Now here's the parable. of rewards. And look at this parable. Look in chapter 20. Look down at verse number one. For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a householder. Which went out early in the morning to hire laborers into his vineyard. Now, like many of the Lord's parable, this kind of plunges us into the daily life of ancient Palestine. Here we have a Uh a householder. This okoi despotes is where we get the word despot And basically what it means is he has absolute control over his household. He has absolute say-so. This is going to be important later in the parable. This must have been a large estate. And he goes out early in the morning to hire laborers into his vineyard. In verse number one. This had to be before six o'clock. Because really the workday started at six o'clock. But he goes out earlier than that. Why? Again, he has to hire laborers. Why Well because grapes vineyards they were very important in Israel at this time and the harvest time was at the end of September and you had a window of opportunity to get your grapes harvested. You wanted to do it before the rainy season. If you didn't get it done, you would lose a lot. And so when the harvest time came, the workers would normally work 12 hours from 6 a. m. to 6 p. m. And normally the owner would have to hire more laborers to help to get all this work done They normally would hire what they call day laborers, and back in this time a day labor was someone who didn't have any steady job. In the morning, they would go to the marketplace, a place called the Agura, and they would just wait there hoping that someone would employ them to do some kind of work. And if you were an owner and you needed labor, you would go to the agora and to see who was there so that you could hire them. And normally the wages for a day labor was very low. But they couldn't be picky. What's the old uh expression, beggars can't be what, shoesy, you know. Uh they would normally work for whatever they could get. Because they needed the money to feed their family. And so this man goes out to the agora And look at verse 2. And when he had agreed with the laborers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. So he goes to the Agora, he finds some laborers there. He agrees for a penny. By the way, that's not bad. That's a denarius That's normally a one-day's wage. A Roman soldier worked for a denarius a day, so it's an honorable wage. In today's terms, it'd probably be about $100 on our scale, maybe give or take. So that was good. And by the way, the the owner had to pay them at the end of the day. It wasn't at the end of the week, it was the end of the day because they needed it to feed their family for the next day. And there was fact there was a law in the Old Testament that said that you shall give him his wages on the same day before the sun sets Lest he cry against you to the Lord and you be guilty of sin. It was a sin not to give the worker his wages at the end of that day. So they agreed on this denarius a penny a day, and they went to work into the vineyard. Now the owner, he needed more help. So look in verse 3. And when he went out about the third hour. Now the day begins at 6 a. m. , so the third hour is what? It's 9 a. m. So he got some workers early at the 6 a. m. But he goes out to the Agora again, and he finds workers at the third hour, so that's nine o'clock. He saw others standing idle in the marketplace, and he said of them, Go ye also into the vineyard And whatsoever is right I will give you and they went their way. Notice there's no agreement there. He made an agreement with the earlier workers for a denarius, a penny. There's no agreement here with the workers at the at nine AM. Why? Well probably because those guys at 9 a. m. , they were probably thinking it's probably too late for us to get any labor. But here comes this owner and he says, I'll give you whatever's right if you want to work, and they said, Yeah, we'll take it. So they go to the vineyard. There's no agreement made. What are they depending on? They're depending upon the generosity of the owner Not a contract. In verse five, and he went out again about the sixth hour. And ninth hour Now if the workday begins at 6 a. m. to 6 hours 12 noon and he finds some men at noon, he still needs more help in the minute, so he hires them on the same basis. He'll give them whatever is right. And again these men w jump on it. And he goes out again at the ninth hour, which is three o'clock in the afternoon, and he sees men waiting and he hires them on the same basis. Look at verse 6. And about the eleventh hour he went out, and he found others standing idle, and said unto them, Why stand ye here all that day idle? He goes again, this is at the 11th hour. What is this? This is at 5 o'clock. The workday stops at 6. Why have you been standing idle all day? They say, well, nobody's hired us. Wonder why. Now by this time at 5 o'clock, there's only one hour left, so why even bother hiring these guys? What possible profit could the owner get? by hiring these guys so late in the day. They were probably these guys were probably pretty dis depressed and hope hopeless about it getting anywhere Maybe it was because some of them were older, or maybe they were disabled, or maybe they were social outcasts. We don't know. But we're absolutely astounded in the next verse in verse 7 when he said Go ye also into the vineyard and whatsoever is right, that shall ye receive. These guys probably were so happy they ran to the vineyard. You're going to hire us this late in the day? And he said, I'll give you whatever's right. And so they went. When I look at this, it just makes me think, this is a good owner. This guy's gracious. And he's probably doing it more for them than he is for himself. So we have two groups of laborers. We have the early risers who came first. They negotiated a contract, they went to the to the vineyard, and we have the latecomers who really labor out of a sense not of a contract, but they labor out of a sense of gratitude because they were hired at that late hour just to be there in the vineyard and work And then comes the time of the giving of the wages. Look at verse we see the agreement of the workers, we see the argument over the wages. Look in verse number eight. So when Eden was come, the Lord of The vineyard saith unto his stewards, Call the laborers and give them their hire, beginning from the last unto the first. Time to give out the wages And he says he says, we'll start with the ones that came last and we'll give them their wages and then we'll work our way down to the ones that are first. Verse 9. And when they came to them that were hired about the 11th hour, they received every man a penny, a denarius. Wow, you're actually going to give them a full day's pay? They didn't really work a full day, but he gives them a full day's pay. You can imagine the shock of these men when they receive that. So, I mean apparently in the owner's view, people are more important than prophets. They hadn't earned it, but you can't live on less than that. A family couldn't live on less than a denarius a day. You had to have at least that for your family. Now, the guys down the line, they got excited too. You know why? Because you can see the wheels turning in their mind. If these guys work one hour and they got a denarius, we work 12 hours. What are we going to get? Oh, we're going to get 12 denarii. They're already spending that check before they get it. You ever been there? The checks already spent. They get their wheels are turning. Man, I'm going to do this and I'm going to do this. What happens? Look down in verse number 10. But when the first came, they supposed that they should have received more. And they likewise received every man a penny. They also received a denarius. Boy, they were mad. And when they had received it, they murmured against the good men of the house, saying These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden on the heat of the day. And you know, you can understand, and they're saying, How is this fair? And so they murmured against the oikodespotes, the owner of the vineyard who had full control to do whatever he wanted They murmured against them and they said, Look, you have made us equal to them. We've been laboring here all day. You give us the same thing you give them. They were mad. But what does the owner say, verse 13? But he answered one of them and said, Friend, I do thee no wrong. Didst thou not agree with me for a penny? Isn't that what you contracted for at the beginning? That's what you agreed on. I'm not being unfair. I'm giving you what we agreed to do. Take that design. Literally pick it up and go away. Pick up your check, take pick it up and go on. You got what you labored for. And look at verse 15, it's key. Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with my own? Is thine eye evil because I am good? Can I do whatever I please? I mean just because I'm gracious to these other guys, I want to be good to them, does that make me evil? The problem is not with me, the problem is with you. You're the one that has the wrong attitude. And so the owner made the last first. And the first last. Now in the landowner's voice, we hear our Lord's gentle rebuke to Peter's question. And really what this parable is, it's a warning. For all of us. It's a warning for all of us. What is it? A warning of? Well, the danger of a commercial spirit. Why do you serve the Lord? We can understand the response of the twelve laborers. I mean it's it is fair that wages earned should be compensated, compensated or corresponding to the work done. But let me tell you something, kingdom economics are different. In the kingdom work, we're not working for wages. That's not why we do what we do. And if you're working for wages, you will get exactly what you desire, no more, no less. If that's why you're in it, you become a hireling dependent upon your bargaining skills. How much better to be a child dependent upon our father's generosity? If we just labor for him out of gratitude and love and leave the reward to him, you know what? We will be overwhelmed by his generosity. And so this forces us to ask the question, am I serving God for what I can get? Or am I serving God because He alone is worthy of all of my devotion? All of my labor. You remember in the book of Job? Satan came with the angels there in divine counsel and God said, Have you considered my servant Job? Have you targeted Job? If you see there's no one like him, and then Satan says, Oh, you know, Job serves you because look at all the toys you give him. Look at all the rewards. I mean, look at him. And basically, God was accusing Satan of a commercial spirit, saying he only serves you because of what you give him. And he was also accusing God of buying worshipers. You have to buy your worshippers. You just give them all this stuff and that's why. You know, if if I was able to take all those things away, he would curse you. God said, You think so? Alright, go ahead. Take away what I've given him. See what he does. And you know the story. He lost it all. Boom, boom, boom. And what did Job say? The Lord has given, the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. You know what the challenge was? God, you're worthy of my devotion and worship. If I can if I get nothing in this life. You alone are worthy of my service and worship. You, period. You are enough. You alone, God, are enough. All these other things are just extras. So there's a danger of a commercial spirit, but also number two, there's the danger of a competitive spirit. When the 12-hour workers saw the one-hour workers and compared themselves, they thought, well, we should receive more. We're better workers than they are. That's a competitive spirit. You know, Saul was pretty happy when uh people were singing about him killing Philistines until he heard the song David Has Slain Ten Thousand. And then he his heart turned to stone. There is nothing less appropriate in disciples than comparison and competition. And again, this is the way the disciples were acting. They were constantly competing. They were constantly comparing. Even after the resurrection, even after all of this. You remember when Jesus restored Peter? After Peter denied him, and he said, Peter, do you love me three times? And Peter said, Lord, you know I love you. And then Jesus said this. He said, Peter, he said, You know, when you were young, you went and did whatever you want, but you're gonna when you get older, you're gonna stretch forth your hands And you're going to go where you don't go, and you're going to stretch forth your hands for me. And the Bible says Jesus was talking about what kind of death Peter would have. Peter, you're going to die as a martyr for me And history bears out that he died by crucifixion, but he wanted to be crucified upside down because he wasn't worthy to be crucified like his Lord. But when Jesus told him that, you know what Peter said? In verse 20 it says, then Peter turned about seeing the disciple whom Jesus loved. That is, he looked at John and he said, Well, what about him? Jesus said, Peter, you're going to be a martyr. Really? Well, what about John? What are you going to do with him? Still competing. And so finally, well Jesus said, look, if I want John to stay alive until I come back again, what business is that of yours? You just follow me. Stop competing, Peter. You have a different assignment. Stop comparing one servant to another. Once a man was driving with his friend through his friend's hometown and he was bewildered at an intersection because there were all these signals. And he said to his friend, man, what do I do? He said, just obey your signal. That's good advice. Just obey the signal that God has given you. Just obey the orders God has given you. I would love to evangelize like Billy Graham, but that's not me I would love to preach like Charles Spurgeon. I would love to pray like George Whitfield. I would love to have the theological brilliance of a B. B. Warfield. I would love to write like the Puritans. I would love to sing like Steve Green. When my family sings and I try to sing with them, they tell me to go study something. Those are not my signals. That's not how God made me. So don't compare me to others. I don't, and I'm not going to let you do it to me. And don't let you do it. Don't you do it to anyone else. We just minister the way God made us. That's one of the things that's deeply distressing about ministry and ministers is Some of it's so driven by pride and ego and all these things. And I think it's displeasing to God. And we even encourage it in the Christian world by writing up stats about who's got the biggest, largest, whatever. That's offensive. When I set my eyes on what the Master has given to other servants, my joy evaporates. But when I Focus on his fairness and his incredible generosity towards me. My heart is filled with joy for what he's done for me. Let me give you the third and final thing, as we're out of time. This parable is a warning of a commercial spirit, the danger of a commercial spirit, the danger of a competitive spirit, but number three, the danger of a complaining spirit Look at verse 11. And when they had received it, they murmured against the good man of the house. Such crumbling is an attack on the goodness and generosity of God Himself. Furthermore, exposes the corruption of our own hearts. Is thine eye evil because I'm good? It's a good response. Are you selfish, envious because I'm generous to others Why who do we think we are to complain about a holy and righteous and merciful God? We have no right to complain. As believers, we must learn to accept what the grace of God gives us and what the grace of God withholds from us. Knowing that God is wise. And so we shouldn't complain. So let me just close. I'm out of time. I got a lot more to say, but I'm out of time. So let me just close with just one illustration here. On December 4, 1857, on the threshold of returning to Africa, David Livingston tried to put into words the motives that shaped his life. And this is what he said. Quote, I personally have never ceased to rejoice that God has entrusted me with his service. People talk about the sacrifice involved in devoting my life to Africa. But can this be called sacrifice at all if we give back to God a little of what we owe him? And he went on to say, and we owe him so much. That we shall never be able to pay off our debt. Can that be called sacrifice, which gives us the deepest satisfaction, which develops our best powers, and gives us the greatest hopes and expectations? And he said this away with this word. It is anything but sacrifice. Rather, call it what it is, a privilege. It's a privilege to serve the Lord Jesus. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Lord, I pray that you would help us To understand these things. And our hearts will be guarded against any kind of commercial spirit or competitive spirit or complaining spirit. And that we would realize what an incredible privilege it is just to be laboring in the vineyard. You didn't have to put us in the vineyard. And you didn't really do it for yourself. You did it for us. So Lord, may we be overwhelmed with gratitude. And may we serve you with all our heart. You're worthy of all of our devotion and love. You're worthy of our best efforts. And although we know that we will be rewarded, we you alone are enough. You are enough. And may that spirit compel us as we seek to serve you in an acceptable way. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, how many of you say that's my prayer today? I want to serve him just because of who he is, not because of what I get, but because of who he is. And it may be that you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. I want to tell you the greatest thing you'd ever do is come to Jesus. And friend, I want to invite you to Christ right now where you are. You can pray a prayer right there. If you'll say, Lord Jesus, I know I'm a sinner. I know that you died for my sins on the cross. And I'm turning from my sin in the world. I'm turning to you, Lord Jesus. Friend, if you'll pray that and mean it He'll save you. He loves you. He's a gracious, good Savior. And He will save you. He will forgive you for your sin. He will give you eternal life in heaven. And he will give you the privilege of working in His vineyard. And you know what? We don't have to contract with him when we labor in the vineyard. We just let him be gracious. And he'll be so good. I pray that you'll learn and know this goodness by trusting Jesus today. Would you pray this prayer, Lord Jesus, forgive me, cleanse me, save me, make me your child. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you've prayed that prayer, please please let us know. Please come to us so we can encourage you in the things of God. Let's all stand together today