Would you take God's word this morning and open to the book of 1 Peter, chapter 3? On Sunday morning I've been going through selected passages in 1 Peter, and I want to deal with chapter 3, verses 18 down to verse 22 this morning. And while you find that, let me ask you a question. Did you know do you have an enemy? Do you know actually not one, you have several. Do you know who your enemies are? You say, Well, wait a minute, preacher, I I don't have any enemies. Well, yes you do Especially if you're a believer, but our enemy is sin and Satan and death. And each of these enemies are going to be dealt with here in this passage by our Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, the whole theme of this passage is the victory of Christ, how Christ gives victory. And this is a message that was needed by the believers in Peter's day, and it's of course needed today. The believers in Peter's day were going through suffering. They were going through persecution. Let me remind you about the background of 1 Peter. It was written during a time when the government, the corrupt Roman government, was persecuting God's people, Christians. Nero is on the throne, and of course you've probably heard about some of the stories of his vicious persecution of Christians And Peter was writing to these believers, many that were disillusioned, they were wondering about why the suffering that they were going through, why they had to endure that And what Peter does is something that is very unique here in this letter. In fact, I don't see this in anywhere else in any other letter in the New Testament. And what he does is he points to the cross of Christ Now, normally in the New Testament, when a writer would point to the cross, it was with reference to evangelism Or with reference to the gospel, we of course point to the cross when we want to show people that Jesus Christ paid their salvation on the cross. We normally have in mind propitiation, the fact that Jesus satisfied the wrath of the Father when he died on the cross and he paid for our sins and now salvation is a gift We normally talk about the atonement and preach the gospel. But when Peter points to the cross here in this letter, it's not with respect to evangelism It is with respect to an example, pointing to the cross and Christ as an example of suffering. And that suffering ultimately bringing victory. And that's really the whole point. If you don't get that point, you're really not going to get this passage. The whole point that Peter's trying to make is look. I know to the to the believers, I know you're going through suffering, but just know this that suffering is a way to victory. And if you don't believe me, look at the cross. Look at Christ. And look at the victory that he won through his suffering. And that victory was not just for him. He shares that victory with you. And so he's pointing to the cross as an example of how to suffer. and how to suffer victoriously and the benefits of suffering in the right way and the blessings that it gives. And so really that's the whole point here. And what we see here are three areas of victory that Christ gives to us. when he suffered, three victorious areas of his suffering and how it also relates to us. So here's the first one if you're taking notice. Number one, Christ was victorious in sin bearing. Look at verse number 18. Notice what it says. For Christ also has once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust. I love that expression there. The just is Jesus, the unjust that's me. Jesus, the just, the holy one, the sinless Son of God, suffered for me a sinner, an unworthy sinner, and he suffered for you. He was my substitute, he was my sin bearer. And that's the thing that Peter is pointing out. Christ's suffering was vicarious. He was doing it for us, the just for the unjust. Look at the next phrase that he might bring us to God There's only one way to God, and that's through Christ. And through his sufferings on the cross, when he paid our sin debt. He suffered for our sins. He who was sinless became the sin bearer. He bore the sin of the world. His suffering was vicarious. His suffering was vicious. I would say, beloved, that no one suffered like Jesus suffered on the cross. And uh we've talked about this before. the physical sufferings of Christ is very hard to even capture it in uh speaking about it. Suffice to say that no one suffered like Jesus physically Uh his suffering began at at standing in the praetorium there in the judgment hall when the soldiers began to play the game of the kings and took a reed and began to beat him with that reed and then beat him with their fists and spit upon him and Pull out his beard. The Bible says in Isaiah 52, verse 14, prophetically, that he uh that many were astonished at thee. His visage was so marred more than any man There was the beating there at the Petorium, there was the scourging with the cat of nine tails, there was the carrying of the cross, and then of course the crucifixion itself, the incredible suffering of Christ. He suffered, I think, psychologically in the sense that really his suffering began in the Garden of Eden when he began to pray. And what does the Bible say? He sweat, as it were, great drops of blood. He suffered spiritually. On the cross, when he took our sin debt, there was the cry of dereliction when Jesus cried out and said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And that was the moment when Christ became the sin bearer. And for the first time in history, there was a separation of fellowship in the Godhead. Think about that. That's an incredible thought. That all throughout eternity there's always been a unity and a love within the Trinity, the fellowship of God the Father, God the Son, before that one brief moment in history There was a separation of fellowship when Jesus became the sin bearer and God the Father turned away. And there was a break in that fellowship there. An incredible thing. We can't really re Verbalize the suffering of Christ. Suffice to say that he who was infinite suffered in a finite period of time, what you being finite would suffer in an infinite period of time. He took my hell on the cross and yours as well. The just for the unjust. But here's the thing, Christ's suffering was victorious. And this is the point that Peter wants to make. Because look what it says in verse number 18. For Christ has also once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God. Watch this, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. Now, what Peter is saying here is that his body died, but that's not the end of the story. His body died, but his spirit was fully alive. Sometimes people will ask me the question, you say, wait a minute, preacher, you say Jesus is God. That's right. Well, how could God die? Well, let me just answer that very simply. God can't die. And what we have to understand here is that in Christ is the two natures, his deity and his humanity. They are concurrently united together. truly God, truly man, together in one person, and while we cannot separate those natures, because this to seek to separate those natures would lead to serious heresy in our theology. Although we don't separate those natures, we must make a distinction in those natures. Because sometimes we see in the gospel Jesus doing something as a man, and we know that he does it as a man. As a man, he got tired God doesn't get tired. As a man, Jesus slept. As a man, Jesus got hungry. God doesn't get hungry. But the the the humanity of Christ did it. So while we cannot separate those natures, we must make distinctions in those natures. in our theology, because if we do not, it'll lead us off into error. And here, when we come to this passage, Peter tells us that although the humanity, the body of Christ, died on the cross, the Spirit of Christ was fully alive. God didn't die. His spirit was fully alive. And what was his spirit doing? Well, it tells us in verse number 19, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. His his body was Dead, but his spirit was alive, and Peter tells us he went and he preached to the spirits in prison During that three-day period, he was preaching. You say, where were who are these spirits? That's the big question. And by the way, let me just say that this is one of the more difficult passages in the New Testament. Um and uh so there's a lot of questions that it brings up and I'm gonna try try to answer those questions in the twenty minutes I have left here, some of those questions, and we're gonna get to all of them But the spirits here that Peter is talking about are not the spirits of men, as somewhat have us to believe. There's no such thing as a post mortem evangelism. When Jesus preached, he wasn't preaching an evangelistic sermon to people who had already died, giving them another opportunity to get saved. After you die, the Bible says there's judgment. There's no post-mortem evangelism. Alright? Well, who were these spirits? Well the short answer, and we'll get into it a little bit more, but for now the short answer is these were fallen angels who had sinned and done such a heinous sin that they were in a place that God had put them in a prison. And when Jesus died on the cross, I I imagine that hell down there probably sort of had a little bit of a holiday, thinking that perhaps the kingdom of darkness had won And Jesus went to that place. He descended into that place. Sometimes people say, Well, I I hear bad theology on this, where some people say, Well, not only did Jesus die on the cross, but then he went and he went to hell and he suffered for our Our hell force there. No, Jesus didn't go to hell and suffer in hell. When Jesus on the cross said it is finished, that he meant it. The price for sin was completely paid for. There was nothing else that Jesus had to do. It was completely paid for there. But he descended into that region, and the Bible says he preached unto the spirits. Now the word for preach here is not the normal word, it's not uangelion, it's not preaching the gospel, it's not logos, which is another word that you talk about preaching, it's the word carusso Which means to proclaim a victory. This is the word that was used by a herald. When a Roman army won a war a war, they would send a herald back to the city of Rome, and he would go into the city and he would caruso He would proclaim victory because the army had won. And this is the word that is used here. When Jesus descended there into that region and preached to the spirits, it was Caruso. He was pronouncing victory. I guess the way we could say it was Jesus went down to that region of hell where they were celebrating thinking they had won, and Christ went in there and said, Hey guys, I hate to break up your party, but You did not win. I am victorious over sin, hell, and the grave. I'm victorious over your Kingdom of Darkness. So Jesus won victory as our sin bearer. But here's the second part of it. Christ was victorious over Satan, and this is where we get into it a little bit more. Look again in verse 19. By which also he went and he preached under the spirits in prison. Now who are these spirits? It defines us a little bit more in verse 20, which sometime were disobedient when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah. While the ark wasn't preparing, when in few, that is, eight souls were saved by water. Now, as you look at this a little closer, these spirits were disobedient. Disobedient to God and notice it was in the days of Noah when the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah. And really to understand this, you have to compare scripture with scripture. This is what we call the analogy of scripture Scripture is the best interpreter of Scripture, right? So look at another passage with me. Hold your place here. We'll come back, but go to the book of Jude Just go flip to the right a few books and you'll come to a little book of Jude. Watch, you might flip past it because it's just one little letter there. We could even call it a postcard. Because it's so short. It's just got a few verses there. And notice what it says in verse 5. It's not even divided up into chapters. It's just verses. Verse 5. I will therefore put you in remembrance, though you knew this. How that the Lord having it saved the people out of the land of Egypt afterward destroyed them that believed not. Look at verse 6 And the angels which kept not their first estate but left their own habitation, he has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness under the judgment of the great day. There's a parallel reference there. These angels Which kept not their first estate. Now, these are what I call the sinning angels. Now, who are these angels? There's different views about this. Some people say, well, these are just some fallen angels And this is something that happened that we really don't have any other information about. Well the problem with that is Jude just says, I want to remind you about these things. It's hard to remind people about things that they don't really know about. Right? And again, this is a very short little letter here, so he's just saying to the to the people who are reading, hey, you remember this? That implies that they already knew about this, right? If I said to you, remember 9-11, I don't have to go into all the details, right? You know about that. If I say remember Pearl Harbor or remember the Alamo, in a sense, this is what Judah is doing here. He's saying, remember the Jews in the wilderness, remember what happened there. And they all know that story. And then in verse 7 he says, Remember Sodom and Gomorrah. Everybody knows what happened to Sodom and Gomorrah. But then in verse 5 he says, Remember the angels that sinned. What does that imply? This is something that was well known. And also something that happened in Scripture. Because what happened in verse 5 was happened in Scripture. It's recorded in Scripture. What happened in verse 7 is recorded in Scripture. That was At least imply to me that what he's referring to in verse 6 also is recorded in Scripture. See, these are this is an event that happened. It's recorded in Scripture. It's angels that sinned. And notice what it says in verse 6, they kept not their first habitation. That is, that their dwelling place. They left their natural realm and did something unnatural. And verse seven kind of gives us a clue where it says, even as, that little transitional phrase there, even as whatever happened there with these angels, there's something similar to that happened in Sodom and Gomorrah. There were men there that were incredibly wicked and they lusted after angels. In that story in Genesis 19. In fact, it says in verse um Seven, look at verse seven. Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities abound about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication, going after what, strange flesh. The word fornication here, uh normally the word is porneo, and it's where we get the word pornography. This is ek porneo, it adds a prefix to it, and always in Greek when a prefix is added it intensifies it. This was a really, really h horrendous bad Immorality. This is a horrible sin. A heinous sin. Going after strange flesh Now, is that recorded in Scripture anywhere? We'll go back to Genesis 6 real quick. And just look at Genesis 6. And I think this is what it's referring to. Go back to Genesis 6, and this is about the flood. God's about to judge the world. But he talks about how evil things had gotten in that anti-deluvian civilization in chapter 6, verse number 1. It came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, daughters were born unto them, and the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair, and they took them wives, all of which they chose. And watch right after this. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he is flesh. And so this was the kind of the straw that broke the camel's back in God's mind. God said Saw that was happening, and notice it says sons of God and daughters of men. The question is who are the sons of God? Now there's a lot of debate about that, but this is a technical term. It is the word Bene Elohim in the Hebrew. Always that term always refers to angels. Always. Uh every time it's used in the Old Testament, a lot of people say, Oh, these sons of God, that was talking about these were the godly line of Sethes, the children of Seth. Well, if they were the children of Seth, they weren't godly because they were doing bad things here That doesn't make sense. And so, again, the technical term here is sons of God is angels. And by the way, this is the view that was held by Philo. by Josephus, the Jewish historian. It's the view that was held by most rabbinical writers, the earliest church fathers, Justin, Tertillion, Cyprin Ambrose, and on I could go. Uh the church and by the way the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament, the seventy scholars that got together and translated the Hebrew into the Greek. When they came to this passage and they saw that technical term, but Ne Elohim, they translated it as angels So they believed it was angels. So what we have here is just this incredible, unholy cohabitation between angels and women, and the Bible says that there were giants in the land in those days. So there was this unholy cohabitation that would cause this this hybrid offspring that was incredibly evil in the sight of the Lord. And this shouldn't surprise us because angels can take bodily form. We see that in the scripture all the time. We see it in Genesis 18 when the angelic visitors came to visit Abraham. And what does the Bible tell us in Hebrews? Don't neglect to be hospitable to strangers. Because thereby some have entertained what? Angels unaware. So they can take on a bodily form. And so you say, well, why would this happen? Why would Satan do this? Well, deception. He's just, he loves deception. He wants to corrupt the human race. And by the way, this is not new. I mean, this is this is Mormonism in its earliest form. I mean, what does the Mormon church tell you? Well, you know, you can be God, you can have your own planet, you can have all these wives, you can procreate throughout eternity, you can be your own God. This is exactly what's going on here. Look, just do this and you can bypass the death sentence and you can be a God unto yourself and all this. This is just simply the deception of Satan. This is the deception that we see in Greek religion back in Paul's day where a man could walk up to the temple, the Acropolis, and he could there engage with temple prostitutes, and that was the beginning of eternal life for him and this and the process of becoming a God unto himself That was what that religion was all about. It's nothing new. It's the same old eye of the devil. But also consider the idea, I think, that he was probably trying to prevent the coming of the Messiah if he could corrupt the seed of man. He could prevent the but coming of the Messiah. But what did God do? This was such a horrible sin that God took these angels that did that committed this and he put them in the prison. And that's what we saw in Jude where it says they're reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day. There was a group of these angels that committed this sin, and God said, That's enough. He put them in prison And they were there, and they were the ones having a holiday, and Christ preached to them, and he preached victory. Let me give you one other passage. Go to 2 Peter real quick. Go to 2 Peter. We were in 1 Peter, but look in 2 Peter, look in chapter 2, look down at verse number 4. 2 Peter 2, 4, because I think again this is a parallel passage. 2 Peter 2, 4, 4 says, For if God spared not the angels that what? That sin, these angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell. By the way, the word for hell there, it's not Hades, it's not Gehenna, the normal words, it's Tartarus, the only time this word is ever used in the New Testament. The lowest region of hell, the lowest place of hell. But cast them down to hell and deliver them in the chains of darkness to be reserved under judgment. And watch the time frame here, and spared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness. So again, it's the same time frame, these angels that sin around the days of Noah And they committed this sin and God put them in prison. And go back to our original passage, 1 Peter chapter 3. So when Christ died. His body was dead, but his spirit was alive, and he preached to those spirits in prison, and he proclaimed Caruso victory. God, through Christ, was victorious. We are victorious now. That victory is Given to us. Victory over sin, victory over the kingdom of darkness, over Satan's realm, over Satan's schemes. That was the prom the pronouncement there. And let me give you the last thing here. Christ was victorious in sin-bearing. He's victorious over Satan. He's victorious concerning salvation because Peter then Continues on. Look at verse 20, which sometime were disobedient with once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah. And now he continues on in this logical train. While the ark was of preparing, wherein few that is eight souls were saved by water Verse 21, the like figure whereunto even baptism doth all doth now all save us, not the putting away the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience towards God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now what's Peter doing here? The logical flow. He's talking about what happened in the days of Noah. Oh, by the way, Noah and his family were saved, and they were saved because of what? He talks about the ark. You know, God came to Noah one day and God said Noah it's gonna rain. It hadn't rained in the earth at that up until that point. God said it's gonna rain Noah, it's gonna rain a long time, and I want you to build this ark. And you whoever gets on this ark will be safe from the judgment. And Noah obeyed God, the Bible says, and he began to build that ark. For 120 years, he was building on that ark and he was preaching. Can you imagine living back in that day, watching that guy build that ark? And people were, what are you doing? Well, I'm building an ark. God said there's going to be rain and a flood. And they thought this guy was crazy. But he continued to do it, and sure enough the flood came. And the Bible says, Peter tells us that eight souls were saved by water. And what does that mean by water? Well the Greek preposition there is die, which could be through, say through water. Notice verse 21, the like figure runs through, even baptism also now does save us. In other words, now Peter says, and that whole experience, that whole story is now a type of salvation. Did you know the story of Noah is a type of our salvation? You say, how? Well, Noah was saved when he entered into the ark, he and his family, and you know how you're saved? By entering into Christ. Now sometimes people read this passage and they'll believe in water baptism. They'll say, oh, it says in verse 21 that he was saved. Where through baptism does now save us, you're saved by water baptism. That's not what it's talking about. Alright? Water does not cleanse your sins. If I believed that, I would bring a fire hose here on Sunday morning and spray all of you. Water does not save you. Baptism does not save you. At least water baptism doesn't, but there is a baptism that does save you. It's not a water baptism, it's a spiritual baptism. You know what the word baptize means? It means to be immersed in. Baptiso is the Greek word. When a woman was washing clothes and she pushes the clothes underneath the water, she would use the word baptiso. When a ship sunk and went to the bottom of the sea, the Greeks would use the word baptismo. It means to completely be submerged into something. You know what happens at salvation? You and I are placed in Christ. We're submerged into Jesus. What saved Noah? It wasn't the water. Water was was pretty near killed him. In fact, anyone who was not in that ark, it was in the water. They weren't baptized, they were killed. They died. What saved Noah was being baptized into that ark. He was fully placed inside. He and his whole family were inside that ark. And when the water of judgment came, they were safe. So that baptism saved Noah. And you know what baptism saves you? When you put your faith in the risen Son of God who died for your sins. You are placed, you are taken out of Adam and you're placed in Christ. You are baptized spiritually in Christ, and that's the baptism that saves you. It's not a water baptism. It's a spiritual baptism. And water baptism is a symbol of that spiritual reality of what happens to you the moment that you get saved. That's what water baptism symbolizes. You were placed in Christ. You are now one with Christ. And what happened to Christ happened to you. When he died, you died. When he was buried, you were buried. When he rose, you rose. That's what it's talking about there. And so Peter says, this is a type, this whole experience here. of salvation is a type of this whole experience with Noah is a type of our salvation. And now watch this. Look at verse 21. When he says the like figure round, so even baptism also now saves us, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh. It's not Water that cleans your flesh. That's not what saves you. But the answer of a good conscience towards God. You see, the moment that you get saved, you know what happens? Your sins are all forgiven. You know what happens to a person when they're they're lost? They commit sins and their conscience becomes guilty, and pretty soon year after year their conscience is weighted down with the guilt of their sins and they're feeling this Incredible burden of guilt, of sin on them. But the moment that they put their faith in Christ and they get saved, you know what happens? That conscience is cleansed because those sins are gone. And you have a completely new conscience, a cleansed conscience. That's the cleansing that happens at salvation. It's not a physical cleansing, it's a spiritual cleansing. And it's the answer of a good conscience towards God. That's what Peter says. And that's what happens. And so Christ was victorious in giving us this wonderful salvation that cleanses us from within. And notice in verse 22, and I love this victorious end, verse 22. Who has gone into heaven, that is Jesus, after his resurrection, is gone into heaven and is on the right hand of God. Angels and authorities and powers being made what? Subject unto him. Jesus Christ is King of kings and Lord of Lords. And everything is subject to him. And it was but it was through his sufferings that he brought us this victory. That's the overall point that Peter's trying to make because again, remember he's writing to Christians who were suffering. And Peter says, I want to remind you that the way to victory, many times in God's plan, is through suffering. Look at Christ. And look at how he suffered, but yet look at the victories that he won through his suffering. And so it is with his people. God may allow seasons of suffering in our life, but God has a purpose in it, and it's to give us ultimate victory. But just know this: if you're in Christ, you have that victory. You are victorious. That's the thing that Peter wants these folks to remember. I uh read about a man who was once a citizen of France, and then he became a citizen of Great Britain. And you remember that the English defeated France at Waterloo. So while that man was a citizen of France, Waterloo for him meant a defeat. But once he became a British citizen, Waterloo for him was a victory. You see, he had to get on the right side. Many people, you're on the wrong side of the cross. Not you here, but many people out there. There may be some here that you're on the wrong side of the cross. You know what you need to do, you need to get on the other side of the cross. You need to get on the victory side. And that way it's guaranteed any suffering that you have to endure. You're going to be victorious. If you're in Christ, you will be victorious. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for the wonderful victory that we have in Christ. Thank you for Father for sending your Son Jesus. It just it's beyond our comprehension. All that took place there at the cross, all the victories that were won for us. That at the the cross was not only the place where our salvation was won, where sin was paid for, where Your wrath was satisfied for sin, but also the cross in itself was an example to us of how suffering brings victory. And we have to be like our master and follow in his steps, as Peter reminds us in this passage, to follow in the steps of Christ. And remember that the sufferings that we endure now will bring ultimate victory if we're faithful as Christ was. And let us be so minded then, Lord. So with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you're a Christian here and you're going through a season of suffering. I just want to remind you of what this passage says. God promises you victory. Just be faithful, friend. Just be faithful. Remember, the way to victory is through suffering. Look at your Savior. Look at your Lord. And follow in his steps. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus, you've never put your faith in his finished work on the cross, I would just plead with you today to make sure of your eternal salvation. Reach out in faith. You know what the Bible says? Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. Isn't that a beautiful verse? Friend, if you want salvation, you can have it. If you'll come to him, if you'll reach out in faith, he'll save you. He died for your sins. He took your sins on the cross. He wants to save you. Would you put your faith in him? Just pray and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I need your mercy. I need salvation. Save me today. I believe you paid the price of my sin. You paid my sin debt with your death. And now that you have resurrected, you're alive and victorious, and I put my faith in you, Lord Jesus. Pray that, dear friend, and mean it He will save you. Father, bless your word to every hearing heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.