Thank you so much, Aaron. Would you take God's word this morning and would you open please to 2 Corinthians chapter 3? We're going to continue our study in Second Corinthians, but chapter three verse seven is where we're going to start this morning. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word as we read a few verses of this together? Beautiful passage of Scripture. Second Corinthians chapter three verse seven. But if the ministration of death written and engraved in stones was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not steadfastly behold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance. which glory was to be done away, how shall not the ministration of the Spirit be rather glorious? For if the ministration of condemnation be glory, much more doth the ministration of righteousness exceed and glory. For even that which was made glorious had no glory in this respect, by reason of the glory that excelleth. For if that which is done away was glorious, much more that which remaineth is glorious. Seeing then that we have such hope, we use great plainness of speech. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's word. May we hear it this morning with our hearts open. And let's bow for prayer together. Father, help me. to unfold this wonderful passage of Scripture to these your people this morning, Lord. May we apply this to our heart and our life, and may we see how precious that the gospel is. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. While I was in Seoul, uh they put me in a uh in a hotel and uh Seoul's a beautiful city if you've ever been there and what they like to boast about is their lights at nighttime, it's very lit up at night. They put me in a hotel on the fifteenth floor. I should have told him I'm afraid of heights, but but looking out of the hotel window at night, it's it was just beautiful. It was glorious. Looking out over the city with all those lights, um, it was a beautiful sight. Um but when when at dawn I looked out that same window, those lights were no longer uh glorious. In fact they were gone. You know why? Because a greater light, a greater glory had come and eclipsed those lights. And the light that I talk about, of course, is the light of the sun. Because at dawn, when the sun rose, all those other lights became unnecessary. Now the reason I use say speak about that is because that's the very argument that Paul is using here in the passage that we just read. Paul's making a contrast between the glory of the old covenant and the glory of the new covenant. Now what do we mean by covenant? Old covenant and new covenant? Well the word covenant basically is a word that means an agreement. It's really uh an agreement that two parties enter into. There are really two kinds of covenant. There's a conditional covenant, and we see the language of that covenant in words like if then, if you do this, then I will do this. Sometimes we see that language in the Old Testament for conditional covenants. But then there are other covenants that are unconditional covenants and the language that we normally see With an unconditional covenant is simply I will, I will, I will. We sometimes will read where God says, I will do this, I will do this That is an unconditional covenant. Now the two greatest covenants in the Bible, and by the way, let me just also mention the word covenant is from the Hebrew word beri, which simply means to cut. And uh in fact, uh when you read the word the uh of making a covenant in the Old Testament, normally the literal translation would be to cut a covenant because a covenant normally involves some kind of cutting Now in the uh Bible there are two great covenants. There's the old covenant that was ratified on Mount Sinai. You remember when Moses went up into the presence of God and brought down the Ten Commandments. The cutting that took place there was the cutting on a stone because God wrote on a stone the Ten commandments, those were the stipulations of the old covenant that God made with Israel. And later on he would also uh add to that 603 additional laws and regulations that they would have to obey. And God said, if you obey these laws And you do these things and I will bless you. Of course we know that they failed to do that. But then the new covenant came along. That new covenant was predicted in Jeremiah 3131. But it wasn't really inaugurated until the cross when Jesus Christ on the cross shed his blood for the sins of mankind. You remember at the Last Supper, Jesus Held up the cup and he said, This is the what the new covenant in my blood which is shed for you. And he was referring in that covenant to his death on the cross, his impending death, and included in that covenant would be the forgiveness of sins, the writing of God's law, not on stones like in the Old Testament, but God would now Write His law on the hearts of people inwardly, whereas before we had no power to obey the law of God. Now we have the Holy Spirit working inside of us, regenerating us, writing his law on our hearts, enabling us to to obey those words that God wants us to obey. Now what Paul is doing here is he's comparing or contrasting these two covenants. Why? Because Paul wants the people of Corinth to understand The differences between the old covenant and new covenant. And Paul is teaching the lesser glory of the old covenant has been surpassed by the greater glory of the new covenant. And so he's making a purposeful contrast between the two. Now why does he do this? Well, because much to Paul's sorrow Some false teachers had infiltrated the church at Corinth. You might remember if you've been in our study, they had attacked the character of Paul, and they began teaching that a person had to be Jewish before they can become a Christian. That you had to add the law of Moses. In other words, you had to get to point A before you can get to point B. You had to come to Moses before you can come to Jesus. And so these self-style apostles sought to bring to the Corinthians They sought to bring them under the crushing bondage of the law. And they taught you had to adhere to all of these rituals. To new moons, to Sabbath, to festivals, to Old Testament dietary regulations. They were saying all these things were necessary for salvation. You see, Paul's enemies were preachers of the old covenant, and they focused on symbols. They focused on legalism. They focused on obeying laws, conformity to those laws. Paul, on the other hand, was a preacher of the new covenant. Now, every congregation should know the difference. Why? Because if you don't know the difference, it'd be very easy for you to be led off into error And by the way, we still have churches today. They might not call themselves old covenant churches, but they stress um in order to be right with God you have to go through all these rituals and these traditions and these things that they think man can do to make him right with God, they obviously don't understand the new covenant. And so Paul Once the Corinthians to understand and so by contrasting the two, he's showing the difference. I want you to see what he does here. Notice the five powerful contrasts that he will give between the old covenant and the new covenant. Here's the first one. Number one, the old covenant ministers death, the new covenant ministers life. Look in chapter three. Back up one verse to verse number six, because really he starts his argument there. who also has made us able ministers of the New Testament or covenant, we could say, not of the letter, but of the Spirit, for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life. The Paul says, God has given me the ability and privilege of being a minister of the new covenant. The false teachers were teaching that the old covenant was a way of salvation. And by the way, most of the Jews in Paul's day embrace this idea that the law could be a way of salvation. By the way, there are still people that embrace that, that by obeying certain laws or doing certain things, you can become right with God. When I was there in Nepal, my hosts took me to a Buddhist temple, and on the way there, by the way, it wasn't just a temple, it was a complex, it seemed like to me, where there are many temples. And there were people there doing all kinds of rituals, hoping that they could be right with God, or the God that they worship, not the true God. There were all kinds of bizarre things going on. Um one of the things I saw there, there was a pool of water and there's a statue, a golden statue of I think it was a Buddha, but I can't be sure, but there were people in line pitching pennies into a container at the foot of this golden statue And they were just throwing all kind of coins, trying to get it into this container, like something you would see at a carnival. And I asked the man who talk took me there, I said, What are they doing? He said, They think that if they can get a coin to land in that container, they can get eternal life in heaven. That's what they were doing. And people were lining up doing that. There's still people that think that the way of salvation can be earned. And the Jews in Paul's day embraced this idea that by obeying the law it could be a way of salvation. This was an error. Paul said in Romans 3. 20, therefore by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified in its sight You see, the law was never given for that purpose. The law was never given as a way of salvation. The law is like a mirror. A mirror can show you your true self, but the mirror has no power to cleanse you. That's really the whole purpose of the law. The law is like a doctor that has the ability to diagnose your your illness. But it cannot offer a cure. We can say Dr. Law has the ability to diagnose the cancer of sin that's in every person, but Dr. Law does not have the ability to heal that person You see, in order for the person to be healed, it takes a greater physician, not the law. By the way, it's not the law's fault. There's nothing wrong with the law. Paul said in Romans 7:7, what shall we say then? Is the law of sin? But he said, God forbid, nay, I had not known sin, but by the law, for I had not known lust, except the law said, Thou shalt not covet. There's nothing wrong with the law. The law is there to show me how sinful I am And Paul said, I wouldn't even know that I had evil in my heart unless the law said, Thou shalt not covet. That law there reveals the lust of my heart. And so I can't be mad at the doctor who gives me the correct diagnosis about my cancer of sin. That doctor might not be able to heal me. But at least he gives me the correct diagnosis, and so it is with the law. The law, what the law can do is the law can refer me to a doctor that can heal me, and that would be Jesus Christ. That would be the gospel. That's what the law does. The law can't save. The law reveals that you need a savior. The law shows us how sinful we are, and then points us to the great physician, Jesus Christ, and says the only healing comes from him. All the law can do is diagnose your sin and say you're going to die. You're gonna die. That's why Paul said in chapter 3, verse 6, for the letter killeth But the Spirit gives light. And what he means by letter there is he's not uh by the way, I've said this last time, this verse has suffered more interpretation than any verse in the New Testament. The letter and the spirit. There's been these different ideas of what the letter means and what the spirit means. You know, during the Middle Ages they used to interpret the Bible allegorically. What that means is beneath the literal interpretation of scriptures this Hidden allegorical meaning and it takes someone really spiritual to get at that allegorical interpretation. And what happened is you can That's why through the Middle Ages the church suffered with all kind of bizarre interpretations of Scripture, all kind of different doctrines that infiltrated the church. Because they believe in this allegorical. And they use this verse and say, well, the letter, that's the literal interpretation of scripture. The spirit, that's the allegorical interpretation of scripture. That's not at all what this verse means Then you have charismatics that come along and say, well, the the letter, that means the Bible itself, but the Spirit, that's when God gives me a word. And there are some out there that want to elevate Prophecy, the words that God will give them, a word of knowledge, a revelation, almost e is equal to scripture. What we need is the spirit, not the letter. Again, that's bizarre and that's not right at all. When Paul says a letter here, what he simply is referring to is the old covenant. It's one word that stands for the old covenant. And he says the letter kills. But the Spirit is one word that stands for the new covenant, but the new covenant gives life. And what he meant by the letter kills is that unless you are absolutely completely, totally obedient, To the law. I mean, if that's the way you want to get saved, if you want to go the law way and say that that's the way of salvation, you better be perfect in your obedience because it only takes one sin or one transgression to make you uh a sinner and you've lost it. If you want to go the law route, good luck with that. But that that's not gonna work. And so what the law does is it pronounces death. But the Spirit, the new covenant, gives life. This leads to contrast number two. The old covenant results in condemnation, the new covenant results in righteousness. Look what Paul says again in verse number seven. But if the ministration of death written and engraved in stones was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not steadfastly behold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance Which glory was to be done away. How much how shall not the ministration of the Spirit be rather glorious? And then later on, Paul will call the new covenant the ministration of Righteousness in verse number nine. So we again we see this contrast contrast. There's a ministration of condemnation or the ministration of death. All that is under the old covenant or the ministration of the Spirit or righteousness. That's under the new covenant. And Paul again he calls it the administration of death. Notice in verse 7 he says, but if the ministration of death, we could really translate that since. Since the ministration of death. Now, Paul's enemies accused him of opposing God's law, but that was not true. Paul loved the law of God. And Paul says the Ten Commandments, which are a summary of God's law, Was written by God Himself on stones. And because of that, the law, the old covenant, had a glory about it because it was written on by God. It reflected God's holy character. But Paul also realized the law was a ministry of death because all the Luke all the law could do, Skew is uh was basically condemned. And so it's a ministry of condemnation, verse number nine. Again, as I said before, all the law could do is condemn those who don't obey it perfectly. And again, if you try to earn your salvation that way, it's just not going to work. Paul said in Galatians 3. 11, but that a man is no man is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident. For the just shall live by faith. The word evident in that verse here means clear, it's evident. Paul's saying you can't get saved by the law. It's evident. And the problem, again, is not the law, the problem is our sin. And then Paul anticipates the argument again, Galatians 3. 19. Well, what then serves the law? What purpose is the law? And as I said before, it reveals our sinfulness so that we can Well come to God, realizing our sinfulness. Really all the law can do is show us how sinful we are, and the law even provokes our sin. Did you ever notice that there's something in human nature that when a law is given, you won't disobey it? You ever notice that? I'm going to give myself away here my age. I remember there was a commercial on TV when I was a kid. uh Robert Conrad, he would put a battery on his shoulder and he would say, I dare you to knock it off. I always wanted to get up walk up to the TV screen and knock that thing off. Or there's a sign that says, you know, wet paint. What's the first thing you do? You touch it. Is it really wet? Or a sign that says, you know, don't walk on the grass. Well I'm walking on the grass. You ever notice for a child, if you say to a child, don't touch that, the first thing you're going to want to do is touch it. You'd never said anything, they probably wouldn't have touched it. But now that you said don't do it, there's something in them that wants to do it. You know what that is? That's called the sin nature. You say where do they get that from? They get it from you. Our children. Paul said this in Romans 7:5. For when we were in the flesh, that is in this body, the motions of sin, which were by the law. Did work in our members and bring forth fruit unto death. What did he mean? When a law came, it stirred us up. There's something in the nature of human nature that when you say don't, you want to do. The sin nature is provoked. And again, that's why the law can't save. The law can pinpoint sin. The law can provoke sin. The law then pronounces condemnation. It has no power to give righteousness. It can only pronounce your sin. It provides no grace, no mercy, no forgiveness, because again, it was never intended as an instrument of salvation. But the old covenant has a glory about it. But while the old covenant condemns, the new covenant provides righteousness. That's why Paul calls it in verse number nine. Look at verse nine, for if the ministry of condemnation be glory, Much more doth the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory. Through the new covenant, the Spirit gives life. It gives righteousness. The old covenant commands righteousness, but the new covenant confers righteousness. The moment you get saved, we are given the righteousness of Christ, and we're given the Holy Spirit that then begins to work within us. And so that's the second contrast. The first contrast, the old covenant ministers death, the new covenant ministers life. Number two, the old covenant results in condemnation, the new covenant results in righteousness. Here's number three. The old covenant has a temporary glory. The new covenant has a permanent glory. And again, we see this back up to verse 7. We're here, Paul's contrasting the glory of the old covenant with the glory of the new. Again, the law came with the glory, verse 7. But if the ministration of death written and engraved in stones was glorious. So that the children of Israel could not steadfastly behold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance, which glory was to be done away. How shall not the ministration of the Spirit be rather Glorious. And again, when the old covenant, the Allah was given, it came with glory. And in order to illustrate this point, he uses the the story about Moses going up into Mount Sinai. You remember that in the Old Testament? When he went up to Mount Sinai, he was there in the presence of God. And when he got the law on tablets of stone, he came down and gave it to the people. You know what? He was in God's Shekinah glory presence, and Moses' face was lit up with the Shekinah glory of God And when he got back down to the people, they were afraid to get close to Moses because he had this glory on his face. And so Moses wore a veil. over his face. And the glory that was on his face would begin to fade. And Moses would go back up into the presence of God, take the veil off, get lit up again like a light bulb. And come back down and wear that veil. And this is what Paul's using here to describe the glory of the old covenant. When Moses came down with those tablets of stone, he had a glory on his face. But it was a fading glory. It was not a permanent glory. And that's why Moses wore the veil over his face. And Paul is basically saying that, yes, the old covenant had a glory about it, but if The ministration of death or the ministration of condemnation had a glory or a glow about it, how much more Would the new covenant, which is an administration of righteousness in life, have a greater glory about it? You know, this is what I call the much more argument that Paul uses here, and rabbis use it all the time. How much more I mean, here's the old covenant, which is a of the letter that kills a ministration of condemnation and death has a glory, but The new covenant, which is of the Spirit, and ministers life and righteousness How much more? Look down in verse number nine. For if the ministration of condemnation be glory, much more doth the ministration of righteousness exceed in Paul says, look, the glory of the new covenant is so much greater that it makes the glow of the old covenant as if it were never there. Like the city lights of Seoul that are so beautiful. But when the sun rises is as if that city was never lit up. That glory is gone. The glory of the new covenant so far surpasses the lesser glory of the old covenant as if it had no glory. Look down at verse 10. For even that which was made glorious, talking about the old covenant, there had no glory in this respect, by reason of the glory that what excelleth. And the word excel there is from a Greek word, which basically it's hooper balo. So far surpasses it, goes way beyond Look at verse 11. For if that which was done away was glorious, much more that which remains is glorious. That fading glory That lesser glory of the old covenant is as if it never had any glory because the surpassing glory of the new covenant is so much brighter and it's a permanent glory. The glory on Moses' face demonstrates that that glory is a fading glory. But the glory that we have in the new covenant is so much better, Paul said. And what is that glory? It's it's through the Lord Jesus Christ. It's through his death on the cross. It's through the fact that he purchased salvation for us with his own death, with shedding his blood. And now when we repent and we're saved, we are given forgiveness of sins, and the Holy Spirit lives inside of us. And he begins to make changes on us from the inside. And we have the glory of God in us in Christ. And that's not a temporary glory, that's an eternal glory. It doesn't fade. It will never be superseded or replaced. The message of the gospel of grace is God's final word to man today. Nothing can be added to the completed work of Christ. That's Paul's whole point here. The old covenant ministers death, the new covenant ministers life. The old covenant ministers condemnation, the new covenant ministers, righteousness. The old covenant has a temporary glory. The new covenant has a permanent glory that so far surpasses the old glory. The old covenant leads to concealment And the new covenant leads to openness. I love this. Look at verse number twelve. Notice the conclusion that seeing then we have such hope, we use great plainness of speech. And I love that. Understanding the hope of the message of the new covenant. You understand that? You understand that the gospel is the only message that really saves And the gospel is available to anyone. If you come to Christ and put your faith in him, you get eternal life. And you have a glory that will not fade or will not pass away, and it's so much better. And Paul said, understanding this hope, and by the way, when he uses the word hope there, it's not a wish. The word hope is a certainty. It's confidence in a thing that is certain. Hope is the absolute assurance that God will fulfill all of his promises. I know without any doubt that all the promises that God made in Christ will take place. And you know what? Since I see that glory of the new covenant in Christ, you know what that makes me? It should make me bold. In my speech. That's what Paul means in verse number 12. Having such hope, we use great plainness of speech. I just love that. Plainness of speech. I'm just straightforward, bold. I'm going to tell you all about it. I'm going to share with you the gospel because that's the only message that saves. I'm not ashamed of it. I'm bold with it. And it has the idea of confidence, despite the conflict, despite the persecution, despite The hostility that some may have to the gospel, this beautiful, glorious new covenant, none of that will move us or shake us. We will use great plainness of speech. You know, when I was in Nepal and I was uh I had the privilege of ministering to these these fifty some odd ministers and they were in a difficult area of the world, in a difficult place, a place filled with idols, and they were people who were committed to sharing the gospel. And I was teaching them, encouraging them in the preaching and exposition of the word. But I was just, remember, I just being being humbled. That in this circumstance, here I am encouraging these ministers of Christ that are living in a time when they're being persecuted. Because there's all this false religion in that area. And the gospel does change. You know, when people hear the gospel and they and and people get transformed and changed. And they walk away from those idols and an old religion. They see that. That those those idolaters see that and they get mad at Christianity and they get mad at the gospel. And you would think this would discourage these people. But I want to tell you, they were so motivated to go out and just share the gospel even more. That's understanding the glory of the new covenant. They use great plainness of speech. We just go forward with it with a message. That's what the new covenant does. But on the other hand, the old covenant conceals. And Paul makes a contrast in verse number. 13 He said, and not as Moses which put a veil over his face that the children of Israel could not steadfastly look to the end of that which is abolished. And what Paul is doing here is he's he is contrasting the boldness that comes with those who understand the new covenant. With Moses, who wore a veil over his face. And the reason he wore that veil is because of the children of Israel, so they would not see that fading glory. You know, because that is a glory that fades the old covenant. And also Paul refers to that veil as a symbol of the blindness and hardness of their heart which caused them to not be able to see Christ. Look down in verse number 14. But their minds were blinded, for until this day remaineth the same veil untaken away. In the reading of the Old Testament, which veil is done away with in Christ? In the old covenant, you just have this concealment. You have these people that are still wearing this veil because they can't see Christ, or maybe they refuse to see Christ in the scripture. So Paul said when they read the scripture they still have this veil over their face. And so therefore they can't see Christ The veil is there. Epaul says, even to this day. Look at verse fifteen, but even did it say when Moses is read, the veil is upon the heart There are some people that can't seem to see Jesus Christ in the scripture because of that veil that is over their heart, because of the hardness and blindness of their heart. And a lot of that is willful. They will not see Christ. I remember when I was in the PhD program and I was doing a seminar at Johns Hopkins and we were reading from the Hebrew text, reading out of the Hebrew, and then it was with a group of students there, and We all had to turn reading out of the Hebrew Bible, giving a translation and then an interpretation. There are many Jewish students there, PhD students, that were brilliant, smarter than me. And we would read out the Hebrew Bible, and we were reading some of the greatest Christological passages in the Old Testament and Isaiah, where there's Jesus Christ, and they would read those passages, and you know what? They could not see Jesus. They could not see Christ. Now me and they looked at me like what are you doing here? You're not on our level. And they were right. They were much smarter than me. But I'll tell you something, I could see Jesus in there. I could see Jesus in there. You know why? Because when you get saved, God pulls the veil away. The veil is gone. And now I can see Christ. Doesn't matter how smart you are, what your IQ is. If the Holy Spirit doesn't reveal it to you, you're not going to see it. And at salvation, the veil is removed. That's what Paul said. And verse 16, nevertheless, when it shall be it shall turn to the Lord, the veil shall be taken away. When you turn to Christ, all of a sudden you see the Bible in a new light. Didn't that happen to you at salvation? Before salvation, it was like reading somebody else's mail. But then when you got saved, all of a sudden the veil was taken away, and you see Christ. And so it's just a beautiful thing, but the veil has to be removed. And so that's Paul's whole point there. The old covenant Ministers death, the new covenant ministers life. The old covenant results in condemnation. The new covenant results in righteousness. The old covenant has a temporary glory. The new covenant has a permanent glory. The old covenant leads to concealment. The new covenant leads to openness. Now we have an openness and a boldness. We don't read the Bible with a veil over Us and we speak with great plainness. Here's the last thing. The old covenant produces conformity. The new covenant produces Christ's likeness. And Paul says the best to last, if you ask me. Because verse 18, I think, is the best verse in this whole section. Because he's talking to us now. Now that we know Jesus Christ, listen to this, but we all with an open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord. are changed in the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. You know, when Moses went up into the Mount Sinai, He would take the veil off because he wanted to experience the glory of God with an open face, with no veil. But only Moses could do that, nobody else could. And that glory that he received was a was a fading glory. You know what our privilege is? We can go into the presence of God with an open face, take the veil off, and we can behold in a glass the glory of the Lord. We don't have to go to Mount Sinai to do it. Thank God, I don't want to climb that mountain. We can go and see the glory. Say, where? In a glass. You say, where's the glass? It's right here. It's the word of God. This is the mirror, this is the glass. And when you go to this glass, you go with an unveiled face. You better come with openness With the veil gone. And you know what? As we study the scripture, what we see is the glory of Jesus Christ. That's what it's all about. It's about the glory of Christ And you know what? As we focus on the glory of Christ in Scripture revealed to us, you know what happens? The Holy Spirit automatically begins to lift us to new levels of glory. And what is he talking about? Sanctification. We go from glory to glory to glory. You see, when you go to the Word of God with an unveiled face, We see the glory of the Lord, and we are given glory just like Moses was, but his was outward, ours is inward. And we are lifted to new levels of sanctification and growth and glory, and we can have access as much as we want. As much as we want. Isn't that a great thing? Even as by the Spirit of the Lord. It says we're changed into that same image of verse 18. The word changed metamorpho. Where we get the word metamorphosis It's an inward change that God does. You see, the old covenant tries to give you an outward conformity that's superficial. It never really changes who you are, but under the new covenant, you're changed from within. It's an inward transformation, not a conformity, but a transformity. We're transformed inwardly by the Spirit of the Lord. And it says all this is important for us to understand because we still live in a day when there's this allure of legalism. Where people in religious teachings try to get us to focus on the outward and do these rituals and traditions and so on when we have the new covenant. We have Jesus Christ. We have the Holy Spirit living inside of us. And that change begins there. You know, there are gospel preaching churches that have these legalistic tendencies that keep their members immature, guilty, and afraid. They want to spend a great deal of time just talking all about the externals, but they neglect the fact that internally you have the Holy Spirit which does the work of transformation. You know you want sanctification in your life, just look into the glass. Look into the Word of God. Let God change who you are. So again, in closing, the old covenant gives death, the new covenant gives life, the old covenant results in condemnation, the new covenant results in Righteousness The old covenant has a temporary glory, the new covenant has a permanent glory. The old covenant leads to concealment, the new covenant leads to openness. The old covenant produces conformity. The new covenant produces Christ-likeness And understanding the surpassing glory of the new covenant, what is our response to all of this? How should we respond? But we don't have to wonder because Paul tells us, look in chapter 4, look at verse 1. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, since we know this, this ministry of the new covenant, as we have received mercy. I love this next phrase. We faint not. We don't quit. We continue on. It doesn't matter how difficult things are. It's the glory of the new covenant that keeps us going forward. We don't quit. We don't use any excuse to not serve God or be faithful to God. We faint not. The word faint means to lose your motivation, to lose heart, to give up. You know what I read? Pastors are quitting all over. Churches are empty. And people have lost heart. I just wonder, do you really understand the glory of the new covenant? You understand it? Because if you do, Paul says, we faint not. We don't quit. We continue on. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the surpassing glory. Of the gospel, the new covenant, that all that we have in Christ. Thank you for the gift of salvation, the forgiveness of sins. Thank you that at salvation the righteousness that we have is given to us by Christ, the righteousness of Christ. And thank you that we have the Holy Spirit that writes the law of God on our heart, hearts of flesh. Not on tablets of stone anymore, but on our hearts of flesh. And that we receive a glory that's permanent. It doesn't fade. In fact, it gets better. And when we die, we go on to our glorification. What could be better? How we were so thankful, Lord. For the gospel and for what it does to us and in us. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that's never trusted Christ, that today would be the day when they In their heart, in their mind, they go to the cross, and the veil is ripped away. And for the first time, they see the beauty of Christ and the glory of the new covenant. They have their sins forgiven in eternal life. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you're here today, I would just ask you to please, if you haven't already Come to Christ. Turn to Him. Turn away from trying to do it on your own. Working your way to heaven or some kind of outward religious ritual that someone has put on you. That's a fading glory, friend. Put your faith and hope in Christ, a hope that we have that will bring a boldness and a confidence. That you know that you know Christ. Do you know that? Would you please, right this very moment, don't wait. And you don't need me to say it for you. Just tell the Lord, Lord, I'm coming to you today. Please save me. And for those of us that are his children, may we, may God give us eyes to see the glory of the new covenant. May it stir us And may we stay like the Apostle Paul. We faint not. We faint not. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.