Would you take God's word this morning? Please open to the book of Ephesians, chapter 5, and we're going to look at verse number 25 down to verse 33. But would you stand for the reading of God's Word today? I want to read a few verses of this with you, starting at verse 25. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the word. That he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish, so ought men to love their wives as their own bodies He that loveth his wife loveth himself. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me today? Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the instruction that it gives us. And yet, Lord, we always need the help of the Holy Spirit to open our eyes so that we can understand and hold things and apply these things. So, Lord, would you bless us today and help me to make your word clear and may Christ be exalted. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And this morning I want to speak about the spirit-filled husband. Several years ago, the Saturday Evening Post carried an article titled The Seven Ages of the Married Cold. And it revealed the reactions of a husband to his wife's cold during their first seven years of marriage. And it kind of goes like this, first year. Sugar dumpling, I'm really worried about my baby girl. You got a bad sniffle when there no telling about these things. So I'm putting you in the hospital this afternoon for a general checkup and a good rest. I know the food is lousy there, but that's okay. I'm going to order your meals from Rosini's. I've already got it all arranged from the f with the floor superintendent. Second year. Listen, darling, I don't like the sound of that cough. I've called Doc Miller and asked him to come over here. Now you go to bed like a good girl, please. Third year. Maybe you better lie down, honey. Nothing like a little rest when you're feeling lousy. I'll bring you something. Got any canned soup? Fourth year, now look dear, be sensible. After you fed the kids, washed the dishes and finished the floors, you better lie down. Fifth year, why don't you take a couple of aspirin? Sixth year, I wish you would just gargle or something instead of sitting around all evening barking like a seal. Seventh year, for Pete's sake, stop sneezing. Are you trying to give me pneumonia? Such is life. Falling in love is somewhat easy and effortless, but staying in love and growing in love requires effort. And it requires deliberate focus. What we learn here today from Ephesians chapter 5, in this section, verses 25 down to verse 33, is the responsibilities of the husband in the married relationship. So what responsibilities do husbands have? What does God expect? You remember the last time we left off talking about wives submitting to their husbands, and now here in the next part of this passage, it deals with husbands. Men it's your turn to get hammered today. This focuses on you and on me. So what are the responsibilities? What does God expect? We can really summarize this in four under three headings. the command, the comparison, and the conclusions. So first of all, notice with me number one, the command. The husband's responsibility to his wife is summarized in the first line. of verse number 25. Look at it again. Husbands love your wives. This is the only command in this verse. In fact, it's like bookends. We see it in verse 25, the command is there. We see it at the end of the chapter, verse number 33. Two times this command is given. Paul had commanded wives to be in subjection to their husbands. Now he's commanding husbands to love their wives. But this is not just any sort of love But with a special love, with a Christ-like love, because look at the end of verse 25 where it says, as Christ love the church. That's a tall order. Paul is setting a very high standard for husbands. He's lifting the standard to the highest possible level. And Paul saw in marriage an illustration of Christ's love for his church. Now, some men look at this command to love their wives as Christ loved the church, and they say, that's impossible. We can't do this. How can we love our wives the same way that Christ loves the church? Surely he's got to be speaking in hyperbole here. Surely he's talking about an ideal that none of us can really meet. This can't be real. But I want to assure you that this is exactly what God expects. It's exactly what God expects. And this is not impossible It's possible for several reasons. First of all, it's possible because God has given you the resource to do it. He's given you the resource to be able to do this. God never commands us to do something unless He supplies with that command the resource or the ability to accomplish it. And with this command, God has already given us the resource. You say, where is it? Well, go back to chapter 5, verse number 18. We already saw this, but we'll look at it again. This is a command here in verse 18, and be not drunk of wine where it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. You remember we already talked about this, but I'll review it. just a bit with you about what this says. Remember the verb be filled. There are several things about it. It is an imperative. This is a command. God is not suggesting for us He is commanding for us to be filled. And if we're not filled with the Holy Spirit, then we are living in disobedience. There's two commands in this verse. Be not drunk of wine. That's a negative command. But be filled with the Spirit. That's the positive command. Now, on the negative side, remember and when Paul was writing to the Ephesians, you remember back in that pagan culture, they worshiped at the Temple of Diana, and part of the worship, part of the ritual of those Greco-Roman religions was getting drunk. To get drunk and uh they they felt like was being in touch with the gods. A lot of their rituals were filled with a lot of music and dancing and drunkenness and supposedly you ascended to the level of the gods and you were able to uh to on that level to communicate with the gods. And Paul is debunking all of that, saying, that's not true spirituality. That's not true faith. Let me tell you what it is. It's to be filled with the Holy Spirit. That's the positive command. Be filled with the Spirit. This is a present tense verb, literally continually, be filled. This is not a one-time thing. This is a daily thing. Just because you were filled with the Spirit, one-time It doesn't mean that you're living in obedience. You have to be filled with the Spirit constantly, daily. It's plural in number. That means it's for all of us. Some people think that being filled with spirit, well the pastor has to be because he's got to preach and the evangelist has to win souls and the missionary has to go on the field and all those people need to be filled with spirit. And they limit it to just a special class of people that need to be filled with the Spirit. But no, that's not what this passage says. It's for all of us. Every one of us, we need it. And why do we need it? Well remember that the context here, the whole context of this being filled with the Spirit is relationships In order for you to have godly relationships, you can't do that on your own. You have to be filled with the Spirit in order to have godly relationships. Verse 19 is relationship to ourselves, speaking to ourselves in Psalms and Hymns. Verse 20 is relationship to God, giving thanks for all things to God. And then verse 21 is a relationship to others, submitting yourself to others. Verses 22 down to verse 30, that's the relationship of husbands and wives that Paul talks about. Chapters Uh actually we'd say verse thirty one is in relationship to in-laws, where it says, leave your father and mother, cleave unto your wife. And then in verse chapter six, verses one to four, that's the relationship between parents and children. Chapter six verses five to eight is relationship of employees to employers. Chapter six, verse nine, that's bosses to their employees. Chapter 6 verses 10 and 11, that's a relationship to the devil. You say, am I supposed to have the relationship a relationship with the devil? Yeah, it's not to be a good one. The Bible says you are to resist the wiles of Satan. Stand against Satan. Put on the whole armor of God that you might resist. So what relationship does this leave out? They're all there. And we need to understand that the reason we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit is because of our relationships. We will not be able to fulfill Godly relationships and be all that God intended us to be in these relationships unless we are filled with the Holy Spirit This is something that God has to do for us. We can't do it for ourselves in our own flesh and our own strength. We can't fulfill this command, husbands, to love our wives. If you try to do that on your own, you're going to fail. But you have a resource. You have the Holy Spirit that can help you. That means that God gives us the the the ability. It means that the excuse I hear sometimes in marriage counseling, well I used to love her, but I don't love her anymore, that excuse doesn't cut it. If you say, Well, I don't feel the same love for her than I that I used to feel The Lord's reply is this get to work and obey my command, and the feelings will rekindle. Again, falling in love is easy, but staying in love And growing in love requires deliberate focus. And you have the Holy Spirit to help you in this. But whatever you try to function in a relationship without the help of the Holy Spirit, you're surely to mess it up We're going to mess it up. Without the Holy Spirit replacing our selfishness, our self-centeredness with His fruit, which is what? What does the Bible say the fruit of the Spirit is? It begins with what? Love. Love, that's Galatians 5, right? But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. And there is a there's a parallel. Really, the fruit of the Spirit and true love is synonymous. If you're walking in the Spirit and you're yielded to the Spirit and you're filled with the Spirit This is going to be a natural outflow because spirit fullness and love, true love, are synonymous. You say, why do you say that? Well, because if you read 1 Corinthians chapter 13 And you read how love acts in 1 Corinthians 13, and you compare it with Galatians chapter 5, you know what you find out? It's exactly the same. Exactly the same. The fruit of the Spirit is love. And by the way, I I would like to propose the idea that when he speaks about the rest of these things, he's just talking about Some of the aspects of that love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, and so on. All of that is a byproduct of real love. The fruit of the Spirit is love, and here's how it behaves. For example, in 1 Corinthians 13, love rejoices in truth, that's joy, right? Love bears all things, that's peace, right? Love suffers long, that's long suffering, right? Doesn't behave itself unseemly, that is gentleness, is kind, that's goodness, believes all things, hopes all things, that's faith Vaunteth not a self, is not puffed up, that's meekness, is not easily provoked, that's temperance. These are the same things. So to be filled with the Holy Spirit means that you will act in love. So it's possible for you to love your wife as Christ loved the church because you have the resource that God has given you, which is the Holy Spirit. But it's also possible because it's a command this is commanded to men from every conceivable background. You have to remember that when Paul wrote to the men of Ephesus, he wrote to men that were in a pagan culture And many of the husbands in the Ephesian church had been saved out of these raw pagan backgrounds. Many of them had visited the Temple of Diana in Ephesus on a regular basis. uh which included in its ritual worship worship male and female prostitution. That's why Paul earlier warned about sexual immorality in chapter five, verses three down to verse number twelve. Furthermore, many of these men were married to women that they did not choose since marriages in that day were often arranged by the parents. The Greek writer Demosthenes says this. He describes the mentality of the pagan husband or pagan men back in those days. Quote, listen to what he wrote. We keep mistresses for pleasure, concubines for the day-to-day needs of the body, but we have wives in order to produce children legitimately, and to have a trustworthy guardian of our homes He goes on to document the widespread immorality of pagan Greece and pagan Rome. So for the husband to be faithful to his wife, Was kind of unreasonable in that environment. So it's against this pagan backdrop that you can see how utterly radical the Christian perspective was regarding the sanctity of marriage. It was a radical idea that a husband was to be singularly devoted to his wife and to love her with a lifelong, sacrificial, committed love. But I want to tell you it's no less radical for our culture today. It's no less radical for today. But the point is this, even in a marriage where the husband has fallen into the sinful ways of the world, Or where he's been unfaithful to his wife, or maybe she to him. Where romantic love has gone cold, it is possible through obedience to God's word to turn that marriage relationship around so that it honors God But it could also be fulfilling to the married couple. It's possible through obedience to the Word of God and the Holy Spirit to restrike that original match. That's the thing that we need to see here. So it's possible it's also possible when we consider the biblical definition of love We have to be clear on what the Bible means when it says love. Husbands, love your wives. What specifically does love mean there? Because a lot of people have a lot of definitions about what love is It's one of those things that's hard to define. Most people had a tendency to think of it as a feeling. Someone said it's a feeling that you feel when you feel like you're going to feel a feeling that you never felt before Or another person said it's an outward expression of the inner all-overishness, whatever that is. One little seven-year-old girl named Karen said, it's when you love s when you love someone, your eyelashes go up and down and stars come out of you. One little five-year-old boy named Carl said, love is when a girl puts on perfume, a boy puts on shaving cologne, and they go out and they smell each other What is love? Is it that overpowering feeling that sweeps you off a seat? You know, when you first see that person's face. How does the Bible Let me give you a definition. I think it's a biblical definition. Here it is. Love is portrayed as a self-sacrificing, caring commitment. that shows itself in seeking the highest good of the one loved. Let me say that again. Love is portrayed as a self-sacrificing Caring commitment that shows itself in seeking the highest good of the one loved. It's really Selfless, sacrificial acts on behalf of someone else seeking their highest good. And this leads to the next point. Not only the command, but look at number two, the comparison. So to break it down and to make it easy for us to grasp, Paul uses two comparisons here. Husbands are to love like Christ loves his bride. Again in verse 25, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. So, husbands, we need to ask ourselves, how did Christ love the church? Whenever you have a question about how you're treating your wife, you need to ask the question, is this the way Christ treats his church? Am I treating her the way Christ would treat his church? And ladies, you have my permission to use this. How does Christ love his bride? Sacrificially. Notice the verse 25 where it says, He gave himself for it. Christ just didn't sit in heaven and bark out commands to us on earth. He came to earth in human form He knew he was going to be mocked. He knew he was going to be rejected and ridiculed and beaten and crucified. He knew all that. He knew he was going to be abused by the very bride that he would uh die for later on. At a personal cost that we can never fully fathom. He laid aside all of his rights, came to this earth, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. He who knew no sin was actually made sin for us. I mean, try to try to comprehend that. Like the songwriter wrote, Amazing love, how can it be that thou, my God, should die for me? That's what Christ did on our behalf. Now a husband may be here and you might say, well, you know, I would die for my wife if it ever came down to it. I would die for her. And you know what? I believe you, and I think that's tremendous. But here's the question. Are you crucifying self on a daily basis on behalf of your wife? Sometimes it's harder to live on a daily basis crucifying yourself, putting her ahead of you than it is to die for her in one noble act. It's a daily self-denial. It's a daily death to self. Is your focus on using her to meet your needs? Or are you setting aside your own desires and needs to meet her needs? That is the issue here. And the thing that In all my years of counseling and marriage counseling, the thing that destroys families and relationships and marriages more than anything else is just selfishness. Selfishness has destroyed more things. It is the great destroyer. And the Bible says love seeks not her own. It's not selfish. Doesn't demand its own rights. R. H. Linsky wrote this. He said, Cure selfishness and you plant a garden of Eden. But then secondly, sacrificially. Look at verse 26. That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the Word, that he might present it to Himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. Now you might be asking yourself, what does that mean? It means you're to be the spiritual leader of your home, men. It means that you are to take the initiative. Why is it that in the average home it's the woman who is the spiritual leader? Why is that? Women have to drag their husbands to church. They have to ask them to do spiritual duties. And gentlemen, that is a shame. It's a disgrace. Your responsibility before God is to love her the way Christ loved the church, and for her to be a godly, radiant, beautiful Christian as a result of her relationship with you. Because you're walking with God, because you're setting the pace, because you are the example and you lead her in the paths of righteousness. That's your job, that's your role. Stop criticizing her and start discipling her. Stop complaining about what she how she doesn't measure up. And start cherishing her and thanking God for what she is. And the gift that God has given to you in her. Stop threatening her and start teaching her the truth of God's word. Divine love does not condemn wrong and those loved, but seeks to cleanse them from it. That's the way Christ loves the church Christ isn't constantly looking down from heaven, criticizing, railing on those that are less than what they should be, but he is continuing to love us and forgive us and sanctify us and to make us more like himself. patiently working with us in that whole process. Why? Because Christ desires a holy and spotless bride. Again in verse 26 that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the word. What does Paul mean by that? Some commentators say, well, he's referring to baptism here, but I disagree. Baptism is really not in the context. I think there are several options here. First of all, in ancient Greece, a bride-to-be would be taken down to the river to be bathed, ceremonial ceremonially cleansed of all every past defilement before she's married. Whatever her life had been before, now it's brand new. That's the idea there. And that's a beautiful picture of salvation, isn't it? Because when Christ saves us, we are cleansed from all of our past life. Or it could be that Paul is referring here to the ritual bath that Jewish brides would have before their wedding. Or it could be that Paul is referring to Ezekiel 16 verses 8 to 14 where God describes how he entered into a marriage covenant with his bride, Israel, and he washed her, and he anointed her with oil, and clay clothed her in beautiful garments and jewelry, so that she looked like a queen. Even so, Christ took us from our impurity. He cleansed us from all of our iniquity. And he makes us the bride of the king. And we and he does it by the word. No, it's the washing of the water by the word. It's obviously referring to the word of God here. It's through the word of God that we're saved. It's through the Word of God that we are sanctified. And so that means, men, that in your relationship, the Word of God should play a prominent role. Read the Word of God together. Come to worship together. Talk about God's word together. Pray for her growth and godliness. Talk about the things of God. Talk about the struggles and the joys of the Christian life. Protect your wife from the filth of this world. Again, notice in verse number 27, that he might present it to himself a glorious church. not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. The church is not perfect, but Christ is sanctifying the church so that one day he can present to himself a a bride that's spotless and holy and without blemish, the Bible says, without wrinkle. Even so, wives today are not perfect husbands, but they they might have many s spiritual wrinkles and spots now, but your role is to patiently love her and to spiritually nourish her until she grows into a spotless Wrinkle free and I'm not talking about plastic surgery there, okay, guys? Wrinkle free bride I'm talking about spiritual growth. Love her like Christ loves his bride, but also you love her like your own body. Look in verse 28. So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. Now what Paul's going to give here are three basic arguments. First of all, there's a logical argument. Lover like you love yourself. I'm always amused when I hear a psychologist or a counselor say, oh, we just need to love ourselves more The problem is we don't love ourselves enough. Let me guarantee you that that is not a problem. We don't have any problem loving ourselves. None whatsoever. In fact Paul says you just need to love her the way you love yourself. I mean, he wouldn't say that if we had a problem loving ourselves. No. Paul says you love her the same way you love your own body. And men and women are always concerned about their own bodies. Uh even even now, I mean, look at all the money people spend on their the on them on themselves to display the body, to pamper, to nourish, indulge their body, and so on. And and and as Christians, we our our body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, so we need to take care of it I mean I understand that. We should strive to be healthy. That's that's right. But the point is is that everyone has this innate desire to take care of her own body. And Paul is saying, look, take that desire and you treat her the way you would treat yourself. You love her the way you love your own body. You should desire to take care of her to the same degree, if not more, than you take care of your own body. You would do nothing to harm your own body So don't do anything to harm her. You want to n nourish and and meet the needs of all of your body? I mean when you're sitting around and you you're hungry, what do you do? I mean when she's not around, what do you do? You get up and you fix yourself a sandwich or whatever. You meet the need, and this is the idea. That's the way you treat her, whatever the need is. So he gives here a logical argument, then he gives a scriptural argument. Look at verse number 30 For we are members of his body, and of his flesh, and of his bones. Verse 31, for this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. And Paul is pointing out the oneness that exists in a marriage relationship. And he and this was established at the very beginning. in the Garden of Eden, when God instituted marriage. And Paul is quoting from Genesis 2. 24, Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh When Adam and Eve were married there in the first marriage in the garden, they were one. Absolutely one. And today when a couple gets married and the preacher pronounces them, I now pronounce you husband and wife, that is a legal declaration. You are now under the eyes of the law one. But you know what? The whole rest of your life, you try to live out that oneness. And you grow in greater oneness. In every way, physically, spiritually, emotionally, intellectually, you are becoming more and more one. And the whole idea here is that don't let anything hinder that oneness And marriage relationship, a lot of the marriage counseling that I do is because someone in the marriage relationship has allowed another relationship to interfere with the oneness that they're supposed to be living out. Whatever it might be, whether it's an in-law or a former friend or associates, you don't let anyone spoil the oneness that you are to build with that spouse of yours That marriage relationship is to be the prominent human relationship that you have in this world, in this life And you're to continue to live out that whole oneness. And this is Paul's point here. Look at verse number thirty-one where he says, For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. The word Join cleave literally to be glued to to be cemented together. They are to be as one And that's the whole idea here. So he gives a scriptural argument, a logical argument, lover like your own body, a scriptural argument. You were declared one, you need to live out that oneness. And then he gives a theological argument. Look at verse number thirty-two This is the great mystery I speak concerning Christ and the church. This oneness that should be reflected in marriage is reflected in the oneness that Christ has with the believer, the oneness that Christ has with the church. Now you heard me talk about this before. This oneness that the believer has is just an incredible, Paul calls it a mystery. of Christ in the church. It's mysterious in the sense that God revealed it in the New Testament times, but also in the sense that we can't fully wrap our minds around it. The fact that you are one with Christ, that there's a point where my reason ends, and I can't grasp it anymore. Revelation continues, but my reason ends. The very fact that you're one with Christ means that when he died, you were there with him and you died. When he was buried, you were buried. When he rose, you rose. He's seated now in heavenly places. That's where you are You say, wait a minute, preacher, I'm right here on this pew. I know. But you're also seated with Christ in heavenly places. In the mind of God, you're so one with Christ. That's what baptism is all about. It is an outward symbol that talks about the spiritual reality that you are one with Jesus. That's what Paul meant when he said, I'm crucified with Christ Nevertheless, I live, not I, but Christ that lives in me. And so we have this incredible unity and oneness with Christ. And that is the oneness that should be also reflected in the marriage relationship. You understand? You are one In the eyes of Almighty God. And so you should live out that oneness. So therefore, when you understand how God sees you and how God made you as one. It shouldn't be any problem to love her the way you love yourself. And it's possible to love her the way Christ loved the church by seeking her highest good, being selflessly sacrificial in your acts, committed in your love, putting her highest good above yours That's the way Christ loved the church. And that's what God is calling us to do as huts. So we see the command. We see the comparisons. But then let me give you finally the conclusion. Look at verse 33. Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife, even as himself. And the wife see that she reverence her husband. So Paul gives a summary statement of everything he had already said in these previous verses about the relationship between husbands and wives. Husbands love your wives, and wives reverence, or we could say respect your husbands. Wives want to be loved, husbands want to be admired and respected. And so that's what you mutually express to one another. And again, we do this because we have the resource, we have the Holy Spirit that is able to help us to do this. Delate. Well-known pastor Harry Arnside once had a man come to him who was recently married and he said, Pastor, I need help because I feel like I'm doing something really awful. I'm drifting into an awful state of idolatry. And he said, What do you mean? He said, Well I'm afraid that I love my wife too much. He said, I I'm I'm putting her on a high plane. I think I'm loving her too much. I think I'm displeasing the Lord. And and Pastor Ironside said, Well, do you love her more than Christ loved the church? And he thought about it and he thought, well no. He said, well then you're okay, just keep at it. Just keep at it. And then we're to stay at it. We're to stay at it until we reach that level Of loving her the way Christ loves the church. So we see the command, the comparison, the conclusions of what Paul's saying here. A husband was listening to a recorded message where the speaker cited this biblical text about husbands being thoughtful of their wives, and he writ and he emphasized that love is an act of the will. It's an act of the will. A person can choose to love. And it convicted this husband, who realized that he had been pretty selfish and insensitive to his wife So as he drove to join his family at their vacation cottage, he vowed that during the vacation, he would try to be a totally loving husband. No excuses. And his resolve was immediately tested when he got there. Because after the long drive, he just wanted to sit and read, but his wife suggested a walk on the beach. And so he started to refuse, but then he thought, no, no. She's been with the kids. She wants to be with me. I'm going to go ahead and walk. So he went up for a walk on the beach. And so it went for two weeks while he was there. He resisted the temptation to call his job to see how things were going. He agreed to visit the Shell Museum I mean who wants to visit a Shell Museum on vacation? His wife did, so he uh he agreed to visit the Shell Museum. He held his tongue when his wife was slow getting ready for their dinner engagements. Men, we have all been there. Ladies, what takes so long? But he held his tongue. So for two weeks he kept his vow, and he chose to love his wife And put her above himself. But on the last night of the vacation, as they got ready for bed, his wife stared at him with a really sad expression. And he said, What's the matter? And she answered with a emotional, distressed tone, do you know something that I don't know? Well what do you mean? Well, you know, I had to check up with the doctor a few weeks ago. Did the doctor tell you something? Am I gonna die? I mean, you're treating me so well. Am I gonna die? And then he began to laugh and he said, No honey, you're not gonna you're not dying. I'm just really starting to live. And we need to do that as husbands. Do you love her as Christ loves the church? And do you love her as your own body? If not, your assignment is clear. Start immediately. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for the resource that you give us in the Holy Spirit. Because, Lord, we're weak people. So bound by our sin and selfishness that we need the Holy Spirit to help us to be Christ-like in every area of our life. But especially in this role that you've given us as husbands to love our wives. So, Father, would you please help us? And with all these relationships that you mentioned here in Ephesians chapter 5, we need the Holy Spirit to fill us so that every relationship in life that we have is a godly relationship. Something for which we will never be ashamed as we stand before you. And Lord, we know that it starts by first acknowledging that we as sinners need a Savior. We need Christ to save us. We need the Holy Spirit to fill us. And order for us to be what you called us to be So Father, may it be so in every heart. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, can I just ask you, friend, do you are you absolutely certain that Christ is your Savior? Do you know Him as your Savior? And if not, would you be willing to pray right now and put your faith in Christ? Just say something like this, Lord Jesus. I know I'm a sinner, and I know that you came to die for my sins on the cross. And today I turn to you. I'm asking you to save me, Lord Jesus. Make me your child and fill me with your Holy Spirit so that I can be the man or the woman that you've called me to be. Bless my relationships in life. But first of all, I want to have a relationship with you. So save me, Lord Jesus. Save me Me. And friend, if you pray that, he'll save you. He'll forgive you for your sins. He'll give you eternal life. And would you let us know because we want to encourage you along in your Christian life. Father, bless your word again. Thank you for it. We pray in Jesus' name.