Take your Bibles open to the Book of Revelation, chapter 6. As we continue our study through the book of Revelation, we come to chapter 6, and we're going to look at tonight verses 9 down to verse 17. Revelation 6 verse 9 down to verse 17. While you find that, I heard about a man who bought a barometer from Abercrombie and Fitch. This was a very expensive, minutely calibrated barometer to tell the weather. And he unpacked it, and when he did, he looked at the needle, and the needle was already pointing to the center that said hurricane. And so he shook it and it's still the needle stayed in that sector pointing to hurricane and he thought, you know, as much as I pay for this, I got a defective barometer And uh he lived on Long Island, but he worked in New York, and so he commuted to his job. And when he got to work, he wrote a scathing letter to Abercrombie and Fitch for getting a direct a defective barometer But when he came home that evening, um the barometer was gone. In fact his whole house was gone, because that was the hurricane of nineteen thirty-eight. And uh There was nothing wrong with the barometer. He just refused to believe it. And there's nothing wrong with the barometer of God's word. You know, as we look at the scripture, uh all the signs indicate that there's a the wrath of God that's going to be poured out. upon this world. The scripture points to that sector called wrath. And in fact we look tonight here in Revelation chapter six. And we I've called this sermon tonight the wrath of the Lamb. Look at verse number 17, it says, For the great day of his wrath is come And who shall be able to stand? Actually, back up to verse sixteen and then seventeen. And he said to the ro mout mountains and rocks, follow us and hide us. From the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand? Now the book of Revelation tells us that there's coming a time of of great tribulation that's going to take place on the earth. And last week we saw the world being plunged into a terrible, frightening time. As we looked in chapter six, the very beginning of it, we saw the opening of the first four seals on the scroll that was taken by the Lamb Jesus Christ from the hand of the one who sat on the throne. And of course, that is God the Father. And we saw in the opening of these seals different things that were were taking place. The first seal was open, and there was a white horse that rode forth. It was a white horse of dominion. And we said that there's going to be come a time when um There will be a time when someone will rise to dominion in the world, and many people see this as the Antichrist rise to power on a platform of peace. And then the second field was open, and there was a red horse that rode forth. This is the red horse of destruction. War is going to break out. And uh the Antichrist will exchange his empty bow for a sword and there will be death. There will be murder during this time And then the third seal was open and there was a black horse. We can call this the black horse of deprivation. He'll ride forth. There'll be a time of of uh famine and of starvation. And then the fourth seal was open, and we saw a pale horse, and this word for pale here has the idea of kind of a sickly green, and uh this is the pale horse horse of death. Remember that during this time we saw that a quarter of the Earth's population will die, maybe somewhere around two billion people at that It's incredible to think of that when you think about the numbers today. But all of this is the wrath of God, and it's just starting. And we read here already in verses 16 and 17, but I want you to underscore the phrase where it says, the great day of his wrath in verse number 17. The great day of his wrath. Now, whenever the Bible uses the word day, sometimes it's referring to 24-hour period. And normally If it's if you're referring to the 24 hours, there'll be something that will be made clear in the text that will show that. For instance, in the creation days, the Bible says there was evening, there was morning, uh Yomakad, in the Hebrew literally day one. And normally when there's a number put in front of that word day, it's talking about a 24-hour period. But then there are times when the word day is used in Scripture, and it's not referring to a 24-hour period, but it's referring to a long extended period of time. And the Bible talks about a specific period of time called the day of the Lord. And this begins at the rapture of the church and it ends with millennial blessing. And the Bible has a lot to say about this day. It's referred to as that day, or the great day, or simply the day. Just write down Zephaniah 1. 14 through verse 15. The great day of the Lord is near, it is near, and hasteneth greatly, even the voice of the day of the Lord, the mighty man shall cry there bitterly. That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thickness darkness. Now as these seals are open, we're going to see as we continue on that the world is plunged into this time of tribulation and terror. As the Bible says, the great day of his wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand? This is the time when God will pour out his wrath upon the earth. And this will take place during a time that the Bible calls the tribulation. As the seals are opened up, there seems to be an intensity that is building up as these seals are open and the judgments are poured out. Jesus calls the first part of the tribulation the birth pain, the beginning of the birth pains in Matthew 24, verse And just as a woman's labor pain increases in intensity, as the time of the birth draws near, so also will the terrifying events of God's judgment increase. in painful intensity as the tribulation period uh continues. And what we're going to see here in in chapter six are the prayers of God's people in heaven, and that is the force that provokes God to pour out his wrath on the ungodly with greater intensity. We're going to see this as we see these next seals opened up. And on one hand, this will be sweet for God's saints in heaven where they see God's vengeance poured out upon the ungodly. And then on the other hand, there will be a bitterness to it because uh sin will be judged, sinners will be judged, and that sentence will be eternal punishment And so I want you to see then these next two seals as they're opened up. They're taking those right down the fifth seal, and what we see here is divine vengeance. Divine vengeance. As John opens the fifth seal, John sees the blood of Christian martyrs spilled in verse number nine. Look at verse nine. And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar. the souls of them that were slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. And this verse describes martyrs, God's people who are martyred You know, when the in the Old Testament, when the priest presented an animal sacrifice, uh the the blood was poured out at the base of the brazen altar. I think this is my the altar that is being referred to here. Some think it's maybe referring to the altar of incense incense. I think it's referring to that brazen altar. And in Old Testament imagery, blood, of course, represents life. So here in Revelation, the souls of the martyrs are under the altar, which indicates that their lies were given sacrificially for the glory of God. I think Paul had this in mind. You might want to write in your margin Philippians 2. 17. Yay, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith I joy and rejoice with you all. He also said in 2 Timothy 4, I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. The Greek word martis is where we get our English word martyr, and it simply means a witness. And uh so many of the witnesses for the Lord were martyred that it came to to be associated with dying for the faith. Now these saints were slain by the enemy because of their witness to the truth of God and to the message of Jesus Christ. Now, I think that in this time frame here, this is the tribulation, I think that the church will be called out in the rapture. We know there's going to be a rapture. The Bible's very clear that talks about that. There are people that believe different things about the rapture, what when it's going to take place. Some think it's going to be before the tribulation, some think in the middle, some think in the end I think that the Bible teaches that the church will be gone before this time of tribulation. And there are several reasons for that, and I and I'm really thinking about just giving a whole sermon on the different views of the raptures and why I think the Bible teaches a pre-tribulation rapture of the church. Again, we know that it's going to happen. And if you look at 1 Thessalonians 4 Paul is giving comfort to saints who thought that their their loved ones missed the rapture. And in chapter four, he's speaking there about being caught away. uh the rapture and then in chapter five he talks about the day of the Lord. That to me is a distinction between two separate events, uh two different time frames there. There'll be a rapture and then after that there'll be a Tribulation, the day of the Lord, I think which is uh the rapture starts the day of the Lord, and then the events that are in the day of the Lord are described in First Thessalonians chapter five. And so Since this will be the tribulation time, the forces of the Antichrist will be at their power, and the Antichrist will not accept the truth because Satan wants uh uh all people to be deceived and to accept his lies. And so also we see here that they're going to pray for God's vengeance Look down in verse number ten. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? Since their murderers are still alive on the earth When they're asking for vengeance, apparently these are people that were martyred during the early part of the tribulation. But I think that they could represent all who have laid down their lives. for Jesus Christ and the cause of God's truth. And they are an encouragement to all of us today who may be called to follow and stand for truth. And so these Christians will be slaughtered during the tribulation period. And now they're crying out to God for vengeance for their murderers. And then in response to that, God is going to continue to pour out his wrath on the earth. Now this leads to two questions that people might ask. Number one, if the saves, if God's people are called out uh taken up to heaven at the rapture, where will these Christians come from? I mean if the if the rapture takes place, all the believers will be gone, right? That is, unless you believe in a partial rapture, which I don't believe in. Uh I think all of God's people will be taken out during the rapture, then where do these people come from? And I think these are people who will be saved during the tribulation period. I believe this will be primarily the Jewish people Because during this day, God will turn to his chosen people, the Jews. We now live in a time that the Bible calls the times of the Gentiles. And there's not many Jewish people being saved today. But there's going to come a time when there's going to be a revival of Jewish people recognizing the Messiah and coming to him. In fact, just go to Romans chapter 11. Just let me show this to you here. Look in Romans 11 and verse number 25. As a verse we can use to talk about this. Romans 11, 25. For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery. Lest ye should be wise in your own conceits, that blindness in part is happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles be come in. And so this is the time frame that we're living in now. This is a time when Gentiles are coming to Christ in large numbers, but there's blindness in part. it which is happening to Israel. That is this is ethical Israel, this is uh national Israel. Uh this is uh Jewish people, not many are coming to Christ. Some are coming, but it's not large numbers. We don't see that. But there's going to come a time when the fullness of the Gentiles is complete. And notice verse 26. So all Israel shall be saved, as it is written, there shall come out of Zion the deliverer And I think this is going to be the time when when the when the last Gentile convert is saved. Then the times of the Gentiles will be over, the the rapture will come, the church will be called out, and then this will start the tribulation time, and that's when many Jewish people will come to faith. in Jesus Christ. They will turn to him. In the Old Testament, just before God poured out his wrath, the flood, God took Enoch Remember the Bible says Enoch walked with God and he was not, for God took him. He was translated to heaven. But Noah went through the storm. And I see here Enoch is kind of like an illustration of the church and the believer be being taken out before the floods of God's wrath come to earth. But Noah is an illustration of the Jewish people that will go through the tribulation period. They will go through that time of wrath and be saved during that time. And I think too I see some parallels in Matthew twenty-four and the Mount Olivet Discourse. In fact, why don't you just turn there as well? Look in Matthew chapter 24 and look down at verses uh 1 to 7, where uh Jesus is going to describe some of the events that will take place uh during this time. And remember verse 1, and Jesus went out and departed from the temple. And his disciples, this is verse 1 of chapter 24, came to him for to show him the buildings of the temple. And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things? Verily I say unto you, There shall not be one be left here one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us When shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you, for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive many And we can compare this to what goes on during the tribulation period, the rise of deception, the rise of the Antichrist. Look down at verse number six. And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet There we see war as we saw in Revelation. The second seal opened up and there's war. And then in verse 7, we see a famine. For nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilence and earthquakes and divers. There's the third seal, famine that will take place. And then also death and pestilence. Again, we see that in verse 7. And yet Jesus said After all of this, in verse 8, all these things are the beginning of sorrows. Look at verse 9. Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall what? Kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake. And so here we see the persecution. Persecution will sweep through the earth And those who are that come to the Messiah during that time will be hunted and persecuted and killed And so in verse ten, those who are false Christians will turn in those who are true Christians. Look at verse ten. And there shall be many who shall be offended and shall betray one another and hate one another. So there will be betrayal during that time. And verse 13 it says, but he that shall endure it unto the end, the same will be saved And it also says in verse fourteen, that this gospel, the kingdom, shall be preached in all the world for witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. And so we can we can continue on here. If you look in verses 15 down to verse 22, I think this this this marks another huge event that will take place during the tribulation that the Bible calls. uh the abomination of desolation. All these things are taking place during this time, and these are all signs that Jesus said that are going to happen, that are going to take place. And Look at the parable that Jesus gives. Drop down in verse number 32. Now learn a parable of the fig tree. When his branch is yet tender and puteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh. It's a very simple parable. How don't you know that summer is coming? When you see a tree, and this is really he mentions fig tree here, but really he's talking about all the trees. When all the trees begin to bud and they begin to bring leaves, what do you know? Well that's springtime and you know that the summer is coming. A very simple parable. And Jesus is saying, when you see these things happening, you know that the end is close. And the end that he's talking about here is when Jesus will come at the end of this time of tribulation And then when he comes, he will bring judgment at that time. Now I think that again the church will be called out before that. There'll be a rapture before that. This is speaking to those people that will be in that time of tribulation Uh you say, well, why do you think that the the church will be called out? Well later on in John 14, and this is the last week, remember, before Jesus goes to the cross, right? In John 14, this is on Thursday at the Last Supper. What did Jesus say to his disciples? Let not your heart be what? I mean, I would be troubled if I heard all these things. Let not your heart be troubled. If ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. And so these things will happen during the tribulation. There'll be great persecution. And there'll be martyrs during that time that will be martyred for the witness of Jesus Christ. And here's a second question. If Christians are gone, uh how will people get saved during the tribulation period? Who's going to witness to them? And uh again, go back to Revelation, and we're gonna get to this as we move through the book, but Revelation 11 teaches us that there will be witnesses who will go out through the world. to do mighty deeds. These men will be preachers of the gospel. And there will be also the hundred and forty-four thousand Jews who have the seal of God. We see this in Revelation chapter 7 and verse number 3 and verse number 14. In fact, look at that, Revelation 7, verse 3, and verse 14. And it tells us that, saying, Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads. And down in verse fourteen, and I say unto him, Sir, thou knowest And he said unto me, These are they which came out of the great tribulation, have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of And so these verses tell us that there will be witnesses in that time, and many Jews will come to Christ during that time. And so there will be witnesses. And also, when you think about it, think about all the material that'll still be left, all the books. All the things on the internet for people to have access to, to hear the word of God. I mean, if you think about all of those things, uh It's no wonder that there will be people that will come to know the Lord. But what I want to focus on now is the cruelty of the murders that we see in verse 9. Where it talks about these that were slain. Again, these are believers that are under the altar. This is describing how a sacrificial altar looks like after animals were killed. And the blood was under the altar. I don't know if you've ever been to a slaughterhouse, say after a slaughter. It's not pleasant to look at. um you know, flesh everywhere, blood everywhere. That's kind of the idea here. John is describing these believers rounded up and slaughtered. I mean we we hear about in history the Holocaust and how bad that was. But I think during this time the Antichrist will make Hitler look like a Mother Teresa. The devil has always hated God's people. He has always hated Israel. And during this time, his hatred will be inflamed. And there will be many that will be slaughtered. We see the cruelty of the murders, but then the cry of the massacre. Again, look in verse number 10, where it says, And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true Dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? Who is it as they in verse 10? Again, these are the people who were slain. There during that time. And they're crying out for vengeance. Um on earth they will be slaughtered, but in heaven now they're there with God. And by the way, you know what? You can't defeat God's people To be absent from the body is to be what? Present with the Lord. You go to heaven and be with the Lord. And they're there in heaven, and the Bible says they cry out to God with a loud voice against the injustice. of these evildoers on earth. And they appeal to God's character. Notice they said, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? Life today is filled with a lot of injustices. And we're seeing some of that happen right now, aren't we? Some of that unfolding in the events in the world. But friend, God's vengeance is true. And God will judge. God is just. In 2 Thessalonians 1, verse 6 says, as seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you. And to you who are troubled, rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God. that obey not the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the question is not if, the question is not God will you The question is, when will you, God, when will you bring vengeance? They wanted God to hurry. But then I want you to see the comfort of the martyrs. Look in verse 11. Where it says this and and white robes were given unto every one of them, and it was said unto them that they should rest yet for a little season, until their fellow servants also and their brethren that should be killed. As they were, should be fulfilled. And we see here the comforting words God gives to them. He will give them a white robe. He'll tell them to rest for now. And so here are these believers in heaven, and God gives them a white robe, and God says, just wait, just be patient. Because God will fulfill his purpose. God will have the last word on all of this. And God wastes I think for two reasons, that the reward will be greater for the saints, and that the revenge will be greater for the sinners. So on this fifth seal we see divine vengeance, but now the sixth seal. Number two, the sixth seal. This is worldwide catastrophe. When the fifth seal is open, we see God's vengeance on the martyr. When the sixth seal is open, what follows is worldwide catastrophe. Look at verse notice the extent of this catastrophe. Look at verse twelve. And I beheld, when he had opened the sixth seal, lo, there was a great earthquake. And the sun became black as sackcloth of hair. And the moon became as blood. And notice it's going to be worldwide. This is going to happen all over. I want to tell you, these tree huggers and worshippers of Mother Earth are in for a big surprise when God does this. Wait till the Creator takes and shakes this whole world. Notice the word great. It's from the Greek word mega, huge, large. You know, the world is really only seeing one worldwide catastrophe. You know what that was? It was the flood. And I believe, by the way, that was worldwide. You know, there are some who try to teach that the flood was local. I don't believe that at all. I believe that was worldwide. That was one huge worldwide catastrophe. We've seen local uh devastation. We've seen local hurricanes and tornadoes and earthquakes. We've seen tornadoes maybe devastate a few states and so on But we have really never seen a worldwide catastrophe. And so that's what's going to happen here. That's the extent of this. And notice the events. What's going to happen? The sun will turn black. And darken it in the sky, the moon will turn re blood red, the stars, it says, will begin to fall. Look at verse thirteen. And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth as an untimely as even as a fig tree cast her untimely figs. When she is shaken of a mighty wind. And it says in verse 14, And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. Now again, the Old Testament prophets mention these things. In in Joel chapter 2, verse 30, listen to this. And I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood and fire and pillars of smoke. And verse 31, and the sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before the great and terrible day of the Lord. Amos in Amos chapter eight, verse number eight. Shall not the land tremble for this, and every one mourn that dwell therein? And it shall rise up holy as a flood, it shall be cast out and drowned It shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord, that I will cause the sun to go down at noon. I will darken the earth in the clear day. And I will turn your feast into mourning, and all your so songs into lamentation. And so on. He goes on to talk about the bitterness of that day. In Isaiah, Isaiah also mentions the same thing. Isaiah 13, Behold, the day of the Lord comes. cruel both with wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate, and he shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it. For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light The sun shall be darkened in its going forth, and the moon shall not cause her light to shine. And so Joel saw it Amos prophesied it, Isaiah predicted, John sees these same events. Now let me give you the third thing. We saw the extent, and we now see the events, but number three, the explanation. Now how are we to interpret this? Because there are some that think that these events, we really can't take this as literal. That this these events are really depict uh social and political upheaval. that this is really just speaking of other things. And so we really there are those who take that view, and there are some out there, they go from a literal interpretation of this to really more of an allegorical interpretation if he asks me they take liberties with the plain sense of the word of God. Let me uh read to you what my um grief professor, Dr. Easley, who's in heaven now. said about this. Um he he wrote he wrote this in his commentary. Just as the four riders symbolize something else, so these events in earth, sky, and sea are figurative of world shaking events as the end of time approaches. Here he's talking about those who interpret this symbolically. This is what they say. These may be along the lines of s military, scientific, or technological devastation. As the 20th century example, the explosion of atomic bombs was just such an event. Now he goes on to say now some people see this as symbolic. But then he goes on to say this, the weakness of this interpretation is that the response of Earth's peoples to disasters In other words, he says the weakness of this is that when you see the response of the people, what happens? Well, we already saw this down in verse 16. that they run to the mountains and rocks and say, fall on us. That doesn't sound like they're looking at it symbolically there. They're running to the the response here is they run To the mountains and rocks, and say, Follow us and hide us from the face of him that sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of his wrath is come. And that's a good argument, and I agree with it. The reason I don't take this as symbolic is because of this response of Earth's people to the disaster here And he writes, this kind of response hardly seems warranted to take this symbolic view. This is a worldwide earthquake. Again, it's not just limited to one region. It's going to be worldwide. God is going to grab that blue marble in space and shake it. And we have seen fierce earthquakes. through the hit through history, they've been documented some of the events that have taken place. For example, um let me tell you about an earthquake that took place Um that was just really incredible. There was an earthquake that took place on August the 27th, 1883, on an island in the Dutch Indies. It's recorded that the explosion was heard at Rodriguez, South America. That's 3,000 miles away. The explosion was heard. It was heard. As a result of the earthquake, the sun was blotted out. Volcanic ash seemed to make the moon look red. And it blotted out the sun, it says in this report. And after the eruption there, it was said that the sun was blotted from view all the way to hundreds of miles away. 150 miles away the sun was blotted out and the moon appeared red. Tidal waves traveled as far as Cape Horn, that's 7,000 miles away, and in all 36,000 people were killed. Now think about that. That's just one earthquake, and that wasn't a worldwide earthquake, although it had a far-reaching impact. When this thing happens, this is going to be an incredible thing that God is going to do. And here John is saying, all these things will take place. And again Isaiah tells us why in Isaiah 13, 11, I will punish the world for their evil and the wicked for their iniquity, and I will call us the arrogance of the proud to cease. And we will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible. Well, again, let's look at the force thing here. We see the extent, the events, the explanation of this catastrophe, but then the effects of it. Uh again we see world leaders, the rich and the proud, the ones who reject God, the ones who rebelled against God. These are the Psalm II kings who uh basically try to cast aside the uh the Lord to break his bands, to cast away his cords. And remember God says he that sits in the heaven shall laugh. But here they are And notice again in verse fifteen, and the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man. Hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains, and said unto the mountains and the rock, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb For the great day of his wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand? We see the people here that this will affect. We see the panic, they're running into the wilderness, and then we see the prayer. Notice their prayer. Protect us from the wrath of the Lamb. And so this is going to be a very serious time. In that day. And so we see then these two seals that are opened up. Let me just uh say this again. If you're saved, you know the Lord, uh the Bible says that God will deliver his people from wrath. Uh the Bible never says that God will deliver his people from persecution. All right. I've heard some people say this. Well, the reason I don't believe in a rapture is because that's kind of an American doctrine. And you know um Wha I heard one missionary even say, I preached about the rapture, and what it basically told the people there was that, you know, they don't ever have to worry about being persecuted because they're gonna be pulled out of the world. And he said what it did was it it left the people unprepared when the persecution came. Which I think is a ridiculous argument. Because the Bible never says God's going to deliver us from persecution. What does the Bible say The Bible says all they that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall what? Suffer persecution. You're going to go through hard times You're going to go through persecution. You're going to go through difficulty. But let me tell you one thing you're not going to experience as a child of God. You're not going to experience the wrath of God. Alright? You'll go through difficulty. You'll go through persecution. You'll go through hard times. But God does not pour out his wrath upon his children. God delivers his children from that. And so the best thing that we can do is to know the Lord Jesus and be prepared for the coming of the Lord. There's no There's nothing that needs to happen before the rapture takes place. We know these other signs have to happen before the second coming when the Lord comes at the end in judgment. We know because Jesus said, Hear these things and you'll see. You know, don't uh you know let the reader understand Jesus said, if you see these things, you know that the end is near, but we don't need any signs before the rapture. That's why I say, you know, the Lord can come at any moment for the rapture. But after that, there'll be signs about the Lord coming in judgment. And we better listen to the warning signs. We better listen to what the Word of God says. Let me just read you this and I'll be done tonight. There was a this story about a man named Old Harry. Old Harry was a stubborn man who had become a legend in the Pacific Northwest. Though he was warned repeatedly that his life was in jeopardy, he just laughed. Red flags and danger signs were often ignored. He lived at the foot of a quiet mountain, at least he was quiet for 123 years. Sometimes she stirred to spit cinder ash or drew lava from her cavernous crater. Occasionally she looked down s steep in snow fields and rumbled a muted threat to the people who explored the lush forests and mountain meadows below. Some thought Bigfoot, the legendary giant beast, stalked her slopes But when Mount Saint Helens was seething inside, ready to unleash her force upon unbelieving admirers, some Did not believe. She was awesome and mysterious, but only threatening to the few who understood her power In March nineteen eighty, an earthquake registering four point one on the Richter scale was reported near Mount St. Helens in the southwest Washington state. Forest rangers were advised of the possible dangers from avalanches which could trap skiers. Or climbers, most folks were unconcerned. The mountain setting was tranquil as people anticipated spring, a time for renewal. The earth was singing with new warmth On march twenty seventh, a ranger heard what he thought was a sonic boom. The mountain er erupted Scientists rushed to assess the explosive potential of the mountain. They painted a frightening scenario of future destruction. People listened, but many could not comprehend a disaster of such magnitude. Old Harry probably read the news stories while he ate breakfast and fed scraps to his sixteen cats Nobody knows more about this mountain than Harry, and I don't and it don't dare blow up on him, Harry bragged. Days and weeks passed, and some became impatient with the geologist's negative reports. People would lose their concern of anything ever happening, and they wanted to get back to business as usual. Everybody kinda heard the geologists say what they wanted that to to hear them say and they really weren't listening When Sheriff's deputies ordered all residents on the shores of Spirit Lake at the base of the mountain to leave for safety, Harry said, I'm having a time of my life living alone. I'm king of all I got plenty of whiskey. I got it through the for enough for the next 15 years, and I'm sitting high on the hog, end quote. Sunday morning, May 18, 1980, the mountain exploded and hurled pulverized rock and ash almost fourteen miles high. The force of the blast flattened trees, uprooting and smashing them like millions of dominoes spreading out from the crater. Steam, ash, and gases spouted. From the incinerated vegetation. Mud flows flooded the rivers, transformed the beautiful mountain lands into a ghastly charred landscape. The mountain's vengeance was 500 times greater than the nuclear bomb which leveled Hiroshima. The warnings were over. There was no longer any time to run. When Mount St. Helens was about to erupt, the forest rangers sounded the alarm. They issued bulletins. They knocked on doors. They shouted the warnings. The good news is that many listened and they escaped. Unfortunately, old Harry, along with his cats and flowers, were buried underneath tons of rock and mud. It's not a happy story, is it? But I want to tell you something, friend. God is issuing a warning in his word. There are times when God will warn people. And the warning is this Wrath is coming on this world. And the only way that you can be safe from that is to run and hide in the rock that is called Jesus. Run to him now. Make sure you know Christ. Because wrath is coming. The warning is giving over and over again in Scripture to make sure you're ready. And so the question is, are you going to ignore it? Your only deliverance is in Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, as we uh look at all these things, Lord, I pray you'll give us understanding. I pray, Lord, that you'll help us to see that not only are you a God of mercy and love, but you're also a God of wrath. And that there's going to be a day of judgment that will come. It's coming. We know it. The scripture tells us about it. This is going to be a fierce time, the day of the Lord The time when the Lamb of God, who is victorious, will pour out his wrath on a world that is unbelieving, on a world that has rejected the gospel. And rejected the Son. And Lord, I pray that you'll help us as believers to be faithful in these days, these last days in which we live. To be faithful, to share the Word of God, to get the warning out, to let people know that they can still flee from the day of wrath. If they just come to Christ today. Lord, help us to be faithful witnesses in this hour and help us to take to heart what the Word of God says. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I would just ask you tonight, friend, are you are you certain about your soul? Examine your own heart. Make sure that you know Christ. If there's any doubt, get it settled. You're not going to want to be here when God's wrath is poured out on this world. Pour it out. Flee to Christ. Run to the rock called Christ. Find refuge in him. And just pray, Lord Jesus, save me. I know I'm a sinner. I know I deserve your judgment and wrath. But save me. Now is the day of salvation, the Bible says. Now is the accepted time. And friend, if you just pray that prayer Save me, Lord Jesus. He'll save you today because this is the day of salvation. But friend, one of these days, that day is going to be over And there'll be nothing but wrath after that. Father, may these words find lodging and hearing hearts tonight. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.