Take God's word tonight and open to uh 2 Kings. We're going to pick up uh in chapter 6 tonight, verses 1 to 7. And uh Look at verse number one, 2 Kings chapter 6, verses 1 to 7. And let me read a few of these verses with you. And the sons of the prophet said unto Elisha, Behold now the place where we dwell with thee is too straight for us Let us go, we pray thee unto Jordan, and take thence every man a beam, and let us make a place there where we may dwell. And he answered, Go ye And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants. And he answered, I will go. So he went with them, and they were they come to Jordan. They cut down wood. But as one was felling a beam, the ox or excuse me, the axe head fell into the water, and he cried and said, Alas, master, for it was borrowed. And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he showed him the place, and he cut down a stick, and cast it in thither, and the iron did swim, and therefore said he, Take it up to thee, and he put it in his out his hand, and took it. Have you ever lost something that was very valuable and felt as if you would never find it again? And then almost miraculously you find it. And that sort of thing doesn't happen often. I remember uh one time we were moving here to Maryland from down south and we were loading up all of the uh the boxes, you know, from the shed, from the rooms of the house, out across the lawn into the moving truck. And I suddenly noticed that on my finger my gold seminary class ring was no longer there on my finger. I stopped working and I began to frantically look for it. But to no avail. I mean it could be anywhere. It could be any of the rooms. It could be in the anywhere around the shed or on the lawn somewhere in the grass and like finding a needle on a haystack. And so I finally gave up the search and reconciled in my mind that I would never see it again. But for some reason I stopped and I prayed and I said, Lord, would you please help me find this ring? It really had a lot of value to me. But we loaded the truck and we moved to Maryland into the staff house here at Grace. We unloaded the truck and we moved in and I did not find it. That was in the late winter. Months later, when the summer was you know uh uh coming coming, it was late spring summer coming, I was in the backyard by the shed and um I happened to look down on the ground next to the box and there was my gold ring. I couldn't believe it. I uh it was like a miracle. I lost it in Arkansas and found it here in Maryland. And so I figured out, you know, it pro perhaps slipped off my finger and into a box that I was loading, and that box of course made the trip here. And somehow when that box was being, you know, taken apart, it fell out But still it was in the grass there out in the backyard by the shed. And the fact that I was still able to find it was just amazing to me. And I thought that, you know, God had answered my prayer. And my first thought was, what an awesome God. He cares enough about me to help me even in the small things, the seemingly insignificant things. He's a God that when we come to Him and we ask Him for help, He has compassion, He has concern, and He helps us. I was just amazed at the goodness of God. that would care for something that again was relatively small. That whole episode of my life just left me in awe of God And I think that's the purpose of this story here in 2 Kings chapter 6, verses 1 to 7. Again, it's a story of a servant of the Lord that lost something very valuable. And then only to find it by the miraculous help of God. And so I want us to look at this story and see what we can learn for from it It starts out on a good note here in verse number one. It says, And the sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold now the place where we dwell with thee is too straight for us. Again, the story begins on a good note. The Jordan Theological Seminary is growing. The sons of the prophets there in the school there. Enrollment is up The dorm where the seminary students are living is becoming too small. The word for straight there doesn't mean these guys are, you know, too righteous for me. You know, we get you know it's getting too righteous. No, the word straight here. actually means small. It's sor small or cramped. This this the dorm is too small. We got too many people in there now. And just before uh a few years before that, Elijah had thought that he was the only believer in the whole country. If you remember back when Elijah was still with them, he said, you know, Lord, I'm the only one. And he thought he was the only one. At the time the last prophets in Israel were hiding in caves, living on bread and water, you might remember that. That was then. And since that time, biblical faith had made a recovery and the enrollment at the leading seminary was booming. The school of prophets had grown. They were going from meeting in a cave. to now meeting on campus and it needs more space. And so the burgeoning student body comes to Elisha and they ask him if they could build a bigger dormitory. Look down at verse number two. Let us go, we pray thee, unto Jordan, and take thence every man a beam, and let us make us a place there where we may dwell. And he answered, go ye. So the students come to the president of the seminary, Elisha, and they ask permission to go cut down some some timber and to make a bigger dorm. This seminary believed in hands-on training. They were going to do it themselves. They weren't going to, you know, hire a builder to do it and sign a contract. No, no. This is volunteer labor. And so they asked Elijah also to come and to help. I love that. And look in verse 3. And one said, Be content, I pray thee to go with thy servants. And he answered, I will go. You have to admire this about Elisha. He was not too big or too important to help out and to get his hands dirty and to get involved in the work. And so he says in verse 3, I will go. And so here they are all together working, cutting down timber, so that they can go and they could build a bigger dormitory. You know, I have to tell you stop here. You know, some of the fondest memories I have growing up here at Grace are and helping in many of the building programs that we've had around around here in those past years. Anyone remember any of those things, you know? Um You know, there was a lot of work that went on, a lot of fun doing all that in times past. One of the early memories I have of Pastor Johnson, I think one of the one of the first memories I have of him when I was first coming here is to seeing him with his t shirt on out Cy, they're building a little playground set for children with a hammer and nail. He was out there working. You know, just doing the work of the Lord And I love that. Here's Elisha, and he is out there and he's working with these guys and they're cutting down beams and they're building, getting ready to build a new dormitory. But while they're working, disaster comes. Because look down at verse number five. But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water, and he cried and said, Alas, Master, for it was borrowed. One of the students had borrowed an axe, and as he was working, the iron axe head fell into the water. The head the axe head flew off of the handle and it landed in the Jordan River. If you've ever been to Israel and seen the Jordan River, you'll realize it's a muddy river. You can't see to the bottom of that thing It's a deep river and it's muddy. And so if you drop something in there like that, chances are you're never going to find it again. And so it's also important to understand that an iron axe head is a very rare and expensive tool. Now it's not to us today because you can get one of those anywhere. But you have to remember back in Israel, iron tools were rare. This was the start of what was called the Iron Age. Prior to the Iron Age was the Bronze Age, when people learned to make things out of bronze, they were just learning how to use iron and to make things with iron. But Israel, they were always lagging behind in technology, so for them it was still the Bronze Age. It was very hard to find an iron tool in Israel One scholar wrote this just to give you an idea. Iron implements would have been tremendously expensive. Many hours of labor would have been uh been required to gather the wood for fires, to refine the ore, and then to shape and sharpen the tool. And then he goes on to say, losing a borrowed axe head then would be comparable to wrecking a borrowed car today. Imagine borrowing a car, a brand new car that someone lent you and you totaled the car. How would that make you feel? That's kind of the way this guy felt Uh he he was a poor seminary student. How is he ever going to repay the owner? The only way he could ever repay would be to r uh to indenture himself to servitude, to the owner of it. He would have to become really it was a it was a huge debt. There was no way that he could ever pay that debt back unless he would become a slave and for years work to pay off the debt of that access. And so basically this meant that he had to go into the bondage of slavery. For this owner. That's why he cries out here, we see, in verse number five, Alas, Master, for it was borrowed Alas is a cry of desperation, of despair. Oh no, what am I gonna do? Woe is me, this thing was borrowed Now it's a good thing that Elisha was there. It's a wonderful providence that Elisha happened to be there in this work project. Because the next miracle we see will be again a miracle from Elisha. We if you've been with us in the study of uh 2 Kings here, we've seen the prophet perform ten miracles already. And ten ten incredible miracles. You remember he struck the Jordan with his mantle, he walked over on dry ground. He healed the bitter waters at Jericho, you remember when he took a bowl of salt, threw the salt into the water, and he healed those defiled waters. You remember he cursed the juveniles at Bethel and two bears came out of the woods and mauled them. And then he told Jehoshaphat to dig trenches so um water would come and that water would fill the land. And that happened. He told the widow to gather jars and the and f and oil would fill those jars. He raised the Shedamite son from the dead. He cured the Remember they they had uh they made one seminary student made gumbo, remember that story, and it was pretty bad. There was death in the pot, and he put in just a little bread and he healed the gumbo. And then he fed a hundred men with twenty loaves of barley bread. Then we saw the story of how he healed Naaman the leper. And when Naaman, uh when Elisha's servant Gehazi got greedy and ran after the reward, the leprosy that Naaman had then was given to Gehazi. So these were ten miracles. He's now ready to perform his eleventh miracle. And I think of all the miracles that Elisha performs, this might be the most unusual one. So look what he look what he does down in verse number six. And the man of God said, Where fell it? Where did it fall? The student shows him the approximate place. He showed him the place. And he did cut down a stick and cast it in thither. So what does Elisha do? He cuts off a just a branch from a tree, cuts off a stick. And he throws the stick into the water, and when he does, it says that the iron came to the surface of the water. I love the way the King James translate this. The iron did swim. The Hebrew verb here is the same one used for a person swimming or an animal swimming, so it's a good translation there. But I would just add it's causative. So another way to say this, it caused the iron to swim, or we might say, to float. And then in verse 7, Elisha says, take it up, pick it up, there it is. And he he takes the axe head and he he gets it. And so this is an amazing miracle here that just takes place. Now, what are we to make of this? We read a story like this in the Bible and we have to ask, what can we learn? Normally when a believer goes is reading through the Old Testament and they come to a story like this, the first question that comes to our mind is what should I learn from this and how does it apply to me? What is in this story that I should emulate or what is in this story that I should avoid? How should my life change because of what I am reading? And these are all good questions. These are questions we should ask ourselves when we read the Bible. And that demonstrates that we believe the the the conviction that the the scripture is relevant, that it's a book that helps us and we desire to study it and become good disciples We know that uh we identify with the characters of the stories that we read, we identify with their struggles, we identify with their temptations. We can certainly identify with this servant here who lost this valuable item and now is facing uh the bondage of debt for many years. You we can relate to the turmoil that he was feeling in his heart And the Bible says these are these stories are examples for us that we can learn from them. So, you know, as we look at the story, there's some things that we can take from it. The Bible, like for example, the Bible reminds us that the borrower is servant to the lender, Proverbs 22, 7. It warns us about the dangers of debt. And we should owe no man anything. That's a good lesson here in this debt-ridden society that we live in. Now there are other applications of the story, as I was studying it, other applications that people gave. Let me just give them to you here. These are not mine The need for leaders to emulate the concern and compassion of Elisha for the workers. That's good. The need to keep your tools in good shape to be prepared to work. That one wouldn't apply to me because I don't have any tools. But if you have tools, you should keep them in good shape and be prepared to work. Another one is another one I saw is this. Be sure you have competent help when you start a project. Or here's another one. If you use volunteers, you often get what you pay for. Here's my favorite. One man suggested that you don't build on waterfront property. Now all these are interesting observations, interesting things that you can glean from the story here. But this is this is what I call a man-centered approach to the narrative. rather than a God-centered approach. You see, when we read the Bible, we should ask questions, but the questions that we ask are important because it's going to help us determine some meaning here. And so before we ask those man-centered kind of questions, we should first ask God-centered questions. You know, why was this passage written? To whom was it written? And here's the important question that we need to ask ourselves when we come to a passage like this. What does this teach me about God? After all, the Bible is a book primarily concerned about revealing God to us. It is the revelation of God The Bible's concern is to make God known. It is his word to tell us about who he is and what he has So rather than taking a man-centered approach when you look at a story like this, let's first take a God-centered approach. And if we do, our first question will not be, what is in here for me? But the first question rather is, what do I learn about God from this passage? Now, in order to find the answer to that, you also have to remember who was the writer writing to? Because that's an important question when you're studying a narrative. And you remember, uh let me remind you about this if you don't remember, first and second Kings was written to Jews who were in exile in Babylon, and they were there because of their sin, because they had committed idolatry because they had disobeyed God. God sent Nebuchadnezzar to Jerusalem to surround the city, to carry exiles away. He had eventually destroyed the temple there. This was a punishment from God. because of their sin. And so now these exiles are in Babylon and they're thinking in their mind, God has failed. There's no son of David on the throne. The temple is destroyed. God hasn't kept his word. And here we are in bondage, in prison. And so the writer of First and Second Kings writes this book to reveal to these exiles that number one, God's word has not failed And the reason they were in the bondage of exile is not because God didn't keep his word, it's because they didn't keep their word. They disobeyed God. They threw aside his covenant. In fact, the reason they are in prison is because God does keep his word. And the failure of the nation starts with the kings. The kings were the ones that led them into idolatry. And that's why we look at these kings here in the Bible, and what we see is one failure after another, and it starts with Solomon, and it goes all the way through the northern tribe and the southern tribe. All these kings failed, and because of that God judged the nation. And that's also why you see in the book of First and Second Kings, prophets Prophesying and preaching the word and preaching judgment. And also a major theme that we've seen throughout this study is the reliability and faithfulness of God's Word. How many times have we read where, thus saith the Lord, only to find out that it happened just the way God said? That's on purpose. Because what is God showing these people that are in prison? That his word is reliable. His word does not fail. You're in prison not because God doesn't keep his word, but because he does keep it. Because he's faithful to the scripture. But there's another theme that is repeatedly emphasized. In these books, and that is this, the power of God in comparison to the weakness of the false gods that the Israelites had turned to. You remember that Israel had replaced Yahweh, the true God, with the false God of Baal. Who does that? That was a monstrous sin. And all of these miracles that we see here all demonstrate the fact that Yahweh is mighty, that Yahweh is strong. in comparison to Baal, who is a weak God, who cannot take care of them. Yahweh, on the other hand, he is able to do anything, and he is able to help those who put their trust in him, even in the smallest matters of life. When they put their trust in Yahweh, He's able to help them. It reminds me of the final line of the song that we like to, the hymn that we like to sing. J. Wilbur Chapman's hymns, Saving, Helping, Keeping, Loving, He is with Me to the E. There's a sense in which that's what the writer of 2 Kings is trying to demonstrate. And he's also it's also designed to demonstrate how much greater God is than the false gods that the Israelites worshiped. And so these miracles exalt the greatness of God, they exalt the faithfulness of God. And also these Israelites that were in exile needed to see the folly of turning their back on God. So all these things, basically, they teach theology lessons about God. They're designed to reveal how foolish it was for them to replace Yahweh with a weak God that doesn't exist. So with all that in mind, what I want you to see are just three. Uh just three quick lessons here about God that we learn from this whole story that should fill us with wonder and awe And be grateful for this God because the attributes that we see here that he demonstrates in this miracle, you know what? He's the same God. And what he did for them, guess what? He'll do for us as well. He'll do for you and he'll do for me. Right? Here's the first lesson, theology lesson. I call these theology lessons from a floating axe head. Here's the first one. Number one, for our simple needs, he's a God of compassion. He's a God of compassion. And this miracle reveals to me that God is a compassionate God. He cares about the crisis that comes upon us You don't have to raise your hand, but how many of you have gone through cr a crisis in your life, maybe even recently? Something that happened. You know, that the axe head that falls into the river. God's concerned about the axe heads that fall in the river. Our axe heads. They might seem trivial. This story of the floating axe head might seem trivial to some, but wait until it's you That's in it that's this happens too. Wait until the expensive thing that is lost is something that you had. Or the or the pickup truck that you borrowed ends up in the canyon. Or something happens, uh something you lose that was very valuable, that causes a domino effect, that really becomes a matter of life and death. Causing an accident, losing someone else's stuff, falling into debt, heading for financial ruin. These are the kinds of personal crisis that make people sick at the heart. But you know what? God knows exactly what his people need. And even when it's nothing more than a piece of iron, he loves to call on those who ask him for or save those who call upon him for help. So from this, I can learn that whatever trial I go through, no matter how large or small, I shouldn't hesitate to ask God for his help. I shouldn't hesitate, even the little issues of our lives. are things that are that are non-trivial to our loving God. If they're important to us, then they're important to God. I love the fact that we have a God who is compassionate and he understands when we go through things like this. Here's a few verses. Psalm 103, verse 13. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth those that fear him. Psalm 86, verse 15, but thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, gracious, long-suffering, and plenteous in mercy and Truth. Aren't those good verses? For our simple needs, he is a God of compassion. But here's the second lesson I see from this story. For our genuine needs, he is the God of creation. And this miracle also teaches me that he is the powerful God of all creation. And you know what? If God chooses to overrule the laws of nature, he can do it anytime he wants to. And really they're really not the laws of nature, they're the laws of God. Because God is the one who put those laws into place. So they're his laws. I know there are some people out there in the in the theological world that don't believe in miracles. But I want to tell you something, friend. We have a God who can do miracles. And if he chooses to do that, he will Now I read some scholars and they try to explain away the acts had and they said you know this is all really uh it all happened through natural causes. Here let me just read you what one guy wrote, and this is out of a commentary He says that maybe the stick was magnetized. What? The stick was magnetized. That was his explanation for it. So where's Elisha in the middle of the woods going to get a magnetized stick? Anything to explain away a miracle. Or if someone says, or the story was a legend, it's not really true, it's just a legend Or here's another from another commentator. Perhaps Elisha fished the blade out with his stick. In other words, you know, he just used the stick and kind of fished it out, and that's the way he did it. But these are simple Fanciful explanations by theologians who do not believe in a miracle working God. The Bible very clearly says that what Elisha did was simply throw the stick into the water. That's all he did. And the iron did swim. God is not limited by the laws of nature. And sometimes to show his power and glory, he will overrule those laws to do what he needs to do to meet the needs of the people that he loves. But there's something else here that I want you to consider Again, all these miracles are designed to demonstrate the power and greatness of God in comparison to the weakness of the false gods like Baal Did you know that according to ancient Canaanite religion, Baal was in constant warfare with the seas and the river? Because in Canaanite religion, the sea was the God Yom. And the river was the god Nahar. And so the sea and the river were gods that were in constant warfare with Baal. And if you read some of those Canaanite religious texts that were prevalent back in Elisha's day. There's this constant battle that goes on between the false god Baal and the the God Yom, the God of the sea and the God of the river. And Baal had great difficulty bringing him under control. Um in fact, uh uh Yom threatened to destroy Baal if he couldn't successfully over And so the rivers and the seas were a constant threat to Baal. Now keep that in mind because that's what the people back then believed. That's the God that the Israelites had turned to away from Yahweh. But in contrast to that Yahweh has absolutely no problem controlling the seas and the river. In fact, they are his servants The cosmos cannot be a rival to God because he created it all and he rules over it all and he can do what he wants with his creation anytime he wants. That's how powerful God is in comparison to the pathetic false God Baal who can't seem to overcome The seas and the rivers. And that's why you see in the Old Testament God constantly bringing the sea under his control. He parted the Red Sea, right? He parted the Jordan River three times. He did it once for Elijah. He did it once for Elisha. And um And and so and he does it did it once for Joshua and the children of Israel when they were cr coming into the land of Canaan. You think all those things were accidents? Those were statements that God was making about his power. The seas and the rivers are his servants to do his will because Yahweh is mighty. He's mighty over all his creation. And so um This reveals, again, the absolute total power of God. And by the way, the same dominion that we see Yahweh exercise in the Old Testament over the rivers and the seas You know when we see that again in Scripture? We see it in the New Testament in the ministry of who? In the ministry of Jesus. Let me show you something real quick. Go to Matthew chapter 8. Look at verse number 23. Look at Matthew chapter 8, verse number 23. Just look there real quick. Matthew 8, look in verse 23. And you know this story, but let me just show it to you in this context. And uh it says in verse 23, and when he was entered into a ship, that's Jesus, verse 23, his disciples followed him. Verse 24, and behold there arose a great tempest into the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with waves. But he was what? He was asleep. You think Jesus was afraid of the storm? I don't think so. He was asleep. Verse 25, and his disciples came to him and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us, we perish. And he saith unto them, Why are ye so fearful? Ye have little faith. And then he arose and he rebuked the winds and the See. And there was a great calm, and the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this? That even the winds and the sea obey him? I mean Jesus was taking a good nap there. Don't you hate when someone wakes you up from a good nap? But they were in this storm. And the Bible, when it's describing this storm, a great tempest, mega sesmos, that's the word from earthquake, a mega storm that was causing all of this, so much so that the waves were uh Calupto, covering the ship. This was huge. And these guys were fishermen. They weren't afraid of storms. But this one was something about this storm that was completely unusual. And they woke Jesus And Jesus says, oh ye have little faith, and he just says simply, peace be still, and immediately there's come. That's who who can do that? Only God can do that. And that's exactly what was being demonstrated here. The power of Yahweh over the seas in the Old Testament Is exercised by Jesus in the New Testament, which means what? The Yahweh of the Old Testament is the Jesus of the New Testament. Jesus was God. And the disciples understood that Because later they'll say that truly this is the Son of God. They were amazed. And there are other stories like that in the New Testament. But here's the deal. The creator has no problem using his creation. If he's the creator of all things and it all belongs to him, our Father, who is the creator, has no problem using creation to help meet our need whenever we need it. And that's really the point of this whole story here. Listen to this in Psalm fifty. This is God. He says, Every beast of the forest is mine And the cattle will pull in the thousand hills. I know all the fowls of the mountains, and the wild beasts of the field are mine. If I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you For the world is mine in the fullness thereof. And so what should we do based on that? Offer unto God thanksgiving Pay your vows, but also this, verse 15, call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me. The fact that he is creator over all And all creation is in his hand, subject to whatever he wants, if you ever need anything Then all you have to do is call upon God in a day of trouble, and He will help you. Let me give you the last lesson here I see, the last theological lesson from this whole story. For our simple needs, He is a God of compassion. For our genuine needs, he is the God of creation. But here's the last thing I would like you to see. For our spiritual needs, he is the God of redemption. He's the God of redemption. Again, this story of the floating axe had also teaches that God is a God of redemption. He's able to restore that which was lost. God is able to deliver a person from the bondage of slavery when we trust them. Again, remember this poor servant who lost the axe head, he was facing bondage, the bondage of slavery because of this debt. But God delivered him. And remember the original audience that this letter, that this book was written to 2 Kings, they were prisoners in in bondage in Babylon. And if they would simply forsake other gods and place their trust in Yahweh, Yahweh could deliver them from the bondage of Babylon, just like God was able to deliver this servant from the bondage of debt. God is able to deliver anyone from bondage if they will put their trust in God. Now here's one more question that you need to ask. When you study a story like this, not only, you know, what what can I learn about God, excuse me, from this passage. But also the other question is, how do I where where where can I see Christ in this passage? How can I see God in Christ in this passage reconciling to himself in the pages of Scripture. How can I see Christ? So in addition to how what can I learn about God Where do I see Jesus this? And you know what I see here in this story? This story is an illustration to me. It points forward to the redemption that we have in Christ. You say, how so? You know, again, you know, the we can look at this story. It happened by the Jordan River. The Jordan River in Scripture speaks of death. In history, in church history, we've had Psalms written about this, crossing Jordan meaning death. The watery deaths were often representative of death in the Old Testament. Why did Elijah throw in a new piece of wood cut from a tree to retrieve the iron? You know, um again the fact is this miracle points to and illustrates something bigger, something uh about the future salvation that we will have. You know, God was a God of redemption. And uh God would deliver hi God delivered his people out of the bondage of slavery in Egypt. And he would deliver those who are in the bondage of sin. And so the story, this story here again, illustrates the debtor's recovery and restoration through um it points to and illustrates the Lord Jesus Christ okay so we see That Elijah used wood to remove the student's debt, and the redemption was made through the water of Jordan. So just think of it like this. The whole episode demonstrates the condescension of the Son of God who humbled himself, who came down to this world to be nailed to a tree and come through the waters of death. to provide a solution for our debt, the debt of sin. And so just as the axe head was buried beneath the waters of Jordan, even so Jesus died and was buried. And just as the axe head was able to be raised up over the waters of Jordan, even so Jesus would be victorious over death and his resurrection. And just as the s servant had to receive that axe head unto himself and be freed from the debt. Even so, we must receive Jesus into our heart to be freed from the debt of sin. And so Jesus left heaven Came to this world, passed through the waters of Jordan, dying on a wooden cross, that you and I might be delivered from the slavery of sin. And so again, this whole story to me illustrates the redemption that we have in Jesus Christ. Our God is a God of redemption. And so here's the whole point of the story. Whatever needs you might have, God is sufficient to meet those needs. If you'll just trust him. For our simple needs, he's a God of compassion. For our genuine needs, he is the God of creation. For our spiritual needs, he's the God of redemption. So he's able to meet whatever need you have, whether it's physical or spiritual, whether it is simple or complex. The question is, what is your need today? What is your need? Let's bow for prayer together, shall we? Father, we thank you for this beautiful story, this incredible miracle that again reminds us of how great you are. How that you are a God of compassion and you're the God of all creation, the mighty God. And that, Lord, the miracles that we see in Scripture are on behalf of people that you love, and that you're willing to move heaven and earth. To help your children, to be with us, to meet the need that we have. Even if that need seems to be relatively small, maybe, or trivial to others. Lord, if it's something that's important to us, it's important to you. How we thank you for that. Thank you for the redemption that we have in Christ. Thank you that we have a Savior that came and was placed on a wooden cross and went through the the rivers of death. And rose triumphantly over death that we might be freed from the debt of sin. And if there's someone here tonight that's never trusted Christ, Lord, that they would run to Christ tonight for salvation. And Lord, if there's someone here that has a need that they would seek your face to meet that need. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And can I just ask. No one's looking around. This is between you and God. Is there a need that you have tonight? That you need God to work on your behalf? Just tell him about it right there. Just tell God what it is. Father, this is what I need. Would you please help me My axe head has fallen into the river. I don't know how to I'm ever ever gonna get it back. I have this problem and I can't deal with it. Father, would you take care of this for me? Would you help me? Help me to recover what was lost. Help me to take care of this crisis in my life. Just tell God that. Father, hear the prayers of your children who are dependent on you, Lord, whatever that need may be. Lord, we cry out unto you. Thank you, Lord, for being so compassionate and understanding our our times when we're in trouble and coming to our aid. And hear the prayers tonight of these that cry out to you. We pray Pray in Jesus name, Amen