Take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of Romans, chapter eight. We're going to pick up our study in Romans and we come to a new chapter, and this is just a wonderful chapter uh in the Bible. I think I heard uh A preacher say one time, if he was stranded on a desert island, he can only have one book, he would have the Bible. If he could only have one book in the Bible, he said, I would take the book of Romans. He said, if I can only have one chapter in the book of Romans, he said, I think I'd take Romans chapter 8, because this is such a wonderful chapter, a victorious chapter. And tonight I want to talk about the believer's source of victory. the believer's source of victory. Now according to a Greek mythology, the pagan gods wanted to severely punish the king of Corinth for his constant attempts to trick him. And so they sentenced him to Hades. That was the resident of the dead in Greek legend. And there the gods ordered the king of Corinth to push a giant stone up the hill. And as he went near the top of the hill, according to the myth, the stone became progressively larger and larger and heavier and heavier as he got to the top. And just as it would reach the top, the stone would slip back and fall to the bottom And uh the gods told the king of Corinth that he must continue pushing the stone up the hill until he got it safely to the top. And so in effect the gods sentenced the king to spend eternity trying to do something that he would constantly fail at Pushing this stone up a hill and never getting it there. Now, there's a sense in which some Christians look at sanctification that same way They look at this process of where we're trying to get victory over sin in our life and say, it's like pushing a stone up a hill, and the closer I get to the top The bigger the stone gets, the heavier the stone gets, and it seems like it crushes back down to the bottom, and I have to start all over again. You ever feel that way? It's just I feel like I'm never going to master this thing of sanctification in the Christian life. Uh and so many may be tempted to think that this whole thing of sanctification and having victory over sin in the Christian life is just A failure, it's frustration. And it's it's one of the that some would say it's a disappointment in the Christian life Well, my friend, that's not the correct view, and that's certainly not the attitude that a believer should have. That's certainly not the attitude that God wants us to have with respect to learning to have victory over sin. Now I'm just going to be honest, there are times when the Christian life is frustrating. Isn't that true? Amen. Some of you, okay, some of you got this thing mastered, all right? Maybe you need to be up here preaching tonight. I think sometimes it's very frustrating And there are many occasions when, despite good intentions and sincere efforts, we fail to live up. to this sanctified life that God requires of us. Now the Apostle Paul knew these frustrations. In fact, we saw this the last time in Romans chapter 7. the great frustration that he experienced as he battled with indwelling sin in his life. And really we learn two major lessons in looking at Paul. in Romans chapter 7. Actually in chapter 6 and 7 we could say, Romans chapter 6, I could say, taught us one thing. We have died to sin. Do you understand that principle? Do you know that you're dead to sin? That the sin nature that before dominated you, mastered you, had control of you, was that old administrator of your life. Now you don't have to listen to him anymore. That relationship is over. You're dead to sin. I like to use the analogy of an ex, you know, when a woman divorces a mean, tyrant husband Uh she doesn't have to listen to him anymore, right? I mean that's she's he's the ex. And so when the sin nature comes and tries to tell you what to do, you just say, you know what, you're dead to me, talk to the hand. You're my ex And I'm dead to you, and I don't have to listen. That's what Romans chapter 6 teaches us. We don't continue in sin because we are dead to it. And then, Romans chapter 7, victory over sin is impossible in our own strength. And Paul knew this from his own experience. He wanted to do right, but his efforts only increased his frustration. He desired to do what God wanted to do, but the ability to do it was something that he did not have in and of himself. In fact, go back to Romans chapter 7. I want you to look in verse number 14 And notice with me, let's just read this again, Romans seven fourteenth, right? For we know that the law is spiritual and I am carnal, sold under sin. For that which I do I allow not For what I would, that do I not, but what I hate, that do I. If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that it is good Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me, for I know that in me that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not For the good which I would I do not, and the evil which I would not, that I do. Now if I do that which I would not, it is no more I to do it, but sin. that dwelleth in me, and I find then a law, and Paul means a principle. I find a principle that when I would do good, evil is present within me, for I delight in the law of God after the inward man. But I see another law warring in my members against the law of my mind, bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members, and then he cries out in desperation in verse twenty four, O wretched man that I am Who shall deliver me from this body of death? Now, Paul battled with indwelling sin, and he failed when he tried to defeat it in his own strength. Our strength is not enough. We can't do it on our own. We can conquer sin, but our personal effort is not enough And it's important to understand this in our struggle against sin, because there were some out there who would teach that you can have victory over sin in and of your own personal strength. Did you know there was a man by the name of Charles Sinney? And I know a lot of people in the Christian world seem to hail him as some kind of a great uh revivalist But if you ever read his systematic theology, which is not really a systematic theology, what you're going to find is that he taught some very bizarre things And one of the things that he sought was that a person could reach a state of perfection with their own natural ability That's what he taught. And so under him, he would say, you can become sinless and you can do it through your own strength. Can you imagine the frustration of living like that? If I don't live a sinless life, it's all because of m uh I don't I haven't enacted my own strength. What verse would he use? He would use Deuteronomy 6, love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. And he said so it's right there. Write in the Bible, you can be a s live a sinless life if you use all of your strength. Well, friend, that's a dangerous error. And it leads to further error. And we already saw here, I think that if there was anyone that could do it in his own strength, it was probably the Apostle Paul, right? But he could not And this is the frustration that he feels. We cannot in our own strength do it. And this is uh again the struggle of Romans 7. This is why Romans 7 is one of the most depressing chapters in the Bible and one of the most heartrending chapters in the Bible, but it really brings us to the end of ourself. And if you look at Romans 7, you'll notice the reason Paul failed. We don't have time to look at it, but you know what? In Romans 7, there are 47 personal pronouns I, I, I, I, I, 47 times. Twenty-three times the word law is used. So Paul is I and the law, I and the law. And we can see why he failed. Paul used his own personal effort and the law Against this battle of indwelling sin, and you know what? He lost every time. Not one time is the Spirit mentioned In Romans chapter 7. In fact, the Spirit is only mentioned once in the first seven chapters of Romans. And so we see then that Paul literally comes to the end of himself. Again in verse 24, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? He is grief-stricken over his sinfulness. And you know what, dear friend? This is a point that we have to come to. We have to get to the point where we're at the end of ourselves. Where we realize we can't do it. And by the way, this shows that Paul was a Christian. He's not an unsaved man struggling here because an unsaved person is not worried about sin in his life. The fact that he wanted victory shows that he was a Christian. Our Kent Hughes was right when he wrote to argue that Romans 7 cannot be the experience of a great Christian is to espouse an unrealistic and unhealthy approach to the Christian life. And he went on to say, this has been my cry, it has been your cry too. And Paul gets to the place where he's utterly at the end of himself in the struggle against sin. And he cries out in desperation. And by the way, that's always a good place to be in the Christian life. When you come to the end of your end of yourself, you cry out to God in desperation, and then we learn a third thing, then, as we come to chapter 8, the believer's source of victory is the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the one who gets the victory. And this is what Romans 8 teaches And so the question arises, must the believer spend his whole life on earth frustrated by ongoing defeats to indwelling sin? Is there no power to provide a victory, to achieve victory? And of course the answer is no. We don't have to live a frustrated life. Yes, there is a power, there is a source that can help us. to overcome this battle with indwelling sin. And so in this chapter, what we see then is the triumphant Christian. If we saw the defeated Christian in chapter 7, We see the triumphant Christian in chapter 8. Chapter 8 begins with no condemnation. It ends with no separation. And in the middle it's all about no deceit. And so this is the triumphant Christian. Spencer said this. He said, if the Holy Scripture was a ring And the epistle to the Romans, its precious stone, chapter 8 would be the sparkling point of the jewel. I like that. So we're at the sparkling point. It is the chapter of chapters for the believer and getting life. And so what we're going to see here, and we're just going to deal with these first eleven verses, Lord willing, the ways in which the Spirit gives us victory Over indwelling sin. Alright, you ready for this? Point number one: write down a new freedom. A new freedom. And then right next to that, he liberates us from sin and death. That's the first thing. And so what we see then is the declaration of our freedom. And we see four great statements in verse number one. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus who walk not after the flesh but after the Spirit. Now notice the first word is therefore Remember when we see this word, we always go back to see what it's there for, right? We go back to the preceding verses. But what does this refer to? Does this verse refer to chapter 7? Or does it even go farther back? I think it goes even farther back Than chapter 7, perhaps chapter 5, or even chapter 3. I think most agree that Paul's therefore is inclusive, referring back to the entire argument of the epistle. It's because of God's grace manifested in Jesus Christ and his propitiation on the cross because of our faith in Christ and our justification because of the application of it to us. that we can say there is, here's the second great statement, no condemnation. There's no condemnation. Now this has been misunderstood as to its meaning. What does it mean when it says there's no condemnation for the believer? Now some say this means that there's no more conviction of sin for believers But friend, that's not the idea of no condemnation. How many of you are here and you never get convicted? That's a bad place to be, right? It doesn't mean there's no more conviction. Because we do have conviction or get convicted over sin. The word condemnation is a Greek word, kata krima, and it means the punishment following a sentence. A judgment against someone. And so the New Testament scholar F. F. Bruce, this is what he says. He says, punishment following a sentence. In other words, penal servitude. There's no reason for those who are in Christ Jesus to serve sin as if they've never been pardoned and never been liberated from the prison house of sin. And so there's no punishment. We have been totally liberated from the punishment of sin. Leon Morris says this is a forensic term, which here includes both the sentence. and the execution of that sentence. You say, what does that mean for us? We will never be condemned. We will never experience judgment for our sin because we have been made righteous. You understand that? You'll never go to heaven and God ever Condemn you for any of your sins because you are not condemned. There is absolutely no condemnation. The gavel has come down, and God has said to you, not guilty There's no condemnation, you'll have no punishment, there'll be no guilt. You're absolutely free. You are declared absolutely not condemned And that's why later on in verse 34, Paul will ask the rhetorical question: Who is he that condemneth? The obvious answer is no one. If God has pardoned you, who can condemn you? Nobody. If the devil comes and tries to make you feel like you're not saved, you just remind him that God has already pardoned me. You can't condemn me, and neither can anybody else condemn me. Because who can condemn that which God has pardoned? And so you know there are some believers that live as if they must do something to please God. Or earn favor with God. Friend, you don't have we don't serve to try to please God or earn God's favor. We're not condemned. And if you're serving God with that motive, that must be a drudgery to you. We don't serve God because we're trying to uh get favor with God, we're already in God's favor. You know why we serve God? Out of gratitude and love. Out of thankfulness to God. Some believers are like Joseph's brothers. They have a hard time accepting the fact that they've been completely forgiven and they struggle with it. But that's what this means. We we don't serve God with a penal servitude as if it were meriting his favor. We serve him out of love. So there's The therefore, and there's the word no condemnation, but here's another word now. Look at the word now. There is therefore now. No condemnation. Notice that this is an expression of time here. We have been made, we have been declared not guilty when? Right now. Not will be. But now, you are now under no condemnation. Before salvation, we stood condemned, but now we are presently free from all of that. And then here's the fourth statement to them that are in Christ Jesus. And remember, this is Paul's theology, the union of the believer. Paul's theology revolves around this one expression in Christ. To those who are in Christ, there is no condemnation, there is no judgment Because you're safe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Judgment can't touch you. Judgment can't touch me. I'd like to use the illustration of Noah and the Ark. When Noah got in that ark, God shut the door. And by the way, when Noah was building that ark, God said, take tar and just you know, just cover it. It's the word kapar, actually atonement, which means to cover. And the ark was sealed with pitch, a tar substance that was designed to keep water out. There were no leaks in the ark. You know. We we need to use some of that tar around here, don't we? But there was no tar at all. No leak at all No leak at all. There was absolutely, completely dry, and safe inside. And you know what that water represents, friend? It represents judgment. Judgment could not touch Noah and his family. And the same is true for you. When you're placed in Christ, judgment can't touch you Friend, you are covered. Kapar. You are absolutely covered by what? By the atonement of Christ By the blood of Christ. Judgment cannot touch you. And so the Spirit reminds us of this. You know, this is the work of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, one of his jobs is to remind you that you have a new freedom in the Lord Jesus Christ, and there is no condemnation. to those of you that are in Christ Jesus. And so then we see here in this, uh we see the declaration of our freedom. We see four great statements. But next We see the description of our freedom, and we see two principles. Look at verse number two. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death. And Paul is contrasting two principles here. What's the first one? The principle of the Spirit of Life in Christ. This is the basically the principle of the gospel. We now have a new principle operating in us when we obey the gospel. It is really the person called the Holy Spirit. He lives in us. He gives us life. He regenerates us. He empowers us with the life of Christ. And notice where it says set me free. That's an airest tense meaning once for all act of freedom and salvation. This principle of the Spirit of Life in Christ is that He comes inside of me, He set sets me free absolutely. I am now free. free in the Lord Jesus Christ. But then there's a second principle. There's the principle of the law of the spirit of life in Christ. And then secondly, there's the principle of sin and death in verse 2. Has made me free from the law of sin and death. And really this is called the principle of sin and death. You can't separate sin and death, right? Sin always brings death. And so this one principle here is the principle of And what Paul is saying is we are set free from that principle because of the spirit of life that is now inside of us. One commentator Newell wrote this. He said, The subject here is no longer Christ's work for us, but the Spirit's work within us. Without the Spirit within us, as a law of life, there would be nothing but condemnation For the new creature has no power within himself apart from the blessed Spirit. And that's so true. The Holy Spirit now lives inside of us now. We have this new power. This power through the Holy Spirit that liberates us from sin and death. And so that's the first thing. You got it? A new freedom. We are liberated from sin and death. But here's the second thing. This is the second thing that the Spirit tells us. A new fulfillment. Let's write that down. A new fulfillment, he enables us to fulfill the law. Look at verse 3. For what the law could not do. And that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. And so here's the first thing we see, the weakness of the law. It can't do anything for us. Now we already saw that in chapter 7. What the law could not do. We can literally render that like this. The impossible thing of the law. It is impossible that the law Sanctify you. It cannot do that. The law could do nothing with the flesh except to do what? Stir it up. All the law could do is just work up the motions of my old sin nature. When the law came, remember what happened? It provoked my sin nature. My sin nature revived. That's all the law could do It could not justify me. It cannot sanctify me. All it could do was condemn and show my sinfulness. And so the problem, however, is not the law as we saw. The problem is our own sinfulness. So we see the weakness of the law, but also write down the work of the Savior. Look again in verse 3, where it says, For what the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin Condemn sin in the flesh. God the Son came in the likeness, it says here, of sinful flesh. Now, Paul's really emphasizing two things here. Number one, that Jesus was sinless. Paul's words carefully guard, I think, the doctrine of the sinlessness of Christ. His flesh was not sinful flesh. Because he was sinless. Jesus came in the flesh, looking like any other man, yet he was without sin. The Bible says he was tempted in all points as we are yet without sin. And here's the second thing he emphasizes. Notice the expression And for sin, condemn sin in the flesh. For sin we could translate as an offering for sin, as a sin offering. You see, the law could not deal with sin. Consequently, God sent his own son to deal with it. That's the point of the verse. Law couldn't do anything about sin. So God sent Jesus, who came in the in the likeness of a man. But yet was sinless. And here Paul puts his finger on the primary purpose of the incarnation: to do something that the law could not do. So we see then the work of the Savior. In the likeness of sinful flesh, Jesus defeated sin. Sin had a home field advantage, yet Jesus came and defeated it. That's what he's telling us. So we see then the weakness of the law, the work of the Savior, but I want you to see, here's a third thing, the walk of the believer. Look at verse 4. That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. And so following the same train of thought, you're following his Paul's logic here? Paul gives the next reason for Christ's coming in the flesh to defeat sin. And here's another purpose so that we might fulfill The righteousness of the law. You see, did you know now that you're saved, you have the ability to fulfill the righteousness of the law? How? By the Holy Spirit. Through the Holy Spirit of God. God fulfills the law's requirements in us by His Spirit, who dwells inside of us, and by His Spirit, who empowers the believer. Now, Paul's not speaking here obviously about the justifying work of salvation, but the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit. Now, I want you to notice this. This is not automatic But it takes place as the believer does what? Look again in verse 4. That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. How? Who walk not after the flesh But after the what? The Spirit. So it's not automatic. Now there are some that teach here that Paul here is making a statement of fact. saying that who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. In other words, they say it's a fact that all believers walk after the Spirit. So he's giving a statement of fact there. But then there are others who say this is an admonition. If you want to fulfill the righteousness of the law, you must walk after the Spirit, not In other words, the first statement of fact suggests that a believer cannot not walk in the Spirit. The other, the admonition, suggests that Even though we're saved, it's possible for a believer not to walk in the Spirit. Understand what I'm saying? Thoroughly confused? I believe the admonition is what Paul's talking about here. Paul's saying it's possible that if you walk in the Spirit, you will fulfill the righteousness of the law, which opens up the possibility That as a believer, you may not walk in the Spirit. And if you're not walking in the Spirit, then you won't fulfill the righteousness of the law You say, why do you believe it's an admonition? Well, let me give you the reasons. Number one, because of the phrase might be fulfilled, is one word in the Greek, and it's in the subjunctive mood. Which is the mood of possibility. You guys remember your Greek lessons that I've taught you here? What is the indicative in? If the verb is in the indicative in Greek, what's that? That's a statement of fact. If a verb is imperative, that's a command. If a verb is in the subjunctive mood, that's a possibility. It's possible. And the mood here is subjunctive. It's possible, in other words, it is possible that the righteousness of the law be fulfilled in us. In a very practical way. We have that potential. Every one of you, as a Christian, you have the potential, because of the work of Christ. And because of the power of the Holy Spirit inside of you, to absolutely, completely fulfill the righteousness of the law, it's possible if you what? If you walk in the Spirit If you walk in the Spirit, we won't always fulfill the righteousness of the law. Now friend, but that's that should be, at least it should be for a Christian, our default mode. We are walking in the Spirit, and as we walk in the Spirit, we have every ability and possibility to fulfill the righteousness of the law. And I think another reason this is right is because of Paul's focus here is sanctification, not justification. And I think the context of this is the believer's warfare with indwelling sin and our source of victory. And so the focus is to admonish the believer to do what? To depend upon the Holy Spirit. If you want this victory, if you want to fulfill the righteousness of the law and you want to be able to have victory over sin, you have to walk in the Spirit That's your responsibility. And if you do that, then you will have victory over indwelling sin. Let me give you a parallel verse. Just write down Galatians 5. 16. This I say then. Walk in the Spirit, and ye will not fulfill what? The lust of the flesh. That's a parallel verse that we see in the New Testament. And so this is something that God gives us, this ability. So we see a new freedom. He liberates us from sin and death. We see a new fulfillment. He enables us to fulfill the law. Verses 3 and 4, let me give you the last thing. Just write down a new focus. He changes our mindset. He changes our mindset. When we get saved. Now look at verse number five. For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. But they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Because the carnal mind is enmity against God. For it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. But ye are not in the flesh. But in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you, now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is what? None of his So these verses describe two different opposite mindsets here. This is what he's giving us: two opposite mindsets, one without Christ, one with Christ. All right? Here Paul is speaking about the unbeliever and the believer. And the reason I say that is because there are some commentators, some interpreters that say he's talking here both about Christians. A Christian who walks uh with a carnal mind and a Christian who walks with a uh spiritual mindset, and that's simply not true. He's he's not contrasting two two believers. He's contrasting an unbeliever and a believer. Those who follow after the flesh, those who follow after the Spirit. A believer is someone who walks according to the Spirit. Now, again, there are times when a believer can walk in the flesh Or they can rely on self. That can happen to any one of us. But that should not be the normal pattern of the Christian life. And the key verses walk in verse 4, which suggests what? Pattern of life. This is our pattern of life. And so these verses describe a mindset that is dominant in a person's life. And so, in that sense, there are two kinds of people in this world. There are only two kinds of people, those who follow after the flesh and those who follow after the Spirit. You know, God never divides people by sex. He never divides them by culture. He doesn't divide them by race. He doesn't divide people by class or education. His concern is whether or not they follow him. You either follow him, you're either walking in him, you're either in the spirit, or you're in the flesh. And again, if this is as a pattern of life, if you're walking in the flesh as a pattern of life, friend, the Bible says that you're not saved. That's not the pattern of life for a believer. Now, again, I say it's possible for a believer to walk in the flesh, but that's not the pattern of life. I think that in the Christian world today, we've created this carnal Christian. Position. And again, I want to be clear. Can a Christian lap into carnality? Yes. But does a Christian live in carnality? No. And the fear I have with this is that we've created this category of carnal Christian. And what we're doing to a person by creating this category is we're giving them a false assurance of salvation. If they live a constant carnal life, if their mindset is constantly in the flesh, if that's their walk, if that's their pattern, according to the Apostle Paul here, they don't have the Spirit of God. That's not the way a believer walks. That's not the pattern of life for a Christian. And that's why I say a Christian can last into carnality, but he doesn't live in carnality. But in Christianity, we've created this carnal Christian thing. That's a noxymoron, friend. If you're talking about a permanent position, I don't find that in Scripture anywhere. I know some of you are going to challenge me afterward. Take your best shot. But I just don't believe that. I don't believe the scripture teaches that. We can lapse into carnality, but we don't live in it. And here Paul is telling us this very thing here. And so uh let me move on here because I'm running out of town of time. The battle is the mind. What Paul is saying here is there's and it's immensely important because our mindset Makes the difference when it comes to daily living. Our mindset will determine the quality of our life here and now And so Paul will contrast two natures. Those who are dominated by the flesh, verse 5. They that are after the flesh. The Greek text literally says, the ones being according to the flesh. An unsaved person is dominated by his depravity, by his unredeemed flesh. To be after the flesh I think is the same word as being in the flesh. And the word for mine here is the Greek word froneo. The common Greek word for mine is nuos, which means the brain and its function. But here Paul uses Froneya, which means a disposition, a bent. It's derived from the root friend, which means the seed of all affections. Unbelieving people are disposed to the things of the flesh. That's why in 1 John it says that if if a person loves the world, The love of the Father is what? Not in him. You either love the world or you love the Father. If you're bent If your disposition is to the world and the love of the things of the world, that reveals that the love of the Father is not in you. Paul uses this same word from Philippians 2. 5, which says this Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. This should be your mindset. This should be your disposition The same mind that was in our Lord Jesus. Our Lord was bent towards humility. He was bent towards submission to God. And we are to follow that example, what Paul's saying. So there are those who are dominated by this mindset to be after the flesh, and those who are dominated by the Spirit. Look again in verse 5. For they that are after the flesh Do fro na do have a bent or disposition to the things of the flesh, but they that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit. In contrast The Holy Spirit dwells in those who are redeemed, and they are bent towards the things of the Spirit. And so Paul gives this contrast. And notice the parallels in verse 6: For to be carnally minded is what? Death. Death. But to be spiritually minded is life and peace. A person who does not know God is bent towards the flesh and towards death, Paul says. But Life and peace for those who are spiritually minded. So we see them, first of all, the contrast of the two natures But then I want you to see be the confines of the old nature. Look at verse 7. Because the carnal mind is enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be. And that's me there proves that he's talking about an unsafe person here. Because a believer, can we honestly say that the default mode or the mindset of a believer is to be in enmity with God? No. When we are saved, we are brought into sweet fellowship with God. Paul says that this mindset is unable to submit to God or to obey God. That's the exact opposite of Christian, because a true believer shows they're a really believer by what? Their obedience, their submission to God. And so this is the confines of the old nature. It's inability to submit to God in verse number 7, but also its inability to satisfy God. Look at verse 8. So then they that are aft that are in the flesh cannot please God. And friend, that's sad because mankind was created to satisfy God and for God to satisfy them, to have total fellowship with God, to please God. This is the the the the reason for all of creation to to glorify God, but this person is unable to do that. So I want you to see finally the consequences of the new nature. Look in verse number nine. But ye are not in the flesh, Paul says, but in the spirit. If so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you, now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his And so in verses 5 to 8, Paul refers to they, but here in verse 9, he says, yeah, because you know why he's speaking here now to believers only. As believers, we are neither in the flesh nor are we bent towards it, far from it as being opposed to God. We are able to fulfill his law. We are able to please him. We are in the Spirit. He's given us a new nature. And so we can please God. And then I want you to look at verse number 10. And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the Spirit is life because of righteousness. We say this, the Spirit's presence. guarantees our spiritual regeneration. That is, if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life. Because of righteousness. You see, when a person receives Christ, his body remains dead, but the flesh does, and it gets redeemed in this life. That's why as Christians we have to face death. You know why? Because the body has to be eliminated, because this body here can't go to heaven. Okay, this body's still dead. This body still has upon it the effects of death. And so this body can't go to heaven. So I if I want to get to heaven, I'm going to have to die. Because this body can't get here still has the effects of death. You say, what about those who will be raptured before the Lord's return? Will their bodies go to heaven? No, they're going to get changed on the way up. They're going to get a brand new glorified body. That's why the Apostle Paul said, remember in 1 Corinthians 15, we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be what? Changed. Someone said, that's a good verse to go in the nursery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. We're not all going to die because when the rapture comes, we won't be dead if it were alive, but we will be changed. And we will have a new body in the Lord's presence. Why? Because this body is still dead, and we have to lose this body, but don't worry. The Spirit's presence guarantees our physical regeneration. We could say, look in verse 11. But if the Spirit of Him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you He that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your what? Your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwells in you. That's good news. The same Holy Spirit that resurrected Jesus, you know what he's going to do to you and me? He's going to resurrect us too. He's going to quicken our mortal bodies. We will be raised from the dead. And if the Holy Spirit dwells in you, you have the assurance that the Father will raise you up. Alright? Everybody still with me? Alright, I'm on a close now. You guys have endured enough. So let me re uh review here, summarize. How does the Holy Spirit help us to be victorious? In this war against sin. Number one, he gives us a new freedom, he liberates us from sin and death. Then he gives a new fulfillment. He enables us to fulfill the law. And then he gives us a new focus. He changes our mindset. And now we have a mind in submission, a mind that minds the things of the Spirit And although this body is still dead through the Holy Spirit, we will be raised. And we thank God for that. How many are glad for that? Amen. Thank the Lord for his truth. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, thank you for this wonderful section here in Romans. This is our hope. This is what we look forward to. We know that every one of us, if the Lord shall tarry, we will face death, but we know there will be a resurrection day. And we thank you, Lord, that while we wait, we don't have to live a frustrated Christian life. We don't have to live a defeated Christian life. That's not what you have for us. For us, it's not like pushing a boulder up a hill and failing. But we have been given power by the Holy Spirit Lord, help us to see this. That's half the battle. That we understand this, that we have the power of the Holy Spirit. This Spirit that liberates us from sin and death, and he constantly reminds us of our no-condemnation status. This Holy Spirit that lives in us and enables us through his power. To fulfill the righteousness of the law as long as we walk and yield to Him, and who changes our mindset and gives us that victorious mindset to desire and want the things of the Spirit. Lord, help us to know these things. Help us to practice and live this out and be victorious in our life. And I pray if there's someone here today that is not experiencing this, that they'll examine their own heart to see whether they're truly saved. And truly know the Lord. And so, friends, with heads bowed and eyes closed, can I ask you, do you, are you experiencing these things in your life? Do you see some of the fruits of the Holy Spirit in you? Because the Bible says that if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he's none of his. And a passage like this calls upon us to look for manifestations of the Holy Spirit in our life. Have you experienced a divine sense of love, joy, peace, gentleness? Goodness, faith, and so on. Do you see the fruit of righteousness in your life? Do you long to commune with the living God? Have you ever had a love for God's word? Does your heart praise God? Friend, those are manifestations of the Spirit of God. And friend, if you don't see that in your life, you need to make sure that you know Jesus. Make sure that you're saved. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Help us to apply these things. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.