It's good to see you here tonight, and I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to First Corinthians. We are coming now to chapter ten as we study First Corinthians here on Sunday night. First Corinthians chapter 10. And tonight I want to talk about the danger of disqualification. First Corinthians ten. Funny that um many years ago I read the biography of one of my favorite athletes, the Indian named Jim Thorpe. Maybe you've heard of him. He was declared the greatest athlete in the first half century of the modern era here. And he was the only athlete as far as I know. both of those events along with other medals. Uh in fact the one king who was there watched Jim Thorpe uh compete was so excited about what he saw that he ran down to him and said you're the greatest athlete in the world. world. However, not long after this, uh Thorpe was asked to return all his medals. They said you just you are disqualified from all the medals that you won. And the reason for that is because they found out that one summer he played baseball And s and a a group gave him five dollars a week to play baseball in the summer. And and technically that made him a professional athlete since he got paid to play baseball Baseball. And if you compete in the Olympic Games, you can be you uh can't be a professional, you can only be an amateur. And when they find they found out that he had competed for five dollars a week, they stripped him of all of his medal. They said you are disqualified because you didn't compete according to the rules. And so he was heartbroken. He had to turn in all of his medals and uh just a difficult thing for him to do. Now of course nowadays we hear of athletes that compete and some of them are caught using uh it performance enhancing drugs and they're strong And this is the idea that the Apostle Paul is going to give us here as we study First Corinthians chapter ten. You see, we are spiritual athletes. And we're not in a physical race like an athlete in the Olympics, but we are in a spiritual race. We run a different kind of race. And it's very possible for a Christian and the race of life to disqualify themselves. This is the idea that Paul's talking about here in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. In fact, he picks up on what he talked about already in chapter 9. Look at chapter 9. Look at verse Verse twenty seven, but I keep my under my body and I bring it into subjection, lest that by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be And he you remember he was talking about running in the race in verse 25 and 26. He said, I'm running in a race, and he said, But I want to compete lawfully, I don't want to be disqualified, and so therefore I exercise self- So I'm not a castaway. It is a word that means to be disqualified. It was literally an athletic term that spoke of an athlete that had been disqualified for competing. in a activity. Now, the Apostle Paul, you notice this, I'm sure, as you're reading through the New Testament, you're going to find that he uses many metaphors from the athletic world. We see that in his epistles all the time, don't we? Uh the Greek ac athletic games were going on. They had the Olympic Games, they had the Pythian games, they had the Ishmian games, and these games were staggered so all the wealthy and the And so Paul, I think, I can't prove this, but I believe that he maybe attended some of those games. And he saw He uses the words from those uh athletic games. He talks about running the race, he talks about uh going after the prize and winning a Crown. He talks about wrestling. We wrestle not against flesh and blood. He says we have to strive lawfully. Philippians and he said striving together for the faith of the gospel. The Greek word there is soon athleteo. Uh to together as athletes, we have to strive together. So Paul uses the image here of being disqualified in the race of life. As Christians, we don't want to be disqualified. And remember I told you that at these games they had umpires, they had raids. referees. Today our referees carry yellow flags in their pocket. Back then in the Greek world they carried clubs. And if you competed unlawfully they would smack you with a club. And this is especially too true if you were running in a race, if you got out of line, if you caused another runner to stumble in any way, you were disqualified. And the umpires were there to make sure of that. And so Paul here is kind of using this illustration. He's using this analogy, this metaphor to talk about the Christian life. Now you remember that in the context of this, in 1 Corinthians 8 and 9, he was talking about limiting your liberty. And really in chapters 8 and 9, you remember that there were libertarian Christians in the Church of Corinth that were kind of flaunting their liberty. And they felt like they could eat meat sacrificed to idols and it didn't bother them that it bothers someone else. And so they were in a way they were not concerned about others. They were always talking about their liberty and they were quoting slogans from the Greek world, all all things are lawful. And Paul is trying to correct them about how to use their liberty. And he's trying to help them to understand And so Paul gives them a message about that. You remember in chapter 8 he spoke about it. He said to In chapter nine, he uses himself as an illustration of limiting liberty. Paul himself uh limited many liberties, and he talks about one in particular, and that was The right to receive support, Paul denied that liberty, and he gave the reasons why in the second part of chapter nine. And one of those reasons is he wanted to run a good race He wanted to be able to run a good race. And so now he switches from that as we come into chapter ten, and he's going to talk about again uh the danger of And here's the idea. In chapters eight and nine, he talks about how that if you abuse your liberty, it will affect others. But really the theme of chapter ten is this if you abuse your liberty Liberty, it could affect you. It could affect yourself. And what could it do? It could disqualify you. Again, he's picking up from the thought that he gave in the last part of chapter nine. Using your liberty affects others around you, but also it affects you. It's dangerous for you. And really the problem that he's dealing with here is the overconfidence of of the Corinthians. Uh the surest way to fall into temptation and then to fall into sin from there, your overconfidence could cause you to fall into temptation and the t the temptation Can cause you to fall into sin. And so you better be careful about your overconfidence. The Corinthians felt perfectly secure in their lives. They kind of thought that they had arrived They kind of thought that they could exercise their liberty, but they were very overconfident. And Paul warns them about this. Remember if you were here when we talked about this in chapter four, he used an expression Expression, puffed up. He said, You're puffed up. And he used it several times. And he uses it again in chapter 8, verse 1, where he said, Knowledge puffs up. You're puffed up. You're over Confident. And he sends this in the Corinthians and he's warning them about this, about their overconfident attitude. In fact, go back to chapter four real quick. Let me just show you something real quick. Look in chapter four and look down at verse number six and notice what he says there in verse six. He said in these things, brethren, I haven't a figure transferred to myself and Apollos for your sakes that you might learn in us not to think of men apologize Above what is written that no one of you be what? Puffed up one against another. And he's kind of sarcastic here when he says, For who make it thee different one from another? And what What hast thou that thou didst not receive? Now if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glorious that thou hadst not received it? And you're full, oh you're full. You've arrived. You're rich You w uh he says, You've reigned as kings without us. And then he kind of gets serious when he says, I wish you did reign, because that means that we would be in the millennial reign and we're through here in this life And so he's kind of sarcastic when he's talking about their overconfidence. Now the Corinthians, they were saved, they were baptized, they were well taught, they were lacking in no gift, they presumably were mature. And they thought that they were strong enough that they could associate themselves with pagans in ceremonies and social activities and not be affected morally or spiritually. Because you're going to find out in the re in the in the end of chapter ten, what does he warn them about? He warns them about going to pagan temples and participating in and eating meat there at those temples. And socially Engaging with some of these who don't believe in the Lord because he's warning them that this could lead to temptation, and that temptation can lead into sin. These these they're overconfident, they're abusing their liberty. And by doing so, not only do you hurt weaker brother, you hurt yourself. You open yourself up to tempt Temptation. You can't live on the far edge of freedom without falling into temptation and then falling into sin. That's the idea that he's giving us here. Christian doesn't try to stretch out his liberty. A mature Christian doesn't try to live on the extreme to see how much he can get away with. He doesn't go to the very edge of sin without sin. That's not a the response of much of a mature believer. A mature Christian stays away from it as much as possible. It doesn't play with temptation is not overconfident but is fully dependent upon the Lord. That's the issue here. I read about a a Time magazine article the story of a lady named Gray Grace Wiley, she collected poisonous snakes and she played with them. And they attracted a lot of attention. A photographer one day came out to take some pictures of her with some of her Snakes and so she got out the king cobra. And as they were posing, she noticed that the cobra was weaving from side to side very nervously, and she reached And she pulled the fangs out and she looked for a needle to give her a The antidote, but the needle was rusty and it didn't work. And so the photographer then rushed her to the hospital, but she died an hour and 45 minutes later. She was too overconfident in the way that she handled those snakes that she was used to handling all too often. And the same principle is true here with regard to abusing your liberty. Paul's saying you better be careful. This is a warning that you do not to abuse your liberty. Look in verse number twelve of chapter ten. He kind of leads up to this. Wherefore let him that thinketh he stand We've read that verse many times. And again, what he's saying, when a Christian becomes so confident of his strength that he thinks he can handle any situation He's overconfident, and he's in great danger of falling. And that's what he's telling these Corinthians here. So, with that in mind, let me just give you three aspects of this warning that Paul gives to the Corinthians here. If you're taking notes, break down number one the spiritual privileges of Christian liberty. First of all, Paul's going to talk about the spiritual privileges that we have in Christ. Have many of them. And he reminds us about them. In verse number one, notice what he says Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant how that all our fathers were under the cloud and all passed through So in these first four verses, Paul begins to list the blessings and privileges that God had given Israel. And you'll notice the word all, it's repeated five times in these four verses. In other words, what God did for G Israel, God has also done for us today. We're the recipient of some of the same blessings that God gave to Israel. And what were the First there was guidance in verse one. Moreover, brethren, I would not that you should be ignorant how that all our fathers were under the cloud. What does he mean when he says they were under the cloud? You remember the cloud that guided Israel through the wilderness? What was that cloud? It wasn't a rain cloud. It was a pillar of cloud, right? You know that the Shekinah glory of God, the pillar of cloud by day God's guidance today. We don't have the glory cloud that leads us around, but we have something so much that is so much better. We have God dwelling inside of us. We have the Holy Spirit that lives in us. The Bible says, for as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. And it's very comforting to know that in these days of conf Confusion and chaos, we have the guidance of the Holy Spirit, the one who leads us. One fellow said, I was going to get it all together, but when I got it all together, I didn't really know what I had. And some people are like that. The only way we can really get it all together is through the guidance of God in our life. David said this thou shalt guide me with thy counsel and I love that song that we sing. He leadeth me, O blessed thought. It is a blessed thought to know that God guides us. That's one blessing. Blessing. But what's another one? Deliverance. Look again in verse 1. How that all our fathers were under the cloud. And notice the next phrase, and all passed through the sea. You see, he's referring here to God's great deliverance for Israel. Here's a marvelous example of God's miraculous power to deliver. You remember the story the Israelites left Egypt. They came to the The Red Sea. Pharaoh with his army pursued after them. When they got to the Red Sea, they were trapped, they were pushed up against the banks of the sea. There was no other place for them to go. Jesus stretch out your rod, stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. And we know them we know the story. There was a miraculous parting of the Red Sea, and the Bible says that God's people People, the Israelites, they walked through, and not a drop of water caused them to get wet. They walked through on dry ground. They experienced a glorious deliverance. As God's children, we've also experienced a glorious deliverance. Thank God for his deliverance in our life. The Lord Jesus experienced the flooding of the waters of death for us Us as Christians, he has gone through the waters of death and judgment so that we may pass through unhindered through the waters of judgment, through the waters of wrath Wrath. We had his deliverance. But also there's assurance. Look at verse 2. Not only guidance and deliverance, but assurance, verse 2. And they were all baptized under Moses in the cloud and in The sea. What does it mean they were baptized unto Moses? There are many that take this to mean a reference to water baptism. But that can't be because again the cloud is the Shekinah glory cloud, not some rain cloud. They would get wet. And so what does this mean? Baptism, whenever it's used in the Bible, it's not always referring to water baptism, but it's a principle of identification. That they were so identified with Moses. And you remember I've talked about this before, how that Paul in Romans six refers to this that we were baptized unto Christ. That is that it is water baptism is a symbol of a spiritual reality. And what is that reality? That when you got saved, you became one with Christ. You were united with Christ. And water baptism symbolizes that spiritual reality. Right now, as you sit here, you're one with Christ. And so baptism has this idea of oneness. Believers experience. And so the idea here is that the Israelites were baptized into Moses in the sense that they identified with him as God's appointed leader. They were in solidarity With Moses. When they passed through that sea, they became one. They became unified with Moses. They were one unto Moses. Now, again, we have that same experience. We are one with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so there's this beautiful oneness and union that we have because we're one with the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus and that gives us assurance that we are children of God. And so here is another blessing that we have. We have God's guidance in our life, we have his deliverance, we have his assurance, but also Sustenance. Look in verse number three. And they did all eat the same spiritual meat, and did all drink the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was So Paul's of course referring to God's miraculous provision in the wilderness. And we again know this story very well. God took care of the Jews in the wilderness. How? There was manna that fell from heaven, bread from heaven, there was water that God gave them from the rock. He was their physical sustenance, but Paul takes it a step further. Not only did he just Sustain them physically, but he was their sustenance spiritually as well. And this applies to us as believers. Notice in verse 4. And did all drink the same spiritual drink, for they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. Not only did God Sustained them physically, he sustained them spiritually, and they drank spiritually from the same rock. And Paul says that rock was Christ. Then what's he talking about? Did you know that the Jews had a popular legend, still known and believed by many in Paul's day, that the actual rock that Moses struck actually followed Israel through the wilderness travel Let me tell you who that rock was. That rock was Christ. Christ was the rock. He was not just a mere physical rock that provided physical wealth He was a spiritual rock. And he provided spiritual sustenance. The word for rock that he uses here is not a small stone, but a large, massive clift And he's saying this spiritual rock which followed you through your journey was that rock called Christ. Christ was the rock. The Old Testament believers didn't have the indwelling Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, Paul says, but they had the Messiah, the pre-incarnate Christ, in a spiritual way that followed them through the wilderness and gave them sustenance. Rock Jesus that sustained them. We know guess what? Sustains us too. He's our spiritual sustenance. Jesus said, I'm the water of life. He said, I'm the living bread. He provides every need for his children. And so this is these are just some of the blessings. And by the way, you can really camp out right here, and you can get a whole lot more out of this. We're kind of moving on. So let me just tell you the next part. Not only the spiritual privileges, but notice the sinful pitfalls that Paul's going to talk about. Because look down in verse number five. But, that's a transitional word there. But here's all these blessings that they received and we receive as well, but with many of them, God was not well pleased That's kind of an understatement there. He wasn't pleased. Think about this. Out of the entire number of Jews who came out of Egypt into the wilderness. That older generation, of course, we know the younger generation, 20 younger, they went into the promised land. But out of that older generation of Jews that came out of Egypt, wandered in the wilderness, how many of them actually Went into the promised land. Only two, right? Who were they? Joshua and Caleb. Not even Moses and Aaron made it in Moses and Aaron were disqualified. All but two were overthrown. Look at the word overthrown there. It's it literally means to be shrewd or to be spread over. The corpses of those whom God was not well That test of obedience and service, most of them were disqualified. In that race, most of them did not finish. Because they were disqualified. They misused and abused their freedom. The very blessings that were listed before, they abused them. They misused them. And self-centeredness And in self-indulgence, they tried to live on the edge of their liberty, and they fell into temptation, they fell into sin, and they become they became what Paul will later refer to as vessels of And notice five things that disqualified them. First of all, they lusted after evil in verse six. Now these things were are examples to the intent That we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. They did not cleanse themselves from lust, they did not pursue righteousness. And faith and love, they beg began to pursue lustful, evil things. And they were laid low in the wilderness because of it. And Paul said, Listen And learn from this. Learn from this. They were disqualified. In numbers eleven, when God fed them with manna, they lusted after other things. They lusted after other foods. They craved the flesh pots in Egypt, the onions, the leeks, the garlic. That that crowd I wouldn't want to be around after their meal They complained so bitterly that God caused them to be inundated with quail. You remember that in the story in the story. But then God got angry because they complained And Paul says they lusted after evil things. And the word for lust here is the idea of going after carnal passions, carnal desires, craving things outside of the will of God. And God got angry with them because of that. They persisted in this. And because of lusting after evil things, they were disqualified. Says, but also they became idol worshippers. Look at verse 7. Neither be yeah idolaters, as were some of them. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose Up to play. They yielded to temptation to worshiping idols instead of worshiping the true God. And I think the reference here is to the Worshiping a God that we can't see. Let's make a God. And Aaron, it was his idea actually to say, Well give me all your jewelry and we'll try to fashion a God here. They made a calf, and because calf would be who they would call Yahweh. And while they were violating the very first commandment while Moses was up there getting those commandments. They were making a graven image And you remember when Moses came down, by the way, they referred to that calf as the God that delivered them out of Egypt. And you remember Moses came back. Down and he saw this. And you remember what Aaron's excuse was? Well Moses, we just put the uh gold into the fire and this calf just popped out That's exactly what it said in Exodus 34 or 32, 24. So they gave it to me, and I threw it into the fire. Out came this calf. Just popped out And the people started to worship the calf. Aaron even offered the same sacrifices, the burnt offerings, the peace offerings that were customarily sacrificed unto Yahweh, they were sacrificed. This was a huge monstrous sin in the sight of God. And and Paul here quotes from Exodus thirty-two, six, where it says they were eating and And drinking, this is referring to excessive feasting, following the sacrifices, and it where it says that they they w where it says they would play in verse number seven, the people sat down to eat and drink and Rose up to play. That's a euphemism for immorality that was going on. Just a drunken feast where immorality took place. And because of that That God was angry. They had slipped back into idolatry. And remember who's Paul warning? He's warning the Corinthians. And remember what the temptation was for that, for them to slip back into idolatry. They were saved out of an idolatrous system of worth worshiping Greek gods, and Paul warns them don't slip back into that the way In fact, go back to chapter 5. Some of them have already had done that. Look at chapter 5. Look at verse 11. But now I have written unto you not to keep company. If any man That is called a brother, be a fornicator or covetous or an idolater or a railer or a drunkard. Slipped back into actual idolatry. Others were in danger of doing the same thing. But let me just tell you, beloved, the problem is not just limited to Israel or Koran. Listen, an idol is anything That you place above Jesus, is anything that you love more than Jesus, that occupies your mind and your affections more than Jesus, you need to beware, and I need to be aware of idolatry as well. disqualified them. They lusted after evil things. They became i idol worshipers. They committed fornication. Look in verse eight of uh chapter Chapter ten First Corinthians ten eight. It says, Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them had committed, and fell in one day, three and twenty thousand And here Paul's referring to the episode when the children of Israel passed through the land of Moab. Committed fornication with them, and God got so angry that he plagued Israel, and twenty-three thousand people died. They succumbed to the temptation to be a mortal. And by the way, that's a that's a problem today. We live in a world where people are being bombarded all over the place with images on the television, on the computer screen everywhere. You better be careful of this. It's glorified in magazines on television shows. And Paul was telling the Corinthians the same thing because you remember, as we already showed you, that the city of Corinth was infested with immorality They had those pagan templ uh temples where they had um uh prostitutes that work in those temples doing their thing there, and there are some Christians that were actually falling in Also, talking about the children of Israel, they tried God's patience. Look again in chapter 10, look at verse 9. Neither let us tempt Christ as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed of serpents. And what's Paul referring to here? He's referring to things recorded in Numbers chapter twenty one, when the people spoke against God and they spoke against Moses. Why have you brought us out of Egypt to die in this wilderness? There's no food, there's no water. We loathe this worthless food. Think about that. Try saying that to your wife one day after she fixes dinner We loathe this worthless food. Well, they just say that about God who was giving them bread from heaven. We loathe this worthless food. They were gossiping, they were complaining and because of this God got angry again. They wanted more variety. They were complaining and complaining and questioning the good There's a point in time where God says, Enough. It's enough. And so they were, and that leads to verse 10. They complain. Verse 10, neither murmur Mur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer. And here Paul is referring again to number sixteen of the rebellion under Korah, these rebels were destroyed by the Lord. The people got so upset at Moses and Aaron that they again grumbled and began to complain. And God got so angry at their complaints Against his divine justice, who destroyed the rebels, that he immediately sent a plague that killed another 14,700 Jews in the wilderness. They were destroyed. Why? Just because of murmuring. Just because of complaining. Notice where it says in verse 10. They were destroyed of the destroyer. Who's the destroyer? This was The destroyer, the same angel that God sent to destroy the firstborn in Egypt, was used to destroy the children of Israel that murmured against God. God hates complaining. He hates murmuring. By the way, what do we have to murmur about? We have absolutely nothing to murmur about. You're you God has been so good to us To murmur and to complain is an insult to God. It's an affront to God. It is basically saying, in essence, God, you haven't treated me good enough. You haven't been good enough to me. And God hates complaining. And I I pity Moses. Here he was, pastor of a church of two million people, half of which were murmurers. Complainers had to drive them nuts. And the same thing is true today. Many people murmur and they complain. And I believe that that is holding back the blessing of God. God and verse ten it says again they were destroyed of the destroyer. So again, they're pitfall These things disqualify them. Now let me give you the third thing. We saw the spiritual privileges that they had, but despite that, we see the sinful pitfall That really disqualified them. They had such blessing, they had such liberty, but they abused it, and they were selfish, and they were self-indulgent And they did not control themselves the way Paul talked about in chapter nine. I buffet my body, I bring myself under control. And Israel was an il illustration of those who did the opposite. They didn't do any of that They felt like God should just continue to serve them and give them what they wanted, and when they didn't get it, they complained. So notice the last thing, the spiritual practice. So Paul's going to apply all of this to us Now look at verse eleven. Now all these things happen unto them for examples, and they are written for our admonition upon whom the end of the world And here Paul writes all of this to be a help to all of the Corinthians, and also by extension to be a help to us. He wants us to learn from their example. Learn from what they had done. Learn from those who were already disqualified from the race. You know, a bad example Example can teach a good lesson. Don't follow in this pattern. Don't follow in this example. Learn from them. Be admonished. From what happened to them. Even though it happened a long time ago. All of it was written down to help us who live in the end of this age. We live in the Age of the time of the Messiah. And when it talks about the end of the ages, it's really talking about the time between the first coming of the Messiah and the second coming of the Lord. In that time, that's the end of the age. That's where we are now. Sometimes people look at this, oh that happened, that was a long time ago. That's old hat, that's in the Old Testament, that was thousands of years ago. Yeah, well you know what? The heart of man has change. And the lessons that that they teach us are are relevant. Even though it happened so long ago, this was written for us In this age, we can learn from them. We can learn that you can forfeit blessing. You can forfeit reward. You can forfeit your effectiveness of service. In it if in overconfidence and pre presumption in doing that, if you take your liberties too far, it will lead to temptation, which will lead to sin. So Paul says you better be careful. You can't lose your salvation, but you can lose a whole lot. You could lose a whole lot of things. Learn from their example. Listen to their warning. Look at verse number twelve. Wherefore Let him that think he standeth, take heed lest he fall. And again the Corinthians were overconfident. They thought that it couldn't happen to them. They thought they were too strong. They thought that they were not going to fall. They boasted as if they were untouchable. And Paul's basically saying to them, you are ripe for a fall. You are ripe for a fall into sin. And tragically, it just seems like that we hear more and more of Christians who just Fall, who just capitulate. Christian leaders and lay people as well, who in overconfidence, not depending upon the Lord, think that they're At a point where this certain thing can't happen. And friend, if you ever get to that place, you're in danger. At any point, at any time, anyone can fall. You're not above sin. And this warning that Paul gives us here should cause us all to fear. You remember the story of the Titanic when they were building it, they said, Oh, it's unsinkable. All it did do was sink. On its maiden voyage. That's all it did. It's known for sinking. And that's the same attitude. That's the attitude we need to beware of. You remember The church at Sardis was proud of her reputation for being spiritually alive, and the Lord warned them and said, You know what, you're really dead. You need to repent. They were puffed up, they were proud. Like the church at Laodicea that said, We're increased with goods and we have need of nothing. Friend, that's someone who's overcome confident. So learn from this example and the warning, but also live by the promise. And Paul closes this section with a promise. Look at verse 13 Therefore, or excuse me, uh there hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man, but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able. Now in the end of this God gives a wonderful promise here that we should embrace. It should cause us to trust Him uh fully in him and not in ourselves. And what's he saying here? That every temptation that we face, we have to remember it's common to man. No one can say that they They face a temptation that no one else ever faced before it was unique to anyone else. No, Paul says any temptation that you face, it's common to man. And secondly, it's controlled by God. God is facing And you know what? He doesn't allow you to be tempted to the point where you have no choice that you have to capitulate because the temptation overwhelms you at the time So strong. No. What does God do? He limits the degree to which we are tempted. He always leaves us with a choice. And that's the idea here. Every temptation is Conquerable because we have a choice. We can't say I had no choice because God always makes sure that we're not boxed in. I think he's pointing this to the overconfident Corinthians that if you're able to escape temptation, it's not Not because of you, it's because God is faithful in that time. He doesn't allow you to overwhelm, but even so you need to beware. But this is a great promise. You can overcome any temptation with the help of God. What this is designed to do is to cause us to depend upon God, not be overconfident, but be totally depend Dependent upon the Lord so that we don't do anything that disqualifies us from the race. Because that's the real danger here. We have we see the sinful pitfalls that Paul says you need to learn from, and we see the spiritual practice that he gives us to learn from the example, to listen to the warning, to live By the promise that he gives us here in verse number 13. And let me just close with this. Did you know that the Greeks had a race in their Olympic Games that we unique. The winner was not the runner who finished first. They had a race where the runners would carry a torch. And you won the race if you ended the race with the torch still lit. And this was not a short race, this was a long race Over a many miles, and you won if when you came to the finish line, the torch was still burning, the torch was still lighting. You know what? I want to run the race all of my life, and I want to finish the end of the race with my flame still lit for Christ. I don't want to be disqualified. And we need to be beware of this warning here, so that all of us run a good race, that we finish the race, and we finish the race with our torch still lit for him. Let's let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so Lord, we uh we are warned by these words words here. It's very possible, Lord, for any one of us at any time to be disqualified in the race. And Lord, I pray that you would be with us, that, Lord, if we've been overconfident that you would forgive us. That we would humble ourselves, Lord, and cast ourselves before you. And realize that we are completely, totally dependent upon you. That without you, Lord, we can do nothing, absolutely nothing. And so, Lord, teach us anew how Easy it is to drift. How easy it is, Lord, to fall. How easy it is, Lord, to sometimes abuse our liberties, to live for ourselves instead of others. Lord, I pray that you would prevent that from happening to any one of these who are under the sound of my voice tonight. Give us a holy desire to look to you, to depend upon you, to humble ourselves in your sight, and Lord, to say, like the Apostle Paul, I don't want to be a castaway. And so I'm gonna I'm gonna bring myself under subjection. I know what I'm running for, I know what my desires are, I know how I want to serve I want to be faithful and I don't want to be disqualified. So God help us. Grant us your strength. Help us to finish strong in the race of life. To be faithful to God. to the end with heads bowed and eyes closed. How many say that's my prayer tonight? With God's help, I want to finish strong. I want to finish well. I don't want to be disqualified. I'm asking for his grace For his mercy, for his help. That I run a good race. Father, you see all these hands. You see our hearts. Help us, Lord. To run strong, to run well, to do all that we do for your glory's sake. Bless these words to our heart tonight, Lord, we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.