Would you take your Bibles, please, open to the book of Ephesians, chapter 6. Ephesians, chapter 6. We've been in a study in Ephesians. We took a break from that. Talk about the resurrection of our Lord. But this morning we're going to look at Ephesians chapter 6 in just one verse, and you don't have to stand this morning. But look at verse number 4 of Ephesians chapter 6. And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your word and Lord, all that you do to us and through us from the Word of God. Lord, this morning would you please help us to listen, Lord, and And may the Holy Spirit of God have free reign to speak to our hearts. And Lord, help me to just make your word clear. And may Christ be exalted. And Lord, may you do your work. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. A speaker was uh speaking about the the needs of youth at a certain function, and when he was finished a big burly man stepped up to shake his hand and he said, I want to show you something, and he pulled out of his wallet five well-worn photos. And he said kind of with his voice breaking in emotion, these are my five sons. And he said, um, I drove each of them out of my home. He went on to say that, you know, I've been a military man all my life and discipline was my lifestyle, and as a Christian father, I expected obedience from my sons. He said I laid down the laws and if they didn't like them, they were free to leave. He said, all five boys after high school left home. He said, I haven't seen one of them since. And then he reached into his bill folder and he pulled pulled out another picture and this was a little 10-year-old boy who was grinning and he put that picture down beside the other five and he said, This is my youngest. And he said, I'm determined that I'm not going to make the same mistake with him. That father failed to do with his five sons what the Apostle Paul commands here in Ephesians chapter 6, verse number 4. And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. but bring them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. The spirit-filled home is a home where parents do not exasperate their children. But rather they teach their children the gospel of Jesus Christ and they teach them to follow the word of God Now, as we've seen in our study of Ephesians, if you've been with us, the central command in this whole section is found in Ephesians 5, verse number 18. And be not drunk with wine, wearing as excess, but be filled with the Holy Spirit. This is the central command, and right after that it lists all the results that will take place if a person is filled with the Holy Spirit. And we also said that this command is really with relationships in view. A lot of people think that preachers need to be filled with the Holy Spirit, and certainly we do, and a missionary does, and evangelist does, and if you're going to do Christian work, you need to be filled with the Holy Spirit, and all of that is true Yet, this passage doesn't really mention any of that. It mentions relationships in life. You know why we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit? So that we can have the right relationships with people. That's the bottom line. And all of this context is about relationships. Verse 19 of chapter 5 talks about relationships with ourselves, speaking to yourselves in Psalms and Hymns. And verse 20, relationship to God. Where it says that giving thanks to God in verse 21, relationship to others, where we will be submitting to others. And then in verses 22, the verse 30 is the relationship between the wives and husbands. Verse 31, relationship to in-laws Chapter 6, verses 1 to 4 is relationship with children and parents. And then in chapter 6, verses 5 to 8, relationship of employees with their employers, and vice versa. And verse 9 of chapter 6, bosses to employees. In chapter 6, verses 10 through 11, it's your relationship with the devil. And your relationship with the devil is this: you're at war with him, and you better be ready, you better put on your armor. So it's all about relationships. And in order for us to have the right relationship, we have to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Now we already dealt with Part of this in chapter six where it says in verse number one, children obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. And we saw that spirit-filled children need to listen to their parents and children need to be taught to obey their parents. Now in verse number four, Paul turns to parents and he explains how this principle of mutual submission is applied. to parents and children. Remember we said that when you're filled with the Holy Spirit, you're going to be submitting to each other. And how does a parent do that with children? Well again in verse number four. Paul says this, and ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. When he uses the word fathers there, he's speaking specifically to fathers. When he uses the word parents in verse number one, that's a word that means mother and father. Here when he uses the word fathers, it's specifically to fathers. Now certainly all these things that Paul's going to talk about apply to both mom and dad. However, Paul's making it very clear that the training of children in the home is the responsibility of the father. Now it's okay to delegate some of that to our wives to do a lot of that, but you can't be Disengage. You can't say, oh, that's the wife's responsibility. No, it's the husband's responsibility. It's the father's responsibility. And you need to be overseeing that and making sure that it's done right, and you need to take charge in that Even though that you're working hard and bringing home uh the bread and and and providing for everyone, that's all important. And again, it's okay to delegate, but it doesn't mean you dump everything uh especially when it comes to rearing children onto your wife. You need to be involved in doing this. And so Paul is very clear here. He doesn't give us a long dissertation on parenting. Everything Paul has to say about parenting is found in one verse. We could call this parenting in one verse. And it's really just 20 English words. There are no inspired books on child rearing, just this one inspired Verse right here. And really it gives two commands, a negative command, provoke not, and then a positive command, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. So I want to focus on these two commands. Here's the first one. Very simply, fathers are not to provoke their children to anger. Now, in the Roman world of Paul's day, fathers had absolute authority over their families. When a baby was born in a Roman family, it was brought and laid before the Father. And if he picked it up, that meant he's accepting it into his home. But if he didn't pick it up, it meant that the child was rejected. It could be sold, it could be given away. It could even be left to the elements, left to exposure and die. A father could legally kill his child if he wanted to in that environment, in that day. In fact, one historian writes this, an infant was it if an infant was accepted as as a legal person, only the father would could officially recognize it. Babies could be abandoned or, if deformed, killed. Now, Paul is writing, and he begins by stating that a father's harsh treatment of his children is wrong. It's wrong. The word provoke here means to stir up, to make angry. Paul wrote the same command in Colossians. Listen to the parallel verse, Colossians 3. 21. Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged. That means to be broken in spirit or without courage. A sense of being listless, a sense of being despairing, completely frustrated. You can cause your child to lose heart. And Paul says, you don't want to do this. Now, how can a father provoke his children to wrath? Well, there are several things that I've listed here. Let me just give them to you. First of all, by being an angry parent. It's sad and ridiculous to watch parents scream at their children. Parents, you don't have to do that. I wish I'd have to mention this in Christian circles But sadly, in many Christian homes, fathers not only yell at their children, but they also call them names. They say hurtful things to their children, and they do it in anger. And I would say to you that Ephesians 4. 29 applies, let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearer. How can we ever teach our children to control their anger if we can't control ours? So, and by the way, anger never accomplishes anything. You understand that, parents? Anger never gets the job done The Bible says the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. The Bible says anger rests in the heart of a fool. Anger doesn't discipline your children. Action, not anger. Let me give you an illustration. Let's just say one day I'm speeding down the road down 695. I get pulled over by a police officer. He asks me, you know, you know, what do you do for a living? I say, well, you know, I'm I'm a pastor. And he says, uh, you're a pastor and here you are speeding, shame on you. And he begins to chew me out and yell at me and scream at me. And then he gets back into his cruiser and he drives off. You know what I'm thinking? Thank you, Lord. But let's just say that I again I'm speeding down 695. I get pulled over by a police officer. He says, What do you do for a living? I say, Well, I'm a pastor. Oh, Pastor, Pastor Harmon. Wonderful. Wow, it is so great to have ministers. We really need ministers in our world. Just wait here a minute, sir. And he comes right back and he's the kindest officer ever that ever wrote out a $300 speeding ticket. And when he gives that to me, you know I'm gonna say, ouch, that hurt. Anger didn't help any. But action helps doing the right thing. You get the point, you can discipline without excessive anger But also here's another re way we can uh provoke our children, excessive discipline. You can overcorrect your child. Overcorrecting them, look parents, you want to break their will But not their spirit. That's the point here. And after a child's will is broken, there's no need to discipline them anymore. Because if you go f beyond that, then you're not Just breaking their will, you're breaking their spirit. You just want your children to learn to obey and submit to authority, but you don't want to stifle them and you don't want to break their spirit. by over discipline. But here's another way, by being overly critical. Some parents are so much a perfectionist that their children can never do anything right. And they can't do anything to make the parent proud. It doesn't matter what they do, the parent is just continually critical And that causes a child to be discouraged. You know what you need to do, parents, when you catch your child doing something right and then you praise them for it And even if they do something and it's not perfect, point out all the good things that they did in that. Listen to what the Bible says in Proverbs twenty-seven, verse twenty-one. As the fighting pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, so is a man to his praise. You know what it's saying? Praise is a character builder. When you praise your child and something that they've done right, what it does is it reinforces that character, that behavior, and it it refines away all of the impurities in their heart and in their life. But also here's another way you provoke your children to wrath by forcing them to be something that they're not. Some parents are trying to relive their childhood through their children. And they want their children to go and do this and do that. And they want their children to be things that God never intended them to be. Each child has their own particular personality, their own particular giftings, their own particular s bend, the way in which they should go. And as a parent, what you have to do is you have to study your child And understand their particular personality and their giftings and their desires because all that is rolled into one. You know why? Because each child is a unique gift from Almighty God. And you need to figure out what those those bends are And then train them accordingly. Proverbs 22, 6. Train up a child in the bend or the way he should go, and when he's old, he will not depart from it. And so you have to figure out what that gifting is. If you take a child who is bent towards music and the arts and you try to make them into an athlete, they might be very frustrated about that. I mean, not all children were intended to be athletes. And not only all children were intended to learn piano and violin and all that other thing. You just have to figure out what the bends are in your children and train them accordingly. If you try to make them something that they're not, it could provoke them to anger, but also unrealistic goals. We sometimes have bigger goals for our children than they're capable of reaching. And again, this becomes a pride issue with parents. We want them to achieve certain things certain things because it speaks well of us. It's more about us than it is about them And we have to again recognize the limits of our children and stop trying to push them past the limits of what they can do. But then also failing to show affection Let me tell you something, parents. Children never grow out of the need for affection from their parents. And we should be, as fathers, showing continual love and affection to our children. There was a book that was written several years ago called The Blessing by John Trent, and he he develops the idea of how a father can bless his family, and he takes it from the Old Testament, and he goes to the Old Testament and he studies. How in the Old Testament, whenever a father would bless his children, what he would do, and what did that blessing involve? And he brought it down to several things. First of all, he said it always involves a meaningful touch. A meaningful touch. It would include a a kiss, an embrace, a hands on the head, a hug. Any of those things are meaningful touches. And fathers, you know what? We need to be doing that to our family all the time. We need to be doing that to our children all the time. Did you know according to a study from UCLA, your child needs eight meaningful touches a day just for emotional stability? They need to be constantly affirmed, they need to be constantly loved. Spoken words. Your words have incredible power as a father. Power to really bless. Power to uplift. So speak words of blessing, express high value with your words. Here's another way we can provoke our children to wrath. Lack of standards. Children can get discouraged if they're being punished for things they didn't know they were not supposed to do. In other words, there are parents that are punishing children, but they haven't clearly laid out the standards. Where are the lines? Some children don't even know where the lines are. And they're being punished, they're being hit, they're being slapped, they're being, you know, whatever. And not even knowing that they're doing anything wrong Parents, we have to, fathers particularly, we have to clearly draw the lines and let our children know specifically exactly what we expect of them. Because how are they gonna know t w how are we gonna know whether they're obeying us if they don't know right and wrong, if they don't know where the lines are How would you like that if your boss treated you that way? You come into work and you get yelled at, you get penalized for doing things that you didn't even know you were you weren't supposed to do, or you were supposed to do, because there's no clear lines given And so that can frustrate a child. That can provoke them to anger. But here's another one: mood swings. When a father is unpredictable because of his ups and his downs. One day he blows his stack over a minor offense. Some infraction of rules. And then the next day he lets a major offense go. Says nothing about it. That's can frustrate a child. That can provoke him to anger. But here's another one, neglect. Neglect. This is just not taking time for your children. I read about a heartbreaking letter to dear Abby from an eleven-year-old girl whose dad spends all his spare time with his friends but won't do things with her. Children interpret an absent or unavailable father as rejecting them or not loving them. And we have to remember, fathers, that you know what time goes by? I mean tomorrow they're gonna be gone. And I can say that, you know, I all my children they're out of my home now. And sometimes I wish I had some time back, but you know what? We can't get that time back. So you better invest it right now. You better take advantage of it right now and give them your time. But then here's another one, favoritism. This is how children get provoked to wrath. This is where you love one child more than another. Or you show more affection and attention to one child than you do another. Or one child gets away with everything because he or she is the favorite, and the other children get away with nothing. You get the idea. I've counseled parents and they'll admit to me the fact that they have favorites and they'll say, but we're very careful not to mention it to our children. We don't say that. You know what, children aren't stupid. They pick that up. They can tell when that behavior is going on, when there's favoritism. And we see this in the Bible. Remember the story of Joseph? Jacob loved Joseph above the above his other sons. And Jacob didn't go around announcing it, hey I love Joseph more than you guys. He didn't say anything about it. But the other brothers could see it. The Bible says in Genesis 37, 4, and when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. Joseph was treated differently by Jacob, and everyone saw it. Joseph got a coat of many colors. Hey, where's my coat? And the other brothers, it caused division in the family. They hated Joseph because of that, and it provoked those brothers to wrath. But then here's another one, hypocrisy. You know kids can smell hypocrisy a mile away. If you put on a happy Christian family face at church, and then once you get out of church, you're constantly yelling at your kids. They're not going to be drawn to your faith that way. When you do something wrong, when you sin against your child, when you lose your anger your temper and break a promise, you know what you should do? You should go to them and you should ask for forgiveness. You should tell them I did wrong. I'm sorry. You know, children don't want a perfect father. What they want is a father who's real. And when you do something wrong, just apologize for it. I'm sorry I was wrong. Please forgive me. Again, they don't want a perfect dad. They just want a dad that loves them and is very real, is not a hypocrite. But hypocrisy can provoke children to wrath. These are just a few of the things. There's more. But what we need to do is we need to again go back to the command of Ephesians 5. 18. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. We need to be filled with the Spirit as Fathers, and we need to ask God to help us and give us wisdom so that we don't do things that will provoke our children to wrath. Give us wisdom in the way that we parent our family. But here's the second command. Here's the positive side Fathers are to bring their children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Look again in verse number four. Ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Bring up means to nourish. It means to provide, and we're talking here really spiritually, providing spiritual food for your children, spiritual disciplines for your children, training them up, instructing them. This word here is also used in 2 Timothy 3. 16 when it's talking about being trained in righteousness. And so Paul is commanding fathers to train them up according to the word of God, instruct them in The Word of God. Instruct them in righteousness. And you know where that begins? That begins with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We've got to teach them clearly the gospel. Now like again, let me give you some guidelines here. First of all, teach them early. Start early. It's never too early to start Listen to 2 Timothy 3. 15. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith. Which is in Christ Jesus. The word child here, breathos, speaks of a child at his earliest beginning. I believe that God has given children a great capacity and a great propensity to learn spiritual truth at a very early age. Why is that? Well, because children have a great curiosity factor What's the what's the word that you hear most from a child? Why? Why? Why? I mean when my grandchildren come over Paul Paul why? Why? Why? I gotta be ready to answer those questions. By the way, there's a Bible answer for every question that they ask. But also a memory factor. They're children, they're like a sponge. They soak it all in and they remember things quickly. I wish I could remember like my grandchildren Their minds are so sharp. They have a great humility factor. They're so humble. And uh, you know, also they have a transparency factor. Uh they're honest. If you want an honest opinion, just ask a child. They'll give you an honest opinion. Also, they have that trust after. They have this incredible ability just to trust and believe. what they are taught. And a loyalty factor, they are loyal to their parents. The Bible says in Proverbs 17, 6, children's children are the glory or the crown of old men, and the glory of children are their fathers. Children are born with a natural loyalty and admiration for their father. They will, Dad, they will listen to you. They will follow you. They are born with this admiration for you, and they'll keep it all their life unless you do something to remove it. Through your own your own mistakes. And so ch so we have to start early with our children. But then here's the next thing. It's so important. Teach them the trustworthiness of Scripture. Again, that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures. The holy scriptures. We need to teach our children that this book here is the Word of God and that it is reliable. Because God knows when they get older, this is going to come under attack. It's going to come under attack from all sides. So we need to ingrain in them that the Bible is the Word of God. And that it's it's something that they can base their whole life on. But then here's another thing. I think this is very important. Teach them the Ten Commandments. Now remember, Paul is writing this about Timothy. He said, Timothy, from a child, you have known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise unto salvation. And what holy scriptures was Paul referring to when he wrote that? Well, he was obviously referring to the Old Testament at that time because the New Testament was not complete at that time. And so you say, Timothy, your mother and your grandmother taught you the Old Testament. They taught you the Holy Scriptures, which led to your salvation and made you wise into salvation. And I think specifically what it's referring to here is the law of the Lord. Listen to Psalm 19, verse 7. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. You see, I think that this is referring to God's moral law here. And you know what? When you teach children God's commandments, the Ten Commandments, it will lead ultimately to their conversion. You say, how does that happen? Well, a person cannot be truly saved until they first realize that they're lost And that they're a sinner. And that God is holy. The gospel begins with the fact that God the Father is holy. And he has a holy law. And guess what? None of us can keep that law because we're all sinners. How do we know that? Well, because we read the Ten Commandments, and you know what we find? That we are guilty. It only takes breaking one of those commandments and you've broken all of them. What it is is it's a mirror that points out our own sinfulness And children need to realize that God is a holy God. He will always punish sin and that all of us are sinners before God. And you know what it does? It breaks up the fallow ground of their heart and it gets it ready for the seed of the gospel. of Jesus Christ. You see, we're all sinners, but we can find mercy in Christ. But they have to first learn that they're sinners. They have to realize that I think it was a master stroke of the devil to get the Ten Commandments taken out of public schools and out of public places. The devil wants you to think that, oh, you're a good person. You're basically good. God wouldn't send a good person to you like you to hell. And that's the whole warm idea out there that he wants everyone to believe. But you know what? God is holy, and it only takes one sin to make a person a sinner, and God will not not let one sin go unpunished, and your sins are either punished on Jesus Christ the substitute or you bear your own sin and the only way you can be punished for that is to die and go to hell. Because God is a holy God, and children need to be taught that. The law teaches them that God is holy, the law teaches them that God demands perfection. The law teaches them to fear God. That's part of the problem nowadays. This generation there is no fear of God. They don't fear God. And the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It teaches them that they're sinners. It prepares their hearts for the gospel. It teaches them the demands of the gospel. We have to teach them the demands of the gospel. That's the next point. And that is, once they understand that they're sinners, we have to teach them that Mercy and grace are found in Christ. When they repent of their sin, when they put their faith in Jesus Christ, there's mercy, there's forgiveness in Christ And I want to tell you the starting point for all child training is that they have to be converted. They have to come to know Jesus Christ as their Savior So we have to teach them the gospel clearly. And we have to be very thorough. I think a danger in child evangelism is oversimplification. And not giving them enough detail. Because let me tell you something, children, they will respond. It's very easy to preach a short five-minute sermon and just ask them to raise their hand. You know, ask Jesus to come into your heart and and they all do that, but the question is, do they really comprehend the principles of the gospel And we have to be careful not to oversimplify. We have to be very thorough and we don't coerce professions of faith. That's a common pitfall. Again, children will always respond. But I don't want them just responding. I want them to truly understand the gospel. I want them to understand that they're a sinner. I want them to understand everything that Jesus did, what took place on the cross. And why it's so important for them. I want them to understand all about the atonement of Jesus Christ. But then here's another thing: teach them the biblical evidences of salvation. You see, the evidence that someone is genuinely repented of their sin and believed in Christ is the same for a child as it is for an adult. I fear that we have too many people that just make a profession that say, I've accepted Jesus. But there's no real genuine fruit that demonstrates that that was real. That there was a real conversion. We don't see the fruit of it. And that's the thing that scares me because then what we do is we then we try to give them their assurance. And I tell my children all the time, it's not my job to give you your assurance of salvation. It's my job to teach you the gospel. It's your job to repent and respond to the gospel, and then you get your assurance from God. You get your assurance from the Holy Spirit. I can tell you what real salvation is. I can tell you the outward evidences of a true believer. But I can't give you, I can't guarantee you. I never go to one of my children and say, Oh, I know absolutely you're saved. I say make sure. You make sure. You wrestle with it until God gives you the peace that you have a genuine faith and repentance in the Lord. That God has truly changed your heart. What are the evidences of true salvation? Jesus said that a good tree will produce good fruit. But an evil tree or bad tree produces bad fruit. Fruit takes time to grow. What are the fruits of genuine conversion in your children? True believers will continue in God's Word. I think that they're going to have a desire for the Word of God. They're going to catch them reading the Word of God, not because you told them to, but because they want to. They'll continue in God's word. They'll confess their sins. There'll be a new sensitivity to sin. Their conscience will be sensitive and alive. And they'll maybe come to you and talk about sin in their own life. That's a good thing. Because it reveals the work of God in their heart. And you want them to do that. True believers will obey God's commandments. You'll notice them starting to want to obey Jesus. I remember when I first got saved, I didn't understand all of what Jesus wanted. I just knew this one thing. I want to do whatever Jesus tells me to do. I wasn't sure what all that was. And by the way, I haven't done that perfectly. You're looking at a very imperfect, flawed person right here. But you know what? There was this general desire to do what Jesus wanted me to do. And you'll notice that in your children. And you'll see that they have a true love for God. They'll have a love for the people of God. And the fellowship of God's people. Again, that was one thing that happened in my life. I just fell in love with the church. I fell in love with God's people. I just wanted to be here because I love the people of God and the church. It's not something you're gonna have to force on your family or your children. It's gonna be natural. It's gonna be the work of the Holy Spirit There'll be and they're and they won't live in a continual and they won't live in continual sin and be happy about it. I remember a woman who got very upset with me for counseling her son. She said uh her son was having trouble. Uh she said her son was basically addicted to drugs. Uh he was living with a girl who wasn't his wife. Uh he was having all these different problems in his life, and she said, Would you please counsel my son? And I said, Sure I will, and brought him in, and the first thing I did was I started examining him about his salvation And the boy looked at me and said, Are you under the impression that I'm not safe? And I said, Well, yeah, actually I am. I want you to make sure that you know that you're saved. Well later the mother came to me. She was so angry, how dare you? Question My child's salvation. He came to church and he, when he was just a little boy, and he walked down the aisle and he got baptized. How dare you question his salvation? Well let me tell you something, beloved, and I say this with love in my heart. Uh I hope I hope that that boy really was saved, but I'm but the assurance of your salvation and not walking an aisle, writing down something on a card and being baptized. None of those things give you a biblical assurance of salvation. The Bible is very specific about what makes you a true believer, and it is someone who obeys Jesus in their heart The Bible says this, hereby do we know that we know him. Here's how you know that you know Jesus, if we keep his commandments. He that says, I know him, oh, I'm saved, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar. Now I didn't say that. John said that. So that's why I encourage people, examine your heart. Is there a desire? And again, I'm not talking about perfection. I'm talking about the direction of your life. The direction of your life should be: I want to obey Jesus. I'm not going to do it perfectly, but that's my heart's desire. And then also, I would say this: don't rush your children into baptism. Wait until you see the evidences of salvation. There's a sense in which baptism seems to seal it for some kids in their mind that they don't ever have to worry about their salvation ever again. Paul tells us to examine our hearts to make sure that we're in the faith. And I'm telling you as a parent, be careful about that. Make sure you see some evidences of the true work of God in their heart before you rush them along. You want the Holy Spirit to have the room to be thorough and dealing in their heart. But then here's the last thing. Teach them through your own consistent example of godliness. Your example was a primary means of training your children. Your children will learn far more from your life than they will from your lectures. Because they're going to watch you. And what they need to see is someone who's living out the gospel in their own life. Dr. Adrian Rogers used to say this. He said, most parents vaccinate their children with a mild form of Christianity so their children don't catch the real thing. Paul could say to his followers, be followers of me. He could say to the Christians, the disciples, be ye followers of me as I am of Christ. We should be able to say that as fathers to our children. Just watch me. Son, you want to know what it is to live a Christian life? What just watch me? I'm going to show you what that is. They need to learn through our example. One little girl was following her dad through the clumps of newly planted Augustine grass, and she said, Daddy, if you don't get your feet muddy, I won't get my feet muddy. And so these are just principles for us to to understand. Now in closing. A grandson was visiting his grandmother when he said, Grandma, do you know how you and God are alike? Oh, and she she smiled in her heart and spiritually, mentally, she started shining up her halo. And she said, No, how are we alike? And he said, You're both old. Well let's hope as parents we have more in common with God than just being old. Let's hope that we're growing in godliness. And if you're still in the process of rearing children, just remember these two basic commands. Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. But bring them up in the nurture and in the admonition of the Lord. And his parents were not going to do it perfectly, but his abundant grace covers all. And if you failed as a parent, I just encourage you to turn to the Lord who abundantly pardons. And you know what? Ask Him for grace. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. And you know what? God can take what you do, and He can make much out of it. Plead with him in prayer for your children. Even if they're adults, our heart's desire is that our children know Jesus Christ. Amen. That's our heart's desire. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this simple instruction. Lord, help us to take it to heart. Help us to apply it. Lord, we need to be filled with your Holy Spirit. So even now, as we're before you in prayer, before your presence, we consciously Claim that fullness of the Holy Spirit. Please fill us. Help us, Lord, so that we can, in every relationship in life, Be Christ-like. Have godly relationships. Lord, we can't do it on our own because we're sinful creatures. We need your help and we need your grace. I pray for your blessing on every family here this morning represented. May it be a spirit-filled family, submitted to your word, walking in the spirit being all that Lord you call us to be. We know that this can't happen unless until first we know Jesus Christ as Savior. So Father, save souls For your glory's sake. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just invite you, like I do every Sunday, if you're here today and you've never put your faith in Christ, I want to invite you to do that right now, friend. God loves you. He sent his son Jesus to this world to bear your sin debt. And on the cross, Jesus took all of your sins upon himself. You see, again, because God the Father is a holy God, he demands that sin be punished. But he's also a God of love. He doesn't want to punish you So he sent his son Jesus. All your sins were laid on Christ on the cross. God's wrath that should have fallen on you fell on him. Salvation is now a gift that you receive by faith. When you put your faith in Christ, have you done that? And if you haven't, friend, I I plead with you today, make that decision today. Settle it right now Just pray, a brief prayer. Doesn't have to be eloquent. Just say, Father, forgive me. Save me. I believe that Jesus died for my sins, that he was buried and rose again. And that He's Lord and I repent of my sin, I turn to Him and I ask you, Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. Friend, just pray that. The Bible says, Him that comes to me I will in no eyes cast out. God doesn't turn away anyone who wants to Salvation. And friend, if you if you pray that, let us know because we want to help you along in your Christian journey. That's just the first step God has many more for you. And we're here to help you grow in Christ. Father, bless your word. Use it for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name.