Thank you, Miss Rosa. Would you take God's word, please, tonight, and open to the Old Testament book of Isaiah, Isaiah chapter forty-two. And as you know on Sunday nights I've been doing a series called Echoes from Puritan pulpits where I just take basic uh things that I have learned by reading the Puritans and and uh kind of imparting to you some of those spiritual truths. They're very, very rich. And I want you to to maybe develop a an appetite for reading some of that. And But more importantly, just applying the truth to your own life. And tonight I want to talk about the the bruised reed and the smoking flax In Isaiah chapter 42, verse number three, a bruiser shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench. He shall bring forth judgment unto truth. Now when you read the Gospels, one thing is very clear. Jesus did not attract the rich. He didn't attract the aristocrats. He didn't attract the mighty. The ones that Jesus attracted to his ministry were those who were broken. He attracted the lepers, he attracted sinners, he attracted the demoniacs and the weeping women. the d the doubting disciples and those who had failed. Why was it that these people came to Jesus? He seemed like the weak uh uh were drawn to Jesus like uh like uh iron to a magnet. And Isaiah, long before the ministry of Jesus uh prophetically gives us the answer, in verse number three of Isaiah chapter 42, a bruisery shall he not break, and a smoking flack shall he not quench. This one verse became the basis for a series of sermons preached by the Puritan named Richard Sibbs. He uh preached in the early seventeenth century from fifteen seventy-seven until sixteen thirty-five. That's actually his birth date and his uh his date of death, fifteen seventy-seven to sixteen thirty-five. But it was in this context a a context when the English Church wrestled with cold formalism on one hand and harsh persecution on the other, that there arose this preacher who was a very gentle preacher, very graceful preacher. His contemporaries called him the sweet dropper which uh was really just because of the tenderness and the warmth that he uh had whenever he preached and people could sense it He studied and lectured at Cambridge and uh when he preached there, he drew scholars, but also he drew the common people Uh he was a Puritan, but a lot of times when you think of a Puritan you think of someone who's a very stern character. Someone described a Puritan as someone who dressed in black, sitting around worrying that someone somewhere is having a good time tonight That's not really the the correct idea of a Puritan, but but he was a man who was very, very gracious and very very kind and he emphasized the gentleness of the gospel. He saw too many believers crushed under fear and shame and despair. And so amidst those bruised and trembling saints, Richard Sivs focused again on the gentleness of Christ. And his sermon series again was based on this one verse that we see here in Isaiah chapter 42. Verse number three. And he later published a book called The Bruised Reed and the Smoking Flax. And this was written for the weaker believer who feels himself maybe barely alive. in grace. Someone who is just struggling along in their Christian life. And this book really, when you read it and digest it, it's very comforting. One of the things that Sib says in the book is there is more mercy in Christ than sin in us. He believed that the same Savior who would one day rule the nations in righteousness now rules people, but he does it through tender compassion. So I want to give three thoughts based on this verse. Some of this will be, of course, Richard Sibbs, and some of it will be Jerry Harmon. I'll let you to But anyway, here's the first idea, the the picture of the bruised reed. Let me talk to you a little bit about the picture of the bruised reed. Again in verse number three, a bruised reed shall he not break Now what is the image here that the writer is giving us? What is a bruised reed? Well, a reed was a fragile plant that grew along the Jordan River It was hollow, it was weak, it was easily bent. They had a long long stalks kind of like bamboo, hollow on the inside. And reeds were used for many things. People would come along and pick these reeds and just use them. Shepherds and the people out in the fields used to like to pick these reeds and they would make them into little flutes and play them. After they played them for a while, of course, the fingers and the saliva would kind of weaken the reed and it would cause them to get soft in a spot and they wouldn't stay straight. And so pretty soon it was no longer any good. And so people would discard the the bruised reed. So they crushed it and throw it away. What is a smoking flax? Well the flax refers to the wick in a lamp. They used to take flax, and out of that flax they would make a wick. And the and the the flax here, of course, in this verse that we see is smoking, it is smoldering, we could say. In other words, the fire in the lamp is just about to go out. The wick is smoldering. It's very it's on the edge of uh burning out. We could say it was barely burning. And when the oil runs low and the flame dwindles, then uh it gives off kind of a faint glow, and really it gives off more smoke than it does. light or heat. Now the question is what do these things represent? The bruised reed and the smoking flax. Well the reed represents the soul that has been weakened by sin. Someone been weakened by guilt or been uh hammered by temptation or some kind of an affliction or trial that has come into their life. Something that has broken people down and battered them, the hurting, uh the broken, the the weak. Everyone else steps on and throws things that are broken away. We we kind of discard those things. But the idea here is that the Bruce Reed that can't play a joyful tune anymore is kind of just thrown away. The smoking flax that can't give out light and is barely burning, that can be snuffed out at any moment. That's what people do with these things, right? That's what we do. When something is uh no longer working, we kinda cast it aside, we throw it away. And so that's the idea here. The idea, however, is that the Lord doesn't treat these things like other people do. The bruised reed, he's not going to break, and the smoking flecks, he will not quench. He will not snuff it out. Again, this emphasizes the tenderness of Christ towards the weak. And that's what Sibs is emphasizing here. Christ does not cast off the broken. He doesn't cast off the bruised. He binds them up Sibs writes this, are you bruised? Be of good comfort. He calls you. Conceal not your wounds. Open all before him and go to Christ. Again he wrote this men for the most part are as thorns carrying all that touch them But Christ is a lily full of sweetness And so the application is you may, as a believer, feel bruised, you may feel damaged, you may feel unworthy, you may feel weak in your faith, but you're still his read. And the very bruising that if you're going through is something that God will use in your life. He's bruising you before healing you. He's not finished with you. And so he's not going to allow you to be broken beyond repair. He's not going to allow you to be snuffed out And so that's what again Ru Slibs wrote this. Uh some sparks of faith and love are left, which though they make a smoke, yet they show that there is fire. the heart and Christ does not extinguish that faint spark. He uh he cr Christ never says to us, You're too weak for me uh to use. He never says to us that, you know, I I I can't use you because you're so bruised. What he does say to us is that my grace is sufficient for you. And I'm bringing you a place to where I can use you. This emphasizes the patience of our Savior. But let me so we talked about the picture of the bruise read. Secondly, let me talk about the purpose of the bruise read. And this is what uh What Sibs uh writes about a lot in his book, he gives several purposes why God will allow the bruising in people's lives. Or to say it another way, how does God use Bruising when it comes to us in our life. How does he use it? Well there are several things. First of all, to lead to conversion to lead people to conversion. Sib says this, this bruising is required before conversion. That so the spirit may Make a way for comfort and after conversion that we may be ever kept low and dependent. It's a good point God will take people who are bruised, and he'll use that time to prepare them, to prepare their heart to receive the gospel and be converted. Remember what Jesus said, Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be what? Comforted. And a lot of times people have to go through a time of mourning and bruising before they'll ever be open to hear the gospel. God will allow the crushing in our life in order to convert us to Christ. You need to be brought low in groans before you are exalted in grace, said Sibbs When I think about this, I think about the conversion of my own father. He was a very hard man before salvation. And um, you know, I uh people had come to him before about the gospel and he wasn't interested. But there was a time in his life where he went through a very, very difficult time that bruised him, that brought him down, that humbled him. And it was at that time that God used that in his life to prepare his heart for the gospel because it was at that time in his life that he was invited to come to church and he came to church with his heart open because of what he had been going through and he heard the gospel and he was converted to Jesus Christ. There was the bruising before the conversion. When you see people that are going through a difficult time, that's the perfect time to share the gospel with them. Because the bruising is the breaking up of the fallow ground that prepares the heart for the seed of the gospel. Another reason he gives is to break our pride. To break our pride. Pride is the devil's image, he says. Humility is Christ. The bruised reed is one from whom pride is beaten out. God will allow bruising in our life to take away all of our self-confidence so that we will rely wholly on the Lord Jesus Christ. And Sibs repeatedly stresses that the grace of God, the strength of God, thrives in low places. The bruising of the reed bends us away from pride, he says, and self-sufficiency so that Christ alone is exalted. It is the bruised reed that is fitted for the mercy of God. And of course we see this in the Bible in James chapter 4, verse 6, but he giveth more grace, wherefore he saith God resisteth the proud, but what? Gives grace to the humble Remember the story of Peter when Jesus was speaking to his disciples? Peter was the lead disciple. He was always the one speaking for the group. He was very self-confident. And Jesus said this to his disciples in Matthew 26. Then said Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night. And Peter spoke up. Remember what he said, Lord? He said, Everyone else will offend you, but not me Everyone else might do that, but I'm not going to do that. And he was very, very self-confident. And the Lord told him in Luke chapter 22, Simon, Satan has desired to have you that he might sift you as wheat. But I've prayed for you, and when your faith that your faith failed not, and when you're converted, strengthen the brethren. Jesus knew that Peter needed some, well, he needed some bruising He needed to go through a time to humble him from all self-sufficiency and self-confidence. And Jesus said, Peter, I'm praying for you. You're going to get bruised here, Peter. I'm going to allow this in your life. But I'm going to pray that your faith doesn't fail. And when this is all over, this is going to be used for you to strengthen other believers. This is a beautiful illustration of how God will break our pride and he'll use bruising to do it. But here's a third reason that's given to produce compassion towards others. The reason God will allow us to be bruised is so that our hearts will be softened for others that go through difficult trials. We need to be bruised so that we can have compassion. Just write down 2 Corinthians 1, verse 3. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies. the God of all comfort who comforts us in all our tribulation. Listen to this, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. Those who have been bruised learn compassion. And Sibbs warns that the unbruised Christians often become harsh. judges, people that really don't go seem to go through a lot of difficulty in their life and it's all been smooth sailing. They seem to be the ones that are very harsh and judgmental. But it's those who have been bruised, those who have gone through the difficult dark times that have that compassion. We learn mercy by feeling misery at times in our life. And so Christ bruises us to teach us to carry the burdens of others and to be compassionate towards others. But then here's another reason to drive us closer to Christ. To drive us closer to Christ. Sibs argues that Christ is never more precious than when all other supports fail. Affliction loosens our grip on the world and presses us into deeper communion with God. Remember the the woman in Mark chapter 5, the woman with the issue of blood, for twelve years she suffered. She exhausted every earthly remedy that she knew and nothing worked. Can you imagine having this disease for twelve years? But it drove her to have the boldness to come and to touch the helm of Christ's garment. In a way her weakness became the pathway to her healing She was bruised because she learned to cling to Christ. She learned to depend upon the only one that could really help her. And Sibbs points out, that's why God bruises us. So that we will see all the other comforts fail. There's only one real comfort, and that is Christ. The bruise read learns that Christ is sufficient when everything else is insufficient. Christ is sufficient. But here's another reason. To purify and strengthen true grace, he says. Bruising doesn't destroy grace, and when he says grace here, he's talking about true salvation. Those who are truly saved. It doesn't destroy grace, it refines and proves it. Sibs insisted that true grace may be weak, it may be trembling. and and bruised, yet it is still real. Someone may be weak in their faith, but it doesn't mean that there's no faith there. He says grace is little in the beginning, but it is growing. And so bruising will strengthen that faith. It'll purify that faith. It'll reveal that faith to be genuine. Uh and we see this in the life of Job. We we saw uh when we s looked at Job many times, how his faith survived, the crushing loss of possessions and then his children and then his health. And through all of that, even though Job, he wasn't perfect in the way he dealt with all of it, there was a lot of confusion. If you read the book of Job, you'll see at times he was confused. At times it seemed like There was some complaint that he would pour out. But ultimately what did Job say? Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. And when he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold. It served to purify and strengthen genuine faith that was in Job, and God will allow hardship to distinguish, to reveal. Genuine faith from just a mere profion and he will strengthen that faith. But there's another reason Sibs writes, and that is to prevent greater spiritual harm. And his point is lesser wounds are mercies that keep us from deadly falls. In other words, God will allow this bruising in our life because that will keep us from something worse that might happen on down the road. You may be going through a very difficult time right now and you may be wondering why Am I going through this? Why this affliction? It might be a physical affliction, a sickness, some kind of a trial, and you're wondering why, why, why? Well, it might be that this bruising that God has given you now will keep you from doing something worse later down the road. Maybe it'll give you the strength to resist a temptation that might come down the road, which before this you would not have the strength to resist it. And so it's to prevent a greater spiritual harm. And we think of Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter twelve, when he had the thorn in the flesh, and three times Paul asked the Lord to remove it, and the Lord said, No, my grace is sufficient for you. But Paul understood and realized that God was Giving him this thorn in the flesh, so he would not be proud, so he would not be arrogant, so he would not be exalted above measure. That bruising was to prevent something more harmful to Paul later on. Some bruises, he writes, are God's fences around our soul. This bruising that you're going through is like a barrier, a fence around you to ultimately protect you on down the road. But then here's another reason he says for the bruising. To display Christ's gentle shepherding. And this is a central theme of his book, The Bruise Read. The theme is it all focuses on the gentleness of Christ. That's really what the whole book focuses on. The gentleness of the Lord Jesus Christ. Not necessarily on the bruise reed. But on how Jesus treats people. God allows bruising so that Christ's character might be magnified as the one who does not crush the weak. He doesn't crush the weak. He doesn't snuff out the smoke the smoking flax. He heals them. He fans the flame. That's what Jesus does. And so this becomes the stage upon which the character of Christ is magnified and put on display, says Richard Sibbs. But here's another reason for the bruise read to prepare us for greater usefulness. For greater usefulness. And so Sib sees bruising as preparatory. It's not final. God bends the reed so it might grow straight. He weakens us, he says, so that we may grow stronger in him. It is the soil out of which deeper holiness grows. So if you're going through a time of bruising, it's because God wants greater usefulness out of you. So don't despise the bruising that you're going through, he says. Understand that he wounds that he might heal deeper. So why the bruising? What's the purpose? To convert us, to humble us, to soften us, to draw us to Christ, to prove and refine grace, to protect us from worse harm, to display Christ's gentleness. to prepare us for greater usefulness, greater fruit in our life. That's the purpose of the bruise read. But let me give you the the last point. And uh don't say, well he's almost done. No, this is a long point here. The last point, and that is the prophecy of the bruise read. Because again, this here in uh Isaiah forty-two verse three This is prophetic and it speaks forward to Jesus, to the ministry of Jesus. Again, we see in verse 3 the latter part what says, he that is the Messiah shall bring forth judgment unto truth. And again, this speaks of Christ's faithful administration of grace and truth to his people. So let's see the fulfillment of this Old Testament prophecy. Go to the book of Matthew, chapter 12. Just flip over to Matthew chapter 12, will you? And uh We'll look at the context of Matthew. We'll start in Matthew chapter twelve, down in verse number ten. This is another confrontation that Jesus has. If you'll notice throughout the ministry of Jesus, he has many confrontations with the religious leaders. The religious leaders don't like him, they don't like his ministry, and so they are constantly butting heads. And this is yet another one of those confrontations. Look at verse number ten of chapter twelve. And behold, there was a man which had his hand withered, and they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day that they might accuse him? And he said unto them, What man shall there be among you that shall have one sheep? And if it fall into a pit on the Sabbath day, will he not lay hold on it and lift it out? And so Jesus is in the synagogue. He's teaching. This was the custom of Jesus to do that. And in the synagogue there, there was a man who had a withered hand. Luke says it was his right hand. Another source says that this man was a bricklayer. And the Pharisees were watching Jesus to see what he would do on the Sabbath day. Would he heal this man if he did anything to heal this person completely according to their laws and traditions, that would be a serious violation of the Sabbath Now, according to their tradition, if a person was dying, you could give them only enough medicine to keep them alive. But you couldn't do any more than that Because if you did any more than that, that would be labor, and that would be working on the Sabbath, and that would be a violation of God's law. You see, these guys have way too much time on their hands, coming up with all these little minutiae about the law. That was never really what it was intended for. And they were practically daring Jesus here. Someone thinks, one scholar says that this man was planted in the synagogue. to test Jesus. Here's this man in the synagogue with a withered hand. If he's a bricklayer, this is his old whole way of living. That means he's not able really to function anymore, to take care of his family. There he is in the synagogue. There's Jesus teaching. What will Jesus do on the Sabbath to this man? And notice Jesus he refused their logic. Again, look at verse 11. He said unto them, that is, all that were gathered in the synagogue, especially the religious leaders, What men shall there be among you that shall have one sheep And if it fall into a pit on the Sabbath day, will he not lay hold on it and lift it out? Jesus was logically refuting their tradition, proving how irrational and how unscriptural that it really was. Uh if you and of course he gives this story that you know everyone knows the answer to. If you have a sheep it falls into a pit, what are you gonna do? You're gonna leave it there? No, you're going to lay hold of it. You're going to lift it out. Look at verse 12. How much then is a man better than a sheep? Wherefore is it lawful to do well on the Sabbath day? I think he kind of leaves them there in their own foolishness with that question. It's a rhetorical question. The answer is obvious. And then what does Jesus do? Look at verse 13. Then saith he to the men, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it forth, and it was restored whole like as the other. What an incredible miracle that our Lord does Right in front of everyone, right there in the synagogue, the man stretches forth his hands, and Jesus makes his hand whole like the other. Now, that's a jaw-dropping miracle. That's an incredible miracle right there before all. You would have think that that would be enough. for all the religious leaders there to say, man, this man must be the Messiah. But they don't do that. And by the way, this is a picture of Jesus healing the bruised reed. He restores the bruised reed. This infuriated the Pharisees, because look at verse 14. Then the Pharisees went out and held a counsel against him how they might destroy him. They were ready to kill Jesus. In fact, Luke's gospel tells us that they met with the Herodians. They were all gathering together. They all had one common enemy. That was Jesus. The Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Herodians all come together. Normally they would be different parties, opposite, opposed to each other, but this one thing Brought all of them together, that was to to kill Jesus. And Jesus knew all this. He knew how much they hated him. And Matthew records for us Jesus' response. Look at verse 15. But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence And great multitudes followed him. And watch this, and he healed them all. But notice his response. First of all, he withdraws himself. He remains very low-key. He's very careful not to incite any more hostility against him. Any more than it was necessary. Why? Well, because Jesus knew that he was on a divine timetable and he didn't want uh uh to die prematurely. Uh he knew that uh That he could do things that could incite their hatred even more, and he was trying not to do that. He didn't want to arrive at his death too early, and so he was very low-key. But he continues to show compassion and he continues to heal. He very obviously was not intimidated by the Pharisees because the Bible says great multitudes followed him, and those people that had need of healing, what does the Bible say? He healed some of them? No, he healed them all. He healed all of them that came to him. All of them. And by the way, he did all of this on the Sabbath. And again, he doesn't do it to incite hostility. This is just the gentleness and the compassion of Jesus. He does it because he will not break the bruised reed. He will not quench the smoking flax. And he tells the people basically to be quiet about it. Look at verse sixteen, and he charged them that they should make not make him known. In other words, Jesus tells them, look, uh Be low-key about this. Don't go out and tell everybody about this. This is, by the way, the third time in Matthew's gospel that Jesus says this. Don't go out Publishing this, just keep it low-key. Why did he tell him that? Well, because he didn't want to be known as a miracle worker. He wanted the gospel message to be central To be preeminent in his ministry, not his miracles. The miracles all they did was to authenticate the fact that he really was from God, and the message that he preached was a true message. But he wanted the gospel, the message, to be central. He didn't want to start a movement to enthrone him as king. His time to be recognized as the Messiah had not yet come, so he stayed low-key. He stayed humble. He stayed meek. He rejected honor. Why would a king act like this? This would be opposite of what you would expect. Shouldn't the king a king be more assertive? It just seems like that that would be his attitude. That would be the manner of a true king. And this is why the Pharisees and religious leaders could not understand him. Because they wanted a leader that was assertive. To them, the ministry of Jesus seemed as if it was a failure. In fact, if we use today's standards to judge the ministry of Jesus, many would say he was a failure. Because we equate success with fame, we equate success with honor, with assertiveness, with attracting multitudes And Jesus from man's point of view, he failed in all of this. He failed in all of this in his ministry. People hated him People wanted to kill him. There was a small group that he was able to gather together, but by far the multitudes, even though they liked his miracles, even though they liked being fed by him, they didn't receive him as the king And they pretty much wanted to kill him. Uh he was not the king they wanted. He was not leading a v a victory over the Romans, throwing off the shackles of Rome. He spends most of his time and most of his energy with social outcasts. He spends most of his time healing the sick. He spends most of his time ministering to the weak, ministering to people that no one else cares about. No one else would want. Matthew, and by the way, this in the context this is in the context of all of the animosity that is building towards Jesus because he's not fulfilling all of their expectations. But you know what Matthew says about all that? This is exactly what Scripture says he would be like. Uh the the Jews only saw one side of it. Again, they wanted a political leader that would feed them, that would clothe them, that would lead them to victory against Rome. But what does Matthew do? He quotes from the Old Testament to show Jesus is exactly what the Bible the Old Testament said he would be, what the Messiah would be, and just to make sure that look in verse number 17 where Matthew says this, that it might be fulfilled Which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, Behold my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved, and whom my soul is well pleased. So what does Matthew do? He quotes from Isaiah 42. The very passage we were in, as if to say his actions might not fulfill your expectations, you religious leaders, he might not be what you want. But he's exactly what the Father wants. He's doing exactly what was predicted of him, what was prophesied of him. Everything he does fulfills exactly Old Testament prophecy to the T What would his ministry be like? He would be adored by the Father. Again in verse 18, my beloved servant, in whom I am well pleased. God the Father took great pleasure and great delight in the ministry of Jesus. He was not just pleased. with Jesus. He was well pleased. And again, remember the context. A lot of people were not pleased with him. But you know what? The father was pleased with him He was absolutely pleased with him. The Pharisees were conspiring together how they were going to kill him. They hated Jesus. But the Father loved him. They were displeased. God the Father was pleased. They were saying he's the servant of Satan. If you look in Matthew chapter 12, they're saying he does miracles in the power of Satan. But God the Father said no, he's my servant. They said he preached heresy. God the Father said he preached truth He was rejected by them, but he was chosen of the Father. He was adored by the Father. You know what principle we can apply for our own self with this? The only opinion about you and your service is God's opinion. It doesn't really matter what other people think. It only matters what God the Father says. He was adored by the Father. He was anointed by the Spirit. Again, look at verse number 18, where it says this. And I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall show judgment to the Gentiles. Jesus' ministry was anointed by the Holy Spirit. The Spirit was on him. Remember at his baptism the Holy Spirit came down on him, anointing him for his ministry. The Bible says in Acts 10, 38, God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. Everything Jesus did, he did in the power of the Holy Spirit, which tells us, just because you walk in the Spirit doesn't mean everyone's going to love you. It may be that you walking in the Spirit will cause people to despise you. He was adored by the Father, anointed by the Spirit. Here's the next thing, accepted by the Gentiles. We see this in verse 18 and also in verse 21. And verse 18, he shall show judgment to the Gentiles. Verse 21, and his in his name shall the Gentiles trust. Judgment is a word for righteousness. Some versions translate it liberty. Simply means he will preach the gospel to the Gentiles. He will not come just for the Jews. He'll come for Gentiles as well. He is a Savior for all, for the world. That was God's plan from the very beginning: that he will turn to the Gentiles. And again, this is another reason why the religious leaders despised him. because he was a savior to all, not just the Jewish people. But here's another thing about Jesus. He was adverse to the recognition. Look at verse 19. Notice what it says. He shall not strive nor cry, neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets. What is the point here? The point is that the servant of the Lord will not be on a campaign for recognition. He's not like a politician in a political year, election year, out there trying to garner votes, stumping, talking about his program, talking about his platform, putting himself forward. That's the idea here. He's not gonna abuse his power. He's not gonna use any of his his miraculous power to gain an audience, make himself famous, to manip to manipulate people. He's not going to use any of that for his own personal gain He doesn't seek to extend his influence through speech, through quarrels, through inflammatory rhetoric. He never seeks to exalt himself. He doesn't try to put himself on a pedestal This is the opposite of the religious leaders of that day. This is the opposite of the way people thought of that day. He's not going to be out on a political campaign. Instead, he's going to be very low-key. He's going to be humble. He's going to be meek. He's not going to strive. The word strive there means wrangle. To cry out means to uh the idea of barking is really the word here, barking like a dog. That's that's really the picture here. Uh I've heard a lot of dogs barking, but I never gained any contribution from anything that they said. When I hear them bark. They're just a nuisance, you know, pretty much. I know you dog lovers, forgive me, but uh a barking dog accomplishes nothing but accept drawing attention to himself. And Jesus will not be out there using his power, trying to draw attention to himself on a campaign to put himself forward. Quite the opposite. Absolutely opposite. He ha had a quiet dignity about him. He spoke with meekness. He spoke with humility. He spoke with gentleness. This is not something you would expect to see in a king. But here's the next point, and this is really the whole point of the prophecy of Isaiah. Look at verse number twenty. He's quoting again from Isaiah forty-two. A bruised reed shall he not break, and smoking flecks Shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory. And Isaiah's prophecy about the bruised reed and the smoldering wick finds its fulfillment in the life of Jesus When he came on the scene, he gathered the bruised, he gathered together the publicans, the sinners, the doubting disciples, he gathered together the weak, he gathered together the hurting, the ones cast away by others. And this is why we can have hope. If you're bruised, do not despair. If God's allowed you to be bruised, it's so that He can deliver you, so that He can do something greater in you. He will not break you. He will not quench your flame. That's why you can always come to the gentle Christ. You can always come to Him. He's always, always willing to restore. He's always willing to redeem. It may be that some of you here are like that Bruce Reed. You've been hurt. You've been beaten up maybe by circumstances, maybe by people. Maybe at one time in your Christian life you played a joyful melody, but not now, you're bruised. Some of you here are like that wick that is barely burning. At one time you were on fire for the Lord, but it just seems like now the flame in your heart is barely burning. There's more smoke than there is. fire and you're about to give out at any moment it feels like let me just say this Jesus is interested in you He wants to strengthen you. He wants to fan your flame. He has not done with you because he's the type of Savior who loves to restore And he loves to fan the flames. And anytime we get weak in our own Christian life, he's there to build us back up and to strengthen us once again. That's the kind of Savior that he is. And this is how Sibbs described Jesus' ministry. He did it in very tender terms. Here's another quote. Christ's way is first to wound, then to heal. First to kill by the law, then quickened by the gospel. When he comes to us, he brings his balm, his healing balm with him. Remember when Peter denied the Lord and wept bitterly? He was a bruised reed. And what did Jesus do? He restored Peter. And he said, Go and feed my sheep. That's what the Lord wants to do with all of us in our life. Let me just close with this one story. So we saw the picture of the bruisery, the purpose and the prophecy, and how Christ fulfills this in every way, and how he's the gentle Savior who loves to restore. And uh in the early 1970s, a lot of you might not remember this name, a man by the name of Charles Coulson. Charles Coulson was one of the most powerful men in America, and he served in the highest levels of the government under President Nixon. Colson was a brilliant man. He was feared. He was very influential. Of course, he was lost. He didn't know anything about the things of God. He was called Nixon's hatchet man because he did a lot of dirty work for President Nixon. And then Watergate happened. And as fiercely loyal as he was, he was kind of caught up in a lot of the wrongdoing. And as the investigation closed in, Colson's world began to collapse. Friends abandoned him. His reputation evaporated. This man that was once respected was now a man who faced national disgrace. He was indicted. His reputation completely was gone. He was later put into prison because of his crimes. uh after a court hearing. And Colson later said that before he ever went to prison, when he had to go through all of that, he was already broken. And one night, after reading Mere Christianity by C. S. Lewis, he pulled his car over to the side of the road and he wept uncontrollably. He wept not because of self-pity. He wept because he was broken over his own sin. He had been convicted by what he had read and what he had heard about the gospel. And Charles Coulson repented of his sin and trusted Jesus Christ as his Savior. He came to Christ as a bruised reed, not some triumphant powerful man, but a man who was humble, a man who was exposed, a man who was empty. And then God did something really remarkable. Now Colson went to prison. He didn't go to prison as a hero, but as an inmate And while he spent that time there in prison, he discovered something that Sibbs wrote about in his book, The Bruised Reed. Prisons are filled with bruised reeds. Men are crushed, he noticed, that are there in those prisons, crushed by sin. Men who are bent over by the consequence of their life, souls smoldering with the faintest hope He saw all of that while he was there in prison. And after his release, Charles Coulson founded Prison Fellowship. Dedicating his life to bring the gospel to people who were broken and discarded, people who were in prison, to the bruised reeds of society. And when it came time for him to choose a symbol for that ministry. Coulson, he didn't choose a cross. He didn't choose a crown or a flame. You know what he chose as a symbol for his ministry? A bruised reed. A bruisery based on Isaiah 42, verse number 3, because he understood that verse and he understood that this is what Christ delights to do He likes to take the bruised reed and repair it, not break it. And that's the truth that we have to all understand. If Christ did not break a bruised reed like Charles Coulson, he will not. break you. He's not finished with you. Whatever you're going through, whatever weakness, whatever struggle, he's bruising you that he might bless you. This is how Christ builds his kingdom. He doesn't build his kingdom with strong people, he builds his kingdom with weak people so that he will get the glory. So let me ask you a question. Are you bruised right now? Are you bent over by some sorrow? Are you weakened by some sin? Are you discouraged by some failure in your life? Are you afraid that Christ is finally done with you? Well, friends, throw away that idea. He's not. He delights to restore. Let's bow for prayer tonight. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I want you just to take a moment and I want you to just have uh time there just to seek the Lord in prayer yourself tonight. And just remember this verse, a bruised reed he shall not break, the smoking flecks he shall not quench If you're bruised, just go to the Lord tonight. Come to Him. He doesn't want you when you're strong. He would prefer you when you're weak. Because He always does His best work with the bruised read. When you're weak, He will not break the bruised. Christ will not quench the weak. He will not cast you off. Instead, He heals, He strengthens. He gives grace. Ask him for that tonight. If that's your condition. Ask the Lord for that. Just say, Lord, I'm a bruise reed. Please Make me strong. Please stand the flame in my heart, that I might be all that you call me to be. Father, thank you for the ministry of our Savior Jesus Christ. Thank you, Lord, that He is a Redeemer who restores us. That he uses those who are bruised, and he does greater things in every heart of those that will come to him. Lord use this word for every hearing heart tonight, bless farts, Father, with your word, we pray in Jesus' name.