You open to the book of Luke, chapter thirteen. We're going to spend a little time there in this passage of scripture. And you remember in our Sunday school class we've been talking about a theology of repentance. I call this the missing word, but I remind you that that's not original with me. It was H. J. Arnside that first said that this seems to be a missing word in theology today. It's not a doctrine that's preached on much. And he asked the question, you know, when's the last time you heard a whole sermon on this topic? Well, you all have been hearing it every week for three But normally it's a missing word, and he says this the doctrine of repentance, it's a missing note in many otherwise orthodox and fundamental uh fundamentally sound circles today. And so I think that he's right about that. We emphasize just a few things. We talked about a definition of repentance. And we talked about the development. And so let me just review a little bit of what we said with respect to the definition and development of repentance. And then I want to move on to the descriptions. of repentance. We said basically, you know, what it's not, it's not just uh getting caught or changing to please others or flirting on the edge of sin. or making cosmetic changes. One of the definitions I like was by Spurgeon. He said, repentance is a discovery of the evil of sin, a mourning that we have committed it, a resolution to forsake it It is in fact a change of mind of a very deep and practical character which makes the the men love what he once hated and hate what he once loved. And I like that. That's pretty comprehensive there And you remember that we said with respect to repentance, there's the there's the intellectual element. It's a changing of the mind according to the Greek word. We understand that's part of it. But also it's a it it's it's a there's an emotional element to it where we said it affects the heart. We see the sin, we have a different mindset towards the sin, but then there's a sorrow over the sin, and uh it's a change of attitude. that affects the emotions. But then we also said there's an intellectual or excuse me a volitional element to repentance. It is a complete turning It's like the the the graphic we're using here of a U-turn. That's the best uh picture of of repentance where you turn from that sin. It's a redirecting of the whole will. So we could say that repentance is a complete turning of your whole being to an opposite direction. Now we uh looked at Thomas Watson and he gave a very comprehensive definition of of repentance that included six elements to it, but I don't want to go over that necessarily with you again. What I want to do is again point to the passage in 2 Corinthians 9 where it gave some really key elements of true repentance. It's a repentance without regret. Once you turn from that sin, you don't ever regret it. You don't repent of your repentance. You don't turn back into it. Paul also said in 2 Corinthians 7, it produces an earnestness in righteousness where you basically have a zeal. The word is carefulness, a earnestness to do what is right. And then a desire to show that your repentance is real. That was another part of it. You want to clear your name. You want to make sure that everyone understands how you now hate the sin that you It's making your repentance as notorious as your sin, in the words of Spurgeon. But also it produces an anger over the sin. Where Paul says, yea, what indignation means to be angry. Um, the thing that you once loved, now you hate. It produces this righteous indignation, this holy hatred for that sin, but also it produces a reverence. for God because Paul also said in that passage, what fear that it brings in you. It brings into you into your heart a reverence and awe and then also a desire to have the relationship Restored. You know, when Paul said what vehement desire, that is talking about a desire to restore any broken relationship, and then it also produces a zeal for holiness. And then also the last thing was it produces a desire for restitution. So That was pr that's pretty much the definition of repentance. Then we talked about the development of it, if you remember, and we said that there are several factors here. Number one, we have to understand that first of all, repentance is a gift from God It is something that God must give us, just like faith. You know, faith is a gift from God. For by grace you're saved through faith, and that's not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And the same is true with this idea of repentance. It is something that God grants to us, something that God gives to us. But then also we said that it's a duty of man, on the other hand, it is something definitely that God gives. So scripture makes that very clear that God grants repentance. But also it's commanded, on the other hand. Um this passage here in Acts 3. 19, repent ye therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. The word repent there in the Greek is the imperative mood. And remember I told you imperative Greek is a command. It's not a suggestion. God commands people to repent. In fact, the Bible says that God commands all men everywhere to repent. That's Acts 1730. And um and you know, so this is this is something that God says you are responsible to do. Now remember I said this c this might in our own thinking sound like a contradiction where on one hand God is saying I I will grant you repentance It's a gift from God that God gives, but then on the other hand, it's something that God commands. How can you command something if God is the one doing it? And I took a little bit of time last week to show you that in Scripture many times you'll see this concurrence where it is something that God sovereignly does, and yet at the same time it's something that man is responsible for the same. responsible for. And admittedly there's a bit of a mystery in there for us. But yet both things are true. Both things are equally true. And remember, I told you I see this in theology often, where there is this mystery where God is sovereign over something, and yet man is also equally responsible. f for something. Okay? We can't people who lean too much on sovereignty will become fatalistic and that's unbiblical. And people who to fend too much on man's responsibility will begin to t assume upon them things that really aren't theirs. So there's a balance. You have to hold on to the sovereignty of God with one hand, you have to hold on to the responsibility of man with the other. Both things are true. Okay? Um, for example, um, you know, again I see this everywhere in Scripture, um, you know, uh with respect to our responsibility. Um the Bible c commands us again to believe, and yet the Bible says God gives us faith. Um the Bible, you know, was written by God. It was inspired by God. All you know the Bible says, Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. And yet we know that the writers chose the words of their own free volition, yet the words that they chose were guided by God, and yet it it was also man's their choosing. We see the personality of the writers. Scripture, do we not? We see their educational background, we see their vol their vocational background. When they choose the words, you can see the personality, and yet we know that that word was divinely inspired. So there you see working together. free agency, responsibility, and divine sovereignty. And we see the same thing here in repentance and with this thing of repentance God commands us to repent, yet we also know that it's a work that God will do in the heart. Okay. I often apply this as well to evangelism. Who are we supposed to witness to? That's not a trick question. Everybody. There's nothing unclear about the Great Commission. We are to preach the gospel to every creature. That's why all of us are responsible to do that, to share Christ with everyone. Yet I also know that I don't have the power to change that heart. I have to share the gospel realizing that God's going to accomplish his purposes. But there's no wrong person to witness to So we have to be passionate about sharing the gospel. Yet I also know that God is the one who grants that faith and repentance to the heart of that individual. I don't have control over that. Anyway, so we see that both are true. This is the gift of God. God grants us repentance, but yet it's the duty of man. God commands us to repent. And it's brought about by the use of means. How does God bring about repentance into the heart of people? Well, we know this through the preaching of the word. The Bible makes that very clear. The Bible says Jesus came forth preaching repentance. First word in the first sermon. John the Baptist preached repentance. When Jesus sent out his disciples, he said, Go out and preach repentance. And so on. We see in the Old Testament in Jonah when he went to Nineveh, Jonah preached, and God, as a result of the preaching, that was the means that God used to bring repentance. to the heart of people. And so he uses the word of God. But also we said that the goodness and patience of God in Romans chapter 2, not knowing that the goodness of patience of God leadeth thee to repentance. Why is it that God hasn't judged this world already? He's waiting. What's he waiting for? He's waiting for people to repent. And when a person does something and they don't get immediately judged for it, that's not because God's not going to do something. It's because God would rather you repent than he judge you. The fact that God's long suffering is not something that a person should take advantage of and feel like, oh, God doesn't see or God doesn't care. No. It should lead you to repentance. 2 Corinthians 3. 9, the Lord is not slack in turning his promises, as some men count slackness. In other words, God is not late on fulfilling his word or his promises. But listen to this. But is long suffering to usward, why, not willing that any should perish, but that what all come to repentance? And so God waits, the long suffering of God, the goodness of God, the very fact that God is good to people that sin against him, that in itself should uh encourage or provoke repentance in an individual because god's of God's goodness. But then the chastisements of God The Bible is clear about that. God will punish to bring about repentance. And the Bible says in Revelation 3. 19, as many as I love, I rebuke and chasten, be zealous therefore, and repent. So God will chastise his people to bring about repentance. And then we also said the loving servants of God in 2 Timothy 2 Verse 24, the serve of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient, and meekness instructing those that oppose themselves. In fact, I want you to look at that verse real quick. Just go to 2 Timothy 2. 4 24. Look at this verse with me. We looked at it last week. We're still reviewing. But look at 2 Timothy. Chapter 2, verse 24. I really like this verse. Um where it says, and to serve the Lord must not strive. But be what? Gentle unto all men, apt to teach, that is the docticos, he has to be skilled in teaching, patient, and meekness instructing those that oppose themselves, if per adventure God will what Give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. Here's again the idea that God is the one giving it And so what's my role as a servant of the Lord? I don't strive, I don't get angry. I can't argue anybody into the kingdom. The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God, the Bible says it. So for me to to strive with someone is not going to really help. The word strive is macho my, where we get the word you heard of the macho man, you know, the guy that you know doesn't take anything from anyone. That comes from this Greek word right here, macho my God's servants aren't to be a macho man, you know. But be gentle. Why? And then skillful in teaching. So as I gently and skillfully teach, what am I hoping? That God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth So as we present the truth, we need to do it in a loving way, in a gracious way, in a skillful way. To just lay out the facts, lay out the proof. Remember, we talked about this when we were dealing with the topic of apologetics Remember? Remember, we said that uh my job is the proof. I lay out the facts, I lay out the evidences, I lay out the truth. But after that, there's nothing more I can do. At that point, I have to put it in the Lord's hands. If per adventure, God will give them repentance according to the acknowledging of the truth. And so it's just the loving servants of God that brings about repentance. That's how it's developed. But then one other thing here I want to talk to you about is the difficult providences of God will should provoke repentance into the heart of people. And for this I want you to look in Luke chapter 13 because this is what I want to when we talk about repentance, I think this is a key passage here We have to look at what's going on here in Luke 13. This is actually the parable of the barren fig tree, as Jesus was teaching. the barren fig tree, he'll give us a message of repentance in that. But leading up to that parable, why does Jesus give this parable? Well, he's giving this parable in answer to a question that was rendered to him, given to him, with reference to tragedy or difficult events that had taken place at that time. in Galilee. Now we are not strangers to difficulties, are we? We all go through tragedies. We hear about this on the news all the time, do we not? I mean, perhaps, you know, this week we heard about terrible news. Uh hear about people that get killed. We hear about innocent children that die in accidents. We hear about you know just terrible things that just cause us to just to weep sometimes with some of the things that we hear. The question is, how do we respond to those tragedies? What is the response to be? And this is what the question that people are asking Jesus. And uh he's going to give some answers with res with respect to that. But by the way, he just was talking about, just to get the context of it, if we're in chapter 13, go back up to Chapter 12, verse 54. In the context, Jesus has just rebuked the multitude because they were able to discern the weather, but they were oblivious to the signs of the time, namely that the Messiah himself was in their midst. And when God does something providentially, they seem to be blind to that about how they are to respond. And so he uses an illustration. Look in chapter 12, verse 57. When he says, uh, yay, and and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right? In other words, can't you use some discernment? And seeing what's going on and what your response should be to these things. And so Look in verse fifty-eight, he uses this illustration. When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate as thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him, lest he hail thee to the judge. And the judge delivered thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison. So he uses an illustration of a man that's going to be dragged into to law court, and he has a losing case. He has a lawsuit against him and he doesn't stand a chance. And so what's Jesus saying? When you understand and see that, what's the best thing for you to do? Settle out of court. Don't let them drag you into the law into the courtroom if you have a losing case. You better settle the case out of court. And that's what Jesus and by the way he's speaking here in reference to The greatest lawsuit against man, what is that? The debt of sin. And one day every person who doesn't settle out of court will be drawn dragged into the law court and they will have to give an account, but I want to tell you, if you don't settle out of court You're gonna lose this case. So you better settle before you're dragged into the courtroom, and that's the judgment of God The judgment of the Almighty Jesus is speaking there in reference to sin. How that you need to make sure to settle out of court to get your sins forgiven before you stand before God in judgment. Now on the heels of that. There's a question, look in chapter 13, verse 1. There were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answered it and said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans, because they suffered such things? And so Here, they pose a question to Jesus about something that had taken place. that there in Galilee, Luke says at that season in verse number one, there were some present. And we don't know really a lot about this event other than what we see right here, where Luke says, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. There's no ru record of this in the writing of Jewish historians. We do know from his historical accounts that Pilate himself could be very cruel and And so basically, um, in fact, um history tells us that not long after the crucifixion of Jesus, that Pilate was dismissed from his post because of his uh abuses in his office there. So appar apparently what happened here is that Pilate sent some of his troops to break up a gathering of Jews that he deemed were dangerous. And the Roman soldiers did not respect the fact that the Jews were worshiping God by offering their sacrifices to the Lord. And the soldiers, in their zeal, misguided zeal and cruelty, slaughtered some of the Jews that were making their sacrifices to the Lord. And Luke here says that the that the blood, whose blood Pilate mingled with their sacrifices. So the blood of these Jews Mingled with the blood of the sacrifices. This was a tragedy. This was a terrible event that took place. And it happened at that time according to Luke And some of the people were wondering about this. And Jesus, and they asked Jesus this, and Jesus, answering verse 2, said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all Galileans, because they suffered such things? And so Jesus uses this to make a very important point. With reference to what we're talking about, we're talking about the theology of repentance. Jesus is going to use this to make a point about repentance. Hearing this. And so he asked the question, do you think these Galileans who were slaughtered were worse sinners than anyone else, that those who weren't slaughtered? In other words, the question is, do you think that they were slaughtered because they were terrible, terrible sinners? Because in the ancient world there was this idea that people who suffered Suffered in direct proportion to their sins. In other words, if you suffered a tragedy like this, it was because you were a terrible sinner, and you pretty much deserved what you got. And that's what Jesus is challenging here. And basically, Jesus is uh debunking this type of thinking. This is erroneous theology. Just because a person suffers a tragedy doesn't mean that they are worse than others, worse than anyone else. And then Jesus brings up another tragedy from recent history that took place in verse number four. Actually back up to verse three. I tell you, nay, but except ye repent you shall likewise perish. But then look in verse four Or those eighteen upon whom the tower of Salahum fell and slew them, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem Jesus says, You think these eighteen that died in the tragedy when the tower at Siloam fell? Do you think those people that were killed in that tragedy were worse than others? Who were spared? To put it in our contemporary culture today, do you think the thousands of people who died when the Twin Towers fell on 9-11 Do you think those thousands of people who died in that tragedy were worse than those who escaped? Do you think they were worse sinners And again, the answer is of course not. No. Jesus was speaking to a crowd of people who did not apply spiritual truth to themselves. These were people that were basically smugly thinking that the people that suffered these tragedies, it was because they deserved it. They were a worse sinner than me. That's the reason I escaped. That's the reason that they suffered. They were just much worse. The fact that God spared me or others and allowed them to die was because of their own sin. Again, this is kind of the theology of Job's three friends. Remember in the Old Testament? Job suffered these terrible tragedies. He had, I can't imagine losing one child, but then losing, you know, all of your children. All ten. And there's terrible heartache that comes with that. And then Job lost all of his wealth. And then when his three friends came to comfort him, they basically said, you know We're here to help you, but we just want you to know that you're suffering because of your own sin. Boy, what helpers? I hope I want to have friends like that Um and then later on Job said, Miserable comforters are ye all. Well, I don't need that kind of comfort. But their accusations that Job was a sinner and that's the reason he was suffering was totally wrong. That's totally erroneous theology. All the martyrs of the history of the church would rise up against that kind of thinking. You think the people that martyr suffered martyrdom for the cause of Christ were great sinners? Of course not. They were great saints of God. So again, Jesus is debunking this kind of thinking. And Jesus tells them how we should all respond. When tragedies come, what's the thinking that we should have? Again, look at verse 3. I tell you, nay, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Two times he says it. Look again in verse 5. I tell you, nay, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And then Jesus underscores this whole idea by giving this parable, this parable of the barren fig tree. And so Jesus is teaching us that many ask the wrong question when tragedy strikes. When tragedy strikes Rather than asking the question why, we should ask the question what? Not why did this happen to them or why this or that. The question should be what What does this tragedy teach me? And Jesus tells us that tragedy should teach us that since death and judgment are imminent, it's going to happen to all of us. We need to be ready. How? Through true repentance. The whole idea is this: when a tragedy comes, one of the first things you should think about is: if that happened to me, would I be ready? And what's the way to be ready for death is to be truly repentant, is to make sure that your sins are taken care of. And so since we don't know when it might come, we don't know when tragedy might strike, you better make sure you get it resettled right now. Going back to the illustration of settling your case right now before you come before the judge, guess what? You don't know when you're going to be hauled into the courtroom. When death comes, you're going to stand before God And if you go into court with a losing case, then you're going to suffer for it You better settle your case out of court. And again, back to the same idea. You better make sure that you repent and you better do it now. That's the whole idea. Because tragedy doesn't happen to just people who are great sinners. Tragedy is indiscriminate. Tragedy happens to all of us And we don't know when it's going to come. We don't know when we're going to be a victim of such things. You see, um We could say like this, you know, when this question was posed to Jesus, Jesus, you know, when we when tragedy happens in our world today, what's the first thing that happens? Well, the Democrats will jump on this or the Republicans will jump on that, and people will all say, well, we need to pass more laws to make sure these things don't happen. You know, which is one response. But I would have you know that when je when this happened, Jesus when these people were slaughtered in the temple by the Roman soldiers. Jesus didn't get political and lobby for sword control. That was not what he was trying to do. And he didn't get philosophical. He didn't talk about why this happened. Well, let me give you a philosophy about why tragedy and why these things happen. He didn't get political. He didn't get philosophical. He got personal. He said, you know what? When a tragedy like this happens, you better make sure that you have repented. You better make sure that you're ready. You better make sure that you've got your account settled before God. Tragedy should cause us to repent. Or to make sure that our repentance is true. That's the message that Jesus is giving us here. Because every one of us will face death. That is, unless the Lord Jesus comes in the rapture. I'm okay with that, right? Okay, if the Lord dismisses his service today with a rapture, I'm good with that. But unless the Lord, if the Lord tarries and he doesn't come. We're all going to face death. And I know all of us have in our mind that when we die, we're going to be in bed and all our family's going to be around us and we're going to say goodbye to everyone and fold our hands and then slip away. We don't know how we're going to die. We don't know when it's going to happen. It could happen at any moment. you know, that I've known for years that have slipped away unexpectedly. I had a friend that I knew from down south in Arkansas. He just came home one day and just he suddenly dropped over with a heart attack. His wife, of course, called 911, but he was gone. They couldn't revive him. Just like that. He walked in the house and just Killed over and died in his mid-50s. Another friend I go I I told you about, I do archaeology with in Israel, just uh my age, a good man, a pastor. Woke up one morning, didn't feel well, and uh called his wife, called 911, and um he died instantly right there. Just unexpectedly, shockingly. We don't know when we're going to die. We don't know when tragedy is going to come. And that's why Jesus says, except you repent, you will all likewise perish. And so just a few things here from this. Again, Jesus is answering a question about tragedy, and tragedies come from the curse of sin. Some of the tragedies are just because we live in a fallen world and we're cursed because of sin. And tragedy show us that life is fragile and we have to get ready for death. We have to be ready for death. But the major message here that Jesus is giving us is that tragedy should drive us to repentance. God develops repentance in people by through sometimes through tragedies. When we see these things, we should examine our heart to make sure that we have repented. So on the heels of that then, Jesus will give this parable. Look in chapter 13. Look down in verse number. Six. He begins to give this parable in verse six. Okay. Um First of all, notice the fig tree that he's going to talk about in verse 6. And he spake this also this parable. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. And he came and sought fruit thereon and found none. Now Israel at this time was a agricultural society. Jesus used agricultural metaphors to teach spiritual truth. Fig trees were common in Israel, very valuable. In fact, the Bible speaks about them as being a symbol of God's blessing. Every man has his own fig tree and he's able to enjoy the fruit of it and enjoy the shade of it. They grew as high as twenty-five feet, sometimes a width of twenty feet. You remember the story in John 1 when Jesus saw Nathaniel under the fig tree and he was reading. It was a place of shade. And so they were very, very valuable to the people of Israel. And when they were planted in a vineyard, that was because they wanted them to to uh to to grow well. So a vineyard was a place where the ground was prepared, where that was given a lot of protection, a lot of um water, fertilizer, that had all the elements in a vineyard of helping a fig tree to really grow and to be fruitful. So here's an owner who plants a fig tree. He prepares the vineyard. He carefully plants it He doesn't, you know, plan it for show. This is not an ornamental tree. It's not supposed to give them firewood. Why does he plant this tree? He wants fruit from this tree. This is the whole reason he plants it. It's not for show. It's for fruit. And so he expects for it to bear fruit. And says in verse number six, notice not only the fig tree, but then the frustrated owner. Again in verse number six, he spake this parable. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came and sought the fruit thereon, and what he found none. And so he comes looking for fruit. And there's nothing. And so he says to his vine dresser, Look at verse 7. Then he said unto the vine dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this tree, and find none. So he's been looking, he's been pretty patient. I mean, he says, I've been checking for three years. That's more than enough time for this thing to bear fruit. And uh he says, and look at the word behold there in verse 7. This is a word that indicates surprise. This is not expected. I mean you place a fig tree into a well-kept vineyard, what do you expect? You expect fruit. Especially, you know, in this length of time. I mean, for three years, that's a long time. And still it doesn't bear fruit. And so what's he say do? In verse 7 at the end he said, Cut it down. Why cumbereth it the ground? Why let it take up space? I mean, for three years. I mean, for all this time it enjoyed the protection of the vineyard, it enjoyed all of the watering, all of the nutrients of the soil. It just didn't produce anything. And so he says, just cut it down. This is an expression of total frustration on the part of this owner, of total disgust. He says, Why why even let it take up space? It's just taking up space on the ground. Just sucking in resources and not giving anything out. So why even let it stay there? But then notice the next thing I call the final chance. Look at verse 8. And he answered, and he said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall uh dig about it and dung it. And if it bear fruit, well, and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. So the keeper of the vineyard answers the owner and he says, you know what, let's just get Give it one more year. Just one more year. You know the decree's already been gone out. The decree is what already? Cut it down. Just cut it down. The judgment's already been given. You understand that people that don't know Jesus are already under condemnation? The decree has already gone out. God has already said those who believe not are condemned already. The decree has already been given. But the keeper says, just give it one more year. Let's just try one more year. And I'll tell you what, I'll dig about it, he says, and I will dung it. That is, dig his capato. It's used to like, let me loosen the soil. Maybe it just needs that. Maybe maybe it allows the water to get to the roots a little bit more. Maybe it just needs the soil to be loosened. Let me, dung at that is, let me fertilize it. A little bit more. There must have been a certain way where they would loosen the soil and put fertilizer in or whatever. Whatever was appropriate. And then he says in verse number nine, and if it bear fruit, well And if not, then cut it down. That's where the parable ends, right there. Done. Now everyone who's standing there, they're supposed to get the grip to this. They're supposed to understand what Jesus is saying here now. And so let's apply this. Who is the owner of the vineyard? That's God, right? God's the owner of the vineyard. God planted the vineyard, the fig trees. Who's the keeper of the vineyard? That's who? That's Jesus, right? He's the one laboring in the owner's vineyard, seeking to nurture and care for the owner's tree. The great Puritan John Bunyan, when he preached this parable, said this, barren fig tree, see how the Lord Jesus by these very words suggesteth the cause of thy fruitless soul. The things of this world lie too close to thy heart. The earth with all of its things bound up thy roots. That's John Punyan. And so Jesus is the one working in the vineyard. He's the keeper. The fig tree, who does the fig tree represent Well, there's actually a twofold application here. No doubt it represents Israel. Remember, Israel was having the benefit of Jesus' ministry among them. How many years did Jesus have a public ministry among Israel? Three years, right? He started his public ministry when he was 30, he was crucified when he was 33. So this represents Israel. That's the primary application. Jesus had been working in that vineyard. And at that time there were some who believed on Jesus, but for the most part, the whole nation did not receive its Messiah. In fact, later on they're going to crucify him. So they didn't receive his Messiah. And so the owner of God says, just cut the fig tree down, let me bring judgment. And the keeper is Jesus who says, just give me a little more time. Jesus was going to the cross at this point in his public ministry. He was on his way to Jerusalem. There was just a little bit of time left. For Israel to repent. They still had a little bit of time there. And so that's why in this parable the idea is just give it a little more time. Remember what John the Baptist said in Luke 3. 9. You better bring forth fruits, meat for repentance, because the axe head is already laid at the root of the tree. That's the preaching of John the Baptist and his ministry, talking to Israel. You better bring forth fruits of repentance because the accent is already at the tree. And so the keeper says basically, let's just hold off the axe head for just a little longer. What's the idea here? Give people a little more time to repent. This gets back to the idea. How come God hasn't judged certain people just immediately? How come God is withholding judgment? He's giving people time to repent. He's holding back the axe because he wants repentance to come. And again, notice in verse 9 where it says, and if it bear fruit, if it bears fruit, you know. Well, in other words, this is kind of what is in Greek called a if a conditional clause, an if-then conditional clause. If If this happens, then okay, well that will happen. Now in Greek you have different classes of clauses. Let me give you a little Greek lex uh lesson here. Everybody ready for this? I'm gonna test you on this next week But um the there are different uh conditions of clauses in Greek. The first class condition in Greek is something that is likely to happen. The if this happens, and it's very likely to happen, then this will happen. Then, you know, so on. Then there's a third class condition in Greek, which is the if there is probably not going to happen. That's third class condition. And the way you determine this is the actual spelling of the Greek words, whether it's a first class condition or if it's a third class condition. And verse 9, I reason I'm bringing that up because I want you to see in verse 9 where it says, and if it bear fruit, that's third class condition there. In other words, let's give it another year, let's put more fertilizer there, let's put more water there, and if it bears fruit, And it's probably not going to happen. Probably won't happen. But if it bears fruit, well, dot, dot, dot, that's great. Then you got problem solved. And then the net the next if is first class. And if not, and this will definitely happen, if not, thou shalt cut it down. In other words, the cutting down definitely will happen. If it bears fruit, probably won't happen. But if, maybe, and if it doesn't bear fruit, it'll be cut down. That will happen. Definitely. Judgment will come. If there's no fruit there. And so you can see what's going on here. God is being merciful. Now the fig tree we said represents Israel. That's the first application. But we could also say that the fig tree represents you and me as well. It represents all of us. Because God wants repentance from all of us. Every person who's ever lived on this planet was created by a good and merciful God. And you know what the purpose of you being here is, is to glorify God. Is to please the Lord. Every person that breathes in God's air. That drinks in God's water, that eats God's food, that partakes in the life that God has granted in this beautiful creation. God has done all of that for us, yet God expects something in return. He expects us to glorify him and to obey him. And yet that doesn't happen. And God sees fruitless people who are not giving him glory, that are not obeying him. And if God should bring any tragedy into their lives, rather than humbling themselves and confessing their own sin and their need for God's pardon, you know what people often do? They rail against God. They get angry at God. As if all they deserve is just only blessings from God when they haven't really um Obeyed him. Proverbs 19. 3 says, The foolishness of man perverts his way and his heart frets against the Lord. And so this parable teaches two great lessons. Number one, it teaches um the urgency of repentance. You need to repent now because you are on borrowed time. And the axe head is laid at the root of the tree. Judgment has already been decreed. And when you see tragedy happen around you, that's a reminder. That judgment is coming. It is a foreshadowing. It is a preview of the worst tragedy ever. You know what the worst tragedy ever is? To stand before an angry God with no repentance. That's the worst tragedy. That will result in the worst tragedy. Jesus said, except you repent. you will all likewise perish. That's the worst tragedy right there. If you don't repent, tragedy will come to you. You ever hear the expression you're living on borrowed time? That's everyone who hasn't repented. They're living on borrowed time. That's the truth. The owner, God, has already declared your destruction. And the only reason the axe has not fallen is because Jesus has asked for a little more time. Father, just a little longer. Just a little longer. You never know what a day holds. You never know what tragedy is going to come and if it will come to you. And then the the this also teaches the authenticity of repentance. How do we know that our repentance is real? Real repentance produces fruit. That's the idea. When John the Baptist was preaching back in his day, he was saying to the Jews, bring forth fruit, meet for repentance. In other words, show that your repentance is real by the fruits that you bring. What are the fruits of real repentance? You know, the Jews in Jesus' day, they were very religious outwardly. They went to worship, they wore religious clothes, they talked religious, they acted religious. But they were, Jesus called them white sepulchres because they had no fruits of true repentance. How do we know that a person's repentance is real And what are the fruits of it? And that gets into the next thing which I don't have time for today. You guys are listening fast enough. I tell you what. But some of the descriptions that Jesus gave in his earthly ministry were descriptions of people that had the fruits of real repentance. The beatitude attitude. What was the beatitude attitude? That's for those who were poor in spirit. They were humbled. They mourned over their sin. That's a fruit of real repentance striving to enter into the straight gate. Jesus talked about that. In other words, a person who's truly repentant has seen themselves the way they are, they see their sin, and they see the incredible value of being in uh being in the kingdom and so they are striving to enter into the straight gate. There's going to be, as we've said before, a zeal. To embrace the kingdom of God. That is a fruit of someone that shows true repentance. They're committed to doing the will of God. Again, that's we're not talking about work salvation here. We're talking about people that have a true repentant attitude and spirit, and it will be manifested in these fruits that show that they're truly turned away from their sin and they've turned to God. How do I know when a person is truly a believer? Because they're committed to doing the will of God. That's someone who's truly repented of their sin. They've turned away from their sin and they're totally committed To doing what God says. They count the cost and they follow Christ. They receive the Word of God. And they begin to bear fruit, fruit of holiness in their own life. They sacrifice all to enter into the kingdom of God. And again, these are all descriptions. What I basically did here, I don't have time, I'm giving you the short summarized version here. Go through the Gospel of Matthew and just see the descriptions that Jesus gives of someone who's truly repentant of their sin. This is what you're going to see. These are the things that you see. They take up the cross and they follow Christ. They count the cost. That's that fruit of someone who's truly repentant. They have a childlike humility in their life. We notice that childlike humility that's there. So So we better make sure that we have those things. We better make sure that our repentance is real because we never know when tragedy will come. And Jesus says, you know, you better make sure. You better make sure. That's all we have time for today. So let's all stand together and we're going to have a word of prayer. We'll prepare for our next service. So, Father, help us to take heed to your words. in this great matter of true repentance. Give us a real understanding of it. And Lord, grant to us True repentance in our heart. Not it's not a one-time thing we know. It's a it's a lifestyle of all these things, of showing the fruits of true repentance. in our life. Bless these words to hearing hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Thank you