All right, good evening. Good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the Old Testament book of Psalms and go to Psalm chapter 115 tonight as we look at this. Psalm chapter 115. And tonight I want to preach about the monstrous sin of idolatry. As you know, I was recently over in India, and if you've ever visited a place like that, you know that places like that are infested with idols. Everywhere I went there were pagan temples and there were pagan idols and people worshiping and doing uh pagan rituals and so on. And I I think I know a little bit now what the m the great missionary Henry Martins uh felt when he said that when he arrived at India, of course it was many years ago when he was twenty four years old He went there into a a Hindu temple, and there were all kinds of atrocities that were taking place in the form of idolatry. And he watched what was going on, and he later wrote down these words. He said, I cannot endure existence if Jesus is so dishonored. He saw the idolatry there and it just completely grieved his heart. And honestly, I kind of f felt it the same way. I saw I can understand what he meant by that now because what I saw, what I saw, it just grieved me to see people worshiping gods that are not gods. And uh they're not worshiping the one true and the living God. And the passion of our heart as believers should be that we desire to see the one true and living God worshiped by all people and all nations In fact, that's what the psalmist meant in Psalm 22, verse 27. He said, All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord. All the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. For the kingdom is the Lord's, and he is the governor of among the nations. And then in Psalm eighty six, verse nine, all nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord, and shall glorify thy name. And that should be our passion. Our passion should be that all people of all nations worship our God. And that's the reason why we are involved in missions. That's the reason why we send out missionaries. But when I visit places like Nepal and India and see people worshiping graven images, and it just grieves me to my core that God is so dishonored. Idolatry is a monstrous sin. But the truth of the matter is it's not limited to just uh India or Nepal and other places of the world. Some people may be here and thinking, well, thank God here in the Western world we don't bow down to idols, really. I think part of the reason we think that way is because we don't really have a a definition of what idolatry really is. We think that idolatry is just confined to bowing down to a statue or bowing down to some image And since we don't have those images, we assume that we're not engaged in idolatry. But idolatry is very alive today in the Western world. And uh they might look different, but the idols are there just the same. So let me start off by saying, What is idolatry? What is an idol? The definition given by Webster's dictionary is this the worship of idols Or excess is is excessive devotion uh to or reverence for some person or thing. And Ida is when something or someone becomes more important to us than God. Even good things can become idols when we make them the ultimate thing in our life. And so anything or anyone can become an idol when that thing or person takes the place of Almighty God. When we give more devotion to that, when we we depend upon that, John Piper defines it like this. It is the thing loved or the person loved more than God. Wanted more than God, desired more than God, treasured more than God, enjoyed more than God. In Colossians 3. 15, Paul said covetousness is idolatry. Which means covetous starts in the heart, craving, wanting, enjoying, being satisfied by anything that you treasure more than you treasure God. Anything that you trust in or depend on more. Now in ancient times that would have looked like a bowing down to worship a golden statue. In modern times, however, it's different. Let me give you some idols today that that the Americans worship. Okay? Ready for this? Sports. I think in a few Sundays there's a big game coming up. Say called the Super Bowl, right? Many people will be worshiping at the shrine of the Super Bowl on that Sunday. Rather than being in church where they're supposed to be, they will have livestream worship in their home, watching the Super Bowl And uh you say, oh, that's that's nothing. That's worship, you know. Uh that's not worship, that's just entertainment, really? Well When does sports as an entertainment become sports as idolatry? Uh I was thinking about this and I read about a banner that was seen at Lambeau Field in 1996. That was a season that the Green Bay Packers won the Super Bowl in New Orleans. And the quarterback for the Green Bay Packers that year was Brett Favre. And so here was what was written in Lambeau Field, that cathedral called Lambeau Field. Our Favre, who art in Lambeau. Hallowed be thy arm. Thy bowl will come, it will be won, in New Orleans as it is in Lambeau. Give us this Sunday our weekly win, and give us many touchdown passes, and do not let others pass against us. Lead us not into frustration, but deliver us to Bourbon Street, for thine is the MVP, the best in the NFL, the glory of Jesus now and forever. Amen. That was a prayer. Kind of kind of funny, but it's kind of idolatrous in a way. And uh there'll be some churches that cancel their services and arrange their services around the Super Bowl because they're worshiping at that idol. Here's another idol. How about self? Some people they filter everything in their life through self. What do they think about it? You know, we know that we exist to glorify Christ, and that should be our major purpose. But however, there are a lot of people that it's really their opinion and what they want. That really is the ultimate purpose for their life self. You know, they slip into self exaltation or elevation mode. What about approval? There's some people that worship at the God of approval. They they were cre we now we're all created as social beings, and it's normal to want to belong You know, God kind of put that longing in us, and so that's just part of the way we are. But the problem arises when we place our desire to be liked above our relationship with God. And then also there's relationships itself. Again, nothing wrong with having a relationship. We're wired that way. But some people elevate their relationships above their relationship to Almighty God. Here's another idol, success. You know, what's the first question that sometimes people will ask when they meet you? You know, what do you do? Why do they ask that question? Well, because we are a culture enslaved to the idol of success. And your is if your identity is related to whether or not you succeed at what you do. A lack of success or success itself can trigger one or two responses, one of insecurity or the other of pride. And we soon find ourselves listing all of our accomplishments in an effort to prove our worth or kind of get to gain some kind of self-respect. But God measures successes not based on results. He measures it based on obedience. Are we obedient to him? Our identity is related to our relationship to Christ. Our who we are is based on Christ, not on worldly success. But then also there's wealth and materialism, that's another idol. Our culture bombards us with enticing advertisements, trying to get us to buy or acquire the latest gadget. It only takes one click now. Or one swipe of the card and you can get this gadget that the seller promises will give you great joy and fun and you know, fulfillment just to have that sort of thing, you know. And so people just kind of bow at the altar of materialism and wealth, thinking that will give them satisfaction and joy and pleasure and delight. And I'm not saying it's wrong to ha it's not wrong to have things, but it's wrong to put those things, all of your hope and your faith in those things, and not recognize that all that we have is a gift from Almighty God, and thank and enjoy God because of his goodness to us And not in the gift or the thing itself. Solomon had everything that the world could offer, and he said he hated life. The same is true for a lot of people that are enslaved to materialism. But then there's also health. Now it's good to be healthy, don't get me wrong, you know, we need to have um a good h um habit of good eating and Exercise and health and all of that, try to increase our strength and our health and all those things. But the problem arises when wellness shifts from a tool to an object of worship. There's some people they worship their bodies. They worship this whole thing of health. What do you think of more, your weight or your savior? But then there's also food. Listen, I know that God is good because He created chocolate. And he blesses us with so many things. And he gave us ten thousand taste buds so that we can enjoy the things that he gave us and all of that. But again You know, there's nothing wrong with enjoying these as gifts from God, but some people rather than eating to live, they live to eat, and food becomes an idol. And then there's also intellect. Again, God gave us an intellect, He gave us curiosity so that we can search out the things that He's made and we can see what this great creator has given to us here in this world. And the study of science and all those other things is really loving God with all of our mind. That's what it should be. It's God our Creator who created all these things. But some people, they they are their idol is Knowledge or intellect in and of itself. It's not a pursuit to know God and glorify God through their intellect, but it's just intellectual pursuits apart from God. Just for the sake of intellect. And that's an idol. And then here's another one, comfort. People sometimes make an idol out of comfort. I mean we're a culture of large almond milk, vanilla flavored lattes, soft pillows, and air conditioning. Right? We love easy access to the internet, we love eating ice cream while watching Netflix. And many choose these modern comforts over maybe walking across the street and talking to a neighbor and sharing Christ with them. We would rather be in our comfort zone doing our thing than getting out of that comfort zone. Many preferred an extra hour of sleep on Sunday morning rather than getting up and going to Sunday school or doing nursery duty or anything like that. We prefer to stay home and watch our live str our pastor on live stream, sipping our own cup of coffee, rather than coming to church and being committed to the saints here and trying to minister and reach out and encourage someone else. And that isn't making an idol out of comfort. And if some of you are watching at home and you're convicted, I hope you are. I hope That's good, you should be. You should be here in church with the family of God. Having said all that, I know I'm coming across real mean tonight, I'm sorry. God hates idolatry. He hates it. And the Bible makes this fact clear. God told his people Israel, listen to Exodus 20, verse 3, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. That's the top on the list of the Ten Commandments that God gave to Israel. Most books in the Old Testament kind of echo that whole command. And fall in line with that. The New Testament is also clear about idolatry. In 1 Corinthians 10, 14, Paul said this: Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. In 1 John 5, 21, John said, Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Now, here in our text, we need to get into this chapter here, don't we? It emphasizes the futility of idols compared to the greatness of God. And it invites worshipers to glorify his name above all. The primary teaching is that God alone deserves our worship. Idols cannot save us. Idols cannot give any fulfillment to us. It's folly to trust in idols. God alone deserves the glory, and God alone should be the object of our worship. So what I want you to see here in this chapter are six reasons why idolatry is such a monstrous sin. Here's reason number one, because it robs God of his rightful glory. Look at verse one. Not unto us, O Lord. Not unto us, but unto thy name give glory for thy mercy and for thy truth's sake. Now we don't know who wrote this psalm or when it was written, but many scholars think it was after Israel was returning from the Babylonian exile. And before the exile, you remember that Israel was constantly involved in idolatry, worshipping Baal and Ashrath and other idols And God would punish him for it. And finally God gives them the ultimate punishment using the the rod of Nebuchadnezzar as his as his way of punishing. And he carried the people off into captivity. It was almost as if God said, look, if you like idolatry so much, I'm going to imprison you in the place where idolatry is featured And the land where idols began, there in Babylon. At that time in the world, idolatry was all over. In fact, Babylon was known for its idolatry and all of its false gods. And by the time the people of Israel were done in captivity there, and they returned back to the land, you know what? They never worship the false God ever again. Because they got a taste of idolatry in the land of Babylon. And you know what they saw? They realized it's all futile. And the Jews returned back to Israel. They were weak and few in number. But now back in the land they saw the pagans around them worshiping idols, which appalled the psalmist who wrote this. So now he cries out to God in verse 1 that God would get the glory alone. That should again be the desire of the heart of all of us. Twice he said, Not unto us, not unto us, Lord, but unto thy name give glory. The glory doesn't belong to us, it belongs to God. And anytime we put trust or faith in an idol, we're robbing God of the glory that belongs to Him He alone is worthy of our trust and our faith. And God's wrath that's why God's wrath comes upon idolatry, because God is jealous. God is jealous. Now we say the word jealous. A lot of times people think negatively about that. We shouldn't see the jealousy of God in a negative light. This is a righteous and holy jealousy. You see, there is a unrighteous and weak insecure jealousy, and there is a righteous and holy jealousy God's jealousy is holy. God's jealousy is righteous. It's righteous because only he rightly deserves the glory. And it's loving because he knows, God knows, that the best thing for us is to treasure him above all. Why? Because we were created to enjoy God And when we replace God with other things, that's destructive to us. So the jealousy of God is a loving jealousy because God wants us to treasure him because not because it does anything for God. You can't add anything to God, his blessedness. But because of what it does for us, and when we replace God with things, that is a self-destructive mode. It hurts us. And so he's jealous that he be honored by us treasuring him above all things. And again, it's a loving jealousy because we find that to put anything else in the place of God will ultimately be hurtful for us. That's why idolatry is so dangerous. So number one, it robs God of his rightful glory. But here's number two, it ignores the truth of God's sovereignty. Look at verse 2. Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God? But our God is in the heavens. He hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. When the pagans won a victory, they would go into the temple, bow down before a statue or an image that they made. And you could see their God. You could see see these little statues, these little weak carvings that they made. Remember the story of Dagon in the Old Testament? Dagon was the god of the Philistines. He had been the God of the Mesopotamian people for over you know, for many thousands a year, all the way back to three thousand BC. And he was kind of the chief god, the father god of all the other gods. One Old Testament inscription said that he was actually the father of Baal, who was a god that was also worshipped in the Old Testament. But when the Israelites were disobedient to God and God allowed them to be defeated by the Philistines, remember what they did? They took the Ark of the Covenant. And they brought it into the temple of Dagon in Ashdod, because that's what you would do back then. Supposedly your God had defeated the other God. So you would take an image of the defeated God, bring it into the temple of your God, as if to say our God is superior. And they brought the Ark of the Covenant into uh the temple of Dagon there in Ashtad and they had this statue of Dagon who was depicted like half fish, half man, kind of like a merman, you know. And you know what happened? 1 Samuel 5 says that when they the next day when they came in, they found that the statue of Dagon had fallen down, had fallen over. And they thought, oh, well, let's set this back up here. Can't have that. They came in the next day. Again it was fallen over. Not only had it been fallen over, but now its hands were cut off and its head was cut off. Well, that couldn't be an accident. And what happened as a result of that is the Philistines no longer worshiped Dagon. And the message is clear. Don't ever try to compare any worthless idol to Almighty God. Don't you ever do that. Now the pagans in verse 2 here were taunting the Israelites with the question, where is your God? Where is your God? I mean, you can look into a pagan temple and see the image of any pagan God, but if you look in the temple in Jerusalem, you won't see any image there. You don't see anything there that represents a God. So the question to the pagans is: well, where is your God? And the answer is in verse 3: Our God is in the heavens. And he hath done whatsoever he has pleased. No temple can hold our God. The heavens of heavens can't contain God, let alone some temple made by men. He's higher than that. He's more transcendent than that. Our God lives in the heaven. He occupies all of heaven. He's everywhere. And let me tell you something else. He's sovereign. He does whatever he wants to. He has the power to do whatever he wants. And he reigns over all. You can't contain this God in some temple. He is the God, He is the true and the living God. He's greater beyond our finite comprehension. That's the answer. He does whatever he wants. He is sovereign. And that's what idolatry does. It ignores the truth that God is sovereign powerful over all, that you would choose to put your affection and trust and dependence on something that is finite and small and forget that you have a God who is sovereign and powerful over all. Well, what a bad trade. It robs God of his rightful glory. It ignores the truth of God's sovereignty. But here's another reason why it's a monstrous sin. Number three, it reveals the utter depravity of man. We see this in verses 4 through 7. In these verses, the psalmist kind of launches into a satirical attack against idolatry. He's actually laughing against the stupidity of worshiping a God that someone can make with their own hands. And then supposedly breathe life into them. They would have these rituals where they would, you know, take an idol and then get a priest to kind of breathe life into it, and supposedly it would come alive. Which is again so ridiculous. And so he's laughing at the stupidity of this. And he starts with the idols that are the top-of-the-line models. Made of silver and gold, the best of the material. Look in verse 4. Their idols are silver and gold. Now, this is in comparison to the fact that we serve a God that is above the heavens. that is transcended over all, and we can't see him with our naked eyes. And even if we could look upon him, we couldn't contain his greatness. But in contrast to that, they're God's, well, they're made of silver and gold. That's pretty good stuff. But they're the work of man's hands. So he mentions the top-of-the-line models made out of silver and gold, not the cheaper wooden variety, but even the best of idols are just man-made objects. The precious metal doesn't give them life. How d ridiculous it is to bow down and worship them. Hosea 8 6 sums it up like this A craftsman made it, so it's not God. The psalmist says in verse 5, he says, They have mouths, but they speak not. They can't reveal truth to us. They can't tell us how to live. They can't explain right and wrong. They can't tell us about themselves. They can't give us comfort when we suffer. Verse 5. They have eyes, but they see not. They can't see you in your circumstances. They can't see those that bow down before them. You know, what good is a blind God that can't see? They have ears but they hear not, verse 6. They can't hear the prayers of those who cry out to them. Remember the prophets of Baal trying to get Baal to answer, crying out? At the top of their voices all day, but their idol could not hear them. In verse 6, it says, They have noses, but they smell not In contrast to the living God, idols cannot smell the incense that the worshippers offer to them. In verse 7, they have hands, but they can't, but they cannot handle They can't reach out and take the gifts that are set before them by the worshiper. One time I was in Nepal at a Hindu temple, went to visit this huge temple complex, and You know, people had come and they were they had laid out these gifts before these idols, these these uh statues and so on, their God. They had brought their gifts to them, and guess what? Those gifts were just sitting there. Those idols couldn't reach out and say, Well, thank you very much. In fact, it was the monkeys that were enjoying those gifts. I saw a monkey greek and a Coke Zero. Dead idols, unlike the living God. They can't extend their hand to save or heal Verse 7, they have feet, but they walk not. They're completely dependent on their worshippers to carry them in procession. And if you don't hold them up, they're going to topple over. They can't move. What kind of God is that? And verse 7, uh they neither speak they th through their throat, they Can't make any sound. They can't even let out an inarticulate grunt or groan. In short, they are completely lifeless, therefore worthless. But even worse, look in verse number eight. They that make them are like unto them So is everyone that trusteth in them. Those who make them will become like them. And here's a principle: you become like the thing that you worship Think about that. You become like the thing that you worship. The people who do not know the living and the true God are spiritually dead. They're blind, they're deaf, they're dumb, they are insensible to spiritual truth. They are spiritually crippled. In short, it's sheer lunacy to worship an idol. And what this does is it shows the incredible depravity of the heart of man. How how foolish, how how stupid man is in his depravity. That he would try to think that he could actually make a God out of his own hands that could make a difference Romans 1 reveals that this is the depravity of man. You know why people do this? Paul tells us in Romans 1. 18, and this is why the wrath of God is revealed, constantly being re revealed from heaven against all this ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Why? Because men push back or hold down the truth of the real God. And since man is a worshiper at heart, he's got to worship something. So if he doesn't worship the true God, you know what he's going to do? He's going to make up his own God to worship. It might be self, it might be some of those other things that we listed, or he'll make a God that suits him. That's where idolatry comes from, from the depravity of man's heart, because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God Neither were thankful, but because became vain in their imagination, their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools And they changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man and the birds and the four footed beasts and creeping things. And wherefore God gave them up to their uncleanness. You see, this is the result of man suppressing the truth of the real, true, and living God. of pushing back against the truth of God. The truth that God has revealed to all men about Himself. They're not thankful. They don't want to acknowledge God. They're in they're ungrateful. And so man in his darkness begins to rationalize in his vain imagination. That's where he comes up with this wicked idolatry. A. W. Tozer observed that idolatry begins in the mind when we pervert or exchange the idea of God for something other than what he really is. And that's true. In the ancient world, they fashioned their gods with their hands. Today we fashion a God with our own mind. We try to create a God that we would like. And even Christians do this in church. They have their own fancy about their God, and even still use that term. Well, my God, my God will never do this. Well, the only problem is your God doesn't match the God revealed in the Scripture And that's called idolatry. God has revealed himself in Scripture. That's why we study the Bible because it tells us who He is, and we are to submit to This God revealed in Scripture, all this character, all of his attributes that are revealed there, we submit to that God, that great God. And not make up a God in our own mind. But what's the descent in man's right reasoning? First, they worship an image like man. Man will make God like himself. In the image of himself. Someone said God created men in his own image, then man returned the favor. And then secondly, he'll make a God to be in the image of a bird. Um you know you you see this in ancient cultures where they worship different birds, eagles and so on. And then from there they make him like a four-footed animal. And they worship these four-footed animals as if they're gods. You know, when I was over in India, again it grieved my heart because false religion and idolatry is literally killing those people It's killing the country. All kind of resources that country has, they just don't they don't use them because of false religion. I mean I I was telling folks nine forty five hour on Sunday, you know A lot of people in India are starving, but there's cows all over the place. You just need to kill them things and grill them. Plenty of meat there. But they're worshiping them instead of using them the way they, you know, should. Egyptians worship the bull god Athos, the cat god, the cow god Hathor, the hippopotamus god. When we were in Egypt going down the Nile visiting some of the temples, there was one whole temple dedicated to the crocodile god. They worship the crocodile. This is the depravity of the heart of man when they push away the true and the living God. There's no darkness that's too dark for the heart of man to descend into, creating these false gods. And then it descends to crawling things, where they worship like the Egyptians, the scarab beetle. And bugs. Can you imagine worshiping a bug? What kind of lunacy is that? That shows again the darkness of man's heart This is why idolatry is such a monstrous sin. It robs God of his rightful glory. It ignores the truth of God's sovereignty. It reveals the utter depravity of the heart of man. But then number four, it places trust in vain things rather than in God. Look at verse number nine. O Israel, trust thou in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. Oh house of Aaron, trust in the Lord on their Lord. He is their help and their shield. Ye that fear the Lord, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. The psalmist is crying out to the readers, one message. Look, put your trust in God, as opposed to putting trust in empty, dead Lifeless idols. Put your trust in the living true God. That's where your trust belongs. Trust in the Lord. He mentions three groups. First, O Israel in verse 9, O house of Aaron, verse 10, ye that fear the Lord. And in each case, he gives an assurance. God will be your help, God will be your shield if you put your trust in God. He will be your help, he will be your shield. And uh and and you notice in these verses it's direct address. He's directly addressing groups because many scholars believe that this psalm was was sung antiphonally, which means, you know, you kind of one group is singing back and forth to the other. I mean, w you know, I would say to the church, church, put your trust in God. And then you would say back to me, you know, the the church was represented by you know the house of Israel. We say, Oh church, put your trust in the Lord. And you would say, Oh, so oh sons of Aaron, you put your trust in the Lord. Sons of Aaron would be the worship leaders So there's kind of an accountability, right? I'm telling you, you need to put your trust in God. And you know what your response is to me? Well, you do it too, preacher. You put your trust in the Lord. And we're all to keep each other accountable to make sure that God is foremost in our thinking and that all of our heart and dependence is on God. But when you put trust in idols You are robbing God of the glory that belongs to Him, and you're trusting in vain things rather than in the Lord, which leads to number five. It robs us of the rich blessings of God. Look at verse number 12. The Lord has been mindful of us. He will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel. He will bless the house of Aaron. He will bless them that fear the Lord, both small and great. God is the source of all blessings, not idols. And God wants to bless us. Notice where it says, both small and great. You don't have to be some spiritual superstar to receive God's blessings. Whether known or unknown, if you're faithful to the Lord and you trust in him, guess what? He's going to bless you. It doesn't matter who you are. He's going to bless you. Don't you covet his blessings in your life? I mean, that's the thing that we should desire above all things. We want his grace and his blessing poured out on our life. We want it poured out on our hand on our family, on our children and grandchildren, on our church. That's the thing that we should desire above all things, to have his blessing. But then here's the last thing. It's a monstrous sin because it robs God of his rightful glory. It ignores the truth of God's sovereignty. It reveals the utter depravity of men. It places trust in vain things rather than God. It therefore robs us of the rich blessings of God. But number six, it robs us of the joy of true worship and gratitude to the Creator. There's no true satisfaction and joy in worshiping dead idols. True joy and fulfillment come from delighting in the true God and worshiping Him. Look at verse 16. The heaven, even the heavens, are the Lord's, but the earth hath he given to the children of men. The dead praise not the Lord, neither any that go down into silence, but we will bless the Lord. From this time forth and forevermore, praise the Lord. So the end of verse fifteen affirms God as the maker of heaven and earth, again sovereign over all creation. Again, this is opposed to the false gods that don't exist. And verse sixteen just doesn't mean that God, you know, creates the earth and then releases it to us and doesn't have anything to do with that. That's not not what it's talking about. What it means is that basically God has created all this and then he has uh basically uh given to man uh to have dominion over all of what he has created as a gift from God All these things that we have here in this earth, they're not to replace God, but they're a gift from God so that we will worship and love him all the more. Because of all of the wonderful benefits and blessings that he just continues to pour out upon us. Instead of loving God more and enjoying God because of what he gives us, the depraved heart of man turns to those things and makes them idols. But God has given us to have dominion over all this, not so that we would make it an idol, but so that we would worship God all the more and give praise to Him. Give praise to His name and be fulfilled as we worship God. That's why, again, idolatry is such a monstrous sin. There's a strange plant called the Nardo plant that grows in the deserts of Central Australia. It's kind of like a fern and natives eat it, they eat at seas when they can't obtain any other food. And why do they do that? Well, because one particular property is that it satisfies and produces a feeling of comfort Of fullness. But you know what? It doesn't nourish. There was a party of explorers crossing the central desert and one and and they ran out of food. And their leader, their captain, recommended that they eat the Narto plant because he knew that the natives ate it, and he knew that it would give them a feeling of, you know, take away the hunger and give them a feeling of fullness. So day after day they fed on it, and at first they felt satisfied, but soon their strength began to fail. And they depended on it so much that finally it killed them. They wasted away, and they laid down and died of starvation. A solitary survivor was discovered under a tree, and he told the whole story of what had happened. That they depended on this plant that seemingly gave a sense of nourishment and fulfillment when actually it did none of that. It didn't nourish them at all. And what a incredible metaphor that is about idols as compared to the true and the living God. The only person that can meet all of your needs and truly satisfy you is the bread of life, Jesus Christ. Anything else is a cheap substitute. And it will not nourish your soul. Now you might say, well, how do we know if something has become an idol? Well, there are four questions you need to ask yourself to identify the idols in your life. Where do I spend my time? Where do I spend my time? Where do I spend my money? Where do I get my joy from? Where does real joy come from in my life? What's always on my mind? Ask yourself those questions and think deeply about those questions. And they will lead you to what either is an idol or what you might be tempted to think is an idol. But I would just say this, friend, don't let anything, even a good thing, take the place of God in your life. Let God be our chief joy, our treasure. Let nothing come before Him. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, we thank you for this psalm and thank you, Lord, for Rebuking us when we need it. We had a tendency, Lord, to look at some of these entertainment things as as uh Things that are not really harmful. And yet, Lord, anything, anyone that we look to and depend on More than you, or and in any way we allow to take the place that you should have in our heart and our soul is destructive to us, even though we may not realize it. Even though we may at times feel satisfied and full, there's no real nourishment from it for our soul. Father, may we find all of our joys in you. And may we enjoy all of the blessings that you give us, but not take those gifts and blessings and Use them to replace you in our heart. What an abuse of the gifts that you've given us. Father, may you be our chief joy, may we treasure you above all things, may Christ be our obsession and our heart And may we uh take heed to the words of scripture when John said, Little children, keep yourself from idols. Lord, help us. Forgive us for putting things above you. And Lord, give us this divine obsession where, Lord, we treasure you above all things always. And we pray in Jesus' name