Would you take God's word, please, open to the book of Ephesians, chapter number six. Uh I'm sure you know the passage well if you've been with us. We're going to read Ephesians 6 verses 10 down to verse 17 again. If you've memorized this by now, and you can quote it to the cafe people, they'll give you a free cup of coffee. Let's all stand together. We read God's word, please, verse number 10 of Ephesians 6. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shy with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for your word. Thank you, Lord, indeed, for your grace. And Lord, that you give us the ability, you open our eyes to see truth And Lord, we're dependent upon you to do that this morning. As we look again into this wonderful passage, Lord, speak to our hearts. Help us to apply the truth. Help us, Lord, to wear the armor that you have provided for us. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, in the annals of medieval history, there's one name that stands out among many, William Marshall. He was a knight who served five English kings. and he rose to be one of the most respected warriors of the twelfth century. During the Battle of Lincoln in twelve seventeen, Marshall, who was then in his seventies, led a charge against the enemy to overthrow the rebels, and he won a great victory for the king. And despite his age, his enemies feared him Why was that? Well, it wasn't so much just that he had a sword, indeed he did have a sword, but it was the manner in which he was able to wield that sword. He was able to use it with great strength and great skill You see, a warrior a warrior to have a weapon for a warrior is one thing, but to be able to use that weapon skillfully, well, that's quite another. Now beloved, whether you realize or not, you are a soldier in the battle. If you're a Christian, you're in a battle. And God has given you a weapon. This is a weapon that is uh much more powerful than any that has been forged in steel. You have the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And so the question is, are you able to use that? That is the subject in our passage today. We have been studying the believers armor and we've looked at all the pieces of the armor except this last piece here. We talked about the belt of truth and the breastplate of righteousness and the shoes of peace and the and the shield of faith and the helmet of salvation. Now today we're going to consider then this last piece of armor, which is the sword of the Spirit. And I want to Consider these again under the same three headings that we've been doing through each of the pieces of the armor. First of all, we'll talk about the adversary, then we'll talk about the armor, and then we'll talk about the application So first of all, the adversary, and I want us to think about why we need the sword of the Spirit. Again in verse seventeen, it's very clear, and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the spirit Now you know as we've been in our study, we have been commanded to take the whole armor of God. And we just read that in verses 10 on down to verse number 17. And remember when Paul wrote this, just as a reminder, he was writing this from a Roman prison. And you remember that Paul, in that prison, he was under house arrest, but he had a Roman soldier that was chained to him constantly, 24-7. That's why Paul refers to himself in verse number 20 as an ambassador in chains. So f every six hours a Roman soldier would his shift would change. There would be another Roman soldier there, each of them clad in their Roman armor. And I can imagine as Paul is writing this letter, he's looking at these Roman soldiers, he's looking at the armor, and under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he gets a beautiful idea of all the resources that God gives us as soldiers in his fight. And so Paul realizes, and we've heard this already, if we looked in verse number twelve, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. This is not a physical match that we're in against Satan. This is a spiritual match. We ha we wrestle against spiritual wickedness in high places. This is not really more metaphorical language. It's a spiritual reality. You're in a real fight It's against a real enemy. He's invisible. He is intelligent. He has demonic forces. He wars against the truth. He seeks to deceive. He accuses the brethren. He tempts you to sin. It's a real battle that you're in. John Scott wisely observed. The devil is a dangerous enemy. His hostility is fierce. His weapons are formidable, his experience is vast, his strategy is shrewd. Now in this passage there are three basic commands. And I want to remind you about them again. Number one, he says, be strong in verse number ten. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord. This is a word that m means to become able or to become capable. With the help of God, with the strength of God, you are can become a capable, able warrior in the fight. God does not want weak soldiers. God wants strong soldiers in the fight. He wants us to become skillful. And this takes training. This morning in our Sunday school hour, uh Pastor David talked about sanctification and how we have to put forth effort. And no passage in the New Testament does that demonstrate this better than here in Ephesians where you have to wear armor. And you have to have a sword in your hand. This all takes effort and training and skill. You're not going to win any spiritual battles by being lazy spiritually. Everyone has the sword of the spirit if you're a child of God, but not everyone is able to use the sword of the spirit well. But you need to as a soldier. But then he says, put on. We see this in verse eleven, put on the whole armor of God. And remember we said put on here is a verb We see the same verb used in Ephesians 6 4. 24, that you put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. It's like putting on garments, putting on clothes. That's the imagery there. You are to put on, you are to clothe yourself with the armor of God. Remember we said it's a once-for-all putting on, that's the heiress verb here. You put it on once, you leave it on, you keep it on, and you put on the whole armor of God. The word whole panoplia, where we get the word panoply, you put on every piece of armor Everything you use and you wear. Can you imagine a Roman soldier getting ready for battle? He puts on the belt of truth, he puts on the breastplate of righteousness. He he puts on the the gospel sh the shoes, we should say, of uh the which represents the gospel, his boots for battle, and then he picks up his shield, and then he goes out to war, but he doesn't have a sword. He has no sword in his hand. That would be suicidal. Of the six pieces of armor that we study here, five of these pieces of armor are defensive in their purpose. There's only one piece of armor that is offensive. You have to have a sword if you're going to take the battle to the enemy And so y there's no way to win against Satan if you're constantly on the defensive. You have to have an offensive weapon. Only the sword can give you victory over the enemy in an offensive way. So, but another thing I want you to look at is the word take up. Where it says take. This is used. The word take is used several times in the passage. It's used in verse 13 where it says take unto you. And then it's used in verse 16 where it says taking. And this is the same Greek word, it is ana lumbano, which has the idea of, again, wearing or taking. It's the idea that you arm yourself. You have to put this armor on. You have to take it up and put it on But look at the verse 17 where it says, and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of spirit. That is a totally different Greek word right there. This is the Greek word dekomi, which means to welcome or to receive. This verb emphasizes a humble reception. It's an attitude of humility on our part. We are just simply receiving something that has been given to us. So Paul switches verbs here. in this to signify that these other two pieces are gracious gifts that God gives us. And what is it? It's the helmet of salvation. This is appropriate for salvation because salvation is something that we graciously receive from God, right? But then also we receive as well the sword of the Spirit that God places into our hands. So just imagine it like this. Here's a soldier, he walks into the royal armory He sees there the breastplate, he sees the belt, he sees the boots, he sees the shields, he puts all of that on. That is the word analombano. You're putting on that armor. But then the king enters into the armory And the king himself puts the helmet of salvation on your head, and then he gives you his sword. It is his own sword that he gives you. And you take that sword. That is the word decomai. This is something that God gives us. The soldier doesn't seize the sword. The soldier simply receives this sword. This is a very special act. Again, God is giving you his sword, and with it he gives you authority. We're given the sword of the Spirit, that is to say, the sword which belongs to the Spirit. This weapon that we have is not my weapon, it's God's weapon. It is given to us by God. And we have to have it if we're going to win the battle against Satan. You see, you can't stand against Satan in your own wit and wisdom, in your own human intellect. Our offensive weapon is the Word of God. It is a sword crafted not by men, but a sword that is given to us by the Spirit of God. You see, some armor you wear, and some armor you have to wield. Some armor you have to be skillful with. It doesn't take a lot of skill just to wear armor, but it does take a lot of skill if you're going to use that sword effectively. This is the piece of armor that requires training and diligence. And God wants us to take his word God wants us to attack the enemy. That's why He gives us an offensive weapon. Again, God doesn't want us always on the defensive Against Satan. He wants us on the offensive against the devil and his kingdom of darkness. Think about a football team. If all they did was have a defense, they had no offense, they would not win any games. And the same is true in the Christian life. God wants us to attack. Think of it this way, in Matthew chapter 16, Jesus took his disciples to the uttermost parts of Israel. They are just below Mount Hermon. into Gentile territory, he took his disciples to a place called Caesarea Philippi. This is uh again located just at the headwaters of the Jordan River. all the way up there north in Gentile territory. This region had long been known as a place of false worship, of pagan worship. Baal was worshiped there in the Old Testament, and Baal worship included just horrible rituals of uh ch even child sacrifice. Later on when Alexander the Great conquered the world and he Hellenized the world, Greek religion was also a part of that, and they began to worship the Greek god Pan there in that region. Pan was the half-goat, half man Uh you may have seen pictures, you know, running around playing a flute, half goat, half man, and part of pan worship was ritual prostitution. It was just horrible acts that I would not even want to get into with you. But there at Caesarea Philippi Um and by the way, they also later the Romans would come and they would worship their emperors. Emperor worship was central there. Herod the Great, who was a builder, built a big temple against this cliff wall, and there was it where they would worship the different emperors and so on. But A big part of Caesarea Philippi was a big cliff wall, and it's below the cliff wall there was a cave, and in that cave there was a spring, and the ancients believed that that spring led down to the underworld And you know you want to guess what they called that that big cliff wall with that cave? It was called the gates of hell. That's what they called it. And they believed that if they would offer a sacrifice to the god Pan, that they would be blessed. And so they would take sometimes uh animals and throw it into that spring or they would take sometimes people, sometimes mothers would throw their children into this spring. As a sacrifice to the God Pan. And if they would come back and the body would be gone, that meant that the that Pan had accepted the sacrifice. And so this was just a horrible place. Uh it was a place filled with paganism, filled with atrocious type rituals, filled with ritual prostitution and all types of d terrible acts. A devout Jew would never go to Caesarea Philippi because it was associated with such pagan rituals. No respectable rabbi would take his disciples to a place called Caesarea Philippi. So the question is, why did Jesus take his disciples there? Jesus purposefully leads his disciples to this place where no other Jew would go. And there, standing in front of that cliff, standing in front of literally the what the ancients called the gates of hell, Jesus asked his disciples a question. He said, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And you know Peter responded, he's always the disciple to respond first, right? And what did Peter say? Thou art the Christ the Son of the Living God. And then Jesus made a dramatic declaration, and Jesus answered, and he said unto them, Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. So why did Jesus bring his disciples to that place? Well, Jesus was confronting the darkest spiritual powers at their symbolic headquarters right there, and he was declaring victory over them. Again, the gates of hell represented all the powers of Satan, all the powers of death and deception and false religion. That was the central location of it. That was the symbolic headquarters of all of that. And Jesus was giving a message to his disciples at that point. He was basically telling them that the message of the gospel you are to take to the darkest places You are to take it to the places where false religion flourishes. You're not just to stay in the safe places. You are to attack the gates of hell with the gospel. That's what the church is to do. You understand that's the point? We're not to just be on the defensive. The church is to be on the offensive. We are to storm the gates of hell. Because the gates of hell cannot stand against the message that God has put into your hand because he has given you an effective sword. The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And you beloved, if you can wield that sword skillfully, the gates of hell will not be able to stand against the truth that you're able to give. But that's going to require skillful use. So there is the adversary. This is why we need the gates of hell, because there are places like Caesarea Philippi all around us. Headquarters of evil, headquarters of darkness, headquarters of deception, and we are to attack those places with the truth of the Word of God. But here's number two, the armor. Let's talk a little bit about this sword a little bit more. What is this sword specifically? What is the sword that Paul mentions here when he talks about the sword of the spirit? Now there would be two types of swords that Roman soldiers would use. First there was the Ramphia. This was a big long sword. It was very heavy, and you would have to use two hands really to use this one because it was so heavy. It was so big and broad. And and a person that would use this sword, they would just swing it around at the enemy indiscriminately. You didn't have to have a whole lot of skill to swing this sword. It's like swinging a bat He just swung it around and around in front of the enemy. This obviously is not the sword that Paul is talking to or talking to us about here, because the sword that we need, we're going to need to use one hand for the shield, right? We can't use two hands for the sword or we are not going to have a shield, right? So we have to, it's really a sword that you use with one hand. And so the Greek word here is makera. Macera is a small sword. It's about 18 to 24 inches in length. And it was used by Roman soldiers for close combat. So this was really a sword that you used in hand-to-hand combat. And with this kind of sword, you had to be precise. You didn't wield this sword indiscriminately. You would use this with precision. And if a soldier was skillful enough with this sword, then he became deadly because of his skill with the sword. Now, why is it called the sword of the spirit? Why does Paul call this the sword of the Spirit? Well, because this sword comes from the Spirit. That is to say, it originates from the Spirit And this is the sword that God places into our hand, which is his word. I think sometimes we don't really fully comprehend the gift that God has given us in his very word. What an incredible weapon you have. What an incredible gift that God gives to you. He gives to you his own weapon, his sword, and it comes straight from God. The this Bible, this word is the very word of God given to us by the Spirit of God. Write down 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. This is literally the word of God. And the word inspiration here, I know you've heard me talk about it before, is the word theonus, literally God breathed, out of the mouth of God. There are three words in that verse that are very important, all. And in the Greek, you know what the word all means? It means all That means every part of the scripture, all scripture. The word for scripture there, graphite, it's where we get our word graphite. Graphite is used to make pencils, right? And the Greek word literally means written words. Every written word came from the mouth of God. Where does inspiration lie? It lies in the actual written words. that you have with you here today, that is the that what comes from the mouth of God And so, what an incredible gift that God has given us. There are a lot of wrong ideas about inspiration out there. This Bible is not the product of man, it's the product of God. It's God given. Now God used the personality of the writers. He used their background. He used their education. He used their vocabulary. But God was so superintended the words that they wrote The words that they chose, we could say it like this, God was so sovereign over their life, their personality, their education, their background, their circumstance, their vocabulary. Is so much so that the words that they chose were the words that God had already chosen in eternity past. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. So God used the human element, but make no mistake, beloved, every word came from God. It's God breathed. And if that's true, which it is, that means that God's word is inerrant. That means it has no uh flaws. It means there's no errors in it. The doctrine of inerrancy teaches that the Bible given to us in its original Man manuscripts were inerrant, and of course God has preserved that through the many manuscripts that has led to the Bible that we have today. So God's word is perfect. The Bible says in Psalm 19, 7, the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. But it also means because it's God's word, it's clear. Can only Bible scholars understand the Bible? Absolutely not. You can understand the Bible. You see, this Bible wasn't written to theologians and academics. It was written to the normal, average, ordinary believer. It was written to people in churches. And it was written with clarity. Sometimes I'll hear scholars make this argument and say, Oh, I would not be so arrogant as to think that I could understand God's word. Well, if you can't understand it, what good is it? That's a back-handed attack on the Bible. Jesus himself assumed clarity when he would say to the Pharisees all the time, when they were getting things wrong, Jesus would say, haven't you ever read? You know, it is written, it is written. Haven't you ever read this? Haven't you ever read in the Old Testament where it said this? Jesus was assuming clarity that if you just simply read it, you'll get the message of it. And we see this in many places in the Bible. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. That is just the the uh the the the youngest child can read the Bible and come away with something. Paul said to Timothy, From a child you have learned the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise unto salvation And so we have a clear word that we can understand. Otherwise, it would be no good. But then also God's word is effective. I want to tell you something, friend. God's word will accomplish the purpose that God has for it. That's why I don't hesitate to preach God's word to you. Because I know that when the word of God is preached, God will accomplish His purposes. It might not always accomplish the preacher's purposes. But it will accomplish God's purposes. It's quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword The Bible says, My word will not return to me void. I've met so many people that have read the scripture and they have been freed from a prison of a lie or a bad habit or or some false doctrine and they were freed from that. How? Just by reading the Bible for themselves. Because that's the Bible. It is effective. Did you know that during medieval times people were not allowed to have a copy of the scripture? Did you know that the Catholic Church would not allow the average lay person to read the Bible because they said it would be damaging to their own soul? One canon of the church said this, we prohibit that the laity should be permitted to have the books of the Old and New Testament. We most strictly forbid their having any translation of these books. This was a Catholic Church Council that made a decree that no one is to have a copy of the Bible for themselves because the Pope said it was dangerous. for their souls. Let me tell you what it was dangerous for. Reading the Bible and having a Bible for yourself is dangerous to false religion. Because if you read God's word, God will give you light, He will show you the truth, He will free you from the bondage of wrong ideas, it'll tear down false religion. Later in medieval history, men like John Wycliffe, who was a Catholic priest, but he read the Bible, he was converted to true faith in Christ. And he was the first man to translate the Bible into English. He translated it from the Latin into English. He said that every person should have a copy of the scripture that they can read in their own tongue. That was his conviction. That's why he translated the Bible. And back then they didn't have printing presses. They would have to write it out by hand. And he copied many copies and he would hand them out to his followers, a man called Lollards I think that was a derisive name that the enemies gave them because they were always going around mumblers. They were called 'em mumblers because they would take a copy of the Wycliffe Bible and they would go to these little villages and they would share with them the gospel and the truth Read from that Bible. And it was freeing people from false religion. That was the dawn of the Reformation. That's why John Wycliffe is called the morning star of the Reformation. And then later on, there were men like Martin Luther who studied Romans for himself and realized that salvation didn't come through works. It came by faith in Jesus Christ. Faith and faith alone. He studied Romans 1. 17, the just shall live by faith. And then he began to pup to publish pamphlets that expounded the truth of Scripture. And he would later write, while I slept, the word so greatly weakened the papacy that never a prince or emperor inflicted such damage upon it. I did nothing. The word did it all And that's because God's word is effective. It is effective. God uses his word to save sinners. Friend, I don't have the power to save anyone, but I tell you, God's word saves sinners. It is the power of God that opens people's eyes. James 118. Of his own will begotten he brought us forth of the word of truth. 1 Peter 123, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God. It's the word of God that does it. It has the power to save sinners. I I think I told you before the story of a young lady when I was down in pastoring around the Memphis area. A young lady one day came to my office and she had big tears coming down out of her f down her running down her cheeks and she had a big smile, however. And she told me the story. She was a business owner. She owned a business down in downtown Memphis. And the title of her store was My Three Habits. Because she sold cigarettes, alcohol, and lottery tickets That's what she sold. And one of the men from our church went by and put a Bible in her store and said, Would you just please read this? And she said that Bible stood there on the counter for weeks. And she said, finally one day I went in and I picked it up and I began to read it. And I remember the man told me to start reading in the Gospel of John. And she began reading the Gospel of John. And she was just enraptured with the reading of it. And by the time she got through the Gospel of John, and she telling me all this, she said, you know, preacher, I believe that Jesus is God, and I believe that Jesus Died on the cross and he took all of my sins. And they punished him. He was sinless, but he took all of my sins. And I know that I'm a sinner and I ask him to please forgive me. And she had big tears running out of her eyes. You say, did you lead her to the Lord? Did I lead her to the Lord? She was already saved. God had already done his work. He had broken up the fallow ground. She saw Jesus for who he was, the true Savior. She put her faith in Jesus Christ. She was mourning over her sin, but at the same time, she was rejoicing that Jesus was her Savior. That's the power of the Word of God. The Word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any sermon. It's the Word of God that does the work. The Word of God will sanctify you. It'll expose your sin. It'll make you more like Jesus. Christ, the Bible examines us. Now I know that we had a tendency to examine ourselves, and we well the way we do it is we we like to look at other people. We hold ourselves up to other people who aren't as good as us. And we say, Oh, you know, I'm not so bad I thank God I'm not like so and so. But you know what? When you read the Bible you can't do that because the Bible presents God's holy standard. We like to we like to make other people look bad because it makes us feel good about ourselves. But when you read the Bible, it strips away all the pretense. It shows us the holy standard of God. It shows us how sinful we are and it's and it does its work of sanctification in our life. It is the mirror that shows us the the sin of our soul and it causes us to run to God for his forgiveness. And it does its sanctifying work in us. We've been studying Psalm 119 on Wednesday night, which extols the benefits of God's Word. And repeatedly the psalmist cries out, My soul cleaves to the dust. That's the result of someone who spends a lot of time in God's Word. It shows us our sin, but then it doesn't leave us there. We run to God for comfort. The psalmist over and over says, your word has quickened me. Your word has made me alive. Your word has given me strength. That's what God's word does, it gives us life But it equips us for every good work. It's the tool that we need to know in order to Do battle against Satan. Write down 1 John 2 14. I write unto you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you. And listen to this, and you have overcome the evil one. How are you able to overcome the evil one? By having God's word in you. By knowing it. That's why John says, You're strong. God's word is in you, and you're able, therefore, to overcome the wicked one. If you want to overcome the wiles of Satan, there's no way around it, you have to be strong in God's word. You have to be in the scripture. You know, I read, and I'm sure you've probably heard this, that the United States Treasury Department They have a a certain branch that they train men to look for counterfeit bills. And you know how they train them? It's impossible for them to gather up all the counterfeits and study the counterfeits. What they do is they These men, they look at the real dollar and they study it so well that when a false bill arises, they know it immediately Because they know the real so good when the false arises, it's not hard And that's the way you overcome Satan. You study God's Word and you know His truth so well that when false doctrine is preached, you know what? You're going to say that's not right That's not right. By the way, I encourage you, don't listen to what I say and swallow everything I say just before because I say it. You need to get into God's word yourself and make sure that I'm preaching you the right thing. You need to hold me accountable. To preach the truth, to make sure the truth is going forth. I wish I had more time on this. I have uh just gotten permission from Let me give you the third point here. We see the adversary, why we need the sword of the spirit, the armor. This is God's word. Therefore it's effective. It's clear. It's powerful. It does the work. We have to know it. But here's the third thing, the application. How do we take up and use the sword of the Spirit? Again, Paul commands us to take. Many Christians have the sword, but they never draw it. They own Bibles, but they rarely read them. They quote verses, but they don't really know them deeply. They don't understand the context of it. You have to wield it skillfully. So let me give you just a few words of advice as we close. First of all, study the word consistently. You've got to study it There's no easy way around that. A skilled swordsman trains daily. And the same is true spiritually. We have to read God's word. We have to memorize it. We have to meditate on scripture. Jesus resisted Satan's temptations not by philosophy but by quoting the word of God by applying it. We have to rightly divide the word of truth. Again, not every verse applies to every situation. We have to know what passages, what verses apply to the right situation. Again, it's a makarah, it's a small sword that we have to wield with precision. Again, that's exactly what Jesus did. When Satan came at Jesus with a temptation, Jesus knew the exact verse to apply to that situation. And he applied it. We have to rightly divide it, but then we have to trust the Spirit to empower the Word. When we wield the Word, the sword in our own strength We're not going to get any results. We don't depend upon our own strength, but we trust God to use His Word to accomplish His purpose. Whether evangelizing a sinner, whether encouraging a saint, whether battling temptation, the Spirit takes the sword and he pierces the places that we don't even see He knows how to use it. That's why, friend, when I come before you, I preach God's word, and I trust God to do the work. You say, What do you do on Sunday night after you get done preaching? I go to bed and I sleep. And I sleep well. I don't I don't toss and turn and say, oh, you know, well, I wish I'd you know now look, you might not get a home run every time up here, but I do the best that I can to give you God's word And I know that even in my feeble effort, if I can just give you God's word, he's going to use that. The Spirit will use that. So I trust in the empowerment of the Holy Spirit to use his word. And you also have to know the whole counsel of God. Christians need to avoid cherry-picking verses and embracing uh you know just the verses that they like. Christians do that all the time. And by the way, preachers do that too. They only preach on the subjects and the s and the passages that they like And they don't really give you the whole counsel of God. Years ago I was pastoring another church, an older pastor stopped by to see me, and in our conversation he said, What are you preaching on? And I told him, Well, I'm preaching through Romans and I'm going to be here. And he said, Oh, you should skip over that He said, people don't want to hear that. I said, really? Yeah, he said, if you preach that, young couples don't want to hear that stuff. They're not going to come back. Just skip over those chapters. That was his advice. By the way, beloved, that's why Christians are unskilled in the window in the Word of God. Because pastors cherry pick what passages they like, and then they ignore the ones that they don't like. But I want to tell you something one one day we're going to have to give an account before Almighty God on whether or not we gave them the whole counsel of God. God already gave us in his word everything he wants you to know That's why when I preach the book of the Bible, I go verse by verse. I try to help you understand the verses. I'm giving you the whole counsel of God. I don't want you to hear the same sermon every Sunday from a different text Or just on the handful of themes that I like. Any preacher can get a handful of sugar stick sermons that make everybody happy and shout and glad. I want to make you mad. I want you to be challenged in the scripture. You're never going to learn how to use your sword if if I just don't do if I just cherry pick. If I don't give you the whole counsel of God. But then here's the next thing. Use scripture to refute false teaching. When you learn God's word, you're going to begin to hear a lot of teaching and preaching that is false. It will happen. And when God gives you the opportunity to refute that false teaching, do it. Don't do it with pride. Don't be arrogant. Be gentle. Be loving. Do it with compassion. The Bible says the servant of the Lord must not strive. The Greek word there machomai, where we get the word macho man, ready to throw down, ready to get into argument, the servant of the Lord must not strive. But be gentle unto all men. Didaskatas, at skilled in teaching. You have to wield the sword skillfully. Why? Well, in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves, if per adventure God will give them repentance according to the acknowledging of the truth. You see, when you skillfully wield the sword, God will use that and will grant them repentance. They'll see the error that they're involved in. They'll see the falsity of Whatever they're being taught, it's not of the Word of God, and God will grant them repentance and pull them out. But beloved, you have to be armed, you have to be ready, the battle is fierce, the enemy is near. And God is calling you to storm the gates of hell, to take his sword and use it effectively. I'll close with this. A few years ago, my wife and I were in Scotland and we visited the Edinburgh Castle. It's a huge castle. In thirteen fourteen, during the Wars of Scottish Independence, Sir Thomas Randolph, he was a general of Robert the Bruce. He devised a plan to take over that fortress. At that time it was being held by the English. Again, this was a castle that stood high up on a steep rock, perched high there. It was considered invincible But Randolph took just a small group. He handpicked his soldiers. And he was able to sneak up to the castle. He had a soldier with him who knew some of the secret paths into that fortress. And with just a handful of soldiers, with their swords drawn. They surprised the enemy, and they went in and they were able to take over that fortress. Just a handful of men who were skilled with their swords. You know what? The Bible says that people today are imprisoned in strongholds and castles. Castles of lies, castles of false religion, castles of uh of sin and the only way they're going to be freed is for someone to charge that castle and use the sword of the spirit skillfully to free them from that prison, to free them from that stronghold. And beloved, that's our job as children of God, as soldiers of Jesus Christ. The weapon is God's word, and God's word can overcome any stronghold. But you have to be skilled, and you have to take up the sword of the Spirit. Which is the word of God. Let's bow for prayer together today. Father, we thank you for this weapon that you've given us. What a privilege that you would place upon our head the helmet of salvation. And that you would put in our hands your own weapon, your own sword, and you would tell us to use it skillfully. Thank you, Lord, for the armor that you give us that'll help us to stand against the wiles of the devil. But we know, Lord, that we weren't called just to be defensive. Just to absorb attacks and stand. You've called us, Lord, to go forth to the gates of hell. To deliver captives, those imprisoned in strongholds and fortresses. Lord, make us skilled soldiers in the Word of God. Help us, Lord, to Read it every day to meditate, to learn it, to apply it. This is our source. This is our strength Help us, Lord, to apply this. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to before we close our service, are you absolutely certain today, friend, that you know Jesus? This would be the first thing you have to do is receive the helmet of salvation That's a gracious gift that God gives. It's nothing you can earn. It's something that God puts on your head. You receive it. But you have to receive it humbly. You have to understand that you're a sinner. Jesus died for your sins on the cross, that you might have salvation. It's a gift that you must receive by faith. And if you haven't received it, I encourage you right now, reach out By faith, receive the helmet of salvation. Receive the salvation given through Jesus Christ and Christ alone. And then from once you receive that helmet, God entrusts to you his sword. May you be strong in it. May you use it for God's glory. Father, thank you again for your word. Use it in every heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.