All right, thank you, Praise Team. Take God's word this morning, please. Open to the book of First John, chapter number three. First John chapter three. And we're going to be looking at verse eleven down to verse 18 today. We'll see how far we can get with that of this And we normally stand for the reading of Scripture, but I'm not going to ask you to do that this morning. You've been standing, and so I'm going to let you stay seated. I'll stand for the rest of the service. You can sit down And one of these Sundays, I'm going to reverse it. I'm going to sit down and preach, and you all are going to stand and listen to me. But look in chapter 3, look down at verse number 11. For this is a message ye have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. Not as keen he was of that wicked one and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him, because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. If you follow the news lately, you know the headlines have been basically soaked in blood. We've had so many things that have happened the last few weeks. There was the tragic church school shooting. uh in Minnesota where precious little children's lives were taken. I couldn't help but weep when I saw the faces of those little children who were killed by a a madman. And then there was the story of the Ukrainian girl brutally murdered on a train. A man just with a senseless violence just stood up and stabbed her in the neck and killed her. And then this week recently, the assassination of a public figure, Charlie Kirk, gunned down, because of his Christian nationalism. Different places, different th faces, but one thing in common, a world marked by hatred. Hatred that starts in the human heart and spills out into sometimes indifference, but at other times Murder. The kings are still killing the ables in this world. Jesus said in John 8. 44 that Satan was a murderer from the beginning. Every act of murder traces back to him. But in a world of hate, God has called us his children to live differently. And the Apostle John makes that very clear here in this letter. That as believers we are to walk in love. We're to be different from this world. Again, verse 11, for this is the message that you heard from the beginning that we should love one another, not as Cain who was of that wicked one and slew his brother. So what this passage does is it gives us a stark contrast between Hatred, the hatred of the world that characterizes the world versus the love that characterizes children of God, true children of God. Now let me give you a little context into 1 John. 1 John is a letter that's written to establish authentic Christianity. You claim to be a believer. Well then if you are a true believer, your life should measure up to the tests that John gives in this letter. And he gives basically three tests to determine whether or not you truly are a child of God. First one is what I call the doctrinal test. That's believing the right things about Jesus. There's a lot of people that say they believe in Jesus, but it's a Jesus they made up in their own mind. It's not the Jesus of Scripture. You don't have a right to make your own Jesus and then say, This is this is my my God, the one I I serve No, it's the Jesus that's revealed in Scripture. And if you're a true believer, you will embrace the Christ of Scripture and how He reveals Himself. You'll believe the right things about Jesus. That he is the Son of God. And over and over again, John will emphasize this. But then there's a second test that he gives in this letter And that is the moral test of obedience. If you are a child of God, you will obey Jesus. Hereby we do know that we know Him if we keep His commandments. This is the way that you know that you really are a child of God. You will have a pattern of obeying Jesus Christ in your life. So the question is, do you obey Jesus? Is it your heart's desire to obey Jesus? Because that will determine whether your faith is real, whether you are genuine. And then John gives a third test. And that is what I call the social test of love. You claim to be a believer? Well, then your life will be characterized by loving others. You'll love the children of God. You'll love the church. You'll love other people. And what John does in this letter is he just kind of goes back around to these same three things. The structure of 1 John is circular. And he'll cycle back to these same three things. Do you believe the right thing about Jesus? Are you obeying him? Do you love others? So he goes, he talks about it again and again, as if to say you can't hear this enough. And he does this with love. That's why John is called the apostle of love, because he emphasizes loving one another so much. In fact, look in 1 John chapter 2, look down at verse number 7. Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which ye heard from the beginning. Now what is the commandment? Drop down to verse 10. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light. It's all about love. If you love your brother, you are in the light. Look at verse 11. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness. That's the test. You love your brother, you're in the light. Look in 1 John 3, verse 11. We already read this. We'll read it again. For this is the message you've heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. Look in chapter three, look in verse number twenty-three. And this is the commandment that we should believe on the name of the Son of Jesus Christ, his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another as he gave us commandment. Look at chapter 4, look at verse number 7. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. Drop down to verse eleven. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. Verse twelve. No man has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Now look in chapter 5, look at verse number 1. Whoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone that loveth him that begot loveth him also that is begotten of him. You get the idea It just keeps coming back around to that same message again and again. And each time John mentions this love, he'll expand upon it. He'll give it from a new perspective. But the bottom line is this, true children of God are marked by love. They're marked by love If you get weary of hearing this, just remember, this is written under inspiration of the Holy Spirit. And we need to constantly be reminded of loving others. Why? Because of the human heart. Our default mode is selfishness. Our default mode is just to think of number one. But John challenges us again and again. If you truly are of God, you will love others. Another thing that characterizes John's writing is the style. He's very antithetical in the way that he writes this letter. What do I mean by that? We can call them either-or proposals. For example, you either walk in the light or you walk in darkness. There's no in-between. You either are sensitive to sin and you confess your sins or you say, I have no sin. I don't have any sin. What sin? That's a characteristic of someone who's not really a believer. Because when you get saved, there's a new sensitivity to sin in your life that you've never had before. You either love God or you love the world. You can't do both. You either know Him and keep His Word, or you are a liar. You either abide in him or you don't know the truth. You are either a child of the devil or you are a child of God One or the other. There's no in between. So John comes across this way in his letter. Very antithetical. Either or you're one or you're the other. It's black and white with John. And now he's going to give a contrast here in this antithetical way of writing between love and hatred, between being a child of God and being a child of Satan. We could say it like this, the mark of the world is hatred, but the mark of the church or the child of God is love So notice the contrast here. We're going to look at both sides of the contrast here this morning. That's the way John presents it here in 1 John So I want us to first notice hatred is a mark of a child of the devil. And that's the whole point that John's making here in chapter three, as we looked at verse eleven on down But let me just tell you that what John is basically doing here is he is continuing an argument that he began at the beginning of chapter three between a true child of God and a true child of the devil For example, back up to verse number eight in chapter three. He that committeth sin is of the devil. For the devil sin is from the beginning, and for this purpose the Son of God was manifest that he might destroy the works of the devil. Verse 9 Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. Whosoever commith not righteousness is not of God. Neither he that loveth not his brother. So what's he doing here? He's presenting again the contrast between a child of the devil and a child of God. A child of the devil lives commits sin. He's constantly sinning. A child of God, what does John say, doth not commit sin? You say, well I'm in trouble because I commit sin all the time. But the word here, commit, is a present indicative active in the Greek. What does that mean? Simply that present tense in the Greek is a lifestyle. It is continual action. So we could say it like this. If you're a child of God, you don't live in sin You don't live in an unbroken pattern of sin in your life. You may lapse into a sin every once in a while, but the pattern of your life will be righteousness. With elapses of sin, the child of the devil, the pattern of their life is just sin with occasional acts of righteousness. But if you're a child of God, you can't live in sin. That's what John means when he said when it says here that in verse nine, whoever is born of God does not, we could say, live in sin, c continually live in an unbroken pattern of sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin. because he's born of God. That is to say that when you get saved, God puts within you his new nature. He he gives imparted righteousness And it's impossible for you to continue to live in an unbroken pattern of sin if you're a child of God. Why? The seed of righteousness has been planted into your heart. So what they'll they'll spring out of that seed, righteousness, a pattern of righteousness. And again, we'll still sin, but we're struggling against sin now. We're not living in it with with no confession. We're struggling against it, but that's the pattern of our life. Now, John gives this same contrast. And he brings it on down into this area of love. And that's the transition there in verse number ten at the latter phrase where it says, Neither he that loveth not his brother, which is to say That the same pattern of love of love you'll see in a child of God. A child of God will love his brother. That'll be the default mode of a child of God. But someone who is not a child of God, they will not have that love. And so that's where we pick up in verse 11, for this is a message you've heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, he says. So again, he's giving the contrast. In other words, it's almost as if to define what real love is, you have to understand, first of all, hatred. The way you understand down is to know up. The way you understand White is to know black. The way you understand what is right is to know what is wrong. The way you really understand what love is, is to first of all look what love is not. is to see hatred. And so this is why John says, let me show you hatred here first. And And by the way, look at verse 13. Marvel not, brethren, that the world hate you. Stop being surprised that the world hates you. If you're a Christian and you're speaking truth and you're walking in righteousness, you're trying to obey him, don't be shocked that the world hates you. Stop being surprised at that, is what he's saying. It's as if uh John is r remembering the words that Jesus spoke to him at the upper room in John 15. If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love his own, but because you're not of the world, but I've chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. So don't be surprised when the world hates you And then so John will first show us hatred as if to put the dark setting against the diamond of real love. So what is hatred like? Well hatred is demonstrated in Cain. Look again at verse 12. Not as Cain who was of that wicked one and slew his brother. If you want to w know what love is not, just look at Cain, the first human born under the curse of sin. Cain is the prototype of the fallen man today. He's the prototype of the unsaved, the unredeemed world. Rather than loving his brother Abel, he murdered him. He was motivated by jealousy, by pride. Because he resisted God's way, God's standard, and his brother Ava was obeying God's standard, he murdered him. He killed him. Go back to Genesis chapter 4. If we really want to see this understanding, we have to go back to Genesis 4. That's what John is referring to here. So go all the way back to Genesis 4. We'll come back. And I want you to see this story here. And how it unfolds. In this account, we see the offering of Cain versus the offering of Abel And the Bible says by faith Abel offered a better sacrifice. Since it's by faith we know that God must have shown them how to offer a sacrifice. By faith, that means the Word of God had to be revealed So God taught them the way to worship. God taught them the acceptable way to worship and bring a sacrifice And uh look in Genesis chapter four, look at verse number three. There was a definite place to worship. Look at verse three. And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought the fruit of the ground and uh So he brought. What does that suggest? There was a place to bring it. God had to establish a place of worship. You can you can only bring something if you know where you're going. There has to be a place that you're going to. This is also suggested in chapter 4 verse 16 where it says Cain went out from the presence of the Lord. Well God's everywhere. So when he went out from the presence of the Lord, where was that? Well, again, the Saul suggests that there was an established place to worship God. God showed them where it was. And so Cain brought his offering. A central place of worship, a definite place, but also a definite time. Again in verse 3 it says, in the process of time. That is the Hebrew case where at the end of, and then time is Yom. We could say it like this at the end of the days. I think this means the end of the week. God had established a certain day for worship, a certain place to go, a certain day to do it. And a certain manner of worship. Again, in verse number three and four, they bring uh an offering. Abel brings the firstling of his flock. So God could be approached and worshipped only by means of sacrifice. This is the thing that is being established here. Again, neither Cain nor Abel know anything about worship unless someone taught them. So God taught Adam and Eve, here's the acceptable way to approach me, here's the acceptable way to sacrifice. And Adam and Eve had to teach their children, and I believe God taught them what was expected, and it had to be a blood sacrifice That's always the way, always the pattern in the New Test in the Old Testament. I've read commentators that say, well, you know, Cain's offering of vegetables was fine. It was just his attitude that was wrong. Well the attitude is important in worship to be sure, but Cain did not cop an attitude until after God rejected his offering. It's not that God despises fruit, but blood must come first. And Cain was stubborn. He wanted to do things his own way. He resisted God. He brought an offering, but his offering was bloodless. The Bible says without the shedding of blood there's no remission of sin. It was the fruit of his own labor, it was the works of his hands, it was the fruit of the ground, and the Bible says in Genesis 3. 17 that God cursed the ground. You're going to bring something to God that was cursed. But on the other hand, Abel's offering was the best of his flock. It was a blood sacrifice. Life had to be taken. Why? The imagery is of someone innocent who had to die for sin. This all pointed to Jesus Christ, right? It was all a pattern that God was establishing Abel's offering was without the labor of works. That's why again the Bible says in Hebrews 11:4 that by faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. It didn't say that Abel was more excellent, but that his sacrifice was more excellent. It wasn't personal. God didn't like Abel better than he liked Cain. But God had established a definite way, a definite manner of worship, and Cain was unwilling to follow that. And then there was a a definite acceptance of worship. You know, God doesn't accept all worship, what you call worship. God says you have to do it my way, you have to do it on my terms, and when you do it on my way, my terms, then that's acceptable. And so look at verse number four again. And Abel also brought of the first wingless flock and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and his offering. But on the Cain under his offering he had not respect, and Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell So how did they know that God accepted Abel's offering and God did not accept Cain's? How did they know that? I think that it was the it was fire consuming the sacrifice. You say, why do you say that? Well, because that is the pattern again in the Old Testament. For example, listen to Leviticus 924. There came a fire out from before the Lord, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat Which when all the people saw it, they shouted and it fell on their faces. In the Old Testament, when God accepted a sacrifice, sometimes fire would fall on that sacrifice from God. And it would be accepted. We see this in Judges 6 24. Gideon prepared an offering and God consumed it with fire. Remember on Mount Carmel, Elijah When made an offering and and I just said, you know, let's see who's really God, Yahweh or Baal. Let's see where the fire falls. And those prophets of Baal yelled and screamed, and nothing happened to their offering And Elijah said, Well, Baal's probably asleep. You need to scream louder, wake him up. He was making fun of their unacceptable false worship. But when finally it was time Elijah presented his offering to the Lord, and fire came down. God accepted it. We see this again in 1 Chronicles 21. David built an altar unto the Lord, offered burnt offerings. And called upon the Lord, and he answered from heaven by fire upon the altar and the burnt offering. So I think this is what happened With Cain and Abel. Abel presents his sacrifice to the Lord, and fire comes down, and God accepts that sacrifice because it's a blood sacrifice, and the fire points to the wrath of God falling upon that innocent animal. Which is a picture of how Jesus on the cross, the Lamb of God, would shed his blood, and the fire of God's wrath would fall upon Jesus Christ, that wrath that should fall upon me and you. Fell upon Christ. And he was our substitute. And God accepted the offering of Jesus. And so all that is a picture of Christ. So Abel makes his offering, God accepts it. But here's Cain, and I think he has a beautiful offering. It's well arranged. beautiful vegetables, all the choicest fruits that he could find. No doubt this offering costed him a lot of toil and a lot of labor. The finest that he could put together, a lot of sweat, a lot of work to produce this offering. He was very proud of what he was able to put together with his own hands. But how did God respond to that? Nothing. No fire fell upon it. God did not accept it. No heavenly approval, no visible token of divine approval. God did not respect Cain's offering. And despite what God specifically required and commanded with regard to sacrifice, Cain ignored all that. He had a better way. Pride kept him from doing it God's way. And Cain wanted acceptance based on his own works, based on who he was. And that's not God's way. This is the beginning of two religions. And by the way, there's only two religions in the world. There's Cain's religion and Abel's religion. There's either there's due there's uh there's what I can do to make myself acceptable to God or what God has already done in Christ. You see, you can't be accepted by God with any of your works. You're only accepted based upon the sacrifice of Jesus. Christ and his blood that was shed. Cain couldn't accept that. You gotta accept me for who I am, with pride and awe. And his countenance fell. Look in verse number five. But un uh um in verse at the end of verse five it says, And his countenance fell. And the Lord said unto King, verse six, Why art thou wroth? And why is thy countenance? fallen. And and the idea here in the in the Hebrew where it talks about him being angry, it reads his nose burns. That's the idiom for anger. He was scowling. He could he could see the anger in his face. That God did not accept him and accept his offering, his works of his hands. And so what did that lead to? Look at verse number eight. And Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass that when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and slew him. Slew him, he killed him. Slew here is the word that means murder out of the hand. He murdered with his hand. Something came killed him with a rock, or maybe he uh He beat him to death with his fist, or some say he choked him. I think the king cut his throat. So why do you say that? Well, the only way they knew death was by animal sacrifice Right? That's the only way they really understood how to put something to death, a murder. And that's what they would do with the lamb, cut his throat, put it on the altar. So Cain only really knew one way to kill Before this there had been no death. And I besides that, in 1 John 3, verse 12, where John gives the commentary on this event. He uses the word spazo, which means literally to slit the throat. And I think the idea is this. This is Cain, he's angry, he's filled with resentment, he's filled with bitterness, he's filled with wrath. He sees Abel and walking in obedience, and it's a rebuke to him. And he's angry at God And so he says, God, do you want a blood sacrifice? I'll give you one. He slits his brother's throat. Says, there's your blood sacrifice. Murder comes from the human heart. It doesn't come from a rock or a knife or a gun. It comes from the human heart. Those are just objects used When someone wants to murder someone else, they'll figure out a way to do it. Whatever the object is, they'll figure out a way to do it This is the epitome of hatred. This is hatred at its worst. And Cain again typlifies the hatred of this fallen world in which we live. The Cains are still killing the Abels. And the problem is they're angry at God. It's a reflection of their hostility towards God. Hatred is demonstrated in Cain, but also go back to 1 John. Hatred is originates with the devil. Again, John says in verse number 12, Not as Cain who was of that wicked one and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. John asked a really good question But he tells us here in verse 12, who was of that wicked one. John explicitly states that Cain was of that wicked one. Wicked one, Pane Ros. The wicked one. This is the same word used when Jesus taught us to pray, you know, deliver us from evil or literally Pane Ras, the evil one. When we pray the Lord's Prayer, we say, Lord, deliver me from the evil one. Deliver me from Satan. And this is the same word here. Cain was a child of Satan. How do we know? This was made evident in the fact that he was a murderer. God's children aren't murderers, they love one another. Where does murder come from? Well it's in the human heart, but there's an ultimate source behind that, and that is Satan. That is the devil. That's why I said, friend, if you want to see the works of Satan, if you want to see Satan, it was in that school shooting with those precious little children whose lives were taken. That is Satan. That is the evil one. It's in a innocent girl sitting on a train and a guy just senselessly getting up for no reason and stabbing her. That is Satan. That is of the evil one. That's the works that's Pane Ras. Satan is the source. Hatred finds its source in the devil. Whereas love, on the other hand, originates with God. And here's the third thing. Hatred is demonstrated in Cain. Hatred originates with the devil. Hatred divides people and may result in the taking of life. Look what uh look what John wrote in first John three. Look at verse fifteen, just drop down there. I know that I'm not gonna finish this sermon today, but I'm gonna do the best I can. So sit sit tight for about give me about ten more minutes. Are you okay with that? Stop looking at your watches. Give me ten more minutes, and I'll let you go. All right? Look at verse 15. Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. Look at verse seventeen. But whoso hath this world's good, and seeeth his brother had need, and shut up his vows of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him. And what John is showing us here are really the two different levels of hatred. Hatred at its finest, at its best, is indifference. Hatred at its worst is homicide, it's murder. And that's what we see here, the polar opposites. So, what is hatred? Really, we could say it's a selfish indifference, uh indifferent disposition that disregards the good of others in pursuit of personal interests. Love gives, hate withholds. Love serves hate self-protects. The essence of hatred lies not just in the hostile actions, but in the inward disposition that refuses to care for others. Especially when that costs them something. If it's going to cost you something to care about someone else, you're not going to do that. That's hatred. Hatred says I love you if it benefits me. I'll serve you unless it's inconvenient, but if it's between your gain and my comfort, I choose me And John's whole point here is that it's not that people always walk around. The um unbeliever doesn't always walk around in some murderous rage. No, that's not what he's saying. What he's showing us is the default mode of those who are unbelievers that don't go know God is a bent towards self that always thinks about self and doesn't really care about anyone else It's a bent toward self that when challenged results in neglect at its best and at its worst, hostility. That's the whole point. And Paul describes the unredeemed man in Romans 1, full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, without natural affection. And again, Cain is the prototype of this. Cain, who was self-focused, resentful, and resistant to righteousness, he is the prototype of the average person today who does not know Jesus Christ. Now you might say, well now wait a minute. Isn't it possible for unbelievers to exemplify love? I mean, what about examples of genuine love among unbelievers? I mean, don't we see unbelieving parents selflessly caring for their children? I mean don't we see stories of heroic sacrifice, a soldier giving his life or a comrade or someone donating a kidney to someone else? Aren't these real expressions of love? And the answer is of course they are. Yes, they are expressions of real love. But the scripture helps us to see that in that in that terms of common grace. This is all part of common common grace. Even though people are unredeemed, they still have vestiges of the image of God in them. God has not totally withdrawn himself completely from the unsaved world. This is this is vestiges of the image of God in them But mark it down, all love comes from God. All of it, John makes that point very clear in 1 John 4:7 He that love is of God. All true love originates from God. But we also have to remember that such acts of love, though noble, do not constitute saving righteousness or faith The default mode of the world is still an obsession with self. So we could say that hatred at its best is indifference. You just don't care about others. That's what John says in verse 17. You see someone who has a need and you don't do anything about it, that's a form of hatred. It's just again this young woman who was on a train who was stabbed. You see the video of that. The guy stabs her, walks away, and then the people who were sitting there saw what happened. Here's this girl bleeding to death, and they all walk away and do nothing to help her. That's another form of hatred. We see the two levels right there, indifference and murder. And that's what John is talking about right here. This hatred that characterizes those who do not know the Lord. And also this hatred is motivated by personal Again, in verse number 12, John asks a critical question. Wherefore slew he him? The answer, because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. Cain did not hate Abel because Abel wronged him, but because Abel's righteousness exposed Cain's wickedness. That's why he hated him. That's why he killed him. Abel's obedience shined a light on Cain's disobedience. And instead of repenting, Cain silenced the one who reminded him of God's standard. Hatred was Cain's answer to conviction that he was getting. And that pattern has not changed. We're still seeing it today in our nation. Consider this assassination last week. Whatever one might think of this man's politics, Charlie Kirk, and I really didn't follow him that much. I know a little bit about him. I know he professed to be a Christian. And he stood consistently for biblical values. And he unapologetically defended the Christian principles of living in a public square. And what happened? Well, like Cain with Abel, the world's hatred was stirred. Not because he had done any evil, but because he spoke truth They stand for righteousness expose the darkness of a godless culture. And rather than repent, they chose rather to kill him. To silence him. One person did the act, and others celebrated this. The root of hatred often lies in a sinful heart, unconfessed sin, where that sin is exposed by someone else's. Obedience and righteousness. And it stirs hatred that ultimately causes death. And also hatred is evidence of spiritual death. Look at verse number 14 again. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. And again, this is the whole point that John's making. Look, if you really are a believer, you're going to love your brother. And if you don't if you don't love others, if you have hatred, you are abiding in death. You're not a Christian, you're not a child of God if you hate others. So you have to use this to Mark your own life. Now, just for the time I have left, let me give you the contrast. I'm not going to be able to go through all my points, but I do want to give you one major point And contrast hate with love. We see Cain on one side how he demonstrates absolute hatred. He's a prototype of the hatred that's in the world today. But on the opposite side of that, we have Love demonstrated in Christ. Christ is the example of what real love is. Hatred is the mark of a child of the devil. Love is the mark of a child of God demonstrated in Christ. And look at verse number 16 and we'll end here. Hereby perceive we the love of God. You want to know what love is? You want to know what the love of God is? Here it is. You want a definition of it Here it is, because he laid down his life for us. There it is. He is literally in the Greek is the one. The one. Perceive as gonosco. Here's how we can know experientially the love of God. Because he, literally the one, that one. Laid down his life for us. The definite article here emphasizes the uniqueness of Christ's act. He alone could bear the penalty for sin, Jesus and Jesus alone. He alone could demonstrate divine love in his fullness. And how did he do that? By being willing. To bear our sins, to take the pain, to suffer God's wrath for our sins on the cross. That's love right there. As the theologian Kostenberger wrote, love is not defined in what we feel, but by what God has done in Christ, and now we are to imitate that in our relationship to others. You know, people use the heart to symbolize love. I would like to propose we change that. Because the heart really is a symbol of man's sin, if you want to get really technical about it. You want to use a symbol for love? It's the cross. That's love. That's what John is saying right here. It's the cross. You want a definition of love? Look what took place on the cross. Love is the shape of a cross, evidenced by humility, suffering. Redemptive action. A little boy was uh failing math and his parents didn't know what to do with him. They were trying everything. Finally, they sent him to a Catholic school. After the first day from being in that school, he came home and he hit the books hard. I mean he poured over his study books and he worked hard and by the end of the quarter he had an A on his report card and his parents said Wow, what what happened? Was it the books that they used? Was it the nuns? And the little boy said, Well, I went to class that first day and I saw this guy nailed to a a plus sign. And I thought, these people really mean business. So I went ahead and studied hard. You know what? The cross is God's way of saying w with reference to love, I mean business. I mean business. Love is displayed there on the cross. And the application is, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. How do we uh how do we display that same love of Christ that we see on the cross? Well we need to be willing to lay down our lives for the brethren. And that doesn't mean that we have to, in one heroic action, be willing to be shot for someone else. If that ever calls upon that, hopefully we'll have the courage to do that. But it's really dying to self and putting others ahead of you. That's the whole thing. It doesn't require some heroic act, just the simple Allow yourself to be inconvenienced, allow yourself to get out of your comfort zone and give to others. Just just being here. Your presence here to encourage other believers and worship, that's an act of love It's just the day-to-day setting aside of your own things, the things that you want, and putting others ahead of you, sacrificing on behalf of others. That's the whole point here. We ought, that's a moral obligation here. We ought to be willing to lay down our lives for the brethren. So We either follow the pattern of Cain or we follow the pattern of Christ. That's the whole point. One or the other. And who you follow will determine whether or not you are truly a believer. Now is the time in this world of hate to show this world the love of Christ. As a church, we need to write a different story than the ones we're reading in the headlines. We need to change the narrative as God's people. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the incredible love that you have showered upon us in Christ. That he was willing to lay down his life for us, willing to bear our sins, willing to endure the shame. He who knew no sin became sin for us, that we might be made in the righteousness of Christ. That's a love that I honestly I can't wrap my mind around that But Father, thank you for it. Help us to walk in it. And for those who've never embraced this love by putting their faith in Jesus Christ, I just pray that today they would Repent of their sin. Call upon Jesus as their Savior. Be saved today. Now is the accepted time. The Bible says now is the day of salvation. Lord, you remind us That day is going to be gone one day. So I pray, Lord, that you'll put it on the hearts of those who do not know Christ that may be here today under the sound of my voice. Help them to realize this is an opportunity, a genuine opportunity to reach out in faith and trust Christ today. Friend, if you're here today and you've never put your faith in Christ, would you be willing to pray right where you are and Jesus will meet you right where you are Just say, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. And He will save you. And you can experience His love to the fullest. Father, thank you again for your word. Instruct us from it. Encourage hearts. We pray in Jesus' wonderful, precious name.