Hello, Grace family. This is Pastor Jerry Harmon. Coming to you tonight in a different format. Normally I'm behind the pulpit at Grace Bible Baptist Church And I look forward to uh doing that again. And actually I look forward to being behind the pulpit and having a full auditorium like we normally have. Um these are unusual circumstances And so basically I'm here in Tennessee still visiting with my daughter Annie, my son-in-law Jonathan, and my granddaughter, Ira June, the most gorgeous baby girl ever born And uh so spending as much time as I can here, also doing some work, you know, the thing about technology is you're still able to do a lot of work, no matter where you are And so I've been meeting with um we had a meeting with our deacons that was a very productive meeting by way of Zoom conference. Also had a meeting with the Board of Faith Theological Seminary as we're beginning to prepare for the next year. Many of you know that we'll have a seminary on our church campus. The library, the new library, which is the old Fellowship Hall, work has been done on that. It's coming along great. And so we're excited about that And um so I I've been away for a few weeks and I I wanted to um I've been missing the opportunity just to speak to you. So I wanted to come in a different format tonight. I wanted to come just kind of a fireside chat. You can see the fire over my shoulder here. in the living room fireplace. But I wanted to share something with you from the Word of God. And this will kind of be like a more of a you know a personal Bible study that we're going to do together. But I hope you have your Bible handing you, and if you will, please open to the book of Habakkuk, the Old Testament prophet Habakkuk, chapter number one. While you're finding that, let me just say, you know, I have been blessed just to listen to our our pastoral staff. Reverend John Gorham has preached and done just a wonderful job. My heart has been blessed each time I heard John preach and he's handled the word wonderfully and it's been an encouragement. And of course Aaron Finley, Reverend Aaron Finley, who is just so faithful. and did a tremendous job also preaching uh the word. And I'm just so grateful for good godly men on our staff. And uh while I'm at it, let me just also again just emphasize how grateful I am for our deacons And the ministry they do at our church, and I know many of them have been reaching out and calling people. Some of you have had needs and they've been there to try to take care of those needs. And uh and so we continue to want to do that uh for as long as however this lasts until we're together again. But I'm so very grateful for them. And I'm also grateful for Last Sunday, the opportunity to hear our founding pastor again, and my heart was just completely blessed to hear a sermon that he preached in 2009 and yet found it to be incredibly relevant for today. I don't know if you all were listening to that or had the chance to listen to that live stream video sermon, but if you haven't, go back, uh go onto our website. and and pull that up and listen to it. It will be a blessing to you. I thought that everything you had to say is so relevant for what we're going through right now And there was one part in the sermon, I don't know if you determin or detected this or not, but it was a part where he talked about there was one line in the sermon where he said, you know, the White House is promising you all of these things You know, don't depend upon the White House, but depend upon God. And I thought, you know, how relevant is that? You know, we're getting all these promises from the government to help us during this coronavirus uh virus And you know, I I I know that the government means well and they're genuinely trying to help us. Um, but you know, our trust and our hope is in God. It's not in government, although we're grateful for our government, where our faith stands in God and in His Word. And that's what I want to speak to you about tonight. I want to speak out of Habakkuk chapter 1 And I want to talk about the work of God, the mysterious work of God. Have you ever heard the expression God moves in mysterious ways. I'm sure you've heard that. That is a line in a hymn that we sing. In fact, this hymn was written by William Cooper A man that lived, he was a contemporary of John Newton, the one who wrote Amazing Grace. In fact, John Newton was his pastor. And uh William Cooper was someone that all of his life long was prone to depression. And uh this started as a as a child. We had a very hard life. When he was a young man, he had a high-pressure job And uh he got very depressed and one time decided that he was going to end his life. And it was a very interesting thing that happened. Uh he decided to try to take poison. Uh that didn't work He tried to hang himself and the rope broke. He thought he would jump off the uh bridge in London, hired a taxi driver to drive him to the Thames River in London But the taxi, because of the thick fog that had set in that night, couldn't find the river. And so he ended up bringing the man back to his apartment. And so William Cooper, um, still filled with depression, still wanting to commit suicide, um was later committed to asylum and he was there for six months. And while he was there in that asylum, there was a garden that they could walk into. So he walked in the garden, sat on the bench, there was a Bible there And uh he picked it up, it was open to the story of Luke chapter 11, and he read the story of how Jesus resurrected Lazarus And there was something about that story that got a hold of the heart of William Cooper. And he thought if Jesus can resurrect a man from the dead Surely Jesus can resurrect me from this misery that I'm in. And then he continues to read the Bible. In fact, he read a passage in Romans chapter 3 verse 25 where it says whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through Hit uh through faith in his blood And he wrote this after reading that passage, immediately I received strength to believe it, and the full beams of the Son of Righteousness shone upon me. And I saw the sufficiency of the atonement he had made, my pardon sealed in his blood. And it was at that time that William Cooper gave his heart to Jesus Christ and he was completely transformed by the power of the Lord Jesus Christ. It was this William Cooper that later wrote the words to The hymn that we like to sing sometimes, the words, God moves in mysterious ways, is wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps on the sea, on the sea, excuse me. He rides upon the storm. And then there's one line, and this is a beautiful poem, and I'm not going to read every verse But there's one verse and one line that I want to draw to your attention. And the verse goes like this, judge not the Lord by feeble sense. But trust him for his grace. Behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face. And I love that verse of the song, or the song. And he says, judge not the Lord by feeble sense. That's the one line that I want to draw your attention to. In that song, he says, don't judge God. using our own feeble reasoning or the things that we see. You know, I have a s a suspicion that there's a lot of people right now that are judging God. They are looking at what is happening in our country and not only our country but in the world with this coronavirus. And they are seeing things take place that perhaps they've never seen before. And they are bringing God into their courtroom And putting God on trial and judging God for the things that are going on. Now this is understandable. We understand the lost world doing this. Unbelievers will uh shake their fists at God all the time and judge God. But what's surprising to me that I I hear even Christians doing that, even those who supposedly name the name of Christ judging God and saying, God, what is happening and why is God doing this? Well, uh the uh again according to this song that he wrote, William Cooper also said, but trust him for his grace. And that's what we need to do. We need to trust God. And then he writes, behind a frowning providence, he hides a smiling face. Everything that we see right now in the world Looks as if the providences of God are frowning upon us. But actually, if we could really see We would see behind those clouds, behind the frowning providence, as William Cooper put it, he hides a smiling face. God is actually smiling on us. There are things and purposes that God is accomplishing. Now, how is he doing it? What is he doing? I don't know. This is the mysterious work of God. And we can't always understand why God does certain things, what his purpose is in doing those things. Well, all of that leads into this uh passage that I mentioned to you in Habakkuk, the prophet Habakkuk. You see, just like William Cooper Habakkuk is a man who is introduced to the mysterious work of God. He had some of the same questions that William Cooper perhaps had in his life, but also that we have right now. Now a little background on Habakkuk, he was a prophet that lived in 600 B. C. He was a contemporary of Jeremiah the prophet They both ministered in the city of Jerusalem at a very difficult time in the nation when people were being very disobedient to God. His word, very interesting, excuse me, his name is a very interesting word. It's from the Hebrew Habak. which means to embrace. Some scholars believe that his name means to embrace. Others prefer the definition of to wrestle. And that's very interesting to me because it looks like, if you read these chapters, just three short chapters in Habakkuk, it looks like that he is indeed wrestling with God And he's trying to figure out the mysterious ways of God himself. There were things happening in the nation of Israel that he was scratching his head and he couldn't figure out why God was doing certain things. And so that's what really this whole book is about. He's questioning God. He's wondering about the works of God, the mysterious works of God. Someone said that Habakkuk is the doubting Thomas of the Old Testament. He had a big question mark in his brain about what was going on. He was just looking around and wondering about the work of God. And there were two basic questions. If you read chapter 1, what you're going to find, there are two basic questions that Habakkuk was actually asking. In fact, I want you just to look in Habakkuk chapter 1 and look in verse number 1 where it says, the burden which Habakkuk the prophet did See, he's looking around, he's seeing things happening, it's a burden in his heart. We could probably say the same thing, couldn't we? Some of the things that we're seeing right now uh come to us and it burdens our heart. But look at verse 2. Oh Lord, how long shall I cry? And thou wilt not hear. He asked the question, how long? And then in verse 3, why dost thou show me iniquity? And so the two big questions that he asks in this chapter are number one How long and why? Those are probably the questions that you might be asking with reference to what we're going through right now with this coronavirus. First of all, why? Why Is God doing what He's doing? In fact, I've had people message me, they sent me emails, they sent me text messages in other ways, and they asked me questions constantly Some of the questions are, you know, why is God doing this? Another question is, um, you know, do you think that this has anything to do with some of the end-time prophecies that are mentioned in the book of Revelation? And let me just say that I don't see any connection between what we're going through right now and some of the end-time things mentioned in the book of Revelation. Um I think what we're going through right now is just uh a consequence of being in a cursed earth because we live in a w in a world, uh in a earth that has been cursed because of man's sin. You remember when Adam sinned, God cursed the earth. And as a result of that curse, we live now in a world that's in rebellion and we have all these problems that we have to face. We have suffering, we have diseases, we have sickness, we have things like this that pop up. And it takes all of the creative ingenuity that God has put within man. And by the way, that's part of burying the image of God. God has given man this ability to create things and make things out of the resources of the earth. And this is what God said when he said, look, you need to subdue the earth. Subdue the curse of the earth. This is part of burying the image of God. Thank God we have doctors and people that are able to put together remedies for sicknesses. um to help with you know a virus like coronavirus. I know we don't have any kind of um any kind of uh medicine right now that will heal a person from coronavirus, but that that probably is going to come. But Despite that we have other things that are helping us through this time. And all these things are created by man um because God in His common grace has given man the ability to do these things to subdue The curse of the earth. I think that what we're going through right now is just simply a consequence of living in a cursed earth where we will have these problems, these diseases. But even in that we still see the mercy of God even in all the suffering that we're seeing in the world. But I get all these questions why? And another question is how long? How long are we going to be in this position? How long are we going to be quarantined? One of the questions is given to me is you know, uh when are we going to meet together again as a church? When are we going to you know come back? And I don't have an answer to that question because I um I'm submitted to the law of the land, the law of the of the governor, his executive order uh about not meeting, and I think that we're doing the right thing by honoring that. And by the way, I've also gotten messages from people about that There are those who debate whether we're doing the right thing and staying home and honoring the executive order and the social distancing that has been prescribed by our leaders. And um I know there's a lot of debate out there. And let me just say, look, I don't think that there's some grand scheme by the governor of Maryland or the President of the United States to take away our religious liberty. I don't think what that's what this is about. This is all about keeping people safe Now if I ever felt like the govern the government or anyone in the government was persecuting the church and saying you can't preach the gospel and you can't meet and you can't do that We would all rise up. We will not compromise the Word of God. We will not compromise the Scripture. We will continue to do. We know the passage in Acts that says we ought to obey God rather than man. We all know that. But that's not what's going on here. This is all about safety. We have elderly people in our church. We don't want them to get sick. We don't want them to have to um we don't want to have to feel bad because they got sick because of maybe someone else in the church I think we're doing all this in submission to our government because the Bible teaches us as believers that's what we're supposed to do. And so I think we're doing the right thing. So when people ask me how long, I don't have an answer to that question. I don't know how long. That remains to be seen But I can promise you this, as um when the leadership of the church, myself and our deacons met together and decided when this all came out that we were going to take this course of action and honor and submit to the um the the governor's orders. We felt it was the wise thing to do and I still believe that with all of my heart Even though I know there's a lot of argument out there to the contrary, I've heard them all. Please don't send me any more messages about it. We're doing the right thing But um and by the way they don't come just from people at Grace Bible Baptist Church. The people of Grace Bible Baptist Church m for the most part are totally in harmony. I'm talking about others around that maybe see our ministry um and on the internet and other places. um that want to kind of lecture me about what we're doing. I think we're doing the right thing. Our church leadership got together and made this decision that we are going to do this because this is the right thing to do. And time will tell when this is all going to end. But here's the thing I want to point out. God has a purpose. I see the hand of God in all of this. God is working. You know, what good does it do for us to work against what God is doing? You remember what Solomon said in Ecclesiastes, there's a time For every purpose under heaven, there's a season that God brings along and you need to get in harmony with the season and the thing that God is doing. This is what God is doing right now. We can understand and see everything that's going on, but we can know that this is the hand of God. This is the work of God. And he is accomplishing things in this. Things that we can't see. This is the thing that um that Habakkuk was wrestling with. He was In his nation, he was watching a wicked nation come in and punish the people of Israel, a nation more wicked than Israel, and he was questioning God about that. And so all the things that were happening in his mind were, it was mysterious in his mind about what God was doing. So here's the point I want to leave you from Habakkuk tonight. We're going to look at a few verses here But the message I want you to see, if you don't remember anything else, remember this. The mysterious works of God should deepen our worship of Him and not cause us to judge or doubt. Let me say that again. The mysterious works of God should deepen our worship of Him. This is what happens in the book of Habakkuk. It opens up with a question mark where Habakkuk is asking all of these questions about what God is doing. And God does respond, and he does make some statements about his work. And let me just tell you some of the things that he that God said. First of all, and this is what Habakkuk comes to realize about the works of God. Number one, God's works are marvelous They're marvelous. Again, look in verse number five of Habakkuk chapter 1. Notice where it says, Behold ye among the heathen And regard and wonder marvelously, for I will work a work in your days which ye will not believe, though it be told you. God's response to Habakkuk is, you know, what you need to do basically is you need to marvel at what I'm doing. Don't ever get the idea that God is not working. God is at work. And this coronavirus is going on, which is not just a national crisis, it's a global crisis. God is working. He is sovereign. And God said to the prophet Habakkuk, what you need to do is you need to marvel. And you need to know that I'm putting a plan together. I'm working out my plan. Actually, God had already put a plan together. He's sovereign. He is working. And so God said I have a plan, I'm working that plan. And even though you don't see it, even though you don't understand, it's a marvelous plan. The word wonder. comes from two forms of the same verb, or wonder marvelously, we saw there. Two forms of the same verb in the Hebrew, which means to be in amazement, to be astounded. You know, God is basically saying to Habakkuk, you know, Habakkuk, if I tried to really describe to you everything that I'm doing, you really wouldn't comprehend it. You really wouldn't be able to really fully grasp what I'm doing. And so what you need to do is you just need to to be amazed. You need to understand that my works are are marvelous. What I'm doing is a great work. And you wouldn't really be able to comprehend it. Even if you were, uh I explained it to you. You wouldn't even believe it if I told you what I'm doing. And I think the same when I think about what we're going through right now. You know, we God doesn't have to explain himself to us. He doesn't have to give us the details of his plan because even if he did We wouldn't comprehend it. We wouldn't really fully grasp what God is doing because Isaiah 55, verse 8, for my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways Saith the Lord, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways. God's works are marvelous. But here's the second thing he learns. God's works are meticulous And he says in verse number six, if you look there, or verse five again, look at verse five, he says, For I will work a work. This is what God is doing. Look at verse number six. For lo, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation. God said, this is what I am doing. I am doing this work. I have raised up this nation. You know, and listening to some people try to explain this coronavirus, I've heard um surprising things said by um scholars, uh pastors, some of which where they want to excuse God. They want to say, well, you know, this is this is not what God is doing. God God has nothing to do with this coronavirus. Or, you know, um he you know, he's hurting as well as everyone else And it's almost like they want to paint God as a victim. He's also a victim of all these bad things that are happening. And he's here with us and he's crying with us. And so they portray a portrait of God where he's also going through this with us. He's a victim of these terrible things that are happening. And friend, that's simply not the biblical view of God. The Bible presents God as absolutely, exhaustively sovereign. And Habakkuk, God said to Habakkuk, he says, look, this is the work that I am doing. God takes full responsibility for the mysterious things that are happening in the nation of Israel. And you know what? God takes full responsibility for what he is doing globally with this coronavirus. God again says, I'm the one that sent the Chaldeans to Israel. And God would also say, I'm the one that sent this plague. In the scripture, many times we see God sending a plague, God sending a sickness, God sending an illness, and always he had a purpose. And most of the times when we see that happening in the Old Testament, it's because God is calling upon people to repent. I think God's doing the same thing in our country and in the world. He's calling upon people to repent. I believe that as a result of what's happening, there are more people hearing the gospel right now than perhaps at any other time in the history of the world. You know why? Part of it is just the technology. I I noticed that when we do live streaming. We have a large number of people that are watching live, but even later on, there are many more people that view those sermons, thousands of views of the Word of God that's going out. There are more people that are listening to the gospel and the word of God right now, I think, than at any other time. And this is part of God's purpose. This is what God is doing. He's calling upon people to repent. One of the things we need to learn through this virus is this. We better We better be prepared because we never know when death is going to come. You didn't get to choose the time and circumstances of your birth, and you don't get to choose the time and circumstances of your death So you better be ready for death when it comes because we don't know when it will come. It could come at any time. And God says, look, this is what I am doing. God's works are marvelous. God's works are meticulous. God said, this is what I am doing. But then there's a third thing that Habakkuk learns when God speaks, and that is God's works are mysterious. Again, God said to Vacu, you're not going to understand this. Even if I tried to explain it to you, you're never going to really fully comprehend this. And so what's a person left to do with a response from that? Well, here's the options we have. We can either become embittered at God. Or we can choose to trust his character. We can choose to trust in who he is, not just in what he does, but in who he is. And what we see in the book of Habakkuk is he goes to his tower and he begins to remember who God is. He calls God my Holy One in verse number twelve. Look at verse twelve, if you will with me, where he says, art thou not from everlasting, O Lord my God, mine holy one God, I know that you're from everlasting. You don't, you know, the way I think of that is he's saying, God, you see things from eternity. You see things differently. You are from everlasting. You've been around. You know a lot. And you are the holy one. Which is to say, God, you never do anything wrong. You are holy. Habakkuk got to the point where that even though the things that were happening around him were mysterious He trusted in the character of God. And friend, I want to tell you something. I can't explain everything that's going on. I know God has a purpose, I know God has a reason, but I'll tell you this ultimately: I trust. the character of God. He is eternal. He is holy. And Habakkuk got to the point where he says in chapter 2, verse number 4, the just shall live by faith. The just shall live by faith. That's what God calls us to do in times like this, is to live by faith. I want to read you a quote that Spurgeon said based on this one verse here. Spurgeon, who is uh So very wise, he said this. This is what living by faith meant. A faith that does without anything. A faith that can take nothing and be content with it because it finds everything in God. Faith under the worst conceivable conditions. This is how the just are able to live by faith. Isn't that a great word? That's what Habakkuk is talking about there. We just need to learn to have faith in God. The just shall live by faith. That's what Habakkuk said. But also he said something else very interesting. Look at chapter two, verse fourteen. He says that for the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea Another thing that comforted Habakkuk, he could rely on the character of God who was eternal and holy, and he knew that in the end, the earth would be filled with the glory of the Lord. Isn't that what it's all about? The glory of God. Friend, again, that gives me great comfort to know that God is doing something marvelous where it's gonna he's gonna reveal his glory. His glory is going to spread throughout all of this earth. And so that was another thing that gave Kabakka comfort. But then also in chapter 2 verse 20, he says this, but the Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silent before him. Isn't that a great verse? The Lord is in his holy temple, which is to say, the Lord is on his throne. God's not up in heaven wringing his hand saying, what are we going to do about this virus thing? No, God is in absolute complete control. He's in his temple, he's on his throne, and the whole earth needs to be silent before him. This is the time, if there's ever been a time in the history of our country and the world to to be quiet and focus on God. This is the time right now. This is part of what God is calling people to do It's to focus on him. Focus on who he is. Focus on eternity. Life is not just about these temporal things There is death that's coming, and there's an eternity that all of us will face. So listen, stop complaining, stop whining. Stop asking all these skeptical questions, the doubting questions. Stop threatening to put up a revolt because we're going to lose our religious liberty. Be quiet before God. God is on the throne. God is in his holy temple. Let all the earth be silent before him. And then there's one more verse before we close, and that is in chapter three. I love the way um this book ends Habakkuk says this, he said, although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall the fruit be in the vine, and the labor of the olive shall fail, and the field shall yield no meat. And the flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls. Listen to this. Yet will I rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. The Lord God is my strength. Man, that's that's so powerful. You know what he's saying? You know, even if the economy tanks And the and the stocks go down the drain, and we have to go through a depression And uh all these things happen, yet, he says, Well, I rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. That's what living by faith is all about. We know that even though these things around us might happen, friend, we have God. We have Him And living by faith means that we can do without these things because we have them. And we know that he's going to take care of us. He's going to feed us. He's going to watch over his people. That's what he means when he says, the Lord God is my strength. I'm going to enjoy God my salvation because I know that He's going to deliver me from these things He's going to watch over me and he's going to give me the strength to go through these things. Isn't that a blessing to know? And so in the book of Habakkuk, what Habakkuk does is he begins with a question mark, but it ends with an exclamation point. Where he says, I'm going to rejoice in God. I'm going to have faith. The just shall live by faith. I realize that God is doing a work where He's revealing his glory to everyone. The Lord is in his holy temple. He's sovereign. I can trust in that. And so therefore I'm going to rejoice. I'm going to rejoice. And the God of my salvation. Friend, that's how to respond to what we're going through right now is to trust in the character of God. When you can't trace his hand, trust his heart. I don't understand some of the things that are going on, but I know this. I can trust God. They say that Albert Einstein, when he developed the theory of relativity, they say there was only 12 men in the world that could ever understand it And uh one time someone went to Mrs. Einstein and said, Mrs. Einstein, do you understand the theory of relativity? And she said, No. She said, but I understand Mr. Einstein And friend, I don't understand a lot of what's happening in the world today, but I can tell you this, I can trust God. I know God. I understand Him. And I know that he is holy, he is sovereign, he's going to reveal his glory, he is on his throne, and I'm going to rejoice in him, and I'm going to trust in him And friend, I hope that that's what you will do as well. Let me have a word of prayer with you, and then a quick announcement, and then we're done. Pray with me. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you, Lord, for what you teach us from Scripture. It's so comforting, Lord, just to read the Word of God and know that, Lord, indeed you are in your temple, and we need to be silent before you. We need to worship you. And the mysterious things that are going on should not prevent us from worshiping you. It should deepen our worship, just like it did for Habakkuk. I pray, Lord, that would be the case with every person hearing me, that they'll trust in you all the more. Lord, bless and watch over people in the Grace family and the larger audience as well, whoever's watching. Lord, meet their needs and protect them from this virus. And Lord, increase our faith and our worship during this time. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you for just uh viewing and uh being here with me. I look forward again when we're going to be back together at the church, you know, in the normal assembly Look forward to that. We're not sure when, but let's just continue to be faithful. We will continue to minister to you via live stream. Please continue to uh uh to to meet with us in this medium until we're together again. Thank you again to all of you who are just so faithful to give to our church. I tell you it just really touches my heart when I constantly hear from Dr. Pike. uh how people are just being faithful to continue to give and I'm just I'm just uh so incredibly blessed by your faithfulness. Just keep keep doing what you're doing and we're gonna get through this together. God bless you.