And I invite you, please, to take your Bible open to the Old Testament Book of Judges. We're going to be doing a series through the book of Judges that we're calling Faithfulness in faithless times. And this Old Testament book I hope will be a blessing as we go through and just look at some of the stories in it that were there to encourage us in our own faith. Paul reminds us in the book of Romans that these things were written as examples to us so that we can, through faith and perseverance, have hope in our own life. And so Judges chapter 1 is what I want to where we're going to land tonight. And I want to talk about the danger of partial obedience. The danger of partial obedience. Let me ask you a question. Has this ever happened to you you have a child, you say, I want you to clean your room. Your room is a mess. I want you to clean it up. And uh about five minutes later they come to you and say, Dad, it's cleaned up just like you asked And you go in and you inspect the room and sure enough there's nothing out. But if you look closer, you look under the bed. What they did was they took a great big pile and they just shoved it all under the bed. And technically they obeyed the room was clean, but that's not what you asked them to do. It was partial obedience. And uh so was the result. Well, Judges chapter one opens with Israel in a similar situation. Joshua, the faithful servant of the Lord, is gone. He had died. And the nation is now called to finish what God commanded. What was the command? Well they were to take full possession. of the land of Canaan, the promised land. And at first they start out well. When you read the first part of Judges chapter 1, you see faith You see victory, you see courage, but by the end of chapter one, what you see is compromise begins to creep in. And the tone shifts from victory to failure And so this chapter teaches us a real powerful lesson in our own life, and that is partial obedience leads to partial victory. And partial victory will lead eventually to spiritual defeat. And that's the thing I want you to see as we look at this chapter tonight. And I want you to see three observations with me as we look at this. First of all, what I want to call the call to conquest. And we see this in verses 1 down to verse number 7. After Joshua's death, God again calls his people to complete the task. They are to finish the occ uh to take possession of the land, the occupation of the promised land. Now, Joshua had already won the major military victories. If you read the book of Joshua, the major cities, the major strongholds had been conquered. That opened up the way for the twelve tribes to go in and fully possess the land. But they still had to fight, and there were still territories they had to conquer. And that reminds us, as New Testament believers, Jesus won all the major victories for us, right? But that doesn't mean that we don't have to fight. We still have to take possession of our inheritance, what the Lord has given us. So notice here, first of all, the guidance they requested in verse number Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass that the children of Israel asked the Lord, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites first? to fight against them. Now here's a good start. When faced with the question of who will lead us into battle, the children of Israel, they turn to God, not to human strategy. That's a good way to start. In the vacuum of leadership, the Israelites acknowledged that God was their leader, and so they seek the guidance of God. And by the way, how did they seek God's guidance? Well back then they would use uh kind of like casting lots, two stones that were most believe were in the priest's uh uh breastplate, kind of a little pocket behind the breastplate, the two stones, Urim and Thumin, and they would just kind of cast these stones down like you would throw down lots. And then we get answers from the Lord. Remember, this was given to Joshua in Numbers chapter 27, verse 21, and they began to use it. Joshua used it several times. uh when he was seeking the Lord's guidance and now they were following in uh the uh Joshua's footsteps looking for the guidance of the Lord. But this is a thing that we want to emulate. We want to go to God And we want to get our directions from God. So there's the guidance they requested, but then write down the guaranteed they received. Look at verse 2. And the Lord said, Judah shall go up. And behold, I have delivered the land into his hand. And this is a great promise. This almost sounds like Joshua 1 3, every Place where the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you. It's almost like God is reaffirming this promise here to this new generation. And so God gives a promise of victory before even they can unsheath their sword That's a wonderful guarantee here. God gives us the same promise when we trust in Him, when we face battles, whether temptations or trials. We seek God's direction. We don't fight alone. God gives us his promise. He gives us his strength, right? Romans 8. 37, nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors. But notice where it says in verse 2, Judah shall go up. God chooses Judah to be the lead tribe. Judah will lead you in the battle. Now why does God choose Judah? Well I think part of the reason for that is in Genesis forty nine, Jacob when he was blessing his children, said this over Judah Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise, and then later on the scepter shall not depart from Judah And so Judges chapter 1 is kind of following that prophetic word that Judah would emerge as the lead tribe in Israel, but also out of that tribe would come the leader, the king, that is the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a sense in which having Judah lead in Israel's battle was God's foreshadowing the ultimate deliverer, the ultimate leader, the Lord Jesus Christ. But also notice that there's a partnership. Look at verse 3. And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites. And I likewise will go with thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him. And and Judah went up, and the Lord delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand. And they slew of them in Bizek ten thousand men. So here there's a partnership between the tribe of Judah and the tribe of Simeon. Why did they work together? Well, first of all, in Genesis it says that Simeon and Judah were blood brothers. They both had Leah as their mother. So that was a reason to be united. They were united by blood. But also, it revealed that the Bible reveals in Genesis, or excuse me, in Joshua 19. that they shared their inheritance. That is part of Simeon's inheritance was within the tribe of Judah. So since they shared an inheritance, they were blood brothers, it made really good sense that they fight together, that they work together. But another thing was Simeon was the smallest tribe. If you look at the book of Numbers 26, they're the smallest tribe by far. Sometimes weaker brothers need the help of stronger brothers. Amen. And that's so true even today in our church. And so this is a beautiful picture of unity and fellowship. We're united by blood. We're united by inheritance. We are we are we need to help those who need help, help one another, and God's people need to work together. And we see that here. But notice next, another thing I see is Adonai Bizek, it's a wicked king who receives punishment. Look at verse 5. And they found Adonai Bizak and Bizak, and they fought against him, and they slew the Canaanites and the Pharizzites. But Adonai Bizak fled, and they pursued after him and caught him, and cut off his thumbs and his great toes. So when Judah and Simeon defeat this king, they do something that sounds really cruel when we read it, right? They cut off his thumbs and his big toes. Uh but there's two things to note about this. First of all, he got what he deserved because he himself confesses that this was something that he had done to other kings when he conquered them. Look in verse number seven. And Adonai Bizak said, Three score and ten kings having their thumbs and their great toes cut off, gathered their meat under my table. As I have done, so God hath requited me. And they brought him to Jerusalem and there he died. So he is confessing, you know what? But what we sow, right? He was reaping what he had sown. But secondly, the reason they did this in that time was it ensured that this enemy could not be a threat in the future. If you cut off a man's thumbs, you know what he can't grab hold of? He can't grab hold of a sword. If you cut off his his uh big toes. He can't run very fast, and he can't stand in battle. A soldier has to be able to have good footing to be able to fight in battle. And so this king was basically he was humiliated, he was defeated, he was rendered ineffective. Now, all of this to me is a beautiful illustration of what God does to our chief enemy. You know who that is? That's Satan Just like Adonai Bizak was a cruel king, even Satan was. And both this king and Satan are rendered powerless. Neither one of them can stand against the king of kings. That's the lion of the tribe of Judah. That is the Lord Jesus Christ. And just like Adonai Bizak boasted of humiliating other kings, Satan delights in enslaving and in destroying lives. And just as this man was defeated by Judah, Satan was defeated by, again, the lion of the tribe of Judah. And you know what? Satan can't now he can no longer hold a sword over your head as a child of God because Jesus took that sword out of his hand And he can't hold that sword. What sword is it? What this causes people to fear? Well, the Bible says in Hebrews chapter 2, verse 15, that Satan keeps people in bondage through the fear of death. But you know what? Because of Jesus our conqueror, we don't have to fear death. So Satan can't hold that sword over us, can he? Because Jesus ta has taken that sword. out of his hand. Also, he cannot hold over us the sword of condemnation. The Bible says there is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. And so without these, without a man having big toes, he can't run. He can't stand. Satan can't stand over the child of God who is standing in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so it's a beautiful picture of the victory that we have in Christ. That is, so as a believer, you don't have to live in fear of Satan's grip. For the church, we're not fighting from or for victory, we're fighting from victory. For the person who doesn't know the Lord Jesus Christ, if you remain outside of Christ, you're still under the cruel hand of Adonai Bizac, but when you come to Jesus, he'll take the sword out of his hand. And you can be free. And so a beautiful picture here. Now, let me show you the next thing. We see the guidance they requested and the guarantee they received of victory. But then there's the ground they recovered. Look at verse number nine of chapter number one. And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites that dwell in the mountain and in the south and in the valley. And so here are three strategic areas that are mentioned that they took possession of. The mountain, that's the hill country. The south, that's the Negev, that is the desert area, uh right around Sinai. It's just a big desert area, and then there's the valley. which is the foothills that is uh also called the Shapela. And I want you to I want us to think about these areas. The hill country, that was the central the central highlands. This was a strategic place because whoever controlled the high ground always had a military advantage. So they wanted to control the high ground. It's also a natural defensive barrier against invaders. Spiritually, as a child of God, you know what? The high places in our lives are those areas that are hardest to reach, but you know what? That those areas need to be surrendered to God as every other area in our life. Victory in the heights brings stability to everything else. And then there was the South, that is the desert area. And this was the uh uh a region that was really a frontier against desert raiders. Cons controlling the South meant safeguarding Israel's borders. Spiritually speaking, the dry places of life can represent, I think, an illustrate to us the the times in our life that are times of testing and scarcity. You know what? God wants us to have victory in those dry seasons of our life. Just as everywhere else. We have to learn to say like the Apostle Paul, I know how to be abase, I know how to abound. I can do what? All things through Christ. Even in the wilderness seasons, God wants to give us victory. He wants to give us protection. And then there's the valley. That again is the area called the Shepelah. This would be fertile farmland, the rolling hills, broad valleys. This would really be called the breadbasket of Judah. This was also a buffer zone between the Philistines that lived on the coast and the Israelites that lived in in the hills. So um one way I picture this, it might not help you, but it's always helped me when I was studying the Old Testament I picture the Philistines as kind of beach people, beach bumps, you know. And I picture the the Israelites as hillbillies living in the hills. And there's the valley right in the middle of that plain where they would meet. There was a buffer zone. And many of the and many of the battles that were fought uh in the Old Testament were fought in that buffer zone. But here Judah uh had to take this place here as well, the valley, that buffer zone. And again the spiritual lesson is the valley represents the everyday battles of life, the place where the crops grow and the daily needs are met. We have to have spiritual victory in the ordinary places of daily living, not just on the mountaintop, but we also have to have victory there in those daily places. So spiritually, what does this teach us that God wants us to have victory in every dimension of our life? He wants us to have victory in the heights. In the dry places, in the valleys of daily living. God wants us to have full victory in every area of our life. But there's another place I think that's interesting that they conquered. Look at verse 11. And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Deber. And the name of Deber before was Kerjeth Sefer And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kircheth sefer, and taketh it, to him will I give Asa my daughter to wife. But let's just focus on verse 11 here first. The word dever comes from the Hebrew word, which means word. And Kirgeth Sefer means city of books or city of the scrolls. Now some scholars believe it may have been the center of Canaanite learning or the place where there was record keeping. But whoever held that that area between the hill country and the lowlands controlled the movement in that land. In Joshua chapter 10, Debra was a city that was conquered once already, but we can see by now the Canaanites had taken over that city again, and it had to be reconquered. What's the spiritual lesson from Dever that we can learn? Since his name means city of books, Diva reminds us that battles are fought not only with swords. But they're fought with ideas. With ideas. There's a battle for the mind. And I can say Debra is an illustration of the strongholds. Remember what Paul wrote in 2 Corinthians 10, 4 for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God through the pulling down of strongholds, casting down every imagination, every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. and bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. What we allow to shape our thinking will determine our spiritual victory. So it begins there in the mind. The battle is there in the mind. Your thoughts must be conquered. And just because you conquered them once doesn't mean you're not going to have to conquer them again. Debra was conquered before, but they had to go back and conquer it again. Every day is a battle where we have to get control of our thoughts. That's where the victory is. So there was the guidance they requested, the guarantee they received, the ground they recovered, but then another thing I want you to see here under this point is the giants they routed. Look at verse number ten. And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron. Now the name of Hebron before was Purjeth Arba, and they slew Shishai and Aheman and Talmai. Now who are they? These are three men that are named in this passage. And we see these three men that were named before. According to Numbers chapter 13, they were giants. Remember, there were giants in the promised land. That's what scared the children of Israel. You remember that in Numbers 13, when the spies explored the land of Canaan, they saw uh giants. These were the sons of Anak. And again, here are some of these men that are s that are part of that family. And uh why is this significant? Well, earlier Israel failed to enter the land because of these giants. They could not conquer these giants But now under the leadership of Judah, they confront them and they defeated them. You know what this teaches us? that what what once what we once feared or what we once may have uh c may have caused our defeat What once may have intimidated us doesn't mean it has to stay that way. We can overcome the giants that previously defeated us. That's really the lesson that I see here. These giants can represent obstacles, sins, strongholds in our lives that seem impossible to overcome, but with the Lord's help, we can overcome them. Giants can intimidate, but guess what? Giants can be defeated. Past failures do not dictate future victories. They were able to go in. They were able to overcome these giants. Even if we stumble in the past, there are new opportunities for victory in the future. Don't dwell in the past. Don't dwell in the past defeats You just go on and you claim victory for God and you move on. And God will grant you victory, just like He does here. So at the beginning of Judges 1, It's good it looks good. I mean they're having victory. Things are going well. This is a great beginning. And then it continues. Not only the call to conquest, but here is number two, write this down. The courage to continue It's going to continue for a while. And we're going to see some people kind of step up. And they're kind of given a spotlight here in chapter one because of their courage. First of all, there's the courage of Caleb. We saw this already in verse 12. Look at verse 12 again. And Caleb said, He that smiteth per sefer and taketh it to him will I give Asa my daughter to wife. Now we we remember Caleb, right? Who was he? He was one of the twelve spies. And him and Joshua were the ones who had faith to believe that God could help them overcome the giants in the land. But because of the unbelief of Israel, they had to stay back for 40 years. Now here is Caleb again. He's just as ready now as he was 40 years prior. He's ready to take possession of what God has given him. And he needs the help of those around him. So he kind of gives this uh this order. He says, Look, any man that can take this city I'll give him my daughter for what to be a wife, Kurdis Sefer. Now that's a tall order for a father. You want to marry my daughter? Let me see how well you can fight. If you fight well and you're you can overtake this city, I'll let you have my daughter. Now, you say, why this? Well, think about it this way. This is a father that values his daughter. Any man that can take a city, that can conquer a city, has to be a wise man. They have to be a strong man, and they have to be a courageous man And so by making this offer, uh Caleb was guaranteeing that his daughter would get a good man. Not only that, we would also say this would have to be a man who had faith in God to be able to have these victories. And so what we see here is a father placing a high value upon his daughter. And by the way, there's an underlying theme that goes throughout the whole book of Judges, and it's this. the treatment of women. And as you look through the whole book of Judges, you can trace the spiritual climate and the moral condition of that nation by how they treat the women. This is again an underlying current that we see all throughout the book of Judges. In the beginning of the book of Judges, here's a father that is honoring his daughter, that is making sure that she gets a good man. But by the time you get to the end of the book of Judges, you're going to see a woman being brutally mistreated in the most shameful manner, in the most shameful way. And so what you see is a a constant decline in the way that women who are a gift from Almighty God to our world. Amen. Men? It's a good place to put an Amen in there, gentlemen. A gift from God to our world, and they should be treated with honor and dignity and respect. And what happens is we see that that is not happening. It's a there's a steady decline in the way that women are being treated here. But here at the beginning we see this father uh honoring his daughter. So we see the courage of Caleb, then we see the courage of Athniel. Athniel is the one who steps up to the plate. Look at verse 13. And Athniel, son of Canaan is Caleb's younger brother took it and he gave him Achsah, his daughter, to wife. So Athniel, his nephew, rises to the challenge. He wins the battle and he wins the bride. He captures a city and he becomes Caleb's son-in-law. And by the way, this foreshadows his role as a judge in Israel. We'll see him in chapter three. He'll come back up. He is one of the great judges. that led over the nation of Israel. We see the courage of Caleb, the courage of Athniel, but then also the courage of Aeksah. This is the daughter And like her like father, like daughter here. Because he's going to show some courage and some faith. Well, how does she do that? Well she asked for the springs of water to go with her inheritance. Look at verse Number fourteen, it came to pass that when she came to him that she moved to ask him of her father of a field. And she lighted from off her ass, and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou And she said unto him, Give me a blessing, for thou hast given me a south land. Give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and another spring. So what does she do? Now Caleb had given her some land in the Negev that is in the south. Remember, that was a dry, arid place. And without water, the land was practically useless for crops. It's one thing to have a lot of land, but it's another thing to have water on that land to be able to grow something on it. And so water in that climate and in that day was a precious, precious resource. So she asked boldly. She didn't just settle for a barren land. She asked her father for something that would make that land fruitful. And so. She comes to him boldly and she asks boldly. You know, I when I think about this as far as applying it to believers, you know, many of us sometimes we live in dry lands, but God doesn't want us just to live dwell in dry lands. He wants us to have the resource of the Holy Spirit, which is makes us fruitful in our own spiritual life And just like she came before her Father asking boldly for those springs, you know what? Believers should come to our Father asking boldly for the fullness of the Holy Spirit in our life. We should be asking for that constantly. Jesus said this. If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him And so this is the courage of this young woman. And by the way, we see faithfulness being passed on. Caleb, who was a faithful man and who Who acted boldly and trusted the Lord, we see that same thing coming out of his daughter, which tells us that faith needs to be taught and passed on to the next generation. So we see the courage of Aesab, but then we see the courage of Judah. Now remember, earlier in the chapter, God promised Judah. He said, If you go, I'll give you victory. So here, Judah be goes. They have been given the promise of victory, but Judah still has to fight. You see, even if God promises you something, that doesn't mean you can just sit around and do nothing. You have to do your part. So look notice in verse number 16. And the children of the of the Canaanite, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of the palm trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Aride, and they went and dwelt among the people And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew the Canaanites that inhabited Zethath, and utterly destroyed it, and the name of the city was Hormah And Judah also took Gaza with the coast thereof, and Ashkelon with the coast thereof, and Ekron with the coast thereof. And so here, Judah obeys the command of God to go, and they go, and guess what? Just like God said, God gives victory. And that's always the formula that we see in Scripture. When God commands us to do something, if we take God at His Word and we obey and we put feet to faith, you know what's going to happen? There's going to be victory in our life. That's what happened here with Judah. God promises spiritual victory, and He'll give it if we obey and we trust. So we see the call to conquest. We see the courage to continue. And so far in Judges chapter 1, everything is going great. You're saying, wow, they're getting off to a great start here. But now we see the third thing, the cracks of compromise. The cracks of compromise because everything then changes. The tone changes. The cracks begin to appear in verse number 19. Now notice what it says, and the Lord was with Judah, and he drave out the inhabitants of the mountain. But could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley because they had chariots of iron. So far, so good. God is with Judah. They had victory on the mountain. They take possession of the hill country, but Judah was not fully victorious because verse 19 says they could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley. Why? Well, because it says here in verse 19, because they had chariots of iron. Why were they unable to drive out the Canaanites with chariots of iron? Well, really the problem was not the iron chariots, because sometime later, we'll see this as we move on in Judges chapter 4, God will defeat those iron chariots The iron chariots are not a problem for God. God will defeat them. So that really wasn't the problem. The problem was they had faith on the mountain, but they had no faith in the valley. That's the problem. They allowed what looked like to them an insurmountable problem in the valley to limit their faith. They allowed fear to dominate them and they forgot faith. They looked at their problems instead of looking at God. See, when you are following the will of God, don't despair when circumstances seem daunting. The God on the hill is the God in the valley. He's the same God. He's the exact same God. Don't let the size of your problem become bigger than the size of your God. And so what we see as a result of that, when they took their eyes off of God and they put their eyes on the problem, they went from victory to defeat. And they went from full obedience to God to partial obedience. And they brought defeat. So the rest of chapter one, what do we see? We see a few wins, but we see massive losses. Look in chapter one, look in verse number twenty-one. Just follow along here with me and see if you can see this, a phrase that's repeated over and over again. Look at verse 21. And the children of Benjamin did not drive out. The Jebusites that inhabited Jerusalem. Look at verse 27. And neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shien and her towns. Look at verse 29. Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gizer. Look at verse 30. Neither did Zebulon drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Neholo. Look at verse number thirty uh one. Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Acho. Look at verse thirty-three. Neither did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Beshemesh. Are you sitting starting to see a pattern here? Kind of get the message. They all began to fail. Instead of destroying the Canaanites, they were unable to drive them out. And you know what they did? Instead of having complete victory over them, like God said, they decided to make their own plans and schemes and they compromised with the Canaanites. They they made them pay taxes. They use them for gain. Since they couldn't really completely defeat them and get rid of them, they say, Hey, you know what? I have a good idea. I can just imagine this coming up in a city council meeting. You know what we should do? Let's make them pay taxes. Hey, that's a great idea. That's a good way to get some extra income. So they decided to tax them. Look in verse number 28 of chapter 1. It came to pass when Israel was strong. That they put the Canaanites to tribute and did not utterly drive them out. Hey, let's make the Canaanites beneficial to us. No need to get rid of them. Let's just tax them But in Deuteronomy chapter 7, God had commanded them to fully remove the Canaanites and destroy their idols. And what began as total victory turns into a toleration of the enemy. And this is where many believers stumble in their own life, when we tolerate small sins, when we tolerate anger and lust and bitterness. Thinking we can control them. You know, sometimes believers think that they can make sin work in their benefit, that they can use it But what we tolerate will eventually dominate us because sin never stays small. Paul said this in Galatians 4 or chapter 5, verse 9. A little bit of leaven leavens the whole lump. Right? Just a little bit of leaven, a little compromise can spread, and it can affect the whole heart, and it can bring defeat in your Christian life. Just as sure as cancer will metastasize, little sins will grow. So leaving Canaanites in the land is like leaving a small crack in the dam. Over time, water pressure enlarges the crack until eventually the whole dam just bursts. And it's over. And so we see these litany of failures here at the end of chapter one. And it kind of reaches a crescendo by the end of chapter one. Look in chapter one, look down at verse number thirty-four And the Amorites forced the children of Dan into the mountain, for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley. Wow The Amorites wouldn't allow the tribe of Dan to leave the mountain. They confined them to the mountain. These were the Canaanites, first of all, they were supposed to drive them out. And they didn't do that. They compromised with them. And now the Canaanites are saying, you can't leave your mountain. You ever hear that song, I Want That Mountain? Well the Canaanites said to the Neanites, You you got your mountain, but you just can't leave it. We're not gonna let you go anywhere. And so they were, as it were, in prison there on that mountain. The Amorites would not allow them to come down to the plain. You see, God's people were intended to have dominion, but instead they were dominated. The very people Israel should have expelled are now controlling them. And again, that's what we see. That's the pattern of compromise. And when we allow sin and we try to use compromise in our life for our own benefit, we see partial Obedience and it leads to ultimately defeat in our life. And so that's the lesson for us. So let me just give you a A few lessons in closing tonight from chapter one. Compromise always leads to captivity. We just saw that, right? The tribe of Dan's failure illustrates that spiritual principle. What you refuse to conquer will one day conquer you. So don't make any compromises. Number two, half obedience is still disobedience. We see this, we didn't have time to look at all of it, but the house of Joseph illustrates this partial victory They subdued the Amorites, but they allowed them to remain because it profited them. They just put them to tribute. They just taxed them And God calls his people not merely to restrain sin, but to remove sin completely. Number three, have faith in God's promise. Have faith in God's promise. It's very simple. But we fail to do it. And this whole story, again, Caleb, let's go back to him because he kind of stands out. Look down in verse number 20. And and and they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses said, and he expelled thence the three sons of Anak. So here's Caleb. And uh the He wholly follows the Lord, unlike the rest of the Israelites who are compromising and failing. Here's this old man Caleb, and you know what? There's not a compromising bone in his body. He's wholly given over to the Lord, and he's able to fully take possession of what God has given him. And here's this old man, and you know what? The sons of Enoch are no problem for him. He drives them out. And uh that is a beautiful illustration of the victorious Christian. You see, when we rely on human reasoning, we're going to forfeit God's full blessing. But when we trust the Lord and we act in faith The Bible says this is a victory that overcomes the world, even our faith. Even our faith. But then here's the last thing I want you to see. Don't live below your inheritance. You know, every believer has been given an inheritance in Christ, and yet there's a sense in which a lot of times believers fail to live up to the full inheritance. We live below our inheritance because we live in fear and compromise and unbelief. Like the tribe of Dan, we dwell in the mountains, but we can't leave there because the Canaanites won't let us leave. This passage is a call for us to lay hold. of what Christ has given us, all the blessings that we have in Christ. Don't be driven to the mountains of defeat. Don't settle for tributaries when God is offering total victory. Don't compromise with what God commands you to conquer You live in complete total victory. Partial obedience means eventually full defeat. And God wants you to live in complete total victory. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Take a moment and just think about what we've studied here in Judges chapter 1. Israel started with prayer and promise and power. But then they started to use the Canaanites. They thought we can profit from them, we can manage them, we can keep them under tribute. Their partial obedience felt practical. It may have even appeared wise. Yet those Canaanites later rose up to conquer them. Sin never stays where you put it, it grows. Just remember this: whatever iron chariots you have in the valley that you're in, they're no match for the God who is able to give you victory. And I want you to think about this. Whatever Canaanites you've been allowing in your life, you need to get rid of them. Evict them. Whatever sins you've tolerated. Remove it. Ask God for His cleansing and forsake any sin, all sin. And we need to be like the the daughter of Caleb and just don't settle for just dry out cor dry ground. Just ask for the living water. Seek the fullness of the Holy Spirit in your life that gives you victory. Lord help us not to make peace with what you call war. And Lord, show us the compromises that we've welcomed. Maybe we have been oblivious to it. Maybe we've been blind to it, and yet we've We welcome compromise. Show us that. And Lord, help us to forsake it. And Lord, by your spirit, help us to renounce them. And to drive out the Canaanites and to yield every room of our heart to your rule. Father, make my dry places a spring. Give me victories in my valley, Lord, and help me to fully inherit uh to take full possession of the inheritance that You've given me in Christ, and I pray this word for every believer, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen