Take your Bibles tonight, it's good to see you here in God's house. And I want you to open to the Book of Romans, chapter two. As you know, we're studying Romans And uh, you know, uh a book like Romans, you can be in this for years. That's not my intention. That's why I'm kind of taking paragraph by paragraph, you know, as they taught us, pericope. That's just a word that means a complete argument And we're kind of going through section by section through the book of Romans, and hopefully you'll get a better understanding of this great book because it teaches some great theology. We're going to deal tonight with Romans chapter 2, verse 17 to the end of the chapter. Perhaps you've heard of the well-known story written by Hans Christian Anderson of the Emperor's New Clothes. Do you remember reading that? when you were perhaps in elementary school, it's kind of a favorite because of its humor and the point that it makes. There was a certain emperor, and he was very fond of his clothes and his appearance And uh when these clever philosophers came, uh they were actually con men, really, and they offered to weave him a very rare and costly garment. He was very receptive to that idea because he liked to look nice And he was especially interested in the promise that they gave him that said the garment would be invisible to all but those who are wise and pure in heart. Well, he was very delighted by this, and he commissioned that this new clothing be done. It was at a great cost by these conmen that of course he didn't know were con men. And they began what they you know, supposedly uh began to do was was to weave a suit and uh but they were sitting at an empty loom pretending just to weave And the emperor, uh, he wanted to see what was going on, and so he sent his chief servant to go and look. And the chief servant looked in and he saw these men. weaving on an empty loom. There was nothing, no clothing that he could see there, but he didn't want to think of himself as being unwise or n uh impure of heart. So when he went back to the king's report, he said, Oh, the clothing is so beautiful on the loom. And these conmen then asked the king for more money. They said it's going to take more to finish this special suit. And the king got impatient again, so he sent a second group of servants to look. And they looked in and again they saw empty loom uh and then you know supposedly making these cloth clothing on the loom and again they didn't want to think themselves to be foolish Or of impure hearts. So they went back and they gave an even greater report to the king. Oh, it's fantastic, it's beautiful, it's wonderful. Well the king got impatient again, and so this time he decided he would go down himself And he saw these men working on an empty loom, but he didn't want to think of himself as being foolish or impure of heart And so he pretended that he could see the clothing and even gave the men medals for the great job that they were doing. And finally the day came when he was to wear this suit. And these Khan men dressed him in this invisible clothing, this invisible garment, and they had a big parade And the king paraded down the street of his kingdom with all the people looking on, with no clothing on. But none of the people in the kingdom wanted to recognize that. They didn't want, first of all, they didn't want to anger the king. And secondly, they themselves didn't want to be considered foolish or impure of heart. So everyone pretended to love the king's clothing. Oh, it's beautiful What wonderful clothing you have until finally there was a moment of silence and a little boy spoke out as little children are often do. And he said, the king has no clothes. The emperor has no clothes. And in a moment there, uh everyone in the kingdom, everyone in the in the nation in the nation was convicted and of their hypocrisy. All the hypocrisy was stripped away at that one moment, just the remark of a small child who didn't know enough to be quiet All the hypocrisy was gone. Now that story purposeful uh very uh I should say purposefully uh illustrates What the Apostle Paul is really talking about here in chapter 2, verses 17 down to verse 29, it illustrates the condition of the Jews that Paul is writing to They have been deceived into thinking that they were righteous. They were parading about clothed in their own righteousness, at least they thought, but actually they were parading around naked. Spiritually. They were very proud and they were blinded by their pride. And what Paul does here in this section of chapter two is he strips away all of the pretense And he makes these religious people take a good look at themselves. And basically what Paul's doing here in this Part of chapter two is he's saying to these self-righteous people, you have no clothes. You're completely stripped. They were like the church at Laodicea. If you remember that passage where it says they were miserable, they were poor. They were blind and they were naked. Now what's the problem? The problem is self-deception. The problem is that they thought they were somebody that they really were not. And this problem is not limited to just the Jews here in this chapter. There are many religious people today that are religious and yet they're self-deceived about what they really are. And they're standing before God. There are many people that feel like they have a good relationship with God, a a right relationship with God. In fact, sometimes I'll go out witnessing and I'll knock on the door and I'll talk to a person about the Lord, and you know what they say, oh I'm all right. Me and God we're alright. Everything's alright. But the truth of the matter is it's not alright. And they are deceived about their standing Remember what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew seven twenty one? He said, Not everyone that says unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that does the will of my Father which is in heaven. And then he said, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils And in thy name have done many wonderful works, and then I will profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you worker of iniquity. They thought that their works were right and before God. They did all these things in the name of God, but what did Jesus say about those works? They were workers of iniquity. The worst kind of badness is human goodness when you try to use it for salvation. That is, what does the Bible say? All of our righteousness is as filthy rags. So this is what Paul's going to do here. He's going to strip away the clothing and let these folks see what they really are before God. Now remember, in chapter 1, Paul proved the pagan Gentile world was guilty before God without excuse. And the first part of chapter two, Paul calls into the courtroom the moralist person. This is the person who has high morals. They have a high moral standing, whether they be Jew or Gentile There's a lot of commentators that think that the first part of chapter two is also written to the Jew, and I think that's true, but I think Paul's including everyone that thinks themselves to be moral or to have goodness And he kind of brings them into the courtroom and he he kind of shows that they are without excuse before God. They're inexcusable. They're guilty before God as being sinners. And now here in the second part of chapter two, I think Paul is speaking exclusively of the Jewish people, those who are thinking just because of their uh the f the by virtue of the fact that they are children of Abraham, that they are right with God. And Paul's going to expose them, and he's going to rip away the pretense of their self-deception. And so what I want you to see here then are just three blind spots in our passage that Paul points out to these self-righteous Jews, these religious Jews, who think their standing before God is alright when actually it's not. Now you say, what does that have to do with me? I'm not Jewish. Well, the principles apply to anyone who may assume that they're okay, their standing before God is good. We have to take a good hard look at ourselves and make sure that we're not living a hypocritical life, but that we're real before God. So here's the first thing, the first blind spot, and that is I would call their proud heritage That is the blindness of false rest. Look in verse number 17. Behold, thou art called a Jew, and resteth in the law. And maketh thy boast of God. Now, Jews rested in their religious heritage. They thought they were okay because simp they simply because they possessed the truth. In the Old Testament, the minor prophets repeatedly warned their fellow countrymen about arrogant boasting in their heritage as God's chosen people, and that caused them to be very arrogant and proud Micah one time declared that to the Jews who were very presumptuous and thought that they were right with God, he said, Is not the Lord, they would say, Is not the Lord in our midst? And Micah would go on to say, one day God is going to lead Jerusalem in a heap of ruins, because you think that just because you are a Jew, you're right with God. And this is the attitude that Jesus found during his earthly ministry. On one occasion Jesus was teaching, and he said this if ye abide in me and my words abide in you, then are you my disciples indeed, and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free And there were some Jews there standing and they heard that, and guess what? They got offended. And they said to Jesus, We are Abraham's offspring And we have never been enslaved to anyone. How can you say that we're going to be free? We've never been enslaved to any uh to anything or anyone. Don't you know who we are? We are children of Abraham. And the Lord said, This, Verily, verily I say unto you that he who commits sin is the servant, or we could say slave to sin. And what Jesus was making clear here is that being Abraham's physical descendants did not make the Jews their spirit did not make the Jews their spiritual descendants, or his spiritual descendants, I should say. And then Jesus said this, if you were the children of Abraham, you would do the deeds of Abraham. But you are of your father. And they said, we've only had one Father. A God is our Father. And Jesus said this, if God was your Father, you would love me. And you would obey me. But you of your father what? The devil. Just because you're a child of Abraham doesn't mean you're right with God. And John the Baptist Did the same thing. He kind of tried to rip away the pretense. One time there was a group of Pharisees that came to the River Jordan where he was baptizing, and John rebuked them. Remember what he said to them? He said, You brood of vipers Who has warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore, bring forth fruits, meet for repentance. Prove your repentance. by your works, and then I will baptize you. And then John said this, and do not suppose that you can say to yourselves, We have Abraham for our father, for I say to you that God is able from these stones To raise up children for Abraham. And so that was the attitude. And again, I say that in a similar way, there are many people that consider themselves just right with God. simply because of their heritage, because they've been born into a Christian family, or they have some association with the church. There are many people that just assume that they're alright. You go to some countries and you ask them, you know, are you a Christian? Yes. Well how why how do you know that you're a Christian? You continue to tell me why you're a Christian and they'll say, Well, because I'm not a Muslim, and so therefore I must be a Christian Or or or I'm I live in this country and we're a Christian country and so therefore I'm a Christian. Or if you go down south in our country here, America, uh everyone down south is a Christian Just by virtue of the fact that they live down south. And they're and their parents all have been members of the church for generations. And every once in a while they'll go to church. And they just assume that they're just they're Christians because that's part of our heritage. That's part of who we are. We're Christians. And this was part of the problem that the Jews had, that the Apostle Paul is dealing with. Because notice six aspects of their heritage that they rested in. Look again at verse 17: Behold, thou art called a Jew. They they took pride in calling themselves Jews. Now in the ancient days they were called Hebrews and Israelites, but after the Babylonian captivity they began to be called Jews And this comes from the tribe of Judah, which was the lead tribe that was kind of Jewish short for Judah, and it actually means one who is praised. And one commentator wrote this, he said they wore the name Jew as a badge of great honor and pride. The name marked them off as the unique and specially favored people of God And so they were proud of that name. And they were with great dignity. And then here's the second thing. They relied on possession of the law. Look again in verse 17. Behold, thou art called a Jew and resteth in the law. The word rest here has the idea of placing one's hope in something. Their hope came in simply possessing the Torah. They thought they had a special status just by virtue of the fact that they had in their hands. That would be like someone today, you owning a Bible, thinking just owning a Bible makes you sanctified in some way You know, it's like what people do when the pastor is going to come over. They they dust the Bible off. First they have to find it And when they finally find it, they put it on the coffee table or some prominent place. And they think just by virtue of the fact of having the Bible in their home or on a coffee table or on the mantle that somehow in some way that sanctifies you and makes you special in the eyes of God. But just by just by virtue of the fact that you possess the Bible doesn't mean that you're right with God. It's really Not do you possess the Bible, but does the Bible possess you? Is it in you? That's the question. But also they bragged about God. Look in verse again, 17, and makest thy boast of God. Now boasting in God can be good if you do it the right way for the right reasons. But these Jews were boasting about being God's favorites. They were boasting in themselves, really. They were boasting in their own unique privileges. They thought that they had earned that privilege rather than it being something of the grace of God. But also they prided themselves on knowing his will. Look again in verse 18. And knowest thou his Will, and this was derived from just knowing the commandments of God, the Ten Commandments and other scriptures. Again, they knew God's will, but the problem is they weren't obeying it. Yeah, they knew all those laws They just weren't living them out. Heard about a businessman that was known for being ruthless, and one time he announced to Mark Twain, he said, Before I die I'm going to go make a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. He said, I'm going to climb Mount Sinai and I'm going to read the Ten Commandments aloud on top of Mount Sinai. And Mark Twain said, I have a better idea. Why don't you stay here in Boston and obey them Yeah, that's pretty strong. The Jews, they all knew the commandments. They just weren't doing them. But they boasted in that. But also, notice the next thing: it says, and knowest his will and approvest the things that are more excellent. That is, they were proud of their ability to discern things that were essential. Now the the word approve here in the Greek is uh docimizo that carries the idea of testing in order to find out what is legitimate, what is real. It was a word that was used in the ancient days to talk about Testing precious metals to make sure that they were authentic. And the Jews had this ability to discern And by the way, you also have that. Don't you? Do you understand just by virtue of the fact that you believe the Bible is God's Word and you read it and you hold to it, just that alone gives you an ability to discern right and wrong. Just the very fact that you're taught God's Word. Someone who doesn't believe the word of God, they uh uh you know, call me crazy, but I don't think they have the ability to really think clearly or discern. They have no basis They have no foundation. They're open for anything, any idea that comes down the way. They open themselves up. But if you hold to the scriptures and you believe it to be the very word of God, just by virtue of that and you read the scripture You have an ability to discern between right and wrong. And certainly they had that. And they boasted in that. We have the law of God. We have a foundation, we have a basis for which to reason and think, and so therefore we're able to discern, and that was certainly true of these people, but also they were they were confident About being instructed by the law. Look again in verse number 18. It says, and you approve the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law They boasted in the fact that, hey, we got instruction from the law itself. And truly that's a good thing to be proud of, not in an arrogant way. But in a humble way. You know, it's wonderful to be instructed out of God's word, out of the law. And they certainly were. They had that. By the way, the word instructed here is from the Greek word catechaio. It is where we get our word today, catechism, and that's the general meaning of oral instruction or teaching by repetition, or we could call it teaching by question and answer, that method of instruction. You know, uh who is the greatest being? Well God is the greatest being. Why were we created? We were created to glorify God and enjoy Him forever, and so on. catechisms that uh certain uh denominations use to instruct uh children. There's a Baptist catechism. I remember when we had family devotions when our kids were very small. We would have, you know, we would have our family devotions at nighttime. That seemed to be the best time to have it, because our kids would rather do anything than go to bed And so they always you they were never ready to go to bed. We try to do it any other time of the day, they had other things to do. But at nighttime just before bed that was a good time to instruct them. In fact when times I would forget they would say, Dad, aren't we going to have family devotions tonight? Well yeah, that's right, I forgot. And what we would do is we would go through a Baptist catechism where it was just a question and answer method of instruction. We just take a few minutes. And go through a few questions and go over a few scriptures together and talk about that and pray together. And that was pretty much it. But it's a good way to be instructed, and that's what these Jews were saying. We have been instructed by the law ever since we were children. We learned what the law had to say. And again, that was a good thing. But they were also confident in teaching the law. Look down in verse number 19, and are confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind and a light of them which are in darkness. They felt secure not only in what they knew, but also in what they taught. They considered themselves to be the most wise and the most competent teachers. Again, this parallels the church today. Many possessed the Bible. In fact, today we have several versions of the Bible. In fact, we have too many versions, English versions, I should say. We have today versions for different genders, denominations, and different preferences. We have hundreds of them. We think we know the revealed will of God today because we study We think we have a patent on the truth. And again, if you study God's word, you do have a lot of knowledge. But what happened with these Jews is that rather than that knowledge humbling them, and by the way, When you study the scripture and God begins to reveal truth to you, it shouldn't puff you up. It should do the opposite. It should humble you Because really it's not us. I mean we use all the normal ways of learning, reading and logic and reason, all the empirical ways of learning, we use that. But friend, if that's all we have, we're not going to really understand the truth Any truth that we truly grasp, you know why? It's because of the grace of God. It's because of the Holy Spirit of God that opens our eyes and helps us to see the truth. It shouldn't puff us up. It shouldn't make us think, oh, we're knowledgeable. It shouldn't make us be elitists in our view of who we are. It should be humbling, but this is what happened to the Jews. Rather than this knowledge, this instruction from the Word of God, humbling them and then thanking God for His grace, that God would open their eyes to see the truth Rather, they got puffed up about it. They got arrogant about that. And now the Gentiles, they sensed this arrogance because of this knowledge. You know what happened? They resented it. They resented that elitist attitude. One Roman historian said this among themselves, their honesty is inflexible, their compassion quick to move. But to all other person they show hatred and antagonism. And so the very privileges that should have produced humility and kindness and godliness produced arrogance, it produced a loveless egotism instead of that humility. And those who hold the truth of the gospel we hear today, who have the word of God, who have the gospel, who are privileged to learn, we need to guard against that same thing. We need to make sure that learning God's Word Brings about a humility and a brokenness in us rather than an elitist attitude. We who have the gospel We who know the truth because God has opened our eyes. Friend, we should be so grateful to God that He did that, that He opened our eyes to see the truth Because it's all of grace. It's all of God. This week I had the privilege of going to a viewing. This was a young man that I grew up with in my neighborhood. Uh and this was before I actually got saved. We kind of we were good friends. We we hung together. And again, this is before as a teenager we started coming to grace and My dad got into the gospel and got saved, and we all came to church and I got saved. Before that, I had some guys that I hung with in the neighborhood. And uh this was a guy that I was very close to And I had gotten word last week that he had died of cancer. And I knew his mother, I knew his uh sister, and I wanted to go there and show support. And just share the gospel with them at the viewing. And I remember just going there and seeing some of the old gang from the neighborhood. And friend, I want to tell you the first thought I had was thank God for his grace in my life. Where would I be without the grace of God? And I just saw a people that needed the gospel. They needed the love of Christ so much. And friend, that's what we have to do. We have to share the love of Christ. And we should not look upon folks who don't know Jesus with an elitist attitude. It should break our hearts. For those around us that don't know Jesus. Because again, friend, it's not because of anything good in us. It's all the grace of God. Where would you and I be without God's grace? I hate to think about it And so, again, we should never forget where God brought us from. Don't forget what you were. When God found you. This seemed to be the attitude of the Jews. They boasted in their proud heritage, and they had the blindness of a false rest. But here's the second thing I want you to see. Not only their proud heritage, the blindness of false rest, but write down number two, their proven hypocrisy. The blindness of false righteousness. Now look at verse number 21, because Paul turns to the Jew and in forceful language, he accuses them of hypocrisy now. He's going to get very strong. Look at verse 21. Thou therefore, which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? Thou that preachest a man should not steal. Dost thou steal? You see, notice how he leads up to this. You know, in verse number 20, just back up for a minute where he says that which has a form of knowledge. And of the truth of the law. He says to them, Yeah, you have a form of the knowledge of the truth, and the word form there, uh morphosis, which is really meaning an outline or a sketch It's used really in Scripture in one other place where Paul talks about those who have a form of godliness. And so really what it implies is a counterfeit. And Paul's basically saying, yeah, you have a form of righteousness, you have a form of religion, but it's just a form. Is it really authentic? And so that's when in verses 21 down to verse 23 he gets really serious. And what does he do? He asks a series of rhetorical questions designed to strip away the hypocrisy of many of these religious Jews. Again, he says, Thou that teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? Are you not listening to the things that you teach? Are you not doing the things that you teach? You know, sometimes uh in my lesser spiritual moments, I will complain a little bit to my wife. And her comeback line is always very convicting. She'll say, you know what? I just heard a good sermon on that. Do you not listen to what you say when you preach? Kind of convicting. And this is what Paul's saying here. Look, the you that teaches another? D did you teach yourself? And thou that preachest a man should not steal, does thou steal? Thou that saith a man should not commit adultery, does thou commit adultery? Thou that abhorst idols, dost thou not commit sacrilege? And so you can see that Paul's just kind of pounding at them here with these questions. He's saying basically you are guilty of the very sins that you preach against. This is blatant hypocrisy. R. Ken Hughes writes this: many of the Jewish teachers and leaders were guilty of these offenses, and it was common knowledge. That's why Paul could talk this way. The Talmud itself charged three of its most illustrious rabbis with adultery. One other scholar said this. Jews often robbed other pagan temples for the gold. They often robbed God by withholding part of their tithes and offerings, according to the Jewish historian Josephus. Some Jews also robbed the temple in other devious ways. Josephus said this He reports that on one occasion a group of Jewish men enticed a wealthy Roman woman into giving large sums of money to the temple. But instead of putting the money in the temple treasury, they divided it among themselves, according to Josephus. And so their lives did not measure up to the truth that they possessed. Everything on the outside looked good. But on the inside, it was corrupt. It was it was just it it was there was nothing there. It's the it's what Jesus talked about when he called them whited sepulchres when they would White works the outside, but inside it's filled with what? Dead man's bones. There's nothing real alive inside. That's what these Pharisees and some of these religious Jews were. They were hypocritical And their lifestyle. Again, what does this you say, what's this got to do with me? It forces us to look at our own life and ask the question, are we real in our walk? Do we practice what we preach? Are we living the right kind of life? One person wrote this. He said, we sing sweet hour prayer and are content with five or ten minutes a day. We sing longer Christian soldiers and wait to be drafted into his service. We sing oh four thousand tongues to sing, but we don't use the one tongue we have. He said, we sing there should be showers of blessing, but we don't come to church when it rains. He said, we sing, blessed be the tie that binds, and let the least little offense sever it. We sing, serve the Lord with gladness, and then we gripe about all the things that we have to do in church. That's not the way God wants his people to live. And so we have to look at our own life. Now Paul gives a strong rebuke. Look what he says in verse 24, very strong. He said, For the name of God is blaspheme among the Gentiles. through you as it is written. The name of God is being blasphemed among the Gentiles. In other words, the Gentiles were looking at These religious Jewish people they were looking at their lifestyle and you know what they were doing? They were saying if that's what being uh uh uh a religion your religion teaches, if that's what being a Jew is, then we don't want anything to do with it. They were blaspheming the name of God because they were looking at the life of these people. And again, I've said this before, and I'll say it again, beloved. People are watching our lives. They're watching how we live. They see what we do. And they see whether it's real in us just by how we live our life What kind of testimony are we giving to the world when they look at our life? We need to be careful of that. Now let me give you the last thing. There's their proud heritage. That's the blindness of false rest. It's their proven hypocrisy. The blindness of false righteousness. And then here's the last thing: the their profane heart. That's what I call the blindness of false ritual. Now, what Paul's going to do in verses 25 down to verse 29 is he's going to reveal another blind spot here, the Jews. They felt that they were saved just by an outward ritual. And what is the ritual that he talks about? They were dependent upon circumcision as their blanket of security. Look in verse number 25. For circumcision, verily profiteth If thou keep the law, but if thou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision. So we know that according to the Old Testament, this was the mark of the covenant that God made with Abraham in Genesis chapter 17 when God again confirmed to Abraham that he was going to give him a son from a natural-born son. And then God instituted this mark of the covenant. This surgery was a sign of the sinfulness of man. that was pat that's normally passed on from generation to generation. It spoke of the need for cleansing. And this big this ritual became a sign of being a Jew. And God commanded for all of them to do it. And this was so serious that if you read in Exodus, one time Moses was negligent to circumcise his son, and God almost took his life, except for the uh the intervention of his wife Sephora. This is how serious it was with God. And again, it reflected a person's devotion to God. It reflected the covenant that they were in with God. It reflected obedience to the law. But here's the point. You can be circumcised as a Jew, but that doesn't mean that you're right with God if you're not obeying him. Because all this was is an outward sign. It didn't all there wasn't nothing mystical about it that automatically made you right with God just because you went through this ritual But that's the way they treated it. They exalted it to something that it was not. And by the way, does that sound familiar? Because don't we do that all the time in churches? We exalt these rituals as if they have some kind of saving property or mystical property, as if by doing these things, somehow, some way, we're now right with God, and we forget that God looks on the heart We do this not us as good Baptists, but there are some Baptists and others That believe that just by water baptism, that makes you right with God. Just by going through that ritual itself, that you're going to go to heaven. They call that baptism regeneration. Or sometimes people treat church membership like that. Well, I am a member of this church. Or sometimes they think by just coming in, going through the sacrament of the Lord's Supper That they are right with God just by virtue of that one ritual there, that there's something mystical about that that makes them right with God And they're treating that ritual that way. And this is exactly what the Jews are doing. Donald Gray Barnhouse replaces circumcision with church membership in his commentary. Listen to what he said. He said this. For he is not a Christian who is one outwardly. Nor is that church membership which is outward in the flesh, but he is a Christian who is one inwardly, and the church membership is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter Whose praise is not of men, but of God. And so that kind of applies to us, doesn't it? God is looking on the heart. And Paul basically says here That if you are a circumcised Jew and you're not obeying God, you're not obeying His law, that circumcision is counted as what? Uncircumcision. Nothing happened to you You're not right with God just because of that. In fact, in the Old Testament, the even the Old Testament prophets accused the the Israelites of treating circumcision that way, and they basically said, God is looking for people who are of who have a circumcision of the heart. Their heart is clean before God and right with God. Look down at verse number 27 where it says, or verse 26, therefore If the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision? You know what he's saying there? He's saying that to a gentile who obeys the law Even though he's not circumcised, he's more right with God than a Jew who is circumcised and is not obeying the law. Because it's a matter of the heart. That's what God looks at. Look at verse 28. For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew which is one inwardly. And circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God. In other words, it's a heart matter. It's a matter of your heart. And really, you're not a real Jew just because you're circumcised, Paul says, outwardly, but the real Jew is one who has that inward surgical procedure in the heart Where your heart is cleansed by the Lord through the precious blood of Christ on the cross, who died for our sins. That's when the real cleanliness of the heart takes place, the real circumcision of the heart. That's what Paul said in Colossians. Listen to this. He said, You're complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power, in whom also ye are circumcised. with the circumcision made without hands and putting off the body of sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ You know what he's saying there? When you came to Christ, when you got saved, there was a surgical, spiritual surgical procedure on your heart where you were circumcised spiritually, and now you are united with Christ. Now you're one with him and you're clean. Before the Lord, you're a spiritual child of Abraham because you came to Christ by faith. You know that that song we sing in Sunday school? I haven't heard it much lately. I talked about it in my Sunday school class the other day. Father Abraham had many sons. Many sons had Father Abraham. What's the rest of it? I am one of them and you guys know it. So let's just what? And then it kind of breaks out into a spiritual hokey pokey, right? We're all talking. There's a truth in that. If you're saved and you know the Lord Jesus Christ, guess what? Your father is Abraham. I'm a child of Abraham, so are you. Praise the Lord. Because a spiritual transaction took place when I got saved. There was the circumcision of the heart. And that's what Paul's talking about here. If you want to get right with God, turn from your sin, turn to Jesus, be cleansed by the blood of Christ, his finished work on the cross. And when that happens, friend, your heart is right with God. It's not through outward rituals. Not through being a church member or being baptized or taking the Lord's Supper or any of those things. And those things are important, but they're important after you know the Lord Jesus. as your Savior. And that's the point that Paul is making here. And so he points out these blind spots, their proud heritage, their proven hypocrisy, their profane heart And so we have to be careful that we look at our own life so that there's no hypocrisy there. Hypocrisy deceives the hypocrite They were self-deceived. It damages unbelievers. Unbelievers look at a hypocrite and say, I don't want anything to do with church if that's what it's all about. And it dishonors God. And that's what Paul's talking about here, and we don't want to do that. So let me just, in the next few minutes here, just give you some practical things. Just so that we make sure that our hearts are right, even as believers, how to fight off any hypocrisy. First of all, Daily, meet with God. Just make sure that you're meeting with the Lord daily. And just spending time with Him. Spend time in the Word of God, in prayer. You know why? What does that do? We're constantly opening our heart up before the Lord. And we're praying, search me, O Lord, and know me and see if there's any wicked way in me. See if there's anything in my life, Lord, that I need to make right. Any hypocritical matter that I need to confess And confess your sins and your struggles. And confess them before the Lord. Lord, I struggle with this and I need your help and I need your grace. Spend time with the Lord. Secondly, cultivate honesty and humility towards others. Don't try to impress others with your godliness. Just be real and let people know that you're weak. And we don't you know I don't have all this figured out. I I'm trying the best I can to pursue sanctification and holiness in the fear of the Lord, but guess what I feel a lot? And I've got clay feet Even though I'm weak, you know what I find? God is strong. And his grace carries me along and helps me. Even when I get discouraged in my own life, it's the grace of God that picks me up. So cultivate honesty and humility toward others. And here's the final thing. When you read and meditate on the Bible, aim at applying it personally. Aim at application all the time. And I would say that even when you're in church and you're hearing the Word of God, you understand that there's nothing magical that happens by just hearing a sermon There's nothing magical. Now it's good, and there's a sense in which the word of God has an impact, but you have to be very proactive to apply what you hear. It's the application of truth that changes you. And so you know what? We should get into the practice of writing down things that the Lord is telling us and aim at applying these. How can I apply this? And I think the key to application is meditation. The things that we think about, those are the things that we do. And if we're constantly got God's word in our mind and we're thinking about the truth over and over again, you know what's going to happen? We're going to start to apply it to our life almost automatically. That's why Joshua said to the children of Israel, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night That thou mayest observe to according to what is written therein, then shalt thou make thy way prosperous and thou shalt have good success. In other words, you will observe to do all the things that are in it, the more you think about it. You see, the bridge between information and application is meditation. You think about it, and you think about it, and you think about it, and what happens is you just start to do it. And so we should aim at application, not just be hearers. Because this is what Paul's rebuking the Jews for here. They knew the law. In fact, they taught it. The problem is they just didn't do it. They just didn't live it. You can hear it, you can be very discerning with truth, but if you're not living it out, Then you need to there's something wrong. And that's the point that Paul's making here. And let's just make sure that we're honest in the way that we live before the Lord. Don't let the sin of hypocrisy deceive you. Don't let it damage unbelievers or dishonor our glorious God. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you for this word that Paul gives to the Romans, and Lord, to us, how we need to be reminded. We're reminded again of the great privileges that we have, Lord, just to have the Word of God, to be taught, to be instructed, to have a foundation of truth that helps us, Lord, to think rationally. And be discerning about what is right and what is wrong. And yet, Lord, we can have all these things and not be right with you. We can know the truth and yet not live it. And I pray, Lord, that that would not be the case with any of us. Remove from us, Lord, the leaven of the Pharisees, which Jesus said is hypocrisy. So very deceptive. And it can get into any one of us at any time. And may we live a life that is pleasing to you. A life of honesty, a life of humility. Because, Lord, as we said and we know that the truth should humble us, And it should cause us to seek your grace all the more. So, Lord, let that be our prayer. And Lord, help us to live this way and glorify you. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.