To look down at verse number 44. And tonight we want to deal with the parable of the hidden treasure and the pearl great price. Have you ever seen something that of great value? And when you saw it, you said, I just have to have that. And I'm willing to do whatever it takes to get it. I'm willing to sell everything or do anything legally to get that thing. That's really the theme of the parable here in Matthew 13, verse 44. Actually the two parables we're going to deal with these two together. Look at verse 44. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto treasure hidden a field. The which when a man hath found it he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and sell all that he has, and buys that field. And again the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking goodly pearls So when he had found the one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and he bought it. Now Let me again just kind of set the context for this parable here. If you've been with us on Sunday nights, you know we've been going through these parables one at a time. And you know that Jesus in these parables here is teaching us mysteries regarding the kingdom of God. Actually, what we see here, these parables can be uh can be divided into five groups. And these are parables that show, first of all, the origin of the kingdom, the parable of the soils, the four different kind of soils, and then parables regarding the opposition to the kingdom. We saw that in the parable of the wheat and the tares. Wherever God plants wheat, Satan will come along and plant tares, trying to uproot or trying to cause to stumble true believers. And then the operation of the kingdom, which is the must parable, the mustard, seed, and the leaven, we see that although the kingdom of God starts out small, it's going to grow to be big, and it's going to influence the whole world. And then there are parables about the obtaining of the kingdom. How does one become a part of the kingdom? And that is what is dealt with here in these two parables, the parable of the hid treasure. and the parable of the pearl of great price. So in these parables they explain to us the certain growth, the ultimate triumph of the kingdom, and how one can be a part of that And so that's the question. How do you become a part of the kingdom? Now the first four parables that Jesus taught were outside on the seashore to the multitudes. But these next three parables that he's going to give, these are inside. Look in chapter 13, look in verse number 36. Then Jesus sent the multitudes away And went into the house, and his disciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us the parable of the tares of the field. So while they're in, notice it's articular, the house, not just a house. This was the house where Jesus stayed in Capernaum. That's where he set up his ministry there. And this was perhaps Peter's house where Jesus stayed. So they go back into the house and they say, Master, tell us the interpretation of these parables that you've given. And Jesus does that, and along with that, he adds to the list, he gives three more parables for them. Later he's going to teach these parables to more people, and he encourages his disciples to do the same. But now in these two parables, the theme is the incredible supreme value of the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God has overwhelming value And it's worth everything that a person has. And again, these parables answer the question: how does one enter into the kingdom How does one become a part of the kingdom? So what I want to do with you tonight is I want to just, first of all, look at these two parables. And then I want us to look at the principles that we can learn from it. So first the parables, and then number two, the second part of the sermon, will be the principles that we extract from these parables. So first of all, let's look at them. Here's the first parable, the parable of the hidden treasure. Look again at verse 44. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hidden a field. The which when a man hath found it he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth, and selleth all that he has, and buys that field So in this first parable of these two, a man was in the field and he finds a treasure there. Now the parable doesn't say why the man is in the field. He may have been employed by the owner to work there. He was probably plowing in that field, and while he was plowing, he found this tr treasure that was buried there beneath the surface But when he saw this treasure, he realized the great worth of it, so much so that the parable says he sold everything he had that he might purchase the field and get the treasure. Now keep in mind in those days it was not unusual for people to bury their treasure in the field You'll remember the parable to talents in Matthew 26, where Jesus tells the story of a man. He gave a man five talents, and then he gave another man three, and another man one. And the ones with the five and three went out and invested those talents. But the man with the one talent, what did he do? He buried it. Now that shows that this was common in that day. People buried their valuables. Now today we uh we put our valuables in a bank because we think they're safe there That's another sermon, right? Or we put it in a savings and loan or a stocks and bonds or security, we might invest in real estate. But in those days People didn't have safety deposit boxes or banks, especially for the common people, for a peasant farmer like this man, he uh for a man who perhaps had this farm The wealthy had access to banks, but not the poor. And so if you had something that was very valuable you would bury it. This is especially true in Palestine, which was a place of war. Its history is filled with battles. And in order to keep a conqueror from taking their valuables, people often during war times would bury their valuables in a field. As a matter of fact, archaeologists have often found jars of golden coins and precious jewels and even pearls that have been buried in the field. And so the earth then in this sense was a storehouse for valuables. Josephus, the first century Jewish historian speaks of, quote, the gold and the silver and the rest of that most precious furniture which the Jews had and which the owners treasured up underground against the uncertain fortunes of war So again, Josephus is affirming that this happened a lot. And so therefore it wasn't uncommon for a man who may be plowing a field To find something that had been buried there. So here's this man. He's working. This is not his field. It's somebody else's field. He's a peasant farmer. And he, as he's plowing this field, stumbles upon this huge treasure. And he's filled with great joy. I guess so. You ever see people that won readers digest sweepstakes? Or someone who wins the lottery, or someone who struck it rich. This man, he he he struck it rich, so to speak. And so he covers the treasure back up. And then he goes and he sells everything that he has. He's not a rich man. It takes everything that he has. to buy this treasure because he sees the exceeding value of it. Now the question comes, was this legal? Did he do the right thing? Some question the legality of this man's actions covering the treasure, buying the field. Shouldn't the treasure belong to the owner of the field? This is a question that some people frequently ask about this parable. How could Jesus tell the story about a man who did something that was wrong? Well The way to understand this is to understand the Jewish background in this time. This man did not behave unethically. In fact, did you know that Jewish rabbinic law said that if a man finds, quote, scattered fruit, scattered money, these belong to the finder, end quote. That's the law. So the law was finders, keepers, finish the rest of it. Losers, weepers, that's right. Finders-keepers. Now, that was not only Jewish law, but Roman law as well. Because this man found the treasure. He was within the bounds of Jewish rabbinical law to get that treasure. In other words, to do it in a legal way, the people listening to this parable would not think that he was doing anything unethical The treasure that was in the field didn't belong to the owner. If he had owned it, in fact the owner didn't even know it was there. If he had known it was there, then he wouldn't have sold that field to this man. This man went and bought that field from him. He would have taken the treasure out before he sold the field. He didn't know it was there. And so this treasure was evidently put there by a previous owner before him And for some reason this man couldn't recollect it. Perhaps he was killed in battle. Perhaps he died suddenly. But because the owner of the field didn't know the treasure was there, the finder of the treasure had priority right to it. The Jewish law said that he could claim it. The man could buy the field and own the treasure so long as the original owner was not aware that the treasure was there. In fact, what we see in this parable is this man was very fair. If he was not an honest man, he would have just taken the treasure and left. He could have just gathered it up and said, I'm out of here. I quit this job. I'm moving on. He didn't do that. That would have been illegal because according to Roman law, if a laborer lifted the treasure out of the ground, it would belong to the owner. So had he taken it. The owner would have had right to it. So what does he do? He covers it up and he goes and buys it. Now he could have taken the treasure, just a part of it, and then liquidated just a part of it, and used that part of the money to buy the field. But again, that would have been illegal He didn't do that. He knew Jewish law. He knew what was right. He knew the legal way to buy the field, and he did it the right way. He sells everything he has. And he purchases this field and he gets it in a legitimate way without defrauding anyone. And so he defrauds no one. Now the point is that he found something so valuable that he legally did everything he could to make it his own Let's go to the second parable. Look at the next parable, verse 45. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman. seeking goodly pearls, who when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it. Now notice the phrase again there in verse 45. That kind of links this parable with the previous one. And it really kind of repeats the message. That's why I'm looking at these together here because these are twin parables. They're saying really the same thing. And notice that, however, in this parable, the central character is a Jewish merchant. This is opposite of the poor peasant farmer of the last parable. Merchantman is the word, the word merchant emporos, where we get the word emporium. This is someone who buys wholesale and sells retail. And it used to speak of wholesale dealers who travel the world selling huge quantities of merchandise. Many believe it was these merchants that changed the world back then, not Rome. But in this parable he's seeking for the pearl of great price. This was common for entrepreneurs to do in that day. They would be wholesale wholesaling pearls is what it was called. And they were looking for high quality pearls. for themselves. Now in those days, people who wanted to diversify their investments would invest in pearls because pearls back then were kind of like gold and diamonds today. I mean it was very, very valuable, very desirable. This was the most valuable gem in the world at that time. If you own pearls, you owned a fortune. According to one Jewish scholar, Yeremaius, he said that at there were times at that they were worth millions of dollars. And they weren't easy to come by. Pearl hunting was really incredible when you think to stop ab uh stop to think about a SQB. In that day, they didn't have scuba equipment like we have today. So what a guy would do, and by the way, pearls were found at uh in the Red Sea or in the Persian Sea or Persian Gulf or the Indian Ocean, and what a guy would do is that he would tie rocks to his body. Can you imagine that? He would jump over the side of a boat, go down into dangerous waters infested with sharks and other creatures, and he would scour the mud below for oysters and bring them back up And he had to hold his breath that whole time, hoping that his lungs wouldn't burst during that whole process. And if he happened to retrieve a pearl that was perfect, that was of great value. The Talmud said, quote, that pearls are beyond price. The Egyptians actually worship the pearl. The Romans later copied that, and if a person wanted to show their wealth, they would wear these pearls. The Roman Emperor Caligula, his wife, once went to a dinner party with pearls on her hair. her ears, neck, and fingers, that would be worth thirty-six million today. And Roman emperors who wanted to show how rich they were would take pearls, dissolve them in vinegar, and then drink it in their wine. The Lord said, Don't cast your pearls before swine. There he was showing how the most valuable thing there is in that time. By the way, that spoke of divine truth. Precious. Precious. So here in this pearl, in this parable I should say, this is here is a jewel merchant who goes around seeking these pearls. And then something happens. He finds a pearl that is so valuable. Look again in verse 46. Who went? He found the one pearl of great price. Went and sold all that he had that he might buy it. And and that that he and he bought it. Now, this must have been some pearl. This guy's not a poor man like the man in the other parable. This is a a wealthy merchant. And yet in this one pearl he sees such exceeding value that again he sells everything that he has. Again, this is a lot of investment in this one pearl that he might attain it. He puts everything in this one investment of this one pearl. Now those are the parables. Here's the second part of the sermon. Let's look at the principles. Because again, what is Jesus speaking about here? He's speaking about the kingdom. He's speaking about how someone is a part of that kingdom. And what we see here, first of all, is the first principle is this. The kingdom is extremely valuable, as we said. It's extremely valuable. Both men in these parables understand the kingdom to be immeasurably valuable. Those who invest will tell you not to invest everything in one investment. To diversify, don't invest all in one thing. But here, both of these men invest all that they have in one thing. Why? Because of the value. They cast all the rules aside. The hid treasure and the pearl represents the kingdom of God. And what I want you to understand from this parable, what Jesus is trying to To show us from this parable, beloved, is that being a part of the kingdom of God is incredibly valuable. It is priceless. Now I I I'm glad to be an American. I value that. I'm a flag-waving American. I consider it a privilege to be born in the United States. It carries with it certain privileges when you travel abroad you see that people who are American citizens are kind of held in high esteem. But I want to tell you something, friend, there's nothing like being a citizen of the kingdom of God. It doesn't compare. America, although we love our country, is going to go the way of the rest of the countries of this world. But the kingdom of God will not perish. And being a citizen of the kingdom of God is eternal. And those who are a part of it, you are eternal. What if in these stories these men they see this treasure and they just walk away? They uncover the treasure, the man in the field uncovers the treasure, he sees the value of it, he says, Oh, that's nice, and he covers it back up and he just walks away You say, boy, that would be crazy. What if the the merchant man sees this pearl of great price and he says, oh, that's wonderful. He doesn't do anything about it. We would say that any person who walked away from a fortune, from a priceless treasure, and didn't do anything to attain it, although they had the means to do it, we would say that they were a fool But, friend, I want to tell you that that is precisely what people do every day when the gospel of Jesus Christ is preached and presented, and the exceeding value of the kingdom is exposed, and they simply walk away from it. They're walking away from the greatest treasure that there is. It is the answer for all the needs that a person has in this life And for eternity. Yet despite that, people walk away. You know what people are more interested in today? These tempor temporal, earthly possessions, their house, their car, and all the rest of it. People are investing all their time and their wealth in these things that will perish. They'll be gone. They don't want to hear about the real value, the value of the kingdom. I remember one time I was out soul winning on a Saturday, and a man was out on his front yard and he saw me coming. And uh as I approached him he said, I know who you are. You're an insurance salesman, aren't you? I don't know why I said this. I was kind of being a little playful with him. I said, Yeah, that's exactly what I do. He said, really? I said, sure. He said, what kind of insurance? I said, fire insurance. Home insurance? Life insurance? He said, really? You you can insure me? Sure. He said, what? He said, has your company been around for a long time? I said, oh, a long time. He said, you have uh is it big? I said we have offices all over the world. Really? He said, uh what's the premiums? I said, there's no premium. It's all but all been paid for He said, how can that be? I said, well the owner has a son who's very rich and he paid the premiums for everybody. And he said, well uh what company is this? I said, the company's called the Kingdom of God. The owner's son's name is Jesus. And he said, I knew there was something about you. He said, I knew this was too good to be true. The truth of the matter is, I shared the gospel with him and he wasn't interested. But he was interested in protecting his earthly valuables. Which is not real treasure. And he overlooked the real treasure of the kingdom. That's right. Millions of people each day turn away from the hidden treasure and the pearl of great price. But I want to tell you something, someone who's been made alive Someone who has been enlightened by the Holy Spirit, see the incredible value of the kingdom. David said this in Psalm 84, verse 10, For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of the wicked. He knew where the real value was. Psalm 119, verse 72, The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. Psalm thirty-seven, verse sixteen, a little that a righteous man has is better than the riches of many wicked. God's word in the kingdom is so much more valuable. There's no comparison. There really are no words to describe it. And a person who is a believer sees the incredible, exceeding value of being a part of the kingdom of God. There's nothing that comes close. True blessedness comes through being in God's kingdom. The hymn writer of the hymn, I Discovered the Way of Gladness, wrote this in his words. I found the pearl of greatest price. Eternal life so fair, 'twas through the Savior's sacrifice I found that jewel rare. Here's the second principle. Not only is the kingdom of God extremely valuable, but principle number two, the kingdom of God is externally hidden. It's externally hidden. Notice again where it says that the treasure was hid in the field, crypto to keep secret. In the first parable, the treasure was hidden in the ground. It was buried beneath the surface. It had to be dug up. A digger had to get to it. In the second parable, the pearl was beneath the water. A diver had to go and get it. And neither parable is the treasure on the surface. And again, there's a sense in which the kingdom of God is somewhat hidden from this world, somewhat hidden from the eyes of men. Men really don't see, those who sometimes are lost and look at believers, they don't understand us. They don't understand what we see as so valuable. They don't understand why we worship God. They don't understand why we give our lives to Christ. They don't understand why a missionary would would uh leave the comforts of home and go on a foreign field and live a sacrificial life and deny self and Share the gospel with others. The value of salvation is not apparent to the average person today. That's why in 1 Corinthians 1 18, Paul said, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish what? It's foolishness. They don't get it. By the way, the word preaching here is not Curuso, the normal word for proclamation, it's not Uangelion spreading the gospel, it is logos. The logic of the message of the gospel doesn't make sense to those who are lost, that don't see and understand. It doesn't make any sense. Paul said in 1 Corinthians 2. 14, the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him. Second Corinthians 4, 4, why? In whom the God of this world has blinded the minds And so the value of the kingdom is not apparent to the lost. A person who is saved, however, perceives and sees The value. And by the way, one of the drawing works of salvation is when the Holy Spirit begins to uncover To the lost person, the riches and the value of being saved, of knowing Christ. Because that's what that's a pre-salvation work of the Holy Spirit. He will begin to Open your eyes somewhat to see how precious it is to be in the kingdom and how precious Jesus is. Jesus said to Nicodemus that unless the man is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. He can't perceive it because it's not on the surface And so one of the things that we have to do is we have to pray that God will open the eyes of people to see how precious the kingdom of God is. We pray that God will uncover the treasure somewhat And by the way, if God does uncover the treasure to you somewhat, and you walk away from that You don't respond to that? That's one of the worst insults to Almighty God. For when God says, I'm going to show you my greatest treasure, and for a person to walk away and say, I'm not really impressed with that. You know what the Bible says about that? Hebrews 6, 4. For it's impossible for those who were once enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit. Have tasted of the good word of God and the powers of the world to come. If they fall away to renew them again unto repentance, see they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh. If God has enlightened a person to where they see uh somewhat the value of the kingdom, and God has given uh made them a partaker of the Holy Spirit, you say, Well, that's talking about a Christian. No, that's talking about the pre-conversion work of the Holy Spirit, where the Holy Spirit will convict someone of their sin, you can be a partaker of the Holy Spirit and not be saved, in the sense when you come to a service and you hear the preaching, and the Spirit of God begins to speak to your heart. In that sense, you are a partaker of the Holy Spirit. But this is not salvation yet. Here's a person who has been enlightened, who has been touched. God has uncovered the treasure to this person, and yet they walk away from it. God says, I'd have nothing left for you. I'm not going to crucify my son again. And so it's a very dangerous thing when God shows you the treasure to walk away from it. No, that's not what these men did. Let me give you the third principle. Not is the kingdom of God extremely valuable and externally hidden, but number three, the kingdom of God is explicitly personal. Explicitly personally. Say, what do you mean by that? In each parable, it is an individual seeking the kingdom and an individual who obtains it. And the idea here is that people come into the kingdom on a case-by-case basis. You come personally. I can't obtain the kingdom for you. You can't get it for me. Friend, if I could get the kingdom for you, I would try, but I can't. It's a personal thing. It's individual. You say, well this is so understood. Why why is this so important? Well remember the audience. Who's Jesus giving these parables to? And who's Jesus telling these disciples to take these parables to? The Jewish people, right? They thought that because they were Jewish, that they had a right of entrance into the kingdom simply because of their nationality or of their religious heritage. They thought they were the elite. They were the chosen people. They were part of the kingdom automatically simply because they were descendants of Abraham. There's a common tradition that claimed that Abraham sat at the gate of hell to keep out all Jews regardless of their deeds. Trifo, the Jew, alleges to us said, quote, They who are the seed of Abraham according to the flesh shall in any case Even if they be sinners and unbelieving and disobedient towards God, share in the eternal kingdom. End quote. Man, if you're just Jewish, that's it. Jesus is debunking that whole idea. No, you gain entrance into the kingdom on a case-by-case basis. It is personal. It is individual. I I I tell my children all the time, just because you grow up in a Christian home don't mean that you're getting into the kingdom Just because you're in a preacher's home and you're in a Christian's home doesn't give you any special privileges. You have to strive to get into the kingdom just like everyone else. God hasn't granted you a pass because of your religious heritage. And so these parables caution them not to take the kingdom for granted. And by the way, that's the gist of these parables. But notice how the two ways that these men come to get into the kingdom. The first man stumbled upon it. Look again in verse 44. Again, the kingdom of heaven is led to a treasure hidden in a field which a man hath found. He wasn't looking for it. It came to him. He was just working in the field. He was just doing what he normally did And all of a sudden the kingdom came upon him. There are people who enter the kingdom like that. How many here we could have testimonies where people here would say, I wasn't looking for anything. I was just minding my own business. And all of a sudden God came to me. And he found me. And he showed me the kingdom. I just happened to stumble upon it. I think of the Apostle Paul when he was on his way to Damascus. He wasn't going to a revival meeting He was persecuting and killing Christians and Jesus met him. I think of the Samaritan woman who went to the well. She was just going to the well just like she did every day to get water. And who does she happen to bump into there? Jesus. And she got eternal life. And there are other stories in the Bible like that. People that sometimes come into church. You realize that people come to church for a whole lot of different reasons? I mean you're not here tonight because you want to hear the great preacher Jerry Harmon preach. That's why that's not why you're here because you're faithful to the Lord and a whole bunch of other reasons. I'm being nice when I say that. I'm just teasing. Uh laugh. Even if I think it's funny, you laugh. All right. Helps me out. On church on Sunday morning, when this place is full. Thank God for everyone that's here. But people come for all kinds of different reasons. And you know what? God uses that And he brings them into the kingdom. Some people just happen to stumble upon it. I think in my own family, uh I, you know, I wasn't looking for salvation What happened was my father got saved here at Grace, and my father said, you're coming to church, get ready. I wasn't I didn't go to my dad and said, Oh dad, I would love to go to church. No. In fact, I didn't want to go. I had a whole lot of other things I wanted to do. He said, you're going And so I came. You know why I came to grace? Because I had to. It was better than a beating, that's why And you know what happened when I came? I saw the incredible treasure of the kingdom. God showed it to me. So the first man stumbles upon it, but notice the next man, he s is searching. Look in verse 45. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man. seeking goodly pearls. Here in the second parable, this man has been looking for something. He's searching for it. He wasn't content with the superficiality that he was experiencing. He wanted something of greater value. And so he was looking and he was searching. There are some people out there and they're searching and they're looking. They just know that their lives is empty. They just know that there's something missing. They just know that there's something more to this life than just the superficial surface things and there's a void in their heart and they feel that void and they're looking. They may not know exactly what they're looking for. And they may not think that they'll find everything in just one pearl But they're looking. And what happens? God in His mercy shows them the pearl of great price. They see that everything that they have been looking for, everything that their hearts is longing for It's found in that one pearl. And they're willing to sell everything. That is, they're willing to part with everything of this world that they might have and be a part of that kingdom. When I think about this, I think about the testimony of Martin Luther, the Catholic priest, who was so tortured in his religion because he couldn't find peace with God. He couldn't obey the commandments. And he was trying with all his might to to to appease the wrath of God and find peace, but he couldn't, no matter what he did And he was seeking, he was looking, and he was digging into the scripture, and as he was digging into the Greek language, he found Romans 1, 17, the just shall live by what? Faith. Happens by faith. And he said he felt like he entered the portal of heaven. He found that pearl that he had been looking for. Here's the fourth principle. The kingdom is extremely valuable. The kingdom is eternally hidden. The kingdom is explicitly personal. But here's number four. The kingdom is eagerly entered. Eagerly entered Another common element in both of these parables is the eagerness by which these men come to obtain the treasure. Because once again, when the value of it is revealed, there's going to be an eagerness to get it, to be a part of it. There's going to be a zeal, a desire. In fact, let me let me show you something. Go back to Matthew chapter eleven. Jesus was comparing that generation of Jews that rejected them, the spoiled children. Look at Matthew 11, verse 16. Notice what Jesus says to this generation. Matthew 11, 16, but whereunto shall I like in this generation? It is like unto children sitting in the markets and calling unto their fellows and saying, We have piped unto you and you have not danced. We have mourned unto you and you have not lamented. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they said, He hath the devil. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they said, Behold a man, a gluttonous and a and a wine bibber, a friend of publicans and sinners, but wisdom is justified of her children. Jesus says to this generation, you're acting like spoiled kids. You know what spoiled kids act like? They don't see and understand the privileges they really have. He said, you're like spoiled children in the marketplace. And by the way, back then children in the marketplace used to play games, and one of the some of the games they played was the game of funeral. They pretended to be at a funeral. And they pretended to be at a wedding. They would pretend to go all through all that. And Jesus said, you're like spoiled children at the marketplace, and you won't play funeral and you won't play wedding. You just don't want to play at all. You look at John the Baptist and you you call him someone who is influenced by the devil. You look at me, you call me a friend of sinners. You don't really understand what you have. You don't understand that in John the Baptist you have the greatest prophet born among women. And in the person of Christ, they have truth personified. Jesus, the Son of David, you don't get it. You don't understand it. However, some did. What was the attitude of those who did? Back up to verse eleven. Or excuse me, verse 12 and chapter 11. Notice this. And from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and the violent take it by force. What is Jesus saying there? The kingdom of God is moving relentlessly forward. Despite your attitudes The kingdom is still moving forward, and there are people who are forcibly pushing their way to get into it. They're trying to push their way in. They're entering the kingdom violently because they want to get in. Because they see how precious that it is. You know, uh, every once in a while around Christmas time we hear a horrible story about people getting trampled in a department store. Just a few years ago, people lined up at Walmart And when they opened the door on the that morning, what do they call that? Black something, Black Friday, one poor man was trampled to death. By people trying to get in to buy whatever they had on sale. That's just Terrible to hear that. In a sense, however, this is what Jesus is saying here in this verse. The kingdom of heaven is still moving forward despite that generation. And there are people that are willing to violently push and get into it. And enter into it, because they see how great it is. They violently enter. In fact, this whole truth was uh Something that was alluded to by John Bunyan in the book Pilgrim's Progress. If some of you read that book, you know there's a scene in that book where Christian is taken to the house by a man called Interpreter, and he's shown many things at that house. But then he leads Christian up to a door of a palace. And there in the doorway of that palace, Christian sees these strong men in armor. Big foreboding men standing in front of that gate to the palace. He sees a man behind a table with an acorn, ready to write down the name of anyone that wants to enter into that palace And Christian says that he sees one man walk over to the man with a table with it with the ink pen and he says, Put my name down, sir. And the man put his name down, and then this man who wanted to enter in put on a helmet took up a shield, got a sword, and began to violently conflict with those men who were standing in front of the palace. And he fought and he fought and he fought until finally he broke through and he got in And in that scene in Pilgrim's Progress, Christian says that one line, I think I know what this means. You know what that means? It means that when you see how great the kingdom is, you're going to want to strive to get in it. You're going to want to do diligence to get in it. You're going to want to seek to get in it. And we're not talking about worse salvation. We're talking about someone who is showing the attitude of true repentance. that they're willing to turn away from the world. They're willing to turn away from the things of this life. Anything that keeps them from Christ, they're willing to turn from it. They're willing to give all diligence to make their calling and election sure Because they want to get in. That's what Jesus said. He said, Strive to enter in at the straight gate. For many I say unto you will seek to enter and shall not be able. Why is striving necessary? Because of the uncertainty of the opportunity? This might be your last opportunity. You better make sure. You know why else it's so important to strive? Because of our pride. Because of our ungodly selfish pride, I want to tell you, nobody proud gets into the kingdom. You come into the kingdom being poor in spirit You come to the kingdom with humility, knowing that you're a sinner, knowing that you're nothing, that Jesus is everything. And you know why we have to strive? We have to strive because we have to lay aside this ungodly pride That keeps us out. And so Jesus said, you better make sure. You better enter it eagerly. Then let me give you the fifth thing. The kingdom of God is extremely valuable, externally hidden, explicitly personal, eagerly entered. But number five, the kingdom is exceedingly joyful. Exceedingly joyful. Look at verse 44 again. It says, and when the man hath found it, he hideth then for joy thereof. Goeth and selleth. When you're a part of the kingdom, and the king is living in your heart, on the throne of your heart, you know what will happen? There's going to be joy It just is going to happen. You're going to have true joy in your heart because of that. Let me give you the last thing we have to move quickly. Let me give you the last point. We'll be done. The kingdom of heaven, number six, is expensively obtained. Expensively obtained. In each parable, the treasure was obtained, but it was very costly. You notice that the transaction takes place, there's a transaction that takes place in each parable. In the first parable, it's the word buyeth, and the second word bought is used Now some people get nervous when they see that and they say, now wait a minute, you can't find salvation. Well that's right, you can Do these parables teach that a person can purchase their own salvation? No. It's not what the point is. Remember, these parables are symbolic. Buying the treasure is symbolic of something. It's symbolic of what? A transaction that takes place. An exchange. We know that in Scripture, you're not saved through works, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that's not of yourself. It's a gift of God. Jesus said a rich man can no more buy his way into heaven than a than uh or buy his way into the kingdom than a uh uh a camel can go through the eye of a needle. We understand that. But listen to Isaiah 55. 1. Listen to this. A great Old Testament passage. Ho, everyone that thirsteth, come to the waters. And he that has no money, come by. And eat. How can you buy if you have no money? Buy wine and milk without money and without price. What's the point there? Buy is simply a transaction. Not by any money you have, not by anything that you can do, but there's a transaction, and what is that transaction? You turn from all that you are, from your sin. You give up all you are and all you have for all that He is. You turn to Him with all your heart. That's the attitude of someone who is truly repentant. They turn from the world. They turn from their sin. They turn to Christ. That's the transaction. We turn from all that we are, sinners, to Jesus and all that he is, the Lord. And we bow to his lordship. You know what being a disciple is? It's being saved and obedient to Jesus Christ. That's what it is. Someone says, well, that's Lordship Salvation. Let me tell you something, friend. You can't divide Jesus up. He's Savior and then He's Lord. Listen, he is Savior and Lord. You come to Him as He is the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't barter about your salvation. You don't say, Jesus, I'll get saved today, and maybe later I'll surrender to you. You know, guess what? You don't come on your terms. You come on his terms. And his terms is that you repent and turn and submit to who he is, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the transaction. And so we need to understand that value of the kingdom and make sure that we are a part of it. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we thank you again for this wonderful word from our Lord. This wonderful truth about the kingdom. And Lord, I pray for those who are here tonight that everyone who is here has seen the treasure. And not only have they seen it, but they did all they could to be a partaker of it. They turned from the world in sin and turned to Christ. I pray, Lord, that there will be no one here tonight that has seen the exceeding value of the kingdom and yet will turn away from it. And say I'm not impressed. I pray, Lord, that we would give all diligence to make sure we're a part of this kingdom, this precious kingdom. And realize that the way into the kingdom was purchased by our Savior, who took upon him the sins of us all. And now salvation is a gift, a gift that we receive by faith and turning from sin. Lord, may everyone here be sure of that one thing. We pray in all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.